@@717945

txt The Greater Boston Chamber of Commerce deserves the major share of the credit or blame for Beacon Hill rejection of a proposed state constitutional amendment to permit levying of a graduated state income tax . Although other groups participated in the campaign to defeat the proposal at the May 14-15 joint House-Senate session , the Boston chamber spearheaded the statewide drive and produced the most effective opposition and ammunition . The graduated tax plan , Governor Herter 's twice-approved plan for a four-year term for governor and other constitutional officers effective in the 1958 state election , the rival Democratic four-year plan to be effective in 1960 , and a proposed amendment for an 18-year-old voting age all went out the legislative window . The joint session ended just before 3:30 a.m. today . 14 ' Votes Short Needing a minimum of 140 votes for approval of the graduated tax amendment , organized labor , the League of Women Voters of Massachusetts , and Democratic leaders fell 14 short , when the joint session vote was 126 to 126 . Before a constitutional amendment may be submitted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by a majority of the elected members of two successive legislatures . With two vacancies due to the passing of two members this year , the existing elected membership now is 278 . The graduated tax plan was up for its first approval . Key to defeat of the graduated tax plan were the 11 House Democratic members and one Senate Democrat who joined with 114 GOP members in voting against the plan . Four Republican representatives jumped party lines to side with 122 Democrats for the graduated tax plan . The Greater Boston Chamber of Commerce legislative agents worked for days to line up opposition to the plan , which they regarded as a " soak-the-middleincome " group proposal . They claimed that to produce more revenue than yielded by the present flat rate plan , a graduation hitting the middle-income group particularly hard would have to be drafted . Aims of the graduated tax plan backers were more revenue and the sidetracking a possible sales tax alternative as the Legislature in future years comes to grips with long-range financing problems . Gibbous Is Factor Along with the Boston chamber @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ House minority leader , was a top factor in the graduated plan defeat . It is possible a new battle on the issue will be staged this year inasmuch as Representative John F. Thompson ( D ) of Ludlow , House majority leader , has moved for reconsideration . Whether a joint session will be called to act on this motion remains to be seen . However , under the constitution , if the House and Senate fail to call another session , the Governor is required to do so , until final action has been taken . Still awaiting final action this year is a proposed constitutional amendment granting more home-rule powers to cities and towns . This amendment , sponsored by the Massachusetts Federation of Taxpayers Associa ' tions , was ordered to a third reading at the May 14-15 joint session by a 134-to-119 roll-call vote . However , the 134 votes in favor of the amendment are six short of the minimum necessary at the final stage this year . The amendment would bar the Legislature from enacting any general or special law affecting municipalities financially without @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ obtained in each branch . or provision is made for state assumption of the cost involved . Also ordered to a third reading was a proposed amendment to require that amortization payments on state bonds begin a year from the date of the bond sale . At present no limit is in effect and some bonds have been floated with the first amortization payment being deferred for as long as 15 years . Rejected by 130 to 121 was another taxpayers federation home-rule proposal under which the Legislature would be barred from enacting any local law affecting purely municipal affairs without prior approval by the community 's voters or officials , unless submitted by the Governor in an emergency and passed by a two-thirds majority . The rejection of the Herter-sponsored four-year term measure for governor , lieutenant-governor , secretary of state , treasurer , auditor , and a aorneygeneral came as the measure was headed for the 1956 state ballot for ratification . It had been approved by two previous Legislatures , but Democratic leaders won reconsideration of the 1955 final vote and then killed the measure on a 119-to112 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @             