@@717655

txt The proposed redrawing of the domestic political map of India was the product of more than two years of thoughtful study by an able commi ? - 's .. aon . What was suggested was a more simplified grouping , fewer states , and a closer correspondence to language groups . Many persons were dissatisfied . Then , to resolve what seemed an almost insoluble impasse in Bombay , Prime Minister Nehru 's Government announced that that city and port would be made a federal district and that the state would be divided into two parts along language lines . This put the match to the smoldering materials of resentment . Now , several hundred persons are dead . Several thousand have been hurt . Several thousand are in jail . More thousands have again become refugees . And what is most ominous , the rioting has spread to other parts of India . There are strikes and riots in Calcutta , always a danger spot . As far south as Madras there is disorder . Patna , in Bihar , and Cuttack , in Orissa , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ top of this , the Punjab Sikhs are threatening to obtain a separate state by force . Thus far , it is reported , the Indian Union itself is not menaced , But the lives of thousands of Indians are in peril . The Government faces a bitter challenge . Political progress is at a standstill . The country is in turmoil . Some of the reasons for this distress are deep-seated . India is a collection of language and custom groups that has been artificially united without genuine cohesion . There are fourteen major languages . Under . British rule provincial boundaries were drawn for strategic , economic and administrative purposes , The grouping was very rough , and some language boundaries were crossed , as in the case of Bombay and . Madras . With the advent of independence , and the inevitable emphasis upon a mother tongue , the demands of some of the language groups became more articulate . They dg sired not merely to wipe out t1e last vestige of the British Raj . but to establish political communities of fellow linguists . Agitation began , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ eastern Hyderabad . In the beginning , Prime Minister Nehru opposed this development on the ground that language boundaries would be a divisive element in a country seeking unification . In the case of Andhra , the Teleguspeaking area , he was eventually obliged to yield , in part to offset Communist pressure in that region , and India 's first strictly linguistic state came into being . When , two years later , it was attempted to get a broader application of this principle , about which the Prime Minister was still dubious , local animosities , not merely of language but of caste and custom , came into play . The strife between Marathi and Gujerati speakers in Bombay , for example , represents not merely a language difference but differences of occupation and social status . Regional jealousies also play their part . In the east there is rioting in Calcutta because the Bengalis think they ought to have a larger slice of Bihar . In Bihar there is rioting because the Biharis think they ought to have a larger slice of Bengal . In Orissa there is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to anyone . In Madras there is disturbance because the Madrasis think their Tamil-speaking state should include the Tamil speakers in Travancore . The Sikh threat , on the other hand , is not one of language but of religion and custom . The Sikhs are a separate " community . " - Into this troubled picture the Communists have stepped with their usual vigor . Perhaps they were tncouraged by the official welcome that was given to the Soviets ' " traveling salesmen . " In any case , the Bombay police charged that the initial strikes and riots in that city were Communist-directed , and put on a round-up of known Communist and extreme leftist leaders . The Communists had already exploited the language-state idea for all it was worth to make trouble in what is now Andhra , and it was not until the language-state was formed that they were beaten there . The withdrawal of British authority and the subsequent gradual decline of the one great party ? that had led the revolt against the British , the Congress party , has loosed centrifugal forces in India @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : Caste differences exacerbate them . The Communists exploit them . If real Indian union is to be achieved in the face of such factors there must be great strength and determination and inspired leadership .                     