@@717807

txt The New York legislative session now in its final hours has written a record of productive and generally sound achievement . It leaves less major business unfinished than is usual at adjournment . The final week has been less frantic and disorderly than in many years . The working methods , while still far from ideal , showed some improvement . More public hearings have been held , and there has been more debate on the floor , a gain for democratic process . While there has been a steady drumbeat a politics , especially on the synthetic issue of an income tax cut , it has not been allowed to lengthen the session . The Republicans were , of course , in control of Senate and Assembly and what was passed can be regarded as a tribute either to their initiative or their wise acquiescence . Oswald D. Heck , celebrating his twentieth year as Speaker , advanced still further into a position of unchallenged dominance in the Legislature . The Assembly Republican leader , Joseph F. Carlino , increased in stature . The Democrats , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , displayed a much more affirmative attitude , and with the burden of leadership largely falling on Assemblyman Eugene F. Bannigan , deserve good marks for the session 's results . We should say that the outstanding single action of the 1956 Legislature was the startlingly large increase in state , aid to education , initiated by the Heald Commission report , but considerably enlarged by insistence that every school district not only be saved harmless from any loss by revised assessment equalization , but also be helped to meet new standards on teacher salaries and basic per-pupil expenditures . When the full effect is felt , it is expected that the state 's budget cost in  --  the next fiscal year will run $150,000,000 above aid to education of two years previous . A $250,000,000 bond issue for expansion of the State University was advanced , as was a $500,000,000 highway construction bond issue , representing a second try before the electorate . These three items , education , higher education and roads , suggest a spending future that contradicts the blithe offers of taxcutting by Governor Harriman and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ taxpayer , for appropriations ran , for the first time , past the **25;1241;TOOLONG mark . One of the most heartening events , for it represented in our opinion a recovery of legislative integrity , was passage at last and by overwhelming majorities of compulsory liability insurance for every automobile owner . This has been in the works , one might say , for twenty years or more . We are also back on the track , though not to complete satisfaction , with automobile inspection for mechanical safety . Uniform rules of the road also went through at last . Some court reform was voted , notably a youth court system . It looks as though a substantial increase in newly created judgeships is dead . This needed further scrutiny . After many years of failure a commission to study family and divorce problems will be established , on a modified basis . Governor Harriman put through pay rises and some other benefits for state employes . His victories included also aid for middle-income housing , mortgage assistance for areas such as Harlem , some help for the aging , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ credit for his long campaign . ' Once again state supervision of union welfare funds  --  though not all of them  --  was - passed , and the possibility of Harriman approval seems improved . Amendments encourage the . use of Permanent.Personal Registration of voters . The Legislature was generous to sports , waving on the Brooklyn Authority helping the Dodgers and also the harness track rehabilitation bill . Westchester County gets its Parkway Authority . Suffolk County gets the right to governmental reform . Some installment . credit abuses are corrected . The sugar maple is declared the official state tree . All the above has happoned , or is on the way to final clearance in the remaining hours . Much more could be mentioned . The - most conspicuous failure was in the unwillingness , in an election year , to face the tax consequences of the spepding ahead , as on highway buildink . . But that will have to come , as sure as next year .                     