@@718975

txt The Moscow radio said tonight that Georgi . M. Malenkov had been made manager of a hydroelectric plant in East Kazakhstan , a remote area of Central Asia . The radio also announced that the Soviet leaders deposed with him last week had been assigned to ? unspecified posts . The appointments were reported by the Moscow radio in the form of an English-language commentary rebutting what it called Western " propaganda fabrications " about the fate of the former officials . None of the ousted leaders are being persecuted for the " antiparty activities " that led to their removal from party and Government posts , the broadcast said . The broadcast did not give the nature of the new assignments for Vyacheslav M. Molotov , Lazar M. Kaganovich and Dmitri T. Shepilov . It said merely that they had been given other work . 1,800 Miles From Moscow Mr. Malenkov 's new post is in Ust-Kamenogorsk , about 1,800 miles from Moscow . Kazakhstan served as a place of exile in Stalin 's era . His most bitter opponent , Leon Trotsky , spent some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Central Committee of the So1 viet Communist party . Trotsky was sent in 1928 into exile in Alma-Ata , the capital of Kazakhstan . It is not so remote as Ust-Kamenogorsk . The broadcast said the decision that dismissed Messrs . Molotov , Malenkov and Kaganovich from their party and Government jobs was " the most democratic possible . " It said the deposed trio had been given " every opportunity " of expressing their views . Western ' Myths ' Scored The broadcast said Mr. Malenkov 's new job " makes it clear that the myths being spread by some of the Western journalists about the persecution of the members of the anti-party group are merely intended to defame the democratic Soviet system and the Central Committee of the Communist party . " Mr. Malenkov was made Premier after the death of Stalin in 1953 . Two years later he was deposed by Nikita S. Khrushchev , the party Secretary , and given the direction of all the na. - lion 's electric power stations with the rank of Minister . Since the news of the ouster of Mr. Malenkov @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ master-minding the plot that purged important Communists in the so-called Leningrad case in 1949 , trying to sabotage Soviet ** policy and trying to organize illegal opposition to the : . ' ommunist party leadership . ? The Soviet commentator sought o picture the humiliation of dessrs , Malenkov , Molotov , Ka . ganovich and Shepilov as the result of a " democratic " process . " The members of the antiparty group have been excluded from the Central Committee , " said the broadcast , " but not one word of the committee 's resolution a resolution of the Central Committee that stripped them of their powers gives ground for the Western propagenda fabrication about persecutions . There can be no thought of such a thing . " Along with the newspaper and radio commentators who are trying conscientiously to understand this major event in the life of the U. S. S. R. , there are not a few who apparently consider it of ' first importance to cast aspersions on the decision and mislead the public . " The Central Committee of the Communist party is not in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ clear to anyone who makes a careful examination of the decision of the Central Committee . " Pravda Adds New Charge By WILLIAM J. JORDEN Special to The New York Times . MOSCOW , July 10 ? Pravda , the Communist party organ , said today that it was isolation from the masses that had contributed to the downfall of Messrs . Malenkov , Kaganovich and Molotov . The charge was contained in a long article designed to prove that the Communist party had " indissoluble ties " with the people and that the welfare of the masses was always uppermost in the party 's mind . The article charged that the ousted faction had been " incapable and unwilling to understand the needs and aspirations of the people 's masses . " The fact that the highest Communist leaders could be , come completely divorced from I the popular attitude , as the Communist party has said , raised significant ideological questions here . If the charges against these men are valid , it is evident that there can be contradictions between some Communist leaders and the people . How @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ go ? it was asked . Tie With People Stressed These were some of the questions Pravda set about to answer today . The newspaper did not pose the questions in so many words . But a , long article titled " The Strength of the Communist Party Is in its Indissoluble Ties with the People " directed its attention to all these pressing matters . Pravda said the necessity for a close connection with the people had been stressed by Lenin and followed by the party ever since . It said the party had grown into " an invincible force " because it was constantly enlarging its ties with the masses . It said that by last year the Communist party had 7,200,000 members and that they " live and work in the midst of the people . " It said the party maintained a number of important " transmission belts to the people " enabling it to know what they were thinking . Among these " belts " it mentioned the soviets in towns and villages , the trade unions , the cooperatives , the . Communist Youth League @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that of all the dangers that confront the Communist party 's leadership in a great country one of the greatest is the danger of separation from the masses , " Pravda wrote . How did the ousted leaders get so far from the people as Pravda charged ? " They sat for years in their offices , " Pravda said , " did not want to go to factories or collective farms , to meet with local workers ; ' they did not hear and did not want to hear the genuine voice of the people . "                     