@@715740

txt Important changes in Soviet ministries and substantial increases in the *State 's prices for farm prOduce , both announced in Moscow early Sept. 15 , are the latest moves in Russia 's campaign for raising living standards . A report by Nikita Khrushchev , new Communist Party secretary , told farmers that state procurement prices for cattle and poultry are to be raised more than 51/2 times . In the future the state will double the price paid for milk and butter , pay 21fj times as much for potatoes , and increase the price for other vegetables by 25 to 40 per cent . These new prices apply to allocations which the peasants must make to the state . But the government also has decided to boost the money it is willing to pay for produce which the peasants are not obliged to hand over . These increases vary from 30 per cent for meat to 150 per cent for milk . Five new ministries were announced by the Presidium of the Supreme Soviet-LFood Production . Industrial Consumer Goods , Domestic Trade , Foreign Trade , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by other ministries . New Ministers The new ministers are Alexei Kosygin , former Minister of Food and Light Industry , Consumer Goods ; Vassily Petrovich Zotov , Food Production ; Alexei Ivanovich Kozlov , former Minister of Agriculture and Farm Supplies , State Farms ; Anastas Mikoyan , former chief of the Combined Ministry of Foreign and Domestic Trade , now Domestic Trade ; Ivan Gregoryvich Kavanov , Foreign Trade . Ivan Benediktov , former Ambassador to India who was recently recalled from New Delhi , has been appointed the new Minister of Agriculture . An official announcement said the State Farms Ministry was set up to organize high-quality production on state farms , which are directly operated by the state and distinct from collective farms which are cooperatively run by groups of peasants . Establishment of the new Food Production Ministry was noted briefly for the first time in the Communist Party 's vast new agriculture plan , issued Sept. 13 , which ordered it to increase the acreage of potatoes and vegetables . More Foodstuffs The government 's new procurement prices were mentioned in Russian papers for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the plan presented by Mr. Khrushchev to the Communist Party 's central committee 12 days ago . Mr. Khrushchev indicated a big increase in the supply of vital foodstuffs next year through his " new deal " for agriculture . He said that in 1954 meat supplies would total 4,100,000 tons , compared with 3,000,000 in 1952 ; milk , 14,300,000 tons , compared with 10,000,000 ; eggs , 4,300 , - 000,000 against 2,600,000,000 ; wool , 230,000 tons against 182,000 tons . His report , made to the plenum meeting of Sept. 3 and confirmed four days later with a series of party decisions giving the peasants greater incentives to raise production of crops and livestock , was given special prominence in the Soviet press . Pravda , Izvestia ; and other papers gave almost all their space to the report , as they did Sept. 14 to a four-page announcement of the party 's directives on agriculture .                     