@@718545

txt HOUSE GROUP ASKS BOLD STEP TO END CRISES IN MIDEAST Panel Report Supports Plan Sought by Eisenhower but Urges ' Basic ' Solutions FULBRIGHT YIELDS POINT Concedes He Lacks Support to Hold Full Senate Debate Before Resolution Is Voted By RUSSELL BAKER Speclakto The New York Times . WASHINGTON , Jan. 26 ? The House Foreign Affairs Committee issued today a report endorsing President Eisenhower 's Middle East resolution . It also urged the Administration to lead " boldly " for solution of " basic " Middle East problems . House action giving the President substantially the authority he asked for was now virtually . assured next week . At the same time Senator J. William Fulbright , Democrat of Arkansas , conceded that Senate action on the Middle East proposals could not he delayed for a grand debate of Secretary of State Dulles ' conduct of American policy . Mr. Fulbright , a member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee , said that he lacked support to force the debate at this time . He predicted , however , that the debate void ( ' be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ proposals . Today 's events added to the growing impression here that Mr. Dulles , though embroiled in the most difficult fight of his career on Capitol Hill , was winning his battle . ' Grave ' Issues Stressed The House committee report supported with scarcely a demur the resolution as originally requested by the President . The committee approved the resolution by a 24 to 2 vote on Thursday . The resolution gives Congressional approval to the President 's plan to use United States forces against Communist aggression in the Middle East . It would also empower him to use up to $200 , - 000,000 in already appropriated funds for special aid to nations in the Middle East . The House committee report was largely a rephrasing of Administration arguments for this authority . It noted , however , that the President 's proposal failed to meet such " basic " Middle East problems as the solution , of the Arab-Israeli dispute , tile Suez Canal controversy , the refugee issue and other matters " of grave importance . " The Administration , it ' said , should prepare @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and comprehensive measures for dealing with the fundamental problems of the Middle East . " " Our country , " it said , " should // lead in boldly pursuing and implementing policies and programs to bring peace , security and economic stability to the Middle East . " The committee recognized a constant Soviet threat to the area , increased by its proximity to the Soviet border . Nearness made for " easy introduction of agents , " it said . A " heavy concentration " of Soviet troops near the borders , it added , " poses a constant threat " to nations stanchly friendly to this country . I The committee rejected arguments that , the resolution would either enlarge or diminish the ' Constitutional power and au- I thority of the Presidency . One critical argument against it has been the contention that the President , by seeking Congressional approval for authority he already held , might set a precedent for action that would restrict and weaken the Presidency in future crises . ' Declaration of Solidarity ' The House committee asserted that the resolution was free @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of solidarity of the people of the United States " expressed through Congress and the President . Mr. Dulles , it noted , had given no evidence that Communist aggression was " imminent . " He had saicL however , that " apparently a so-called volunteer force " had been organized , " as was the case when the Chinese intervened in the Korean war , " On the economic provisions of the resolution , the committee cited Gen. Alfred M. Gruenther 's testimony that he would prefer to keep the economic portion of the proposal and lose the military if forced to make a choice . The committee was apparently baffled as to whether Syria and Egypt might benefit from the aid provisions . Its report quoted Mr. Dulles as saying at one point that " we do not want to give help except to a country that is ) fighting against communism . " Both Syria and Egypt have shown what the State Department regards as a distressing inclination to do business with the Soviet Union . Senate action on the resolution is not expected until well into February @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Middle East policy has been under bitter and searching criticism , particularly from a Democratic element led by Senator Fulbright . Yesterday Senator George D. Aiken , Republican of Vermont , attacked Mr. Fulbright 's critical position as an effort to " destroy " Mr , Dulles " personally and officially . " Bridges Urges Speed Senator Styles Bridges , Republican of New Hampshire , urged quick Senate action without waiting for a review of the history of Middle East policy . The Senate , he asserted , already had more facts " for our present purpose " than Congress " has ever had in advance of action by previous Administrations on such matters as Pearl Harbor , Korea , the Yalta Agreements and the loss of China . " If Senator Fulbright , he added , wanted to study Mr. Dulles ' tactics " with a magnifying glass , it 's all right with me . But we have got to get on with the job . When an alarm tells us a gangster is loose , we do n't pick that exact moment to investigate the personal history of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , was trying today to soothe British and French feelings that were ruffled by language Mr. Dulles used yesterday while trying to be humorous in his testimony before the Senate . Referring to current undisputed unpopularity of the British and French in the Middle East , Mr. Dulles said that if he were in the area ' now he would prefer not to have British and French soldiers on either side of him . This remark was Mr. Dulles ' attempt to phrase the well-recognized fact of British-French unpopularity in jocular terms . It was interpreted by some British correspondents , however , as a slur on the quality of British and French fighting men .. Their interpretations , prominently displayed in the British press , which seldom gives Mr.-Dulles the benefit of the doubt , have left the State Department concerned about another blow to Anglo-American relations . This the State Department tried to soften with a solemn , straight-faced explanation what Mr. Dulles had meant to say .                     