@@720666

txt Neutral Latin-American nations worked behind the scenes of the foreign ministers ' conference today for a generally acceptable plan to cool off the Caribbean conflict . ' While a Cuban report of the destruction of an airborne invasion group from the Dominican Republic circulated in the conference , representatives of these neutral nations met privately and separately with the foreign ministers of Cuba , Venezuela , the Dominican Republic and Nicaragua . The four countries are most directly involved in the Caribbean tension . The object of the talks was to determine whether there was any form of collective action to preserve Caribbean peace that was mutually acceptable . Cuba and Venezuela opposed the creation of a special investigating or study group to examine the causes of the Caribbean tension , as suggested by Secretary of State Christian A. Herter yesterday . Revival of Group Urged Both said they favored instead expanding the powers of the now ineffectual Inter-American Peace Commission to enable it to act on complaints of indirect aggression if the commission was also empowered to hear charges of violations of human rights . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the twenty other American republics for a temporary committee to keep the Organization of American States informed on the Caribbean , but with its inspection power stopping short of political and human rights . In the wake of an oral clash yesterday between the Cuban and Dominican Foreign Ministers , security precautions at the conference were greatly intensified today . Access to the roof ballroom of the Carrera Hotel , where the twenty-one foreign ministers are meeting , was permitted only with a double set of credentials , eliminating many spectators . Peace Effort Jarred The reports from Cuba of new trouble with the Dominican Republic jarred the efforts here to iron out some minimum plan that would show that the Organization of American States had the means to keep the peace in the Caribbean . The efforts in this direction were led by Chile , Argentina , Mexico , El Salvador , Brazil , Ecuador and Peru , with United States encouragement from the background . The conferences with the Cubans , Venezuelans and Dominicans took place in the penthouse hotel suite of Jose A. Mora , Secretary General @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ adjoining ballroom the foreign ministers of Argentina and Uruguay outlined their countries ' - positions . Di6genes Taboada of Argentina restated his country 's traditional strong position against intervention , singly or collectively , by the American states in the affairs of their neighbors . Homero Martinez Montero of Uruguay defended the same principle . However , he proposed that the American republics promote representative democracy in the Western Hemisphere by deciding if respect for human rights was the yardstick for distinguishing between democracy and dictatorship . Midnight last night , the deadline for the presentation of resolutions , found twenty-four draft resolutions submitted . The United States submitted no for'mai resolution , in line with its ' policy of letting the LatinAmerican delegations take the initiative . The issues before the conference include nonintervention , human rights , representative democracy and the relation of economic development to political stability , in addition to the specific Caribbean problem . In the conference today , Foreign Minister Luis Arcaya of Venezuela branded the dictator-1 ship of Generalissimo Rafael i Leonidas Trujillo Molina of the Dominican Republic as the ' , cause of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ All American countries know perfectly well that the reason for the unrest is the dictator-1 ship of almost inconceivable cruelty and primitivism that has committed all crimes imaginable and that is characterized by its bad international conduct , " Senor Arcaya said . The Venezuelan minister added that in the face of this situation the Dominican Republic was accepted as an equal at an international meeting that espoused democratic principles . He said that from this conference " will emerge the definitive posture of the Organization of American states ; either we are a continent that preaches and practices harmonious coexistence and an institutional balance . that is the essence of democracy , or we are the chain of peoples without personality and still in a state of flux. "                     