@@719916

txt " The people have spoken on how they feel , and I 'm perfectly willing to follow him . " That expression by Senator Lee Leachville , president pro tempore of the Arkansas Senate , pretty well sums up the feeling of the Arkansas Legislature toward Gov . Orval Faubus . The Legislature is converging on the state capital for a special session called by the Governor to deal with the thorny problems of school integration . So strong is the sentiment behind Governor Faubus that the work of the extraordinary session appears to be cut and dried . It will go through the motions of enacting legislation which conceivably could close down public schools confronted by forcible legislation . How many schools would be affected is not definitely known . Wide Action Planned Such school closures would be linked with other legislative acts in a wholesale effort to bolster Southern defenses against federal court decrees ordering an end to racial segregation in Southern public schools . Here in Little Rock , some of the state 's highest official legal talent has been combing the statutes enacted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ against school segregation . The program being worked out by legislative leaders with aides to Governor Faubus will include bills based on those acts , " especially laws that have not been declared unconstitutional by federal courts , " one Faubus adviser said . Governor Faubus had three segregation bills drafted as the Legislature prepared to convene . The key one would close Central High School to further racial integration , subject to public referendum . Some legislators expect this revamping of the Arkansas public education system to take only a few days . Estimates range from only three days to a week . Most of the legislators already on hand are in the Faubus camp . Lt. Gov . Nathan Gordon , who presides over the Senate , is not necessarily close to the Governor . Nevertheless , he says he believes that " any bill presented to the special meeting of the Legislature by Governor Faubus will in all probability meet with the completer approval of the Legislature . I feel that after the Governor 's sweeping election in the Democratic primary , any bill which he proposes will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no outright or open opposition among the legislators . Some of the lawmakers feel that the Legislature , in its present temper , might be swept into such hasty action that it might disrupt normal educational processes in those school districts not confronted with an acute integration crisis and schools which have integrated peaceably . Representative Charles Stewart , Jr. , of Fayetteville , up in the northwestern part of the state , which has been operating on an integrated basis without difficulty , is reluctant to make much comment until he sees the proposed bills . He adds , however , that he would " have to know that it does not affect the one school in , Washington County which has integrated . That integration took place under different circumstances than those which face other parts of the state . And I recognize the problem that other people have . " As the legislators prepared to meet , it was noted that Governor Faubus again was emphasizing that Central High School faces potential violence if the federal courts continue to insist that Negroes be allowed to enter when school @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Page 7.                     