@@713426

txt New York and most of the northeastern states emerged yesterday from the great storm that had battered them on Saturday to count 205 dead and property damage estimated at more than $100 , - 000,000 . Five of the deaths were in New York City and thirty-three others in the metropolitan area . The great and unexpected storm , described by the Weather Bureau here as " the most violent of its kind ever recorded in the northeastern quarter of the United States , " passed north over Maine after leaving heavy wind and rain damage along the Atlantic Coast and as much as thirty inches of snow in Ohio and Western Pennsylvania . The snowstorm has " definitely tapered off , " the Washington Weather Bureau said last night . Only light snow or flurries are expected today and tomorrow in the midwestern and border states that were hard hit by the blizzard . Snow flurries also were , predicted for this city . Staten Island Hardest Hit Here , the greatest suffering and heaviest property damage were experienced in Staten Island , but the entire @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thousands of home television aerials were down . In both city and suburbs countless homes were still without heat or light as a result of power failures . Telephone and electric utility employes spread out over their broken and tangled spider 's web of lines in a round-the-clock repair job , with the expectation of having all damaged services restored by tonight . Meanwhile , householders climbed ladders , hammers in hand , to repair loose shingles and guttering ripped out of place by the high winds . The Consolidated Edison Company , which had reports of 407,000 power failures on Saturday , had restored service to all but 86,900 last night . A. spokesman said the others should be cleared by nightfall today . In Richmond , the Staten Island Edison Company announced at P. M. that street and house lighting had been restored to nine of the fourteen towns in the borough . Those still without light included St. George , Tottenville , New Dorp , Rosebank and Clifton . The New York Telephone Company reported it had repaired about half the 48,000 phones affected by the storm in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a third of those out of commission in the . Bronx and Westchester County . The company said it had ' enlarged its regular Sunday crew of 353 repair and maintenance men to 3,300 in Brooklyn , Richmond and Long Island . The Bronx and Westchester crew of 135 men was enlarged to 600 . Also , the company increased its staff of telephone operators from 2,700 normally on duty on a Sunday to 3,900 yesterday . in Brooklyn , Richmond and Staten Island . Traffic Back To Normal Traffic in and around the city was back to normal as many routes that had been closed by flooding were reopened . Returning Thanksgiving holiday travelers gave the city 's . tunnels and bridges and the railroads and bus and air lines a busy day . The Police Department reported that all major highways had been cleared of debris , felled power lines and other obstructions , and only a few secondary routes remained closed . Sanitation workers were clearing those rapidly to have them in operation for the start of the work week . There also were scattered " danger areas @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cornices or shards of glass constituted travel hazards , and the police were diverting all traffic from them . The . Long Island Rail Road said operations had returned to normal at 3 P. M. , and the New York Central- and New Haven reported all commuter tracks were clear . The railroads serving New York State and Connecticut commuters said they expected to provide full service today . Trains were departing on schedule last night from both Grand Central Terminal and Pennsylvania Station ,  --  but the snow and bad weather west of the city was delaying in-bound trains . They were one to five hours late arriving at Pennsylvania Station , and two to five hours late at Grand Central . In New Jersey the Pennsylvania and Jersey Central roads reported service would be normal today except for shore trains being slowed by track repairs between Perth Amboy and Matawan . New York City police , meanwhile , prepared a report showing that the gale blew down 3,052 wires of all types , 1,497 trees , 1,008 large signs and 1,987 miscellaneous items such as cornices , chimneys and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bridges were jammed . The police said that many of the travelers were en route to summer homes to assess the storm damage . A section of the Belt Parkway along the waterfront between Fort Hamilton and Bay Parkways , Brooklyn , was closed to eastbound traffic . With one minor exception , the city 's subway system was back to normal . The B. M. T. Culver Line was still operating via the Manhattan Bridge instead of the Montague Street Tunnel , which was closed after a fire destroyed cables early Saturday . LaGuardia Airport Reopened Operations were resumed at LaGuardia Airport at 6 o'clock yesterday morning after having been suspended since 11 A. M. Saturday . Water floodinc , over the field dikes was dissipated to some extent when holes were cut in the dikes to drain the field . New York International Airport at Idlewild , Queens . handled very little traffic but remained open throughout the storm . Meanwhile , Edwin Ludewig , director of the Bureau of Food and Drugs of the Health Department , said 350 Health Department officers would inspect milk and food supplies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Sixty inspectors checked food storage plants in Staten Island , North Brothers Island and the La Guardia Airport area yesterday . Because of the low outside temperatures , running about 38 degrees , they found little spoilage . Additional inspectors were assigned to large milk plants in the city to check on sanitary handling and pasteurization . ' Three city plants still lacked power yesterday to handle milk . If necessary , they planned to ship their milk to outside plants for pasteurization . A check of the milkshed showed that normal supplies would be delivered today , although some might arrive late . As the Police and Fire Departments returned to normal tours , the Sanitation Department sent out extra crews to clear the debrisstrewn streets . Instead of the normal Sunday force of 1,000 men and 125 trucks , Commissioner Andrew Mulrain dispatched ' 9,000 men and 700 trucks to remove loose glass , broken stone and fallen trees from the roadways . Police Headquarters reported that 3,052 telephone and electric wires had been blown down in the five boroughs . The recapitulation showed 1,497 trees down , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ M. Hilliard , Welfare Commissioner , reported that four welfare stations had remained open yesterday to care for persons in distress . Most of those evacuated from their homes by floods had returned home or found quarters with friends and relatives . Police of the Ryder Avenue Station in the Bronx rescued and revived five unconscious tenants of a fifth-floor apartment at 2343 Prospect Avenue . They had been affected by seeping coal gas from a cellar furnace . The police reported that the Jewish Sanitarium and Hospital for Chronic Diseases , which occupies three buildings at East Fortyninth Street and Rutland Road , Brooklyn , was without light and heat from 2 o'clock Saturday afternoon to late last evening . The institution has 600 patients . The Angel Guardian Home , Twelfth Avenue and Sixty-fourth Street , Borough Park , Brooklyn , which is caring for 150 children from 6 days to 2 years old , was without light , heat and refrigeration after 1 P. M. Saturday . Emergency service crews expected to restore power last night . By late afternoon all the city 's fire alarm boxes except @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ signs on the out-of-service boxes , giving directions to the nearest firehouse and a telephone number where fires could be reported . Lawrence W. Widdecombe , director of the American Red Cross disaster corps on Staten Island , said the relief agency had equipped twenty emergency shelters with clothing , blankets and food during the storm . Between 500 and 600 persons who had been evacuated from their homes were cared for , and all but a few went home yesterday . Ferry service was resumed from the Battery to St. George ; from St. George to Sixty-Ninth Street , Brooklyn , and from Staten Island to New Jersey on regular Sunday schedules . All ferry lines expect to operate normal weaN.kday schedules beginning this morning . Lieut . Col. James G. McCaffrey , commanding the 991st Field Artillery Battalion , New York National Guard , sent 150 guardsmen to help civil authorities on Staten Island and in Roslyn , Queens , during the storm . The Eastern Headquarters of the Red Cross reported that it had forty-seven emergency shelters in operation in five states ? New York , New Jersey @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ under way to meet the rehabilitation needs of thousands driven from their homes , mainly a long the Atlantic Coast , by floods and other catastrophic effects of the massive storm . Ralph Bain , director of Disaster Service , said , Although Saturday 's storm caught most New Yorkers un- awares , the Weather Bureau said it had posted small craft warnings all day on Friday , and had put up a storm warning at 11 o'clock on Friday night . The big storm began at 12:45 Saturday morning and developed wind gust of hurricane force up to ninety-four miles an hour . In addition to distributing the storm warning by teletype , the bureau sent telegrams to shipping , transportation and city officials and the Coast Guard , warning that severe weather was in prospect . Yesterday found the skies partly cloudy over the metropolitan area , with temperatures ranging from the upper 20 's to the low 40 's and moderate to fresh , shifting winds mostly from the south . Before dawn there were a few brief snow flurries . Today 's high temperatures are due to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be fresh to occasionally strong from the south .                     