@@715857

txt WASHINGTON , Nov. 14 ? The ' Arab League has publicly offered the . United States the choice of either greater friendship and cooperation with- the Arab world or the loss of United States strategic bases and economic interests in the Middle East . This was laid down in bold detail in a speech delivered here Nov. ' 3 by Abdel Khalik Hassouna of Egypt , secretary general of the eight-nation Arab League . Mr. Hassouna also told his audience , Overseas Writers , a newspaper correspondents ' organization , that the Arab peoples were " losing faith " in the United States and wondering if Americans were reliable " champions of freedom . " He said he regretted such an attitude but found it " very difficult to oppose . " Mr. Hassouna had not intended Ito have his remarks attributed to him , but agreed to make the speech public today at the request of some who had heard him . Experts on the Middle East said that Mr. Hassouna 's frankness had been matched in statements made I in the Arab capitals and possibly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ represented a much stronger , more belligerent line than ever had been heard in Washington . U. S. Press Is Criticized The Arab League official coupled his criticism of State Department policy . with a bitter attack on the ' United States press . Both , he charged , bow before strong supporters of Israel and Zionism in the United States . Mr. Hassouna asserted that " all of the Arab peoples were sorely disappointed " at what he called the failure of the West , and especially of the United States , to grasp the . tragedy of the hundreds of thousands of . Palestine Arab refugees . " Their sad plight presents ideal conditions for the spread of communism in . the heartland , of the Middle East , " he declared . " imerleans seem to be-greatly concerned about the threat of Communist aggression . We of the Arab world , while also aware ' of the threat of communism to our way of life , are nevertheless more immediately and directly concerned about the threat of further Zionist aggression . " " As for expansionist Zionism , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ much more than a pious dream . It is a dangerous reality , closely related to a deliberate policy of unlimited immigration and a rapidly worsening problem of overpopulation . " Contending that " hundreds of millions of dollars " had been contributed by the United States Government and - by private citizens , Mr. Hassouna argued that no United. - States iteSOurces should be used . to ' finange aggressive adventures ' against the- peaee-loving Arab - nations of the . Middle East : His most diiectaitempt to influence future United States policy toward the . Middle ' East was in // asking certain . questions concerning ? Washington 's interest in the area . Calling attention to the.developMent of certain air bases and military installations in the Middle East , he asked : " Are these bases and facilities important to your security ? If they are important and vital to your security , you must be concerned about the friendship and reliability of the peoples in - the countries and areas in which they are located . Make nn mistake about it , any operating military base is of little value @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a hostile people . " Then Mr. Hassouna reminded his audience : of the " economic importance " of the Arab world to the United States . " Are you really ? vitally interested in the petroleum and other material resources of the Arab states ? " he inquired . " Is continued access to these raw materials essential to the highly industrialized economy of your country ? Are your business men really interested in trade with the Arab world ? Are American manufacturers really interested in supplying us with the automobiles , the trucks , the aircraft , the electrical appliances , the agricultural equip- , ment , the communications equipment , the chemicals , and the thousand yid one other items produced fin your plants and factories ? " Mr. liassouna apparently assumed that the answer Would be affirmative , for he added that " trade and commerce rest upon good human relations between your people and ours . " The speaker was especially critical of the State Department 's renewal of economic aid to Israel after the Israeli Government had suspended its work on the Jordan River water @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ late last month because the Israeli Government continued to carry out the project despite a United Nations request that the work stop . This action , accordini to Mr. Hassouna , " set in motio a merciless , well-oiled juggern ut ? determined to crush all resistance -- the Zionist power in the United States . " Aid was resumed a few days later , he continued , because " the pressure on Washington " was too great to permit further delay .                     