@@712905

txt Antigambling forces in Massachusetts are building for an all-out assault on a proposed state lottery . Another target is the quadrennial by-county referendum on legalized parimutual betting on horse and dog racing . Participating in the antigambling drive are the Citizens Committee of Massachusetts . the Massachusetts Council of Churches , and the Massachusetts Congregational Conference . Local committees are being encouraged throughout the state . Church meetings are adopting antigambling resolutions . Thus the groundwork is being laid for an opposition effort designed to reach its peak on state Election Day , Nov. 7 . State Lottery Fought Of course the initial goal is to obtain legislative rejection of the pending initiative petition for a state lottery . The lottery has been proposed as a means to foot the bill for another initiative petition proposal for a $75-a=month minimum benefit under old-age assistance . These two initiative petitions are now before the Legislative Committee on Pensions and Old Age Assistance . The antigambling forces are working now for an adverse committee report on the state lottery . This will be followed by a drive for legislative @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ turned down . by the Legislature , its sponsors , headed by Charles C. O'Donnell , president of the Massachusetts Society for Old Age Pensions , are ready to carry the issue to the referendum stage . This they can do by filing 5.000 additional certified voter signatures . Ballot Test Possible If the Legislature should pass the state lottery initiative petition , however , the measure would he law . But opponents could bring about a ballot test by filing a repeal referendum petition . Such a petition would require either 10,000 or 15,000 voter signatures , dependent upon whether suspension of the law were requested . The larger number of signatures would be required if the repeal backers desired suspension of the lottery measure pending a referendum . However , there is now no discussion of such a repeal petition . Antigambling forces confidently expect the Legislature to turn down the lottery proposal . And most observers expect the measure to reach the state ballot . The Citizens Committee of Massachusetts is encouraging formation of local committees in every city and town in Massachusetts for the battle against the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Dwight S. Strong , secretary of the committee , said these committees will be extremely important in the fall election campaign . The citizens committee is ready to supply material for the use of these committees . Speakers Available Antigambling statements are being received from leading citizens throughout the state . These statements , when the proper time comes , can be recorded and used for radio spot announcements , in small house groups and the like . The Massachusetts Congregational Conference has established a committee of 100 . This committee includes speakers and discussion leaders throughout Massa chusetts . Speakers and discussion leaders will be available for meetings against gambling . operations . Dr. Myron NV . Fowell , secretary of the Massachusetts Congregational Conference , said two conferences have been held at the Boston University School of Theology to brief the speakers and discussion leaders in the techniques to be used in pushing the antigambling campaign . Dr. Fowell said various church groups already have ? adopted antigambling resolutions , and many others will follow . His organization . he added , will conduct a powerful poster campaign against @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stage . Antigambling resolutions being adopted in various Protestant churches include a position against raffles and other forms of lottery which have been popular among some church groups as a means of raising money for church functions . In opposing a state lottery , it is felt that the churches themselves should eliminate any church-sponsored gambling , however small , to make their position strong and unassailable . Churches Cooperate The Massachusetts Council of Churches is ready to cooperate to the fullest in the drive against the lottery and legalized gambling on horse and dog racing . It is working closely with the Citizens Committee and the Congregational Conference . The Council is made up of approximately 2,000 Protestant churches . Most persons have lost sight of the fact that the . horse- and dog-racing parimutual betting questions will be on the ballot this year . They come up every four years under legislation adopted some time ago . Mr. Strong is counting upon a powerful local campaign to continue to keep legalized gambling on horse and dog races out of Hampden County . 