@@713747

txt Letters to The Times DANIEL A. POLING , H.G.W. WOODHEAD.ELECTUS D. LITCHFIELD.DOROTHY Q. READ THOMAS ... Letters to The Times To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Having read the history of wars and the story of commanding officers from the beginning of the written record , I do not think that any war has ever been fought by a commanding officer under handicaps comparable to those imposed upon General in Korea . These handicaps are not fit conflict from his enemy , but in conference from his " friends . " Today as from the beginning the Red invaders have sanctuary in Manchuria . Here they regroup their defeated armies  --  here , from safe bases , they launch aerial attacks . Yet General may not cross that forbidden frontier even in reconnaissance flights . But now from the General 's various political commands something more serious has issued . In late March of this year , in a statement released at Tokyo , offered to confer personally with the enemy Commander in Chief in an effort to end hostilities . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ collapse and that something worse might be in the making . It was then that , instead of support or even silence from the United Nations and from the United States , General got a veritable hue and cry of criticism and condemnation . Washington rebuked in language only slightly veiled . London 's Daily Herald opinioned " The new approach to Communist China " ( Communist China already having been recognized by Great Britain ) " may have been wrecked by General 's latest move " and closed with the fling " General , wearing his selfappointed mantle of pro-consul * * * . " - There were American columnists who smacked the commander characteristically and hard . Then came two dramatic editorial defenses of the General from Great Britain . The Daily Express , with a circulation of four million , said : " General is being vilified because the Communists want him vilified  --  it is time he is given the credit and authority due him . " The Daily Mail asked : " In the face of conflicting orders he gets from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ do ? " American parents realize that this world spectacle of uncertainty and disunity , the marching off in all directions while leaving Douglas and the Allied forces in the middle , has meant and will continue to mean " Allied lives " lost , or , as The London Express puts it , " specifically American lives . " Not before but after the flood of " criticism , " " condemnation " and " vilification " with ? which General 's statement was greeted from his rear political echelons , Red China insolently rejected his offer and stepped up resistance . Why does General , issue statements at all  --  the March statement and this later letter to Congressman Martin of Massachusetts ? In September , 1944 , I heard him make a statement in Australia that suggests the answer . He said then , " I have just two objectives : first , to get this war over in the Pacific as quickly as possible , and second , to save as many lives as possible . " What a magnificent job he made of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Success and Washington have contributed considerably less than nothing to that same strategy in the Far . East . The London Daily Telegraph remarked recently , " The State Department in Washington is once again very annoyed with General . " ? I believe that in this matter the American people continue to be and are increasingly " annoyed " with their own State Department . DANIEL A. POLING , Editor , Christian Herald . New York , April 4 , 1951 . Policies Called Dangerous To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : General 's implied threat to carry out bombing attacks on Chinese territory and his advocacy of the employment of Chiang Kai-shek 's forces for the invasion of the mainland seem to me to raise vital issues , both for the American Government and its Allies , which have not had proper consideration from those who support his policies . That he is waging the war in Korea under intolerable conditions , by reason of the actions of the Chinese " volunteers , " and the limitations placed upon his military activities , can not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ above , if implemented , might well result in a general war in the Far East , and the wrecking of Allied unity . As regards the threat to bomb Chinese territory , it should be remembered that on Feb. 14 , 1950 , Messrs . Vishinsky and Chou En-lai signed a " Treaty of Friendship , Alliance and Mutual Aid between the Soviet Union and the Chinese People 's Republic . " One of the clauses of that treaty reads : " The High Contracting Parties undertake that they will undertake jointly all necessary measures at their disposal to prevent any repetition of aggression and violation of peace on the part of Japan , or any other state which directly or indirectly would unite with Japan in acts of aggression . In ' the event of one of the agreeing parties being ' subjected to attack by Japan , or any state allied with her , thus finding itself in. a state of war , the other High Contracting Party will immediately render military and other aid with all means at its disposal . " There is grave ' reason @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ what constitutes ' aggression " might be used by Moscow to misinterpret any bombing of Chinese territory as an act of " aggression " by a , pyte united ' or allied with Japan , ' and then exploited to justify rendering assistance to Red China " with all means at its disposal . " Secondly , to have any chance of success an invasion of the Chinese mainland by Chiang Kai-shek 's forces on Formosa would require massive Ameri can support  --  in tonnage , landing craft , arms , munitions and equipment , and air-cover . It can not possibly be argued that such action would be in conform ity with the decisions of the United Nations , several member , states of which have withdrawn recognition from the Chinese Nationalists , and ( wrongly in my opinion ) extended fore mal recognition to the Chinese People 's Republic . These states could not possibly give formal approval to , or connive at , hostile action against the Chinese . People 's Republic by a regime they do not recognize , in the name of the United Nations . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ completely dissociated from the war in Korea , and opposition to it in Europe and India would be so strong that it might well wreck Allied unity throughout the Far East . I refrain from expressing my opinions as to the likelihood of such an invasion , even with American support , riveting with success . I only want to emphasize some implications of General 's policies which appear to be overlooked by many of those who want them fulfilled . H. G. W. WOODHEAD . New York , April 9 , 1951 . City Housing Plans Praised Projects Welcomed as Transforming Slum Areas To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Under the unexciting headline " Two Areas Approved for City Housing " you have recorded in THE TIMES , April 3 , a truly epochal event in the history of New York City . This is not just the initiation of a couple of housing projects under the aegis of our efficient Housing Authority . This is something quite different . These are  --  not exclusively housing projects ; they are redevelopment projects and include commercial and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ privately built and owned . These two projects just approved by the Board of Estimate inaugurate here in New York , under Title I of the 1949 Housing Act of the United States Government , a procedure which promises ' the eventual transformation of the unhealthy , depressing slums into modern communities with an abundance of light and air and of open space , planted , we hope , with grass and trees . Unlike the Housing Authority projects , they will be privately owned and operated and , being conservatively financed , are planned to produce a satisfactory financial return based on reasonably moderate but going rates of rent . These two pilot projects , with the several others which have been proc. ; essed for consideration with the speed and efficiency characteristic of Robert Moses , give promise of great things . Out of the study of these projects by several different firms of architects under the direction of Mr. Moses ' Slum Clearance Committee and its staff , with the help of some of the city 's leading real estate experts , the economic feasibility of the program @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It is interesting to note the almost unanimous agreement of the experts on the pattern of a few twenty-story lowcoverage buildings providing adequate facilities for the families to be housed in the area , set in wide-open spaces for light and air and the trees and planting , which add so much to the happiness of a city . ELECTUS D. LITCHFIELD . New York , April 3 , 1951. - Defended Handicaps Imposed on General Called Unprecedented in History International Protocol To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : I am amazed to read that Trygve Lie concerns himself with the trivial matter of his place at the dinner given by the City of New York in honor of President Auriol of France . And I am frightened to think that the Secretary General of the international organization in which we are placing our hope for world understanding and peace has so little to think about that he is outraged by the mere fact of his position at the head table . No matter what form of protocol was followed , the significant thing is that distinguished leaders @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ view ( Dr. Bunche , Jacob Malik , Bishop Donegan , Rabbi Pool , General Romulo , Mayor Impellitteri , Nasrollah Entezam , Cardinal Spellman , Sir Gladwyn Jebb and Thomas Watson ) sat down at dinner together . DOROTHY Q. READ THOMAS . New York , April 9 , 1951 . Chancre in IliEliwav Sicns Asked To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Pondering the significance of the publicity given vehicular accidents recently leads me to make this suggestion to . the authorities : Instead of the words " Speed Limit " on the highway signs , why not substitute the words " Safe Limit " or " Safety Limit , " even if only for the psychological implication ? BERT RAMER . Brooklyn , April 6 , 1951.                     