@@714703

txt Chicago 's policemen will resist ! efforts of the city council 's anticrime committee to pry into their financial and other personal affairs , their atattorney said yesterday . Daniel A. O ' - Rourke , counsel for the 6,000 members of the Chicago Patrolmen 's association , said he has advised policemen called before the committee to answer all questions concerning police work , but to give no information on their personal affairs . The committee hearings will open at 10 a. m. tomorrow in the council chambers and will continue thru Thursday . They will be resumed the following Tuesday . Points to Loy , Morale ? " The morale of the police department alr ea d y is low , " O'Rourke said . " I see no reason why the committee should go into the personal lives of policemen and try to embarrass them and their families . " O'Rourke pointed out that the council committee was formed to curb crime and to improve the police department and the city , but he said these objectives would be endangered if the committee stooped @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ committee policy of withholding the names of the policemen called to testify until just before the O'Rourke said . " We have attempted to find out from the committee and its investigators who is going to be called , but they have n't the courtesy to tell us . " It was understood that attorneys for the sergeants and lieutenants also have instructed members of their associations to avoid answering personal questions be- , fore the committee . O'Connor " Glad " to Talk Police Commissioner O'Connor is scheduled to be the first witness before the committee . His testimony is expected to take up most of the first day 's session . " There has been a lot of conversation to the effect that there is something wrong with the police department , " O'Connor said . " I am glad to have this opportunity to tell the commissioner 's side of the story . " Charles A. Bane , attorney for the anti-crime committee , and members of his staff conferred yesterday in their offices on the 10th floor at 173 W. Madison st . They will meet at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with members of the anti-crime committee to establish procedures to be followed , Seek Tax Records It was supposed that Aid . Du Bois 9th7 , committee chairman , would preside and that Bane would conduct most of the questioning . Bane said some high police officials and other witnesses would be asked to bring in records of their income tax returns . He did not indicate what action would be taken if they refused . A mass crime fighting rally will be held at 3 p. m. today in the Metropolitan Community church , 4100 South Park way , under sponsorship of the National Negro council and the Chicago Citizens Committee of 1,000.                     