@@719005

txt When Mayor Wagner , as chairman of the Metropolitan Regional Conference , stepped forward to oppose the New York Central 's request for a commuter fare increase he exposed himself to criticism from the railroad that was both plausible and deserved . The city owns and runs a transit system that is unburdened by taxation ; that puts its hand into the taxpayer 's pocket for all capital expenditures ( over $75,000,000 a year at present for debt service ) ; that , in spite of this , has tripled its fare to 15 cents in the last decade . So , the railroad asks in effect , how can the Mayor logically cqmplain if the New York Central has raised its fares 87 per cent since 1950 , or argue that " fare increases would merely reduce the number of commuters " as the railroad " prices itself out of the market , " forcing the commuters to use automobiles ? Alfred B. Perlman , New York Central president , then goes on to cite the railroad 's tax burden in New York City . Since @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ River Bridge , used only for bringing passengers into Manhattan , have increased 600 per cent , from $70,000 to $495,000 ; the franchise tax paid to the city " for the hole under Park Avenue " has been increased 120 per cent , from $1,260,000 to $2,760,000 . Taxes paid to New York City alone on facilities used only for passenger service amount to $5,300,000 a year , including real estate taxes on Grand Central Terminal . The questions involved here are far broader than the New York Central 's immediate and particular problem , The Mayor is not wholly wrong , nor is the Metropolitan Regional Conference wrong in its concern over the fact that while this area 's population grows , and rail travel should for urgent reasons of public interest increase , it is in fact in danger of shrinking to oblivion . Mr. Perlman is right in his complaint that while all other forms of transportation  --  by sea , in the air , on rubber tires  --  are subsidized in one way or another ( by the railroads , as well as other taxpayers ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will constitute fair return on investment and build better commuter service . The Metropolitan Rapid Transit Commission is working on this problem . The State of New York has already legislated a remedy of sorts for the Long Island , as a special case , allowing it tax relief and ratemaking autonomy . While there is no reason why New York City alone should bear the whole burden of tax relief on various governmental levels to rescue the New York Central from the need for further fare increases , the sound solution for the commuter railroads ' plight seems to lie in tax relief rather than in fare increases so large as to have a catastrophic effect on passenger riding , Such a remedy lies outside the Public Service Commission 's jurisdiction , of course . It waits upon the development of new , far-reaching public policy , upon the Metropolitan Rapid Transit Commission and upon the Legislature , and we hope it does n't wait too long .                     