@@713136

txt deleted 1st page DU PONT WILL WORK ON HYDROGEN BOMB // ability to attack , public health and safety considerations , and proximity to population centers to avoid the establishment of new Government communities such as Oak Ridge and Los Alamos . Curtis A. Nelson , 45-year-old engineer , who has been associated with atomic energy projects ? since the Manhattan District , has been designated manager of the project . An engineering graduate of the University of Nebraska , he served successively with the Nebraska State Highway Commission , the Civilian Conservation Corps and the Works Progress Administration . From 1940 to 1947 he served with the United States Engineers and was assigned to the Manhattan District , predecessor of the A. E. C. From 1947 until a month ago , he was assigned to Chalk River , Ont. , as liaison officer for the A. E. C. To supervise the new facilities ' site selection , design , construction and operation , a new operations office is being established . This will be the ninth major field operation . Temporary headquarters for the office will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ builder and first operator of the Hanford plutonium production plant , having entered the project in 1942 at the request of the Government , with the understanding that it would be allowed to withdraw on cessation of hostilities . It withdrew in the fall of 1946 . Company Statement In accepting the new assignment , the company announced : " In withdrawing from the operation of the Hanford atomic energy project in 1946 du Pont felt that , with the country at peace , it was following the proper course for a company whose industrial field of endeavor is chemistry rather than physics . " This is still the company 's position but , in the interest of national security , du Pont again is prepared to place its experience and technical resources at the disposal of the Government in undertaking this new project for the Atomic Energy Commission . " The company also announced that , in negotiating the contract , it had asked that the principal terms be the same as those under which it carried out the Hanford project . These terms specified that the Government would pay @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of one dollar . Any patents growing out of du Pont 's work would become the property of the Government . After today 's committee hearing , Senator invited reporters into the committee room for a brief news conference . This was a departure from the usual procedure when reporters were traditionally greeted with , " No comment . " The Senator said the committee had discussed with Mr. Johnson and Mr. Bradley the state of our atomic defense and preparedness . He said the relations between the committee and the Defense Department had also been discussed and that the two witnesses had agreed that these relations were " ' completely satisfactory . " He said the committee had received information and views that would form the " foundations " for future discussions . He added , " I personally believe that we should expand our already expanding program  --  I shall present my views to the President . " The Senator declared : " There 's no question in my mind that our atomic stockpile is the chief deterrent to expanded Russian aggression . I intend , therefore , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can to see that our present lead is maintained and increased . " Asked if this meant he would ask for additional funds , he replied that funds more than the $260 , - 000,000 asked by President Truman would be asked at this session of Congress . He said he had an idea how much would be asked but did not care to state the figure now .                     