@@714833

txt Profligate spending by the military brass at home and abroad has been exposed by a congressional investigating subcommittee . Savings of billions of dollars In the swollen defense budget can be accomplished , t h e investigators found , if the spendthrift policies of the army , navy , and air force are curbed . The three branches of the military forces have made a mockery of the unification law passed five years ago , the subcommittee reported , clinging jealously to traditional powers , especially in regard to the procurement of supplies . No one knows the amount of stores piled up by the eager military spenders as they try to exhaust t h e huge appropriations piled upon them by congress under the urgency of " war emergencies " cited by the Truman administration . Stocks at 100 Billions A conservative estimate of the investigators placed the value of supplies , ranging from shoe laces to automotive parts , at 100 billion dollars , more than one-third of the entire national debt . Storage space alone for these gigantic hoards was estimated at 500 million @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is $8 a square foot , the taxpayer is putting up 4 billion dollars to house these supplies . President Truman has challenged congress to cut his 85 billion dollar budget which is plunging the nation into the red despite the greatest ' tax revenues in history . The challenge always has assumed that no legislator would dare to propose reductions in the vast military appropriations , since he would immediately be assailed for injuring " national security . " Alameda Experiment Cited The findings of the subcommittee will supply ammunition at the next session for curtailing the war spenders . The defense machine actually will be strengthened and made more efficient while the burden of taxes is lightened , the investigators said . The reluctant Pentagon brass has been prodded into an experiment at Alameda , Cal. , the report revealed , which will be completed Aug. 31 . Labeled unique in character , it points the way to " great savings for the taxpayer in material , space , man power and transportation , " the report said . The quiet work of the house subcommittee on expenditure s @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Rep. Harden ER. , Ind. as the ranking minority member , has received little publicity . It has assembled files packed with information on waste and inefficiency in the military forces , traveling 26 , - 000 miles to study conditions abroad , and spending months in inspections at home . Tons of Medical Supplies Its insistence brought on the Alameda experiment which the defense department was induced to approve almost a year after it was proposed . The subcommittee found a bizarre situation in connection with thousands of tons of medical supplies purchased for the wounded and sick among the nation 's fight- ? ing men . This was brought about by the insistence of army and navy that it each control its own stocks of medical ? supplies . The disclosure was made that during one period of the Kofean war , when the army was having difficulty obtaining bandages and drugs for bleeding men in Korea , the navy had on hand large stocks of medical supplies for its own use altho the navy demand for such materials has increased but slightly since the Korean war started . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ katri a similar ntmiReproduced with permission of the copyright owner . Further reproduction prohibited without permission . ber . With each suppling its own men , some absurd situations were created , the report said . The navy in Pensacola , Fla. , for example , had to draw its medical supply support from a navy depot at Edgewater , N. J. , 1,400 miles distant , while the same supplies were stocked by the army in Atlanta , Ga. , 350 miles from Pensacola . The army in Fort Dix , N. J. , had to get its medicine from Schenectady , N. Y. , altho navy stocks were located at the nearby Edgewater , N. J. , depot . Two Depots Combined At Oakland , Cal. , the subcommittee found the army maintain-1 ing a medical depot with 344,000 ' square feet of storage space . Across the street , the navy had a similar depot with 535,000 square feet of space . The experiment began with the combining of these two installations at Alameda in one depot with 677,000 square feet of space , found to be adequate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The one depot received requisitions from all military services in the western part of the zone of interior and overseas , including the Korean theater . The air force also received all its supplies from this unified medical pipe line . Despite the initial horror of the brass at this innovation in common sense , it has proved to be highly efficient , according to preliminary reports . While the Pentagon did n't like it , officers overseas were not concerned whether the army or the navy sent them medical supplies for their men , so long as they arrived , the subcommittee commented . Huge Storage Space ' Used The army and the navy currently are using 78,000 tons of medical stores a year . One million square feet of space is needed for supplies to maintain this annual issuance , the report noted , altho the military departments have medical supplies scattered in 10 depots over the country with 6,205,124 square feet of space . Three depots could amply handle all requirements , the subcommittee said . When the experiment is concluded at the end of this month @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to all supply depots , the system points the way to huge savings , it was noted , together with increased efficiency . The subcommittee expects great military resistance to unified control of supply lines . " Each service wants to control its own distribution system on the theory of ' responsiveness to command ' , " the report noted , " This is one reason why the military have several hundred million feet I of expensive storage space with very slow turnover of stock and excessive inventories of common items . Each desires to be independent and have its own complete facilities regardless of the impact on our resources . " The medical supply test has key significance in military supply organization and management . If successful , it can be extended to many other commodity classes . "                     