@@717293

txt The development of a new technology for transferring heat at high temperatures will result in " significant reductions in the cost of nuclear power " derived from atomic energy , according to reports presented here today . The new technology makes possible the effective use of liquid metals such as sodium and potassium to carry away heat generated by split atoms in an atomic power reactor . High temperature heat is transferred to an element known as a heat exchanger , which produces steam for power generation . Progress in liquid metal technology was described at the International Conference on Peaceful Uses of Atomic Energy sponsored by the United Nations . As on previous days , this conference was attended by the official delegations of seventy-two nations . 1Knowledge that had been kept top-secret " until now was freely exchanged by nuclear scientists and engineers from s eral countries , including the nited States , Britain , the Soviet Union and Sweden . One of the basic functions of I a nuclear power plant is the removal of great quantities of heat I generated in the nuclear @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the heat into steam for generating electricity Liquid Metals Fill Role Because of their properties as efficient transferrers of heat at high temperature liquid metals are particularly suitable for this role in nuclear reactors , as atomic power plants are known . They are , in fact , the only cooling fluids suitable for the breeder type of reactor , which " breeds " its own fuel in quantities greater than it consumes . Some metals like mercury are liquid at ordinary temperatures or become liquid at the temperature required for power generation . Sodium and potassium are two such metals particularly suitable as coolants for atomic power reactors for two reasons . In addition to their ability to transfer heat for the generation of steam they also possess properties compatible with economy of neutrons , the subatomic neutral particles needed to maintain the chain reaction that keeps the atomic fire burning . Neutrons are to a nuclear fire what oxygen is to an ordinary chemical fire . One of the essential requisites of any element used in a nuclear reactor is that it must not absorb neutrons , thus depriving @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " An entirely new technology has been developed , using sodium for heat transfer at high temperature in nuclear reactors , " one of the reports said . It was presented by T. Trocki , W. H. ' Bruggeman and F. E. Crever of the Knolls Atomic Power LabI oratory , operated under the auspices of the Atomic Energy Commission by the General Electric Company , Schenectady , N. Y. The main difficulty with the use of sodium for heat transfer , the authors state , is its chemical reactivity . It burns in air , reacts violently with water and is corrosive when contaminated with oxygen . " Each of these difficulties , " they reported , " has been resolved by careful construction of the piping and vessels containing the hot sodium . The chance of leakage is practically eliminated . In a steam generator where a leak between boiling water and sodium could cause a vigorous reaction , double Wall tubes are used to reduce this possibility . " Although sodium is corrosive when contaminated with oxygen , the report adds , it is virtually noncorrosive when purified @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ low tern , perature at which oxygen is relatively insoluble in sodium . Purified in this manner and used in a clean leak-tight system sodium requires no further purification , it was found . If contaminated with oxygen during any maintenance operations of the plant it can be repurified in the same manner . Most of the piping and equipment for use with sodium , the report continued , is similar to that used in a conventional high-temperature power plant . The main special requirement is to prevent leakage of even small quantities of sodium from the system because sodium becomes radioactive during reactor operation . Leak-Proof Pumps Built This special provision has led to the development of leakproof pumps in which sodium is pumped electrically , using the same principle as an electric motor . Sodium has sufficiently good electrical properties to make this possible . More conventional types of pumps have also been developed , the report adds . A unique feature of one is to use cooled frozen sodium to provide a rotating seal at the pump shaft . A reactor using sodium , the re ( port @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ low pressure . Since the boil-1 ing point sodium is well above , the operating temperature of the res. , .. ; tor , it does not require , pressurization of the readtor. 1This , the report said , " is ad- , I van tagepus in the mechanical , I design of the reactor vessel and its penetrations for control rods . " " The excellent heat transfer properties of sodium , " the re port states . " practically preclude the possibility of fuel overheat- ' ing except in an extreme case , ' such as a complete flow stoppage in a cooling channel . " Test Reactor Operated An experimental breeder reactor using an alloy of sodium and potassium for heat transfer . the authors revealed , has been operated successfully for some time . This reactor was designed and built by the Argonne National Laboratory of the Atomic Energy Commission near Chicago and operated at the commission 's National Reactor Testing Station at Arco , Idaho . " This successful operation , " the report concluded , " has established the feasibility of using liquid metals for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of new design to be used for circulating molten sodium And other liquid metals at very high temperatures through nuclear power reactors have been developed at the Argonne National Laboratory . These electromagnetic pumps were described as having no moving parts and being completely free of leakage . Moreover , they are capable of operating at " very high temIperatures for indefinitely long periods . " An electromagnetic pump was reported soon to be ready for testing . It was described as capable of pumping 10,000 gallons , of molten sodium a minute at a temperature of 1,000 degrees Fahrenheit . A. direct current of 250,000 amperes is required to operate the ' pump . This enormous current will be supplied by a specially ' ' designed generator , which consists essentially of a solid iron cylinder rotating at high speed in a bath of liquid metal . The liquid metal replaces carbon brushes used on conventional generators and makes it possible to obtain very large currents from a relatively small machine , it was explained . In certain applications . the report says , it is desirable to pump liquid @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ described that is operated a a temperature of 1.500 degrees Fahrenheit for prolonged periods .                     