@@716799

txt In President Eisenhower 's economic report this year there occurs the following statement : " Properly coordinated with other measures , a reduction of Government expenditure or increase in taxes can restrain inflationary tendencies , just as a reduction of taxes or increase in expenditure can at times bo an effective check on recessionary forces . There will , therefore , be occasions when the Government 's accounts are out of balance in one direction or the other . " If we read this aright , the President is saying that the size of the Government 's budget is not to be determined primarily by the cost of supplying governmental services , such as providing for the national defense . Instead , the budget is an instrument for manipulating the economy . Thus in times of recession the Government should cut taxes , increase spending and run a deficit to pump up the economy  --  even though otherwise its finances might be in good shape . Conversely , in boom times it should raise taxes , cut expenditures and run a surplus to halt inflation and slow @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be suggesting that as a practical matter this is a way the . Government can act to keep the country on an even economic keel . ? ? ? Now this is simply a more moderate statement of an old proposal . Mr. Eisenhower does not offer it as a panacea and plainly he would apply it with temperance . Yet it is still what is sometimes called the " compensatory budget theory . " Stemming from Keynesian doctrine , it has been advocated in one form or another by Marr iner Eccles . Harry Hopkins , Leon Keyserling and Presidents Roosevelt and Truman . As a theory it has a plausible sound . What sounds easier , or more effective , than that if the economy suffers from too little spending by people , the Government should make up the difference by providing more spending money ? Or if people are carried away by a boom , the Government should dampen their ardor by taking away some of the spending money ? Naturally , the first part of the theory provides no political difficulties . People never object to having @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Government spend more money . That political road is easy . But its economic path is futile . If the Government is going to spend more money , the question is : What money ? It can not apply the theory by getting its extra spending money from the citizens because that would require more taxes . This would take money out of the spending stream , which in time of recession would be precisely what the theorists would not want to do . So the only recourse of the Government is to manufacture its own dollars and pour them out into the spending stream . That is what the New Deal did all during the Thirties to no avail . That is what the Fair Deal did in extreme fashion after the war , with very nearly disastrous consequences . For what the Government creates is notmoney . And the dollar bills it can create will in sufficient quantities destroy the value of the money that already exists . ? ? ? But apart from this , what happens when the Government decides it wants to compensate in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ boom , that as a result of this boom the Government 's finances are in good shape and it does n't need all its revenue to provide essential services . Let us imagine it is in the best position possible to apply the other part of the theory , a curtailment of the country 's spending power . It decides to cut its own spending . But it does not cut spending to save money for the taxpayers . It reduces its spending just so it will have a surplus to manipulate . In fact , it wants to raise taxes to enlarge that surplus . Who thinks this politically possible ? People pay taxes reluctantly enough even when they think they are paying for desired services . Who thinks they will authorize higher taxes when the Government wants them for no other reason than just to take money out of people 's pockets so they ca n't spend it ? The political difficulty was bluntly recognized a decade ago by six leading economists who advocated the theory in a report published by the Committee for Economic Development . And they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is essential  --  the theory certainly can not work if it must wait for Congress to debate changes in tax and spending policies in a rapidly shifting economy  --  these economists said : " The developing situation must be centrally appraised in its various aspects and the signals called for policy action . Monetary policy , tax policy and expenditure policy must be made to work together . .. There must be a focus for responsibility and authority . . . In the end the responsibility and authority are the President 's . But it is a Pill time job . Some person , other than the President . or some committee of high officials must be assigned the responsibility for it . " ( Emphasis supplied . ) So to make the theory work at all there must be a central authority able to appraise the situation and act promptly on its own responsibility and power . The President must be superseded by a committee of experts and the Constitutional authority of Congress to change taxes and spending must be abandoned . ? ? ? There you have it plain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it means . Parliamentary procedures can not be allowed to decide what taxes we should pay or when they should go up and down . This must be decided by non-political experts . This budget theory is not only futile economics . It can not even be tried except by one kind of Government . That is by a Government with such complete powers that it need have no regard whatever for the wishes of its citizens ? by Government officials who would be " above politics " because their authority would be absolute .                     