@@713956

txt Trygve Lie , United Nations secretarygeneral , commenting on Russia 's proposals for discussions seeking to end the Korean war , called today for " negotiations for a milltary cease fire at the earliest possible date . " Lie , who is vacationing in his native Norway , telephoned h i s comment to U. N. headquarters . His statement follows : " In recent weeks the qualified spokesmen of many of the governments whose forces are participating in the United Nations action in Korea and I , as secretary-general , have expressed hope for a military cease fire in Korea in the vicinity of the 38th parallel . The delegate of the U. S. S. R. , Deputy Foreign Minister Jacob alalik , now also has expressed his hope for such a cease fire . Called " Fight for Peace " " The United Nations forces have been fighting in Korea to uphold peace and security under the United Nations charter . From the outset the U. N. has made it clear again and again that the first step to the restoration of ' ease in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fire should involve only the military arrangements necessary to stop the fighting and to insure against its rene.val . " I urge that negotiations for a military cease fire now be entered into at the earliest possible date . " If such a cease fire can be attained , the political issues involved in the restoration of peace and security in Korea can then be appropriately discussed in the competent organs of the United Nations . " May Meet Malik Today Nasrollah Entezam of Iran , president of the U N. assembly , told inquirers at the Iranian embassy in W .. shington that he was returning to New York for a conference he hopes to hold tomorrow with alalik. alalik 's proposals were made yesterday in a radio address . Warren Austin , chief United States delegate to the U. N. , was at his home in Burlington , Vt. , preparing to celebrate his golden wedding anniversary tomorrow . His alternate , Ernest Gross , remained here subject to any emergency call but spent the day . with friends in Westchester county . Aids to Gross said there was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there was no indication the state department had instructed him to communicate with Malik . Assembly Me-ets Tomorrow No other delegation representatives were known to have any plans to see Malik before the U. N. general assembly holds a special session Tuesday morning at Flushing Meadow : The session is to greet President Galo Plaza Lasso of Ecuador . There will be ample opportunity for delegates to see Malik then in the corridors of the meeting hall or at the cocktail party that will follow the session . An employe of the Russian delegation at headquarters on Park ay . in New York  --  where Malik recorded Ms broadcast  --  said that the entire delegation was spending the day oil Long Island . " It 's too nice a day to work , " he said . Would Test Reds ' Sincerity Sen. O'Mahoney Wyo. called on the United Nations to test the sincerity of Malik 's proposal by challenging the Russians to withdraw Chinese troops from Korea , agree to an armistice on the present front , and participate with other U. N. members in repairing Korea . " An @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Red Chinese from Korea would be a distinct setback for the U. N. and a substantial diplomacy , " for soviet diploacy , " he ' said in a statement .                     