@@717620

txt A new three-year Studebaker labor contract squeaked through membership of United Auto Workers Local 5 , representing Studebaker workers . The pact , under negotiation for the past 11 months , was written to reduce work stoppages and make work standards at Studebaker more competitive with the Big Throe auto makers . Ratification came with 53.45% of union members voting for the pact : a simple majority was needed . During negotiations , . Studebaker had 85 unauthorized strikes and work stoppages which caused a ? production loss of some 10,000 cars . While the company agreed to the ' same basic 21 cents an hour package increase that General Motors Corp . signed with the union , it was able to score important changes in controversial work standards areas : These revisions should mean lower operating costs for Studebaker . Written into the new agreement are the words that the company is ? entitled to a fair day 's work fora fair day 's pay . " Studebaker management , which saw its control of operations slip in the easy-selling early postwar years , has made @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ authority . It spells out , for ex ? ' ample , management 's right to decide the " location of plants . " And " it shall be-the  --  responsibility of the company to determine when and if an employe is able or unable to perform a job . " The company , apparently , was able to convince the union , in the prolonged and intense negotiations , that the security of its 10,000 members depended on Studebaker 's ability to compete on labor costs with General Motors Corp. , F'orilStotor Co. and Chrysler Corp . Here are some key changes in the ? new contract : Bumping : Formerly . any worker , ihreat ? ened with layoff , could hump or displace " any employe with less or no seniority " throughout the entire plant . Now the bumper can displace only the worker with the least seniority in his department , on his shift and with the same Job classification . This will avoid the disrup ? lions of " chain reaction " proportion which could occur under the old bumping rights . Seniority : This @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pact workers will be recalled from layoff " in order of seniority on jobs they are capable of performing . " Prior In this pact there was an involved recall process which gave each returning worker the right to hump out any worker on any job so long as he had more seniority than the bumpee . Also new : A worker will lose seniority if he fails to report back to work within five days after notice from the company . It has been 14 days after notice . Transfers : Under the former agreement , a IVOrker could transfer on jobs five times annually . Now he will be:able to transfer onljr twice a year . Also , for the first time , a worker will have to wait three months after a transfer before re-applying for a new one . Now only the workers with best qualifications can win the job to which they seek transfer . Before . they did not have to state qualifications and could get the job based on their seniority'alone . Production Standards : Management is given the right to " establish and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will no longer have to " communicate in writing " to the union or post on the plant bulletin board what the established standards of performance are for each job . Relief Time : The 43 minutes a day granted to workers for rest , clean-up preparation time and personal relief has been cut to 24 minutes , which conforms with auto industry standards . Where the previous time-off provisions are continued  --  such as the 15 minutes a day for personal clean-up  --  the . company has compensated for such time by raising production rates . Wages and Job ' 1 ' 111es : There was no formal wage agreement before . Instead , there were some 950 different and often duplicating job titles inherited from the days Studebaker was on a piece-work , incentive pay plan . Last year Studebaker. despite considerable resistance from the union at first , switched over to the industrywide straight time basis of hourly pay . But the old job titles hung on . its new pact acts up 400 wage rates and job classifications along the lines of C. M. 's " code @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ relations vice president . Charles D. Scribner , was until last year on C. M. 's industrial relations staff . Disputes : Unlike before production standards and new wage rates are no longer subject to arbitration . Prescribed steps and time lapses involved in grievance procedures are set up specifically for the first time . Union Representatives : The new contract provides that the union have no more than one steward for every 75 workers in each department . PreViously . the ratio was one steward for every 50 workers per department with a minimum of two stewards In each department . Because of the . varied sizes of departmenta the union currently has one steward for every 26 workers . Under the new set-up the minimum of two stewards per department has been tossed out . Also , stewards will not be able to spend more than three hours a day of company time on grievance matters . This was not defined in the former contract . And union committee meetings can no longer he held on company time without written permission from management . Certain union officials , once @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on time clocks . Studebaker  --  which merged with Packard on October 1 , 1151 ? becomes the last auto cornpang to sign up fora new contract with the United Auto Workers . The new contract is retroactive to last September 1  --  the date the former , extended contract initially expired .                     