@@719436

txt A Pentagon reorganization to permit swift , decisive decisions in the missile era now appears imminent . President Eisenhower has now indicated he personally will initiate reforms . This is exactly what the Democratic leaders of Congress have said they would prefer . A bipartisan coloring of at least this light shade is essential to any effective streamlining of the Department of Defense establishment . Changes by both White House mandate and congressional legislation arc required . The President 's State of the Union Message only hinted at the substance of his forthcoming recommendations . The ? contemplated changes , however , are expected to be mostly at the strategic planning and control level . The farthest the President is expected to go is to strengthen the office of secretary of defense by giving it a military advisory staff not connected with any of the services and headed by the present chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff . Clear Subordination ' This would come close to being a single command structure without being such in name . Congress historically has been wary of proposals to concentrate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seemed to be trying to prepare the way for greater unification by assuring Congress that final authority would still rest with civilians . " Another requirement of military organization is a clear subordination of the military services to duly constituted civilian authority . This control must be real : not merely on the surface , " he said , Meanwhile at Cape Canaveral , Fla. , the United States Air Force successfully launched its fourth Atlas intercontinental ballistic missile Jan. 10 . The giant missile rose from its launching pad , in a puff of white smoke and a tremendous flash of flame , the Associated Press reported . Within 15 minutes the Pentagon announced that the launch ing had been a success  --  a fact highly evident to the handful of reporters who watched from beaches sonic miles away from the fenced-off test center . On phases ? of the President 's defense program , other than reorganization , the differences between the President and Democratic congressional leaders may be broadened or narrowed depending on specific proposals in the budget . Recent testimony before the Senate subcommittee on preparedness made @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he talked of the " rate of progress we have achieved since we began to concentrate on these missiles . " Budget Bureau Accused The chief of the Air Force , General Thomas D. White , says flatly that the intercontinental missile programs , meaning specifically the Titan , have not been accelerated " as much as they can and should be . " He said this with a knowledge of the as yet undisclosed 1959 fiscal year budget . In subcommittee testimony released the morning after the President 's address , Rear Admiral Hyman G. Rickover , the Navy 's atomic submarine chief , accused the Budget Bureau  --  which is directly under the White House ? of withholding funds appropriated by Congress . " I think this business of item veto ( a veto of individual items in a larger appropriation bill ) which Congress has never been willing to grant to the President is now being exercised by the Bureau of the Budget , " the admiral said . The individual armed services have never been modest in fighting for funds for their own services . In the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ side with the service officials unless the President introduces evidence to the contrary . The one reference to increased expenditures for the military in the President 's address is difficult to untangle without reference to the budget message , due next week . 10-year " sustained , major effort " Nelson A. Rockefeller says a is needed to put the United States ahead of the Soviet Union in the missile-satellite field . This was his reply to a question from Senator Lyndon 13 . Johnson ( D ) of Texas as to how long " it will take us to catch up with and overtake the Soviets . " ! Views Spelled Out The President 's specific recommendations for an accelerated defense effort parallel those urged by Democrats on the Senate subcommittee on preparedness . The implementation and budget funding remain the issue . The President asked : 1 . Improvement of the warning equipment in case . of attack by missiles . 2 . More and dispersed bases for bomber squadrons of the Strategic Air Force . 3 . Accelerated programs for missiles and for more advanced aircraft . 4 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . 5 . Maintenance of mobile forces necessary for a limited war . 6 . Increased pay and incentives for armed forces . 7 . A more forward looking research and development program . 