@@714091

txt The Communist delegation to the Kaesong armistice conference has leveled serious charges against the United Nations for allegedly violating the neutrality of the conference zone  --  and has demanded an immediate explanation . The UN command is conducting a full investigation of the alleged incident , which occurred Aug. 19 and resulted in the killing of one Communist military police platoon commander and the wounding of one Communist soldier . Preliminary indications , however , are that the attack was not conducted by Allied military personnel but by assailants dressed in civilian clothes . The official headquarters release on the subject declares : " Some witnesses stated that a great number of participants were civilians who may be partisans of either side with the intent of sabotaging efforts of the delegations arrive at a satisfactoi y armistice negotiation . " Strong Implication Thus , although a formal reply to North Korean Gen. Nam Ifs sharply worded protest has not yet been delivered , the implication from UN officials is that the deed was perhaps perpetrated either by local guerrillas in the area or by Koreans dissatisfied with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the present battlefront , or somewhere in between . Ever since the truce talks started both the North and South Koreans have expressed vigorous opposition to a negotiated settlement of the war that will leave Korea still divided militarily and politically into Communist North Korea and democratic South Korea . South Koreans have been particularly vehement on this point and the objections have been silenced by the Allied command only with difficulty . Likewise , some North Korean Communists have reiterated openly their determination to unify the country under a Communist regime . At the moment however , the Communists are seeking to place the blame for the newest incident on UN shoulders . In his message to Vice-Admiral C. Turner Joy , General Nam stated that on early Aug. 19 Communist military police were patrolling the Kaesong neutral zone at a point where it meets Allied lines . They were attacked . General . Nam claims , by 30 Allied armed personnel who " unlawfully intruded into the neutral zone and laid an ambush the vicinity of Song Gongni " where the casualties were inflicted . Joint Investigation A @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ General Nam said the local inhabitants , Communist police personnel , and evidence at the scene all confirm his charges . He also repeated past charges of Allied violations by airplanes and troops and declared : " Our side has raised repeated protests , but your side never has given us any satisfactory reply . " He concluded by saying : " I hereby lodge a strong protest and firmly demand : 1 . " That you severely punish the culprits on your side . . . . 2 . " That you insure completely against a recurrence of any further incidents violating the neutral zone agreement . I demand that you immediately give me a satisfactory reply . " General Nam 's whole protest over the " incident " is strongly reminiscent of his warning when the Allies complained about a Communist armed company marching through the neutral zone . Then he said his side also would be likely to make complaints of a similar nature if the Allies violated the zone . Ridgway Warning When the conference was resumed after that earlier incident , Gen. Matthew B. Ridgway , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Communists would be regarded as reason for breaking off the talks . On the other hand the Communists always have maintained that a breakoff should await the outcome of " protest , investigation , and consultation " and it is noted that the same words were included in General Nam 's complaint . Whether his strong language would affect the reply remained to be seen . Thus once more the troublesome problem of establishing and maintaining the neutrality of the conference area has flared up , temporarily overshadowing the serious difficulties faced by the negotiating inside the conference room . At the moment the small informal subcommittee is seeking an answer to the first problem of substance on the Kaesong agenda  --  the problem that has baffled the full delegations since late in July and forced them to recess recently , On Aug. 20 the subcommittee deliberated 70 minutes with no announced results , but with another meeting scheduled on Aug. 21 . Details Are Scant Outside the distant thunder of Allied artillery could be heard and behind the scenes tension was increased as a result of the Song Gongni incident @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the attack are scant . UN headquarters maintains that the joint investigation " failed completely to identify the armed bands as belonging to any UN command or military formation . " Moreover , members of the Communist patrol were able to describe one of their assailants only as " a civilian with a white shirt and black trousers and carrying a sidearm . " None of the attackers appeared to be wearing steel helmets which is standard equipment of all UN soldiery . And the assistant platoon leader admitted that he could not see clearly " because I was running away . " Local civilians provided no pertinent information , the Allied investigators stated . The UN preliminary report also declared : " The possibility exists that the shooting was the work of a politically guided civilian group operating under instructions to create an atmosphere of tension which would tend to support the breaking off of the current military armistice conference . Throughout the Korean conflict , " it continued , " there also have been irregular roving partisan bands of civilians who seek to do damage to the enemy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the UN reply will aver that the incident was not the work of Allied troops , but of persons unknown who were seeking to disrupt the parley for personal or " guided " political reasons . This implication is as valid against Communist North Koreans as it is against democratic South Koreans . Kaesong is in South Korea , but is held by Communists , so North Koreans presumably could have access to the area . The eight-man Republican blast at President Truman for his ousting of Gen. Douglas , with its accompanying assertion that any Korean truce at the 38th parallel would be a Chinese Communist victory . immediately drew return fire from Democratic senators . Senator J. William Fulbright ( D ) of Arkansas in the opening Democratic counterattack has charged the GOP blast is " 99 per cent political " and that it exposes Republican " desperation in regard to the next presidential election . " Supporting his colleague , Senator Lester C. Hunt ( D ) of Wyoming , challenged the eight GOP senators who claimed any truce on the 38th parallel would be a Communist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ risk World War III . Other Democratic senators were preparing their own rebuttals , thus practically assuring a revival of the bitter controversy that flooded the country during the hearings . The eight-man statement , while spotlighting and condensing the basic criticisms of administration Far Eastern policy , exposed a split in Republican ranks on this issue . Senator Wayne Morse ( R ) of Oregon , opened with a highly critical retort to his party colleagues , while Massachusetts ' two Republican senators . Leverett Saltonstall and Henry Cabot Lodge , Jr. , have filed separate statements , unwilling to go all the way with the eight in their castigation of the administration . Blunt Denunciation was one COMI-111.1-5 . Any settlement south of the Yalu River would be admission of " success of the Chinese aggressors " ; 6 . A " serious situation of Communist infiltration has existed in the State Department and still endangers our national security " ; 7 . The administration has been " unduly preoccupied with the defense of America in Europe to the neglect of the defense of America in Asia " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Acheson and his predecessors that were " largely instrumental in making 450,000 , - 000 of our former Chinese allies into enemies . " With the eight Republican members of the committee now publicly airing their views and drawing their own conclusions from the 2,000,000 words of testimony , the great battle over General and his policies has broken out anew . Verbal Exchange The verbal exchange between California 's Lieutenant Governor and the Secertary of State was a continuation of this same great political st ? uggle over Far Eastern foreign policy  --  though on an isolated front . The charges and countercharges , ranging from the Problem of Formosa to the Alger Hiss case , went something like this : Mr. Knight 's charge : The secretary has said there were no Communists in the State Department , a statement " that has been proved completely false and untrue . " State Department reply : Mr. Acheson had said only that he knew of no Reds in the department , that he knows of none now , and ' that a staff of " more than Ion trained @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's charge : That Mr. Acheson had said that Formosa was " doomed and expendable , " that he considered the Chinese Communists " agrarian reformers , " that he never repudiated his support of convicted perjurer Alger Hiss ; that he represented Lauchlin Currie when the former White House aide appeared before a congressional committee to answer spy charges . Statement Denied State Department reply : The secretary never had made any such statement about Formosa , though warning of its possible loss to the Communists in a statement prepared for psychological warfare . That he never had referred to the Chinese Communists in any of his speeches as " agrarian reformers . " That he never had condoned Alger Hiss 's crime . That no Communist charge had been levelled against Mr. Currie when he represented him . The charges were forwarded to Secretary Acheson by John B. Elliott , Los Angeles civic leader , who asked Mr. Knight to detail his accusations after he had made a speech on April 17 describing Mr , Acheson as " more disgusted and despised than any man in modern American history @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Elliott said the Knight charges " have no foundation in fact but are made with intent to destroy the good name and public reputation of Secretary Acheson . " The third outburst of gunfire on this great political struggle over foreign policy and its conduct centered in another exchange between Senator McCarthy and the State Department . The Wisconsin senator has been repeating his charges of Communists in the State Department from the immunity of the Senate floor ; and the department , through deputy Undersecretary Carlisle Humelsine , tired back that the senator was rehashing old and completely disproved charges . The first immediate reaction to this revived cold political war going on in Washington over foreign policy is that nobody is giving an inch . In that respect the struggle duplicates the negotiations at Kaesong  --  with both sides standing their ground , enshrouded in a heavy smoke screen of propaganda . Eight GOP senators score administration 's policy in Far East : Page 3.                     