@@714522

txt WASHINGTON , March 10 ? The Supreme Court upheld today the constitutionality Of laws making membership in the Communist party at any time ground for deportation of an alien . In a separate ruling the tribunal sustained the authority of the Attorney General to hold without bail alien Communists facing deportation if he found that their activities might imperil the country 's safety . The high court disposed of five cases , involving eight aliens , at least three of whom have lived in this country for more than thirty years . Several issues were involved , and the opinions again showed fundamental differences of belief among the justices where the authority of the state is weighed against the rights of the individual . In the case involving the Government 's right to deport aliens for Communist party membership , Associate Justice Robert IL Jackson delivered the court 's opinion , with Chief Justice Fred M. Vinson and Associate Justices Stanley F. Reed , Sherman Minton , Tom C. Clark , Harold H. Burton and Felix Frankfurter concurring . Associate Justices William 0 . Douglas and Hugo @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ delivered the majority decision , in which Chief Justice Vinson and Justices Jackson , Minton and Clark joined . Justices Black . Frankfurter , Burton and Douglas dissented . Mr. Jackson . said that in the three cases covered by his opinion " the ultimate question ? * * is whether the United States constitutionally may deport a legally resident alien because of membership in the Communist party which terminated before enactment of the Alin Registration Act of 1940 . " The appellants were Peter Haristades of Brooklyn , a Greek national who came to this country ConttnnedonZagoU , Column 3 POWERS TO 1 ) EF'ORT RED ALIENS UPHELD //  --  . ? L in 1916 when he was 13 years Luigi Mascitti. of Philadelphia , s. citizen of Italy who came here in 1920 at the age of 16 , and Mrs. Dora Coleman ? of Philadelphia , 3 native of Russia who was admitted to this country in 1914 when she was 13 . The lower courts had ruled that they were deportable because of previous membership in the Communist party , and the Supreme Court affirmed these rulings @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Miriam Christine Stevenson , David Hyun and Harry Carlisle were the petitioners in one and John Zydok in the other . The latter was the only one who got a favorable decision from the court .. In his case the ruling was that the judgment of the lower court should be vacated because a new warrant had not been obtained when he was rearrested after hav ing been released on bail . Mr. Reed held that the case should be remanded to the district court with directions to order his release " unless within a reasonable , time in the discretion of the court he is rearrested under a new warrant . " " Narrow Question " Seen The " narrow question " presented by the bail cases , the justice said , was whether the Attorney General might " continue them in custody without bail , at his discretion , pending determination as to their deportability . " The petitioners had argued that their detention without bond violated the Fifth and Eighth Amendments and that the section of the Immigration Act under which they were held was unconstitutional . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ violated . The constitutional amendments cited were those providing that no one shall be deprived of life , liberty or property without due process of law , and that " excessive bail shall not be required , nor excessive fines imposed , nor cruel and unusual punishments inflicted . " The section of the Immigration Law under attack was enacted in the Internal Security Act of 1950 and made membership in the Communist party at the time of entering this country or at any tine thereafter ground for deportation proceedings : None of the aliens involved denied membershiphuthe Communist party either .. iit : , tHeethie of their Arrest . - or* previously , 1. but each argued that the deportation . proceedings were unconstitutional . Justice- Reed said ' that it was within the " plenary power of Congress to expel them under the sovereign right to determine what noncitizen shall be permitted to remain within our borders . " ? Black Sees " Harsh " Ruling . In his ' dissent , Justice Black called the majority ruling " a harsh holding " that made deportation possible " if a. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Communist party and therefore dangerous to the nation . " ? MIS:denial of a right to bail under the circumstances of these cases strikes me , " he said , " as a shocking disregard of the following provisions of the Bill of Rights : Eighth Amendment 's ' ban against excessive bail ; First Amendment 's bin against abridgement of thought , speech and press ; Fifth Amendment 's ban against depriving a person of liberty without due process of law . " Justice Frankfurther , in a dissent in which Justice Burton joined ( felt that the policy of the Government since enactment of the Internal Security Act to " terminate bail for all aliens awaiting deportation proceeding whom it deems to be present active Communists " was an abuse of the discretionary authority granted the Attorney General . He expressed belief that new standards should be used in determining whether defendants should get bail .                     