@@713662

txt etters to The Times 1TEPHEN M. SCHWEBEL.ASA WILGUS.H . STANLEY JEVONS , EUGENE GRAMM , T.J. , rg. 23 Letters to The Times Selecting U. N. Deputies Practice of Appointing Nationals of " Big Five " to Posts Questioned To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Your correspondent reports that the Soviet Union has presented to the Acting Secretary General of the United Nations an aide memoire advancing the view that the London agreement of 1945 , which apportioned out the more important Assistant Secretaryships General among the Big Five , continues in force . The Soviet Union thus renews its claim to the Assistant Secretaryship General for ' Security Council Affairs , and is reported to have suggested that Konstalatin Zinchenko be reappointed to that post . While the Secretary General has in the past appeared to have regarded himself as bound by the London . agreement , there is no compelling legal reason for his continued adherence to that view . The London agreement was simply an understanding among the permanent members of the Security Council by which the Assistant Secretaryship General @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Soviet national , that for Administrative and Financial Services upon a national of the United States , and so forth , the three remaining Assistant Secretaryships , out of a total of ? eight , being left to other Powers . Official Decision This understanding has no legal personification , nor any mandatory force . On the contrary , the London agreement would seem to conflict with the one official decision relating to the question . The San Francisco Conference energetically debated a proposal of the United States , the U. S. S. R. , the United Kingdom and China , that in addition to the Secretary General there be four ( or five ) Deputy Secretaries General , to be elected in the same manner as the Secretary General . The conference rejected this plan , largely on the ground that the deputies would in all likelihood be nationals of the Big Five , selected in response to political considerations . Nevertheless , at London the permanent members proceeded to divide up the Assistant Secretaryships in a manner evidently inconsistent with the spirit of the San Francisco Deputies decision . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its allocation of the Assistant Secretaryship General for Security Council Affairs . There is much to be said against a national of any great Power holding this crucial Secretariat post concerned with keeping the peace , when a major threat to the peace may be offered , directly or indirectly , only by a great Power . The undesirability of having a Soviet citizen , in particular , in that post has been dramatically illustrated by the situation of Mr. Zinchenko , who has been in the peculiar position of reading aloud to the Security Council condemnation of aggression in Korea cabled by the United Nations Commission there . Data on Military Aid That Mr. Zinchenko " , s position may indeed be more than just peculiar is perhaps indicated by his not having been asked to serve on the Secretary General 's special Korean coordinating committee , established to carry out the Security Council 's Korean resolutions . His key position may also have had something to do with Mr. Lie 's requesting members to inform him in " general terms " only of the military aid they would render @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ears of the unified command . The political considerations which appear to have induced the Secretary General to comply with the London agreement in the past are today perhaps the more compelling . At a time of great strain in his relations with Moscow it might be , , impolite for the Secretary General to " decline to reappoint a national of the U. S. S. R. as Assistant Secretary General for Security Council Affairs . Now , as the terms of office of the Assistant Secretaries expire , is the time to uproot the London agreement , to do away with a dangerous precedent before it is further strengthened by continued practice . STEPHEN M. SCH WEBEL . Cambridge , England , March 3 , 1951 . To THE Eorros OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : A resolution has been introduced into the Assembly and Senate ( of the present legislative session in Albany ) which . affects the lives and well-being of hundreds of thousands of persons in New York State , including many little chil- ? dren . We refer to Resolution 93 , introduced by Assemblyman Roman @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to make a study of the problems of mental retardation in New York State . The estimated number of mentally retarded in this state is staggering . Computing only those below the I. Q. of 75 , close to 3 per cent of the population is intellectually handicapped by some form of brain impairment suffered before , during or after birth . This condition is not to be confused with insanity or mental illness . It is I simply an organic handicap . It results in varying degrees of mental backward ' ness , ranging from the person capable ' of earning a living to the one who must spend his entire life in a sheltered ' existence . It has been demonstrated that well over 50 per cent of the ' mentally retarded can be trained to become producers in our society , instead of being burdens to their families and to the taxpayer 's . And for the others , certainly methods of training and standards of care are urgently in need of study . To thrust the problem on one or more ' departments of the state seems @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ departments  --  Mental . Hygiene , Education , Health , Welfare , Labor , etc. , and poses questions which are relative to no department but rather are in the province of existing social agencies . Some of these agencies have been waiting many years for a plan for the mentally retarded . Only a joint legislative committee , selected by Governor Dewey from among private organizations in the field as well as professionals and legislators , cart fully accomplish the wide study which can develop such a plan . That is what Resolution 93 calls for . That is why it ? must not be killed in committee . EUGENE GRAM M , Association for the Help of Retarded Children . New York , March 6 , 1951 . Sales Tax Increase Protested To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Because business interests have taken the initiative in spearheading the campaign to defeat the legislation at Albany that would increase the city 's sales tax from 2 per cent to 3 per cent , the impression prevails among many consumers that this is a levy that affects only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the proposed tax increase , while admittedly injurious to business in the city , in that it will encourage shoppers on the suburban fringes to buy in communities outside of New York City  --  Westchester , Nassau and New Jersey  --  is actually more harmful to the consumer because he or she must pay the tax . Retail and other business interests are merely the city 's collection agency . Business interests in the suburban shopping centers , who stand to profit by the proposed New York City sales tax increase , should not be too gleeful . As their own local public officials assay the ease with which New York City collects its sales levy they may very soon find themselves saddled with a similar tax . The individual consumer can play an important part in defeating this " soak the shopper " effort by communicating his views to Governor Dewey and his local Senator and Assemblyman at Albany . T. J. MCINERNEY , Managing Director , Broadway Association , Inc . New York , March 6 , 1951 . Value of Vivisection Queried To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the press and answer your editorial " To Save Human Lives " ? All too often qpr sense of values is derogated as sentimentality . , But there are values worth more than lives , as soldiers know , without which life is merely vegetation . History teaches us that a slight falling back may be the beginning of complete abandonment . In justifying animal vivisection we slip toward another justification , that of permitting human vivisection of dangerous incurable criminals who are lower than our cat and dog friends , and from there will be another inching to vivisecting prisoners of war through the expedient of calling them brute enemies of man . There is not a violation of kindness which leaves unthreatened our divorce from savagery . Cruelty is contagious and can not be confined ; wherever conferred . it may come back in strange disguise . AsA WILGUS . New York , March 1 , 1951 . Bombing in Korea Protested To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : A recent dispatch from your special correspondent in Korea , quoted by The Manchester Guardian , described how @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that he was within range of Seoul , ordered each tank to fire fifteen founds into the city at no particular objective , and how the entire population of a small village was killed by an air raid with napalm bombs , but no soldiers were reported among the dead . Members of the Bombing Restriction Committee , which continually protested against the indiscriminate bombing of German cities during the late war , have noted with growing concern reports of the complete destruction of Korean towns by shelling and bombing , little or no regard being paid to civilian lives and property , in defiance of the Geneva Convention . Surely it should be incumbent on the armed forces of the United Nations , whose mission is peace , justice and mercy , and only incidentally resistance to aggression , to pay the strictest attention to the humanitarian rules of warfare agreed upon by civilized nations . H. STANLEY JENTON3 Formerly Chairman of the Bombing Restriction Committee . ' Wembley , Middlesex , England , Feb. 28 , 1951 . To Aid Retarded Children Support for Resolution Providing State Study of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @             