@@714056

txt The United States is as clearly committed as a country could be to the proposition that our own defense against the forces of aggression is bound up with the defense of our allies against those forces . Through the harsh experience of two world wars we have learned that collective security is the only principle on which man 's hopes for peace and freedom can be safely based . We have supported it in the Charter of the United Nations ; we have spelled out our position with unmistakable clarity in the North Atlantic Treaty ; we have suited action to words in Korea ; we have restated these beliefs in " the great debate " held last winter and spring on the issue of sending American troops to join the international defense forces under General Eisenhower on the Continent of Europe . The declared policy of the American people is to support , build up and participate in the creation of an adequate defensive structure in Western Europe . That is why several divisions of our Army are already there . It is why important units @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ why significant elements of our Navy are there . It is why we are helping to man the outposts of Berlin and the long line separating the free from the slave world in Europe . The policy was set by the President and it was reaffirmed by the Senate in its resolution of April 4 . In the debate that preceded adoption of this resolution it was made clear by the Administration that a total of four American divisions was all that was contemplated for dispatch to Europe , in addition to the two already there at that time . In our view , the number of troops to be sent neither was nor is . a matter for Congressional determination . While it was advisable from the viewpoint of public policy that the Senate endorse the Administration 's intention to send troops to Europe , it was quite another thing for the Senate to set itself up as a military board passing judgment on the number of soldiers to be sent overseas in furtherance of an approved policy . And yet that is what it proceeded to do , expressing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ additional divisions should be sent abroad without express Congressional approval . It was generally understood that not over 200,000 American troops would be involved . Now it turns out that the total actually contemplated was 400,000 , according to Secretary Marshall  --  or 344,000 , according to deneral Collins . In any case , it is far above the 200,000 mentioned a few months ago , even though the number of overseas divisions has not been changed . The conclusion is inescapable that the Administration spokesmen either were not entirely frank in their discussion of numbers last winter or did not take full account of the auxiliary troops that would inevitably have to be sent in support of six divisions . This is not a satisfactory way of dealing with Congress , and it is unfortunate that the misunderstanding should have occurred . But in our view it would be exceedingly unwise for Congress , in pique , to adopt any of the newly revived proposals to establish a legislative limitation  --  for example , in the form of an amendment to the pending Military Appropriations Bill ? on the number @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its destructive influence on American prestige , such a measure would have the moral effect of writing off as expendable those units already overseas . It would cast doubt upon the seriousness of American intentions to carry out our part of the North Atlantic Treaty obligations . It would inject bott houses of Congress into a field of tech . nical military judgment that , even witl the best will in the world , they are not competent to enter . The United States is committed to full support of the defense of Western Europe and , in ow own interests , we ought not to ham ? string ourselves in carrying out that policy .                     