@@720652

txt The things about Mr. Khrushchev 's forthcoming visit that can be put on the plus side of the ledger are , as the President implied at his press conference , pretty much in the lap of fortune . Mr. Eisenhower does not intend to make this meeting " a real negotiation of basic problems . " The p.unpose of the invitation , rather , is simply to give Mr. Khrushchev an opportunity to see liow America lives , its homes , its farms , its factories , with perhaps a glimpse of some of our military installations . Now it may be hoped  --  and hope is the word the President used  --  that out of these observations the Communist leader may acquire a different view of this country from that he sees from the shelter of the Kremlin . He may gain an awareness of the prosperity , the peaceful intentions and above all . intentions the strength of America . And this awareness ' could he sobering . If there is any chance at 1 ' that Mr. Khrushchev , for whatever reasons , does @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ push him to easing actions . But plainly we will have no real control over any of this . We can let Mr. Khrushchev come and look . Other things will determine how he reacts to what he sees . The things about this visit on the minus side of the ledger , which the President also acknowledged , are of a different nature . Our own actions will determine very largely whether they come to pass nr not . Consider the concerns expressed over this N , icit , some of which are raised by our readers in today 's letter column . One is the risk that America 's leaders will he " taken in " by the wiles of this Communist leader . Another is that we will give him the impression thatwe are the eager party for some sort of " settlement , " an impression he would take as an advantage for his side . Another is that we will give the world the impression that we are weakening in our firmness against Communist designs . that we are turning now to a policy of softness @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ concerns are not at all un . reasonable . Only a few months ago the President was insisting that he would go to no Summit meeting kith the Russians unless and until they gave definite signs of modifying their adamancy and belligerence . No such signs are discernible , and yet here is Mr. Eisenhower playing host to Mr. Khrushchev . Furthermore , the President says now that he decided to send the invitation as long ago as , early July , while the Geneva conference was still going through its futile motions . From what he has said privately , according to the most authoritative reports . he now wants a full-fledged Summit meeting , and apparently only egregious misbehavior by Mr. Khrushchev will prevent it . Mr. Eisenhower , according to his intimates , is keeping his fall schedule open for just such a big-power meeting . All this is bound to be disquieting to those whose memories of past softness to Communism , and the consequences thereof , are still fresh and strong . A repetition of the Munich with Hitler or the Yalta with Stalin would be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dig for ourselves . There is nothing Mr. Khrushchev can do to take us in with smiles if we will not be taken He can not make us seem unduly anxious for dangerous compromises unless we make oursel. es appear so . He can not on this-. ' sit get an impression of softness or weakness unless we , through our leaders , give it to him .                     