@@719762

txt President Eisenhower virtually ruled out today the use of additional public works as a cure for the recession . The President told his news conference that " with minor exceptions , " new public works projects could not be developed in time to " do anything for this present recession . " Question 14 , Page 14 . The President also conceded that a decision on the tax reduction must be made " soon " because legislation was required by June 30 to prevent automatic reduction of corporation taxes and certain major excise ( sales ) taxes . But he once again gave no hint of backing a tax cut . Question 12 . It has become known that the Secretary of the Treasury , Robert B. Anderson , is willing to " give " a little on minor tax reduction to get through the June 30 extension bill without a cut in income taxes . Insured Jobless Decline Meanwhile , a further decline in unemployment insurance rolls was reported in many industrial ' states . The figures , however , were too mixed to show a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the United Steelworkers of America voted to seek higher wages and improved fringe benefits for 214,631 union members in metal fabricating plants . Also in Chicago , the National Industrial Conference Board said a survey indicated a decline this year and next in spending by manufacturers on plant expansion . Secretary Anderson , as the President reminded reporters again today , is in close touch with the House leadership on taxes . It is understood that he might be willing to accept some reduction in excises and smallbusiness tax relief if the leadership urged such a course . The discussions have reportedly centered on reductions in the excise tax on automobiles , other consumer durable goods and transportation . Some consideration has also been given to changing the tax laws relating to depreciation of business equipment , with an idea of stim-1 ulating the lagging capital goods sector of the economy . Cites Construction Lag No final agreement had been worked out as yet . But the prospects are that some form of " sweetener " in the form of tax reduction will be included in the June 30 extender bill @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the case of new plans , " it will be two years before they will be aetually in construction . " The sorts of projects that " Will bring some people to work , " he said , are mainly accelerations of projects already started or small projects , such as the upstream agricultural conservation works . The Administration has al- ready ordered a speed-up in a variety of reclamation , flood control , Post Office , military construction and urban renewal projects . It has revived the " lease-purchase " program for construction of Federal buildings , - but has not launched any new program in the public works field . . The President said that he would have to examine the suggestion made last week by the Commerce Department 's Business Advisory Council that he ask a year 's moratorium on price and wage increases . He said that it sounded like " merely trying to use persuasive powers " and noted that some increases were " already scheduled . " General Eisenhower noted that he had " constantly urged that both business and labor leaders take a very @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that " we are going to suffer " ' in the long run if the wageprice spiral was not curbed.                     