@@717744

txt Letters to The Times ADNAN M.PACHACHI.MARGARET F. INGRAM.ROBERT J. BOYLE.ROBERT L. HALE.DOROTHY P .... Letters to The Times ro THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : I read with a great deal of interest the letter of James in your issue of March 4 in which he outlined his " program " for the settlement of the Arab refugee question . Since Iraq figures prominently . in this program , I am taking the liberty of offering the following comments : It is a well-known fact that the total area of land presently under cultivation in Iraq is not sufficient to satisfy the rapidly increasing needs of its farming population . Besides the farmers , there are about 250,000 nomads in various parts of Iraq eagerly awaiting to be settled on cultivated land . The Government of Iraq , conscious of these needs , enacted a law in 1951 under which all state lands ( and they comprise more than 60 per cent of the total area of arable land in Iraq ) were earmarked for distribution to landless farmers and nomadic tribesmen . Prbjects @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Five-Year Economic Development Plan , launched last year , envisaged the expenditure of $400,000,000 on agricultural and irrigation projects with the purpose of bringing several additional millions of acres under cultivation . These projects will require several years to be completed and Iraq 's agricultural potential could not be fully utilized for at least two or three decades . At present , therefore , Iraq 's major problem is not so much the lack of additional agriculture population as the lack of sufficient land to satisfy the needs of its own people . Secondly , even if despite all these economic difficulties it were possible to settle large numbers of Palestinian refugees in Iraq , it would still be the wrong solution to the problem . The refugees themselves refuse to settle in any land except their own beloved Palestine where they and their forefathers before them lived for more than 1,300 years . Thirdly , it is curious that Mr. completely ignored the U. N. resolutions on Palestine which recognized the right of the refugees to be repatriated to their old homes . It is significant that Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is the core of the refugee problem . He directs his attention instead to the question of compensation as if the financial and material aspects of the problem were the ' only ones at issue . He says nothing of the moral responsibility of Israel for the tragic plight of the refugees and seems to think that a few million dollars would be sufficient to absolve Israel of this responsibility and erase the effects of the great wrong inflicted on the Arab people of Palestine . Finally , it might be useful to remind Mr. that the refugee problem would never have arisen had the warnings of the Arabs been heeded at the time of partition . They had warned that the Zionist program could only be implemented at the expense of the Arabs and would result in the liquidation of an entire nation in its homeland and the surrender of its country to another people . Loss of Property These fears and warnings have been fully borne out by subsequent events . The people of Palestine are now living in refugee camps while their homes and properties have been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ essence of the refugee problem . Any solution which does not rectify this situation and restore the rights of the Arabs in their lost homeland would be totally unacceptable to the refugees . Mr. should have realized that the fundamental issue is not and has never been compensation . It is the right of a people to their own country , a right that can not be taken away or bought , no matter how high the price may be . ADNAN M. PACHACHT . Political Affairs Officer , Embassy of Iraq . Washington , March 7 , 1956 . Segregation in North To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : May I suggest that William F. Larsen inspect his city 's own Augean stables before he adversely criticizes the South ? Obviously he is ignorant of the situation in the South or he would not refer to segregation as a species of ancestor worship . May I ask the gentleman what worship impels actual segregation , under the guise of desegregation , in his city workshop ? For more than a quarter of a century I looked in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the slum quarters , in housing and in schools . Students in high school voluntarily segregated themselves in the lunchroom , Negroes keeping strictly to themselves , seemingly by preference . I could enumerate other examples of hypocritical desegregation in the city of New York , in the high schools and teachers ' colleges in which I taught for years . Knowing the South rather well , I am sure more real tolerance obtains for the Negro there than in the North . And this in spite of the fact that the North began slavery and then , finding enough slave labor Wording of Tenth Amendment To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : How long will you misinform your readers as to the Tenth Amendment ? The latest instance is in John D. Morris ' report on the Bricker amendment in your issue of March 4 . The Tenth Amendment , he tells us , " reserves to the states powers not specifically delegated to the Federal Government . " Most emphatically it does not . The word " specifically " is not there . The powers delegated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ states ) are not confined to those " specifically " enumerated in the Constitution , but include those which may be implied from the enumerated power " to make all laws which shall be necessary and proper for . carrying into execution the foregoing powers . " And a law may be " necessary and proper " even if not absolutely indispensable . So it was decided in a notable opinion by John Marshall in the important case of McCulloch v. Maryland as long ago as 1819 , and the Supreme Court has never budged from this position . Yet Times writers continue to subscribe to the myth that powers not " specifically " delegated are reserved to the states . ROBERT L. HALE . New York , March 4 , 1956 . Part-Time Presidential Job To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : In his receint speech to the nation President " Eisenhower stated that he was carrying the full workload of his office and had been doing so for some time . What about the confusion in our foreign policy , as exemplified by the lack of coordination @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ oft-again , on-again Arabian tank business ? . What about the deterioration of our position ? in the Middle East , and the increasing influence of the U. S. S. R. , through trade and aid , in the Asian neutral nations ? And here at home , what about the explosive civil-rights issue ? These matters are the responsibility of the President , and now that we know that he is not only on the job but has been for some time , his Administration 's inconsistencies , slip-ups and failure to face facts can not be excused on the grounds of his illness or absence . It is like the proverbial cake . The President of the United States can not he a physically able , acting head of our Government and also a part-time , often absent President with the responsiTo THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES ! l On Feb. 21 William F. Condone State Senator from Yonkers , N. Y. , introduced to the New York State Legislature an act to repeal Section 505 of the Public Health Law . This section of the Public @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and pertains to the allocation of unclaimed dogs and cats to certified medical laboratories . To prevent distortion of fact it is worth pointing out that this law provides medical laboratories , approved by the Office of the NeW York State Health Commissioner , with the opportunity of requisitioning from animal shelters supported in part by public funds any unclaimed animals that would other ? wise be put to death by these shelters . No Pets Desired The law does not permit seizure of privately owned animals . Further , let it be made perfectly clear that there is no recognized laboratory of medical science that is in any way desirous of procuring anyone 's pets for medical research , The benefits of this law to the welfare of all of us in particular and to the public health in general should be apparent to any forward looking citizen . One need only scan the pages of The New York Times each day to be impressed with the re ? markable and continued advance of medical science in all parts of this country as well as in those laboratories located within @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any one or several such examples of medical progress . It is necessary , however , to alert the citizens of New York State to the threat made on them indirectly through the attempts of a vociferous , militant minority to repeal that section of the Public Health Law which provides medical science the essential material for the exceeding . ly complex and never ending study of the living mammalian organism . The fanatical opponents of this law will point out that the law is not being utilized . The fact is that in the large cities of this state the law has made it possible to carry on research and teaching that would otherwise have been impossible . In my own research , concerned with the mechanism of nerve impulse transmission , I readily acknowledge my indebtedness to the local A. S. P. C. A. , whose cooperation during this past year has enabled me to uncover new and important facts concerning neural mechanisms . Requisitions Refused It is true that many laboratories which might ' profit through use of the Metcalf-Hatch Law have not done so . In some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ financial reprisal but in large part certain animal shelters supported by public funds have adamantly refused to honor requisitions properly made on them and have continued needlessly to destroy unclaimed animals . Clearly , the 4-year-old law is still young and it is shameful that busy medical scientists must ie. the future take time to seek and insure proper enforcement . However slowly , this will and must be done . It is incongruous that in this mid . twentieth century forces of medievalism still rear up in attempt to harass and obstruct man 's miraculous march toward enlightenment . WALTER F. RIKER Jr .. M. D .. President , New- York State Society for Medical Research . New York . March 1 . 1956 . For Ski Centers in New York TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Was there ever a program for the development of winter recreational facilities in New York State 7 , Another winter is at a close and record-breaking crowds of ski enthusiasts have once again pointed their skis toward New England for what is considered the best skiing in the East . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , which will ultimately give New England a socalled " ski monopoly " ? Certainly anyone who has any knowledge of ski conditions in the higher mountains of the Adirondacks knows that unlimited possibilities exist for the development of ski centers that are comparable to , if not excelling , any ski area in New England . To break the ice in initiating a. program for possible centers , it la necessary for the state to express interest by authorizing their development through legislation . ARTHUR ' TURIN . Lake Placid , N. Y. , March 3 , 1954 , Repatriating Arab D.P. 's Return of Refugees to Homeland Is Declared Only Solution from European immigrants , became very righteous . Yet it found no sense in lifting a finger to provide for the freed slave , once it had persuaded him across the border . It had no room for the Negro on its own doorstep . It helped him into Canada . Let the South save its own soul , or lose it . Outsiders like big cities who have their black belts might save their own souls by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ brackets . Such a process would sift downward , and thus naturally bring about desegregation in the city . MARGARET F. INGRAM . Palo Alto , Calif. , March 1 , 1956 . School Use of Newspapers Study of Various Papers Recalled in Connection With Recent Ban To THE EDITult OF TIM NEW YORK TIMES : I read with interest an item in The Times of March 6 regarding the refusal of the Board of Education of Solvay , N. Y. , to allow a group of seniors to buy a subscription to The Times for use in their course " Problems American Democracy . " This illustrates , with a certain amount of irony , one of the current problems in American democracy . John Martino of the Board of Education is quoted as saying that he considered The Times " a very good paper but a little too lofty for the average high school student . " Is not a great deal of the curriculum , particularly in literature and music , a little too lofty for the average high school student ? Should it not be a primary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which is considered lofty as opposed to that which , although noncontroversial , ? is mediocre ? I remember quite well my own high school " P. A. D. " course which was one of the most interesting of all my courses . This was before the days of the Communist menace ( 1937 ) , and there was not quite so much fuss over what was read in class . I remember quite vividly several days during the term when we used for class discussion copies of The New York Times , The Chicago Tribune , and ( horror of horrors ) The Daily Worker . The class had rather spirited discussions about the treatment by the three papers of various current events . I cite this example because I remember it so well and because I believe it did more than any other single thing to impress on us young people the nonsense of the Communist line . The use of The Daily Worker in such a manner in classrooms today probably would cause a barrage of scare headlines . Yet we studied books of Karl Marx as required @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the class who has defected to the Communists or who could be called a security risk . ROBERT J. BOYLE . Brielle , N. J. , March 6 , 1956 . To Aid Medical Research Need for Access to Animals fot Laboratory Work Stressed bilities of his office falling on other shoulders . DOROTHY P. HUNTiNGTON . New York , March 3 , 1956.                     