@@718823

txt The Labor Department has compiled a report that strongly implies that excessive wage increases have been a key cause of the rise in prices of the last decade . This idea is vigorously disput- ' ed by labor unions and some economists . The Government had never put its weight . on either side of the argument before now . The Labor Department analysis is extremely technical and complex . Most of its conclusions are hedged . But this major conclusion is stated without quali-fication : Average wages and salaries of working people as a whole have risen far faster in the last decade than has their productivity  --  that is , their output for each hour worked . Productivity Up 26% Specifically , payments to labor have risen 61 per cent in the last ten years , productivity only 26 per cent . This means , the report says , that " real " labor costs for each unit of output have risen by 28 per cent . The report shows that other " costs " that enter into final prices ? mainly depreciation , property @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the aggregate in about the same proportion as labor costs over the decade . But labor costs are far more important than any other individual cyst , accounting for 56 per cent of the final price . The new Labor Department analysis was made for submission to the Congressional Joint Economic Committee , which is making a study of the relationship of wages , prices and productivity . Two Qualifications Noted The report emphasizes these two qualifications to the apparent conclusion that excessive wage increases have pushed up prices : 1 . The analysis covers the nonFarm , non-Government part of the economy as a whole , not individual industries . Thus , in specific industries , wage increases may not have exceeded productivity , and the real wage costs may not have risen in those industries . 2 . " A change in price can not be explained by reference to any single factor , even one as large as labor costs . " Furthermore , the report says , " the answer to the question of whether wage increases cause the price increase or vice versa can not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ says that strong demand  --  a vigorous market ? can lead to price increases first , with subsequent pressure for Inge increases so that labor can keep up with the cost of living . Thus the report refuses to say directly that . excessive wage increases have " caused " the price increases . But its figures for the last five years , in particular , strongly imply as much . During most of this period , // Government monetary and fiscal policies were aimed at curbing demand , and during the rest of it there was actually a mild recession . Yet wage costs continued to rise steadily all through the period , and in fact rose even faster in relation to productivity than they had risen from 1947 to 1952 . This leaves the inference that following the " demand inflation " of the Korean War  --  when prices may have risen first and wages followed  --  the key inflation cause at least in recent years has been the " cost " inflation induced by excessive wage increases . This conclusion has been reached privately by a number of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the labor union movement . Some of these economists have reached a point of great pessimism about the future of price stability unless annual wage and " fringe " increases are substantially reduced . The Labor Department report is likely to reinforce their conclusion and confirm their pessimism . These economists are ' convinced that Government monetary restraint ( tight money ) and fiscal restraint ( taxes high enough to produce a surplus in the budget ) are valuable and necessary , but not enough in themselves to battle the " cost inflation " induced by excessive wage increases . This year 's Presidential economic report to Congress indirectly said the same thing . Prices Match Rise The Labor Department report shows that the rise in real labor costs of 28 per cent is almost exactly the same as the rise in prices over the decade . Since labor costs amount to 56 per cent of total costs , by the Department 's calculation , 16 per per cent of the 29 per cent rise in prices is accounted for by the increase in labor costs and the rest by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as depreciation and taxes and profits . The report shows also that labor income has risen a little faster than productivity even after allowing for the , higher prices that the workingman must pay . The increase in " real " earnings of labor has been 33 per cent in the decade ( 30 per cent in wages alone ) , and the rise in productivity 26 per cent . For the first five years of the decade , productivity rose a little faster , than " real " earnings , but the reverse was true in the second five years . Once again , this indicates that cost inflation has been the key problem in the last five years . View of Economists , Economists who are disturbed by the recent trend of events make this analysis : The process of " cost " inflation starts with labor-management bargaining in the one-third of the non-farm economy where labor is unionized . In many sectors that are unionized , productivity increases are especially rapid , and appear to justify most or all of the liberal wage increases that are negotiated in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to spread to other sectors of the economy , even those not unionized , where productivity does not and can not rise much . Therefore , even if some highproductivity industries , such as chemicals or the manufacture of television sets , can absorb the wage increases without much increase in prices , other industries can not . Their prices go up , and the over-all cost of living rises . This would account , for example , for the large and steady increase in service prices over the last ten years . Productivity in this sector Is , on the whole , low . Yet wages must rise . The only hope for stability of the dollar , the analysis holds , is that prices actually decline in those sectors where productivity is high , thus balancing some inevitable small increases where productivity is low .                     