@@716625

txt Democrats Gain in House Fights And Appear on Way to Control By . JOHN D. MORRIS Democrats gained probable control of the House of Representatives yesterday in the face of unexpectedly strong Republican resistance . Returns , still far from complete but indicating a decided trend , showed early today that the party had captured nine seats now held by Republican while only two Republicans ? in Florida and Texas-i-had wrested control from the Democrats . The net Democratic gain of seven seats was more than sufficient to give the party control of the House , . which the Republicans now hold by a mere threevote margin if three Republican and one Democratic vacancies are counted . However , more than six7 ty contests were still in doubt . The.prospective margin of Democratic control hinged on returns still to be tabulated in the Far West . In California alone , eleven Republican seats and four held by Democrats were in question . It seemed clear , however , that pre-election forecasts of a thirty or forty-seat Democratic majority were over-optimistic . Factors offsetting prospects of a Democratic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ three seats in Democratie Virginia both of ' those , held by the party in Kentucky and the lone Republican seat in North Carolina . The Republican victory in Florida marked the first time since Reconstruction days that the state had failed to send a solid Democratic delegation to the House . The district , a rich resort area that includes St. Petersburg , has seen an influx in recent years of retired persons from other parts of the country . The " Republican winner , Wil // Liam C. Cramer , had campaigned on a " back Ike " platform , He defeated Representative Courtney Campbell , who ran far behind President Eisenhower in 1952 to win the election by only 51 per cent of the vote . The Texas victory was much more of a surprise and a definite upset , It was the first time in modern history that Dallas had sent a Republican to Congress . Republican seats went to , Democrats in Indiana , New York , Delaware , three in Pennsylvania , two in Missouri and one in Mary-4 land . At 4:15 A. M. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , with sixty-six seats still in doubt . Complete returns from ' Connecticut , which had been closely watched for possible trends , showed a complete stand-off . The Republicans retained all five of their Connecticut seats , while the Democrats held their single place . The present division of the House is 218 Republicans , 212 Democrats , 1 Independent and 4 vacancies . With the exception of Maine , which elected three Republicans in September , all 435 seats were on the block , Head Start for Democrats Even before the first ballot was cast , the Democrats had their usual head start in the contest for ' control of the new House , which takes office next Jan. 5 . Seventyfive Democrats , mainly from Southern and Border States , were unopposed and consequently elected automatically . Only two Republicans , Representatives Leo E. Allen of Illinois and Edith Nourse Rogers of Massachusetts , were without at least token opposition . Opposition in many other districts was little more than nominal . As a consequence , about 285 candidates could confidently look for election before the polls closed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The remaining 150 or so seats were in doubt . Besides an initial mathematical advantage , the Democrats expected to benefit from a historical pattern that had seen the party out of power gain strength in every mid-term election this century except 1934 , the first offyear election during the late President Franklin D. Roosevelt 's Administration . In four of these by-elections , the party out of power gained control of the House-1910 , 1918 , 1930 and 1946 . Only twice , however , in 1918 and 1946 , did the " outs " organize the Senate asj well , Big Gain in 1922 The Democrats made their greatest off-year gain in 1922 , when they won seventy-five more seats than they did in the previous election . In 1946 , the Republicans made their greatest gain ? fifty-six over their , 1944 total , In the event of a Democratic1 victory , the leadership of the House , next January will shift1 from Speaker Joseph W , Martin Jr , of Massachussets to Repre-1 sentative Sam Rayburn of Texas , now minority leader , Representative John W. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Indiana as Majority Leader if the Democrats win . Key committee posts , to a large extent , will shift to the South . The chairmanship of the Agriculture Committee will go from Kansas to North Carolina , Armed Services from Missouri to Georgia , Banking and Currency from Michigan to Kentucky , Education and Labor from Pennsylvania to North Carolina , Foreign Affairs from Illinois to South Carolina , Interstate and Foreign Commerce from New Jersey to Tennessee or Arkansas , Rules from Illinois to Virginia and Ways and Means from New York to Tennessee . The chairmanship of the allpowerful Rules Committee will shift from Representative ' Leo E , Allen of Illinois to a Southern conservative , Representative Howard W. Smith of Virginia . Representative Jere Cooper of Tennessee , somewhat of a Fair Deal Democrat , will take over chairmanship of the tax-writing Ways and Means Committee from Representative Daniel A. Reed of upstate New York . Appropriations Post Representative Clarence Cannon , a Fair Deal Democrat from Missouri , will become chairman of the Appropriations Committee , succeeding Representative John Taber of upstate New York @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by Chauncey Reed of Illinois , will go to Representative Emanuel Celler of Brooklyn . Representative Charles A. Wolverton of Nevi Jersey will be succeeded as chairman of the Interstate and Foreign Commerce Committee either by Representative Percy Priest of Tennessee or Oren Harris of Arkansas . Mr. Priest 's duties as Democratic whip , or assistant floor leader , might prevent him from taking the post , None of the leaders of either party had serious opposition in the election . Representatives Rayburn and McCormack were unopposed . Representatives Martin and Halleck faced only routine challenges . All present chairmen and prospective Democratic chairmen of key House committees likewise appeared certain of re-election .                     