@@714093

txt There have been few developments in recent months more serious than the breakdown of the Iranian oil negotiations . It would be fatuous at this stage , to indulge in any optimism . If , contrary to all indications and expectations , some last-minute miracle saves this vital industry from collapse and Iran herself from ruin , there will be great rejoicing everywhere outside the Communist ranks . In present circumstances , however , one must expect the worst . Involved in this dispute are oil properties representing an investment of something like *1 billion , and yet that vast outlay is the least of the factors involved . Iran was producing nearly one-fifth of the entire world output of oil , of which more than half went to the Mediterranean countries and Western Europe . India , Pakistan , South Africa and other countries east of Suez depended on Iran for motor fuel . The Abadan refinery is the largest in the world . A great and successful reshuffling of oil resources has been going on but it will be months before the oil industry makes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ defense of Western Europe will he temporarily handicapped . The effects on British economy will be serious . The gain to Russia and the Communist bloc through the democracies being deprived of Iranian oil is obvious . Political chaos in Iran is going to be extremely difficult to avoid ; economic chaos seems a certainty since oil provided the only important state revenue . It has to be taken for granted that the Iranians can not run the industry by themselves , as Premier Mossadegh conceded . It must also be clearly understood that the United States is not going to help run the industry for Iran , as Averell Harriman plainly told the Iranians . The final item in this list of probable calamities is the international complications that now threaten , since the British are committed to the protection of their nationals in Iran and , to holding the Abadan refinery . Such being the case , it seems the height of folly that no agreement could be reached . The British representative , Richard Stokes , was probably overhasty in delivering an ultimatum while the Iranians still thought @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time , he can not he blamed for believing that Premier Mossadegh never intended to accept any settlement short of complete surrender . The Mossadegh Government was formed to take over the Anglo-Iranian Oil Company and nothing else . It has no other raison d ' ? tre and no other policy . At the same time , the willingness to discuss terms seemed to imply a willingness to compromise . The British proposals were drawn up with the aid of President Truman 's emissaries , Averell Harriman and Walter J. Levy , and they made great concessions to Iranian demands . If the Mossadegh Government sincerely desired an agreement the basis was there . Mr. Harriman 's highly critical although friendly letter to the Premier on Tuesday night indicated his support of the British position , and it evidently had no results . In fact , at every point the voice of reason , logic , justice , common sense fell on deaf ears . It Is this which makes the situation so discouraging , for if a solution is not to be found in the field of reason and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is now in the position of Mr. Micawber , waiting for something to turn up . Should the talks be resumed he may hope for a British surrender ; otherwise he can watch for the next British move and try to capitalize on it politically . If one reaches the cynical conclusion that whatever happens Premier Mossadegh gains and Iran loses , it , can only be said that there is no escaping such a conclusion after what has happened . We have seen evidence of the frightening and destructive force of nationalism and xenophobia but precious little of statesmanship . What next ? The issues are so grave that efforts to , avoid a catastrophe must be made . If the Iranians really thought the bargaining process was still under way but did not realize that the rock-bottom price had been reached it should be possible for them to reopen or agree to reopen the negotiations . In some fashion time must be gained and meanwhile it is imperative that the Iranian Government maintain order and prevent violence against British employes of the oil company . Some of the best @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to see what chn be done . Premier Mossadegh must try to help and not to hinder them .                     