@@720373

txt WASHINGTON , April 14 ? A maximum security detail has been assigned to Premier Fidel Castro of Cuba during his stay in the capital , officials said today . Premier Castro is scheduled to arrive at Washington National Airport at 7 P. M. tomorrow in a Cubana Airlines plane . - The protection of chiefs of state or heads of governments on official visits is the responsibility of the State Department 's Division of , Physical Security , which works closely with metropolitan police departments in making security arrangements . Occasionally , as with the visit last January of . A.nastas I. Miltoyan , ? a Soviet First Deputy Premier , the Division of Physical Security also undertakes the protection of important foreign leaders when they are Rot the official guests of the United States . Dr. Castro is not on an official visit , He was invited here originally by George W. Healy Jr. , president of the American society of Newspaper Editors , to address the society 's annual meeting . Nevertheless , the State Department decided to assume responsibility for Castro 's security , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Mikoyan 's safety . The Division of Physical Security has about forty agents in the Washington area , and all will be on duty during the Castro ? visit . Regional offices in- Philadelphia , New York and Bostca ' will be responsible for his security later when he makes speeches at Princeton , Columbia and Harvard universities . Officials said today that the State Department and the Cuban Embassy , had received calls threatening violence to Dr. Castro . However , the department believes that the expected // demonstrations against Dr. Castro will be aimed chiefly at embarrassing him . ? The Division of Physical Security normally takes the visits of foreign dignitaries in its stride . But the Castro visit had the division 's officers somewhat distraught today . The Cuban Government had furnished only the sketchiest idea of an itinerary . The State Department has received three estimates of the number to be included in the Castro entourage  --  thirty-five , seventy and ninety-four . The department did not know how many in the official party were Cabinet members , how many were secretaries , and how @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ State Department , however , was fairly sure that the Premier 's own security detail would not be armed . The United States Embassy in Havana , it was understood , informed the Cuban Government that the carrying of arms was prohibited by local statutes in the United States . Although the visit , is unofficial , Dr. Castro will : be met tomorrow night by Wiley T. Buchanan Jr. , State Department chief of protocol , and Roy R. Rubottom Jr. , Assistant Secretary of State for Inter-American Affairs . Acting Secretary of State Christian A. Herter will give a luncheon at the Statler Hotel for Dr. Castro Thursday . Vice President Richard M. Nixon will entertain him at his home Sunday night . Public to Hear Castro Here Premier Castro plans to ad-1 dress ' a public mass meeting here April 24 , Dr. Manuel Bisbe , Cuban representative at the United Nations , said yesterday . Dr. Bisbe said two locations were under considerationLewisohn Stadium and the Mall in Central Park . The Government and Law Society of City College has invited Dr. Castro to speak at the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Buell Gallagher , City ' College president , gave his permission for its use for a Castro gathering . The Cuban Premier will be in this city from April 21 to 25 , when he will leave for Harvard University , Dr. Bisbe said . On April 21 he is scheduled to address the Women 's Lawyers Association at Columbia University . On April 22 Dr. Castro will meet Dag Hammarskjold , Secretary General of the United Nations , and attend a luncheon sponsored by the United Nations Correspondents Association . The Cuban leader will speak April 23 at a luncheon of  --  the Overseas Press Club at the Astor Hotel .                     