@@720617

txt A full year 's delay in initiating a pilot program of regional community colleges will ensue if the 1959 Legislature fails to appropriate funds for administration of the program . Roger L. Putnam . Springfield industrialist and chairman of the Massachusetts Board of Community Colleges , disclosed this situation today in the wake of the Senate 's refusal to restore a $76,320 appropriation for administrative expenses in the 1960 fiscal year . In order to start a pair of two-year community colleges in September , 1960. as planned , the board must appoint a dean for the colleges at least a year in advance of the opening of the institutions , Mr. Putnam said . College department heads must be obtained about nine months ahead of the planned opening , he added . They must plan curricula , develop library and laboratory facilities , and assemble staffs . Time Squeeze Noted Therefore , Mr. Putnam said , a deficiency appropriation approved in the spring of 1960 would not be in sufficient time to permit a September , 1960 , start of the program . An existing ** @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ finance administration costs in the interim , the Springfield industrial leader asserted . The community college program is one of the pet projects of Governor Furcolo . As he originally envisioned it , the plan involved a system of nine regional two-year colleges strategically located throughout the state . He proposed a ** bond issue to finance construction of new buildings on new campuses for the colleges . Since that time , the program had been radically altered in scope , at least in the initial operation . Program Outlined Mr. Putnam said his board now contemplates a pilot program involving two colleges . one at Pittsfield and one at a still undetermined location . A third college is also a possibility in the pilot program . No major construction is involved in this program , he said . Existing school buildings would be employed . However , considerable initial expense would be required for library facilities , equipment laboratory supplies ,                     