@@719025

txt Letters to The Times STEPHEN W. ROUSSEAS , CARLOS F. J. GOLDIN.Director of Organization Letters to The Times To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YoRIC TIMES : Your editorial of Aug. 6 commending William McChesney Martin of the Federal Reservefor his puzzling testimony before the House Banking Committee contains within it a basic difficulty which is left too lightly unresolved . You point out , quite rightly , that the monetary authorities have limited the expansion of the absolute money supply " to about 2 per cent in the past two years . " In the same breath you go on to say that the supply of money has nevertheless increased relatively via an increase in the velocity of money . In your own words , " the supply of money has been so actively used that it has financed an expansion in production of goods and services of about 12% per cent , with prices advancing most of the time . " This in turn is followed by your endorsement of general monetary control which , in your view , " is still the closest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ yet discovered . " General Controls May I paint out that general monetary controls , operating as they do through open market operations and the manipulation of discount rates and legal reserve requirements , restrict the availability of credit by impinging on the reserves of commercial banks ; that is , they manipulate the absolute supply of money . Yet in so far as insurance companies , mutual loan and savings associations and other similar financial institutions are not under the direct influence of the monetary authorities , the ability of the central bank to control the supply of money is impaired . Add to this the post-war development of the Federal funds market and the emergence of nonbank dealers of Government - securities scouring the national money market for idle funds , and general monetary policy becomes rather badly compromised by these institutional developments through which changes in the velocity of money are realized . 3y the time the idle balances of the economy are exhausted and the velocity of money stabilized , that is , by the time the relative supply of money reaches its maximum limit and general monetary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ miles beyond the barn . Expanded Credit : n the short run , selective and discriminatory monetary measures to counteract velocity changes become mandatory if we are successfully to cope with the problem of inflation ? that is , in so far as the inflation is attributable to excessive credit expansion . lit is not at all evident that traditional monetary policy is the magnificent creation of the human mind that your editorial makes it out to be .. If anything , it has become obsolete in terms of the institutional changes that have taken place since the war . It is , itself , badly in need of change to keep up with those structural changes in the financial sector of the economy which are progressively limiting the effectiveness of general monetary controls . STEPHEN W. ROUSSEAS , Assistant Professor , University of Michigan . Brooklyn , Aug. 6 , 1957 . In saying that the monetary approach to the inflation problem was the best approach yet devised , The Times was not suggesting that there was no room for improvement in the methods of applying the basic princioles of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ readers of this page can attest , we have repeatedly warned against the danger of obsolescence to which our correspondent refers , and repeatedly stressed the urgent necessity of a thorough re-examination of our monetary policies and practices , having in mind the vast changes that have taken place over the last quarter of a century in the institutional framework within which they lunetion. ? Editor , The Times . Ambassador Smith 's Conduct To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : A slight comment on your editoxial of Aug. 3 on Cuba . Let us suppose that tomorrow there is an uprising against the Government in Mendoza , Argentina , or in Guadalajara , Mexico , or in Bilbao , Spain , and that the newly arrived United States Ambassador goes directly there to have a look at the melee , and then publicly announces his opinion . Do you think the natives would like it ? Does the Ambassador to Cuba not realize that the world is too hot all around to make it hotter ? Would Mr. Dulles not do well to ask Mr. Smith to come @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Aug. 3 , 1957 . Exploiting the Consumer To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : ? The , problem of " planned obsolescence , " pointed up in the excellent report on automotive retopling in your issue of Aug. 5 , is one that has received scant attention in the public media . That money that might be more profitably spent in leisure , education or research must be squandered on the frequent replacement of mechanically perfect automobiles , refrigerators and so on is in itself a deplorable situation . It is in addition , however , a sad commentary on the possibilities of mass manipulation whereby millions can be cajoled or embarrassed into exchanging a newly acquired piece of machinery merely because details of its design or chrome arrangement have been deliberately rendered obsolete by a sales-anxious manufacturer . " Keeping up with the Joneses " is an effective and legitimate advertising and sales technique . Those who capitalize on it must be guided , hovVever , by some sense of restraint and public responsibility . Vast new markets , await development . Surely there is small need @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ HARRISON J. GOLDIN . New York , Aug. 5 , 1957 . Recruiting Social Workers Improved Conditions , Salaries in Line With Training Asked To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : As a union representing hundreds of professional social workers in collective bargaining with a large number of New York City 's important private social agencies we of the Community and Social Agency Employes Union , Local 1707 , affiliated with the American Federation of State , County and Municipal Employes , A. F. L.-C . I. 0. , were greatly interested in your editorial of July 22 " For Social Work Education " aid in the letter which appeared in The Times of July 29 from Elinor K. Bernheim . Although increases in scholarship funds are laudable and would be valuable , we believe that this alone will not answer the problem of " the appalling shortage of social workers . " In trying to bring young people into those professions known as the serving professions , social work is competing with other professions . Such young people considering professional training after college must consider the fact that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , in addition to flee satisfaction of doing socially useful work , sufficient financial security to make it possible to sustain a decent standard of living for themselves , and eventually for their families . This is particularly vital if young men are to be attracted to the profession . Pay in Other Professions Average salaries in some other professions in 1956 were industrial engineer , $7,750 ; junior high school teacher , $5,565 ; draftsman , $5,425 ; social worker with M. S. degree , $4,740 , It is small wonder that young college graduates do not choose social work , This union of 3,000 employes in private social agencies in New York City recognizes that although its major responsibility is that of improving the salaries and working conditions of employes in these agencies , it also has a responsibility for helping to raise the standards in the entire social work profession . The Professional Issues Committee of this union , made up of trained social workers from both case work and group work agencies , has evolved a career salary plan which it proposes to use as the basis @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on an adequate entering salary , if introduced into the social work profession would provide the kind of hope for the future that social workers do not have today . Opportunity for Development One of the essentials in any professional career is the concept that a person entering the profession can hope to grow and develop within the profession and at the same time improve his or her financial.position . The career salary plan which the union will propose will provide this .. The general community sees nothing wrong for a doctor , lawyer or other professionally trained person to engage in his professional activity and at the same time earn a decent livelihood . The days when social work was performed by volunteers are rapidly disappearing . Social work is now a profession , as are medicine , teaching , , law , dentistry , engineering or accounting . The community expects professional service from social workers and demands proper professional training of its social workers . The community must recognize that it musepay for this . This is not to diminish the need for the kind of work being @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ We propose to make their task easier by making social work a profession which can really be attractive to the most talented of our college graduates . HILDA Sur , Director of Organization . New York , Aug. 6 , 1957 . Money Policy Questioned Need for Selective Measures Seen to Deal With Inflation                     