@@718948

txt The Acting State Investigation Commissioner reported yesterday an " absence of any evidence " that political influence had been used to free Joseph ( Socks ) Lanza of parole violation charges . In an interim report to Governor Harriman , Commissioner Arthur L. Reuter disclosed for the first time that James R. Stone , the Parole Commissioner who had freed Lanza , pleaded the Fifth Amendment to questions put to him before his resignation was demanded . " There can be no question , " . the report said , " that when a public officer , for whatever motivation , refuses to testify with respect to his official actions on the ground that his testimony may incriminate or degrade him , he thereby forfeits all confidence in his fitness to remain in office . " Stone 's Judgment Taxed The report taxed Mr. Stone with " eccentric and indefensible standards of judgment " in han-11 dling the Lanza case . The Corn-1 missioner said that , viewed in , the kindest light , there was a clear implication that Mr. Stone had freed the fish market @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ added , however , that " in justice to Mr. Stone , " it had to be noted that the investigation had " disclosed no evidence of venality or corruption on his part . " Mr. Stone resigned March 30 , about six weeks after he acted in the Lanza case in an out-ofturn appearance in New York . The Reuter report disclosed how the Parole Commission report was rushed through on Feb. 19 so Commissioner Stone could take over the case . ? Waited for the Report " The Lanza , ? case , " Mr. Reuter said , " was the last case disposed of by Mr. Stone on Feb. 19 . He had been informed earlier in the day that the report would be forthcoming and he waited for it . " Mr. Stone testified freely before the Joint Legislative Cornmittee on Government Operations , better known as the watchdog committee , which investigated the possibility of political influence in its widely publicized public hearings . He defended his action in the Lanza case as representing an error in judgment at worst . Arnold Bauman , watchdog committee @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ report of an absence of evidence indicating that a political fix was involved in the case .. In its ' entirety , the report was highly critical of the Parole Commission 's methods , not only in supervising those on parole but also in processing applications for parole and for executive clemency . It said the official file in the Lanza case " includes false reports of home visits by parole officers " who pleaded they were overworked . It said further that it was " apparent that complete reliance can not be placed " upon parole records . The fact that Lanza 's socalled employment in a hardware store near City Hall was " a blind was demonstrated , " the report said , " when parole officers visited the store the day after Lanza was taken into custody . " They were told that Lanza " just had stepped out on an errand . " Other disclosures in the report included these : fairs . Lanza rushed into Parole Commission offices on Feb. 19 , as the report on her husband was being prepared , to account for large @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ she had received $40,000 when she divorced a former husband . This contention was disproved three months later . 9Louis ( The Hood ) Georgiano , a bar and grill owner and friend of Lanza , was comaker on at least eight personal loans obtained by a senior parole officer . With Harry Lanza , Socks ' brother , Georgiano , was indicted this week for refusing to answer questions in the Lanza case under a promise of immunity . ilAt least five angles of the Lanza case remained under investigation . One of these was the extent of Georgiano 's influence with parole officers . Others included what had happened to ' the tape on one of the Lanza conferences in the Westchester County Jail . Another is why Walter E. Doud , assistant direclor in the New York City area , pliced two tapes in a fashion that resulted in the loss of some 11 tape . Whether there was recorded conversation on the tape is not known . When the Stone decision became known , the question immediately arose as to whether political influence had been involved in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ asked by the Governor , the full Parole Commission reconsidered Lanza 's case arill reversed Mr. Stone 's finding . Lanza is how at Dannemora awaiting a commission decision on how long he , must serve . If the commission were to exact the maximum penalty , it could keep him in jail for forty more months . Though picked up for parole violation in February , the offense with which he was charged  --  associating with unsavory companions  --  goes back an equal number of months . The sixty-five-page Reuter report proper did not specifically state the absence of evidence of political influence in the original Lanza decision . In a summary of the report , however , the commissioner noted : " The identification of political figures in both parties with whom contact was made or sought by Lanza 's relatives , but the absence of any evidence that any individual actually infiu- ' enced the , decision to free Lanza . " References in the taped jail conferences , involving such cover-up references as the " Little Man , " the " Big Man , " the " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the suspicion that the references might have been to politicians . Associated Press REPORTS ON LANZA : Arthur L. Reuter , the Acting State Investigation Commissioner . He criticized the work of parole officers in Joseph ( Socks ) Lanza case .                     