@@715929

txt Massachusetts tax ferrets are stepping up their operations against tax dodgers . Their declared purpose is to require every Massachusetts resident to pay his just state taxes  --  and no more . Such activity is carrying out the determination of William A. Schan of Belmont , new Massichusetts Commissioner of Corporations and Taxation , to convince each taxpayer he is being treated fairly and equally , that no one is carrying an unfair burden because his next-door neighbor is illegally avoiding state taxes . If each taxpayer is treated equally and fairly , complaints will be reduced to a minimum , the commissioner argues . Mr. Schan is now deep in the task of reorganizing the tax department to provide for more efficient tax collection . Basis for his reorganization maneuvers is a desire to plug tax loopholes by which some experts feel as much as $10,000,000 in tax revenue is lost to the state annually and an accompanying determination to make tax collections " as painless as possible for the taxpayer . " Investigations Intensified In office only since Oct. 1 , Mr. Schan has not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he has already Moved to step up investigations to ferret out tax dodgers . He is giving investigators an extra month and a half in early 1954 to continue uncovering tax dodgers . In the past a large numbar of state tax probers have been taken off investigatory work on Jan. 1 to help taxpayers prepare their returns . Now the full force of investigators is to remain on probing work until Feb. 15 . With the reporting and payment date now April 15 annually , instead of the old March 1 date . Mr. Schan says the state need not start a systematic program of aid to taxpayers in making out their returns until Feb. 15 . At that time , he said , taxpayers will have more complete information on which to prepare their returns . Federal Taxes Checked Part of the Schan plan is a more thorough check of federal tax returns to uncover persons who have failed to make state income tax reports and to track down those whose state returns show less income than was reported to the federal government . Another change instituted for 1954 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ blanks that returns must be filed and full payment made by April 15 . Under his predecessor , Henry F. Long , tax commissioner for 3 years , no mention of the due date had been included since income tax . Mr. Schan said he and the Special Commission on Taxation are in full agreement cn this proposal to be made to the 1954 Legislature . Research thus far'shows Massachusetts is the only state collecting a state income tax which does not have a nonresident tax . he reported . The new tax commissioner 's approach to his job is far different from that of his predecessor . Mr. Long operated an " open-door " policy . Anyone could walk in on him . He often had several groups in his office at once . Mr. Schan 's office door is closed . To Mr. Schan this procedure is necessary for efficiency1 and fair treatment and handling ! of taxpayers ' cases . Records Relocated The Long office was lined with official tax reports and other volumes . To Mr. Schan these books and documents should be more easily accessible to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ location . At present , Mr. Schan and his staff are making careful study of all tax measures submitted to the 1954 Legislature . By the time public hearings are held , Mr. Schan expects to have dossiers , packed with facts , on all the measures so that he may intelligently discuss them . A chief criticism of Mr. Long was that he did not delegate responsibility and that he tended to keep authority firmly in his own hands . Mr. Schan says he believes in delegation of responsibility and is pursuing that policy . Actually the legislation reorganizing the department provided for such an operation by establishing a three-man tax commission , with its chairman  --  Mr. Schan  --  as administrator of the department . Obviously Mr. Schan is at home in such a setup .                     