@@716270

txt Rhode Island Republican leaders are sharply divided over the party 's prospects of major victories in the 1954 state elections . On the one side are those leaders who insist internal trou. bles within the Democratic Party present to the GOP its best chance in recent years to halt a long succession of Democratic statewide victories . On the other side some Republicans privately voice the opinion that Rhode Island rapidly is becoming a one-party state and that GOP victories will be scarce unless intraparty GOP fracases are eliminated . Observers on the outside believe that real opportunity for a Republican comeback stems from a gradual weakening of the Democratic Party organization after a series of unbroken victories and from development ofattractive young political figures within the GOP itself . These observers feel that while the young element may not be ready to take over top nominations in 1954 , they promise much for the future . Intraparty Conflict One of the criticisms of the GOP leadership has been that in the past it has not brought along young men in the party and developed them as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that changes have taken place within the last year or two . Reasons why the GOP has not scored a major statewide or congressional victory since 1938 are many . Among them are : 1 . Intraparty battles - which have tended to undermine party solidarity . As a result , it is felt , many Republicans have " sat on their hands " at election time . 2 . Indifference of some Republicans , who are not concerned over Democratic control of the governorship , so long as the GOP continues to maintain a working majority in the Senate as a means of blocking unwanted legislation . The Senate is Republican , the House Democratic at present . 3 . Battles within the party for control . At present some Republican leaders charge that Thomas J. Paolino of Providence , Republican National Committeeman , is in the midst of a drive to dominate the party . Twice Mr. Paolino unsuccessfully sought to have the Republican State Central Committee oust Charles H. Eden of Providence . committee chairman , as a result of disputes between them over party policies . Now @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Mr. Eden is resigning , Carkin Favored That opens up the possibility that Mr. Paolino will have a man of his own choosing as party chairman . A committee meeting is being held today to elect a new chairman . At the moment it appears that Herbert Carkin , Warwick Republican city committee chairman , will be chosen as Mr. Eden 's successor . He has the full backing of Mr. Paolino . But this and other intraparty battles have tended to keep the party in a turmoil and have produced lack of enthusiasm among some of the workers . Party leaders also state that lack of patronage from the federal government has hurt the party organization substantially . Despite the adverse factors affecting the party , many GOP leaders are confident , if not optimistic , about the 1954 prospects . This confidence is founded on two factors : 1 . The belief that the eco- nomic situation is now improving after a slump and that ' a sizable portion of the Eisenhower program will be enacted by Congress to give the GOP specific issues to stress . 2 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ held in four Democratic strongholds at the same time the state election Is held . Stiff Test Seen Republican leaders are particularly optimistic about prospects in the 1st Congressional Aime J. Forand ( D ) of Rhode Island , a Franco - American leader , is in his seventh consecutive term . From private comments it appears at present that various GOP factions are ready to get behind the candidacy of Arthur A. Carrellas , young Newport attorney and former state representative . A Portuguese-American , Mr. Carrellas is counted on to attract a substantial vote from the Portuguese-American people , of whom Rhode Island is estimated to have 30,000 to 40,000 . He is highly regarded by many party leaders . They feel if he is nominated he will give Mr. Forand a stiff battle and may beat him . Mr. Carrellas ran for secretary of state in 1948 , being the first Portuguese-American nominated for a statewide office in the entire nation , according to Rhode Island sources . The first district contains a very high percentage of Franco-Americans . In the 8d District John Chaffee , young Warwick @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is anticipated there will be other candidates in the field before long . But Republicans are highly encouraged that Mr. Forand 's victory margin in 1952 was only 18,881 compared to his usual margin ranging from 33,000 to 37,000 votes . Only in the nationwide Republican year of 1946 was Mr. Forand 's margin lower . In that year it was 18,424 . Republicans are also hopeful about the 2d District seat , now held by Representative John E. Fogarty ( D ) of Rhode Island . Mr. Fogarty , like Mr. Forand , is serving his eventh term . Should Mr. Fogarty decide to run for Governor , the Democratic Party would stage a free-for-all over the nomination to succeed Mr. Fogarty . The GOP feels such a battle might pave the way for a GOP surge . If Mr. Fogarty runs for reelection his 1952 margin of 14 , - 752  --  a slump from his usual 31 , - 000 to 36,000 margin  --  lends 1954 encouragement to Republicans , even though the 1952 slump came in the year when President Eisenhower carried Rhode Island . Aspirants Silent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mayor , thus far continues as the only announced GOP candidate . He has substantial backing in Newport County . Opinions vary as to whether or not Raoul Archambault , Jr. , 1952 gubernatorial nominee , will run again this year . He is now counsel to the Federal Civil Defense agency . Some of his close friends insist he will stay in Washington while others report he will resign about July 1 and return to Rhode Island to battle for the nomination once more . In 1952 he lost the election to Governor Dennis J. Roberts by 21,485 votes . The showing was considered excellent in view of the fact that Governor Roberts won his first term in 1950 by 55,442 votes . For United States senator , Bayard Ewing . Providence attorney and 1952 nominee for the post , still is regarded as having the inside edge this year , if he wants to run again . He has not yet made up his mind . Strangely enough Mr. Ewing is torn between running for the United States Senate or state senator in the Rhode Island General Assembly , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 