@@715922

txt President Eisenhower called his Cabinet into session at the White House today to hammer out final details of the administration 's 1954 legislative program which will he submitted to Republican congressional leaders later this week . Vice-President Nixon was opening speaker on today 's ofT-therecord program to give the 125 U.S. mayors , concluding a White House civil defense conference today , high lights of his just-concluded 45.000-mile Far Eastern tour . President Eisenhower 's plan for yanking sonic of the Truman-ordered secrecy tags from government documents went into effect today . The order is avowedly intended to give the people " a maximum amount of information " without endangering national security . The White House anounced that President Eisenhower will go to Augusta , Ga. , on Christmas or the day after and spend several days there working on messages to Congress . The President must send to Congress next month his annual state of the union , budget , and economic messages . Bay State : TV Layoff Tied to ' Color ' Reports Premature advance publicity on color television and a drastic slump in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recent layoff of 650 workers at the Raytheon Manufacturing Company tube plant in Newton , Mass . Charles F. Adams , Jr. , - company president , forecast eventual increased production as the result of color TV. sopa appeal to persuade 22 obstinate U.S. prisoners of war to attend UN explanation talks . He said afterward that he felt they would never agree to attend the talks . United States special envoy Arthur Dean arrived in Tokyo on his way to Washington after bluntly rejecting a Communist proposal for immediate resumption of negotiations to set up a Korean peace conference . Mr. Dean broke off the talks last South Korean President Rhee invited Mrs. Portia Howe to come to Korea to see her prisoner-ot-war son  --  despite the United States Army refusal to let her do so . Europe : Laniel Becomes Presidential Candidate Premier Joseph Laniel has agreed to become a candidate in the French presidential election , which will be decided by a vote in a joint session of the nation 's Parliament on Thursday . National : Thompson Found Guilty of Contempt Robert G. Thompson , Communist leader @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of contempt of court for failing to surrender to serve a three-year term on a conspiracy conviction . National Labor ' Relations Board chairman Guy L. Farmer says the board will give prompt attention to a petition for an election between two rival water-front unions . In New York , for its first hearings outside Washington in 18 years , the NLRB is considering problems arising from the contest between the new International Longshoremen 's Association of the American Fed . eration of Labor and the old ILA , ousted by the AFL in Sep . tember . It is hoped a strike can be averted .                     