@@713076

txt Government labor ' twit who were trying a few months ago to and jobs for idle workers are now worrying about finding workers to nu jobs . For the first time in two years . Labor Department reports show manpower pinches In some areas . True , these shortages are spotty . and involve only certain skilled craftsmyn. like building tradesmen or metal workers . But there are signs that employers in other Industries soon may be faced with similar labor scarcities . " Unemployment is no longer much of a problem . nation-wide. " says Ewan Clague . Commissioner of Labor Statistics in the Labor Department . He thinks " manpower shortages look like a bigger worry now. - To get an idea of the subtle shift in employment sentiment over at the Labor Department . just glance into Secretary Tobin 's " economic situation room . " Chart Title Change . In this chart room . officials keep track of trends in employment and joblessness across the country . At one end of the room is a huge map of the United States with unemployment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ map was labeled " Where The Unemployed Are . " Oa Friday . sign-painters were busily inscribing a new title . The pinpoints now show " Areas of Relative Labor Supply . " This turnabout in the employment picture was well under way before the U. S. got involved in Korea . It will be intensified by Far Eastern fighting and by the need for more skilled workers in arms plants and munitions factories as . S. defense spending increases . A step-up in the size of the armed forces either through voluntary enlistments or use of the draft  --  authorized Friday by President Truman  --  would aggravate the manpower pinch . It 's estimated an additional 250.000 officers and men might be needed to carry out present Korea strategy , though under law as many as 550,000 men could be called up . The Truman order allows draft deferment for " key men " in essential defense industries The prospect of a record demand for workers in the months ahead makes government experts nervous . " If we add new demand for workers to the present peak employment . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be some scrambling in the job market . " See- Record Topped This Month Government experts estimate that more Americans are at work today than ever before in history . They wo n't have exact figures to prove this until the end of this month . A Census Bureau survey for the first week of June showed employment at 61,500.000 ? only a shade below the July , 1945 , peak of 61 , - 600.000 . Says B.E S. Chief Robert C. Goodwin , " There seems little doubt that employment in July will top the 1913 record . " Officials ca n't accurately predict just how tough it 's going to be for employers to get 3wq the sort of workers they need froth now on . For one thing , it will depend pretty much on developments overseas . in Korea , and in " cold " war hot spots . Also the problem is going to vary from industry to industry and from one part of the country to another . But manpower experts stress this important difference between the present situation and the start of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ days . unemployment totaled around eight million and there was a big pool of idle workmen to be absorbed . Today , there 's a good deal less slack in the job picture . Unemployment has dropped from its post-war peak of 4.700.000 last February to slightly more than three million now . No Business Slump Seen The business boom that brought about this job pick-up shows few signs of slackening . A business slump , of course , would ease tho threat of a manpower pinch . But federal experts are n't looking for much let-up in business activity until early 1951 at the earliest . On the contrary , the latest job survey by the Labor Department indicates employment prospects for the nation 's job-seekers are the brightest since 1948. when the government 's employment service last was looking hard for workers td fill jub openings . This report , made public today . indicates " spectacular-improvement " in the Job picture between mid-March and mid-May at 99 Industrial centers across the nation . An informal survey of employer opinion in these areas shows " exceedingly favorable " prospects @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ But the report notes : - For the first time in many months , occupational shortages besides the usual hard-to-fill undesirable and low-paying jobs were beginning to appear in a considerable number of areas . Others arc expected to develop shortages before too long . " Other signs of a manpower pinch in the offing : " Out-of-area " recruitment drives were In progress , particularly in the North Central states ; shorter work-weeks were disappearing . " except for apparel , textiles , shoes , and coal mining . " The department 's survey is n't detailed enough to tell , just what workers are scarce and in what localities . But it does classify the nation 's major " labor markets " according to the supply of workers and a glance ' at the department 's listings gives an idea where the manpower pinch is already bad or likely to get bad soon :                     