@@712902

txt Confronted by growing pressure on the part of a fanatical Russo-Communist imperialism , the statesmen of the Western World begin this week a series of important conferences to re-survey the present situation , to perfect their unity in action , and to plan a strategy of total diplomacy to meet this threat to Western civilization . The conferences will be initiated by Secretary Acheson in individual talks with French Foreign Minister Schuman and British Foreign Secretary Bevin . They will find their climax in a full-dress session of the twelve-nation North Atlantic Council beginning May 15 . Such conferences are all the more necessary because it is only too evident that the Communist advance in Asia and the latest Russian maneuvers in Europe have changed the world picture for the moment in favor of the Soviets , and that under the impact of their latest triumphs they are further intensifying the " cold war . " It may be true , as President Truman optimistically argues , that in some important respects the international situation is not so bad as in 1946 , when Western Europe stood @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cause for Mr. Hoffman 's long-range optimism regarding the future course of events on Russia . But this does not affect the immediate situation , which can be saved from deteriorating only by a new Western initiative comparable with that which created the Marshall Plan and the North Atlantic Pact . This initiative can no longer be confined to Europe . It must be put on a global scale . The immediate situation must be judged not only in the light of the solemn warnings of our top-ranking political and military leaders , which have already led to increased Western rearmament , including the prospective extension of the draft in this country , but also by the course of events since the last meetings of the Big Four and even the Big Three . The last Big Four meeting under the auspices of the Foreign Ministers Council , taking place in June , succeeded in providing a facesaving formula for ending the Berlin blockade , but for the rest it merely confirmed the inability of the four Powers to reach agreement , on the economic and political unification of Germany . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Foreign Ministers ( in November ) , while making conciliatory concessions to the Bonn Government , was likewise unable to Solve the German problem . That stalemate remains unresolved . But since the days of those meetings , events have taken place which alter the premises- on which earlier decisions were based . China has fallen to the Communists and has been riveted to the Soviet bloc ? an event whict is bound to have a still incalculable impact on the rest of Asia . A Communist Government has been established in Eastern Germany , which not only completes the partition of Germany but strengthens the Soviet drive for the conquest of Berlin and the whole country , for which the Soviets now can use German puppets . Finally , the Soviets are not only increasing their own armaments but are arming all Eastern Europe under their command , including Eastern Germany , and they appear to have deprived the West of its monopoly of atomic weapons . As a result , the Western Powers are now confronted with a political and strategic situation made more preafariaus by the declared inability @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ joint defense plans worked out under the North Atlantic Pact , and by the approaching end of the Marshall Plan before Western Europe can stand on its own feet . The Western World still has enough resources and maneuverability to escape from its dilemma and to change the situation in its favor . But the mere summary of the problems facing it is a measure of ti effort necessary to do so . That effo will require not only high statesma ; ship , which in principle is alreac agreed upon the essential steps , bi also bold action , at the sacrifice purely selfish nationalistic interest and possibly even in defiance of bol long-standing prejudices and sped pressure groups . Time challenges tl Western statesmqt to rise both to the responsibilities and to their oppo tunnies.                     