@@715809

txt Argothee - communist espionage case comparable in magnitude to that which convicted the Rosenbergs last June may be in the making behind the closed doors of the Senate Permanent Investigating subcommittee here , this one involving United States Army radar secrets . At the close of three days of hearings attended in part by Secretary of the Army Robert T. Stevens , Senator Joseph R. McCarthy ( R ) of Wisconsin , subcommittee chairman , announced that the committee has " convincing testimony " that top-secret documents missing from the Army 's Fort Monmouth , N.J. , radar laboratories had turned up in the Soviet zone of Germany . On the fourth day , Oct. 15 , the senator Said that a German radar scientist who fled a Soviet laboratory gave American officials secret documents stolen from Fort Monmouth . He said that this man is still in West Germany and that the subcommittee would request Secretary Stevens to bring him to the United States as quickly as possible as " a very necessary witness . " 10 Civilians Suspended In connection with the investigation , 10 civilians @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been publicly identified , but three gave their names to the press at the United States courthouse here in New York as : Hyam Gerber Yamins , Newton , Mass. , assigned by the Army to the Massachusetts Institute of Technology as liaison officer ; Harold Ducore , electronics engineer of L  --  ng Branch , N.J. , and Aaron H. Coleman , chief of the radiation laboratory at Fort Monmouth . United States Army intelligence search for the missing documents , according to testimony given here , dates back to 1946 , but their disappearance has apparently never been fully cleared up . Though it is generally agreed now that the Soviet Union has the atom bomb , military experts say that its development of radar is still considerably behind that of the United States . The Senate committee began its search two years ago after it had been asked to by several civilian Signal Corps employees . Senator McCarthy has been attempting to find a link between the Rosenberg spy ring and the disappearance of the Fort MAmouth documents . At one time , Rosenberg had a job checking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Study ' at Home Most of Senator McCarthy 's time here was spent studying in detail how documents were removed from the radar base for " study " at home . The Senator called this practice " a direct and serious violation of Army regulations covering ' the handling of secret material . " One witness testified that this system was still in force as late as Oct. 1 . Senator McCarthy went especially into the question of how the papers reputedly used in East German laboratories could have disappeared without being missed . He found that three registry logs containing the classification and title of each document had been destroyed , a procedure which one witness called " completely unprecedented " and a " normal thing to do to cover up theft of the documents . " Several of the witnesses refused to say whether they had ever been Communists , though the senator called the bulk of those heard patriotic and cooperative citizens . Also cooperating ih the investigation was Maj. Gen. Kirke B. Lawton , Fort Monmouth commandant for the last year and a half . General Lawton @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vigorous campaign " to clean up the mess he found when he took over at Fort Monmouth . " He told us , " the Senator said , " that he thought he had made great progress in getting rid of some of the dangerous characters . " Plan to Quiz General - Yet to be located and called to questioning is the general who was in-charge of Fort Monmouth during World War II . Also to be questioned are the two Signal Corps officers who signed the certificates of destruction for the three record books where the papers were listed . Senator McCarthy has not stated how many secret documents may have fallen into Soviet hands , but Senator Everett M. Dirksen ( R ) of Illinois said in a speech in Chicago this week that 26 papers were missing . Confirmation of their use in East Germany is supposed to have been brought out from behind the Iron Curtain recently by a refugee engineer . Because of the case 's close connection with the Rosenberg spy ring , Senator McCarthy has said that it may also be necessary to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ convicted coconspirators with the Rosenbergs , now in the federal penitentiary at Lewisburg . Pa                     