@@719841

txt The shades of all adventurers must be stirring happily over the letter a kindred non-conformist spirit has mailed to Washington , D.C. Mr. Lyle H. Munson is tired of waiting for the Americans held captive overseas to be released through diplomatic overtures . He has asked Congress to grant him a letter of marque and reprisal , a system of commissioning privateers used to stamp out piracy in our early history . Mr. Munson claims that when Americans are held for diplomatic ransom  --  as they are now being held in East Germany and by Fidel Castro 's Cuban rebels  --  the captors who hold them are nothing but out-and-out pirates . A former cloak-and-dagger operative for the wartime Office of Strategic Services and the Central Intelligence Agency , Mr. Munson says he does n't need a full-rigged ship to do the job the old-time privateers did , either . He can do it with a plane , a helicopter or maybe a PT boat . His plan is to go in and get the Americans out , as Robin Hood stormed the Sheriff of Nottingham 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shadow of the French Revolution 's guillotine . Why the letter of marque ? Well , Mr. Munson figures that before he can get the men out of East German and Cuban rebel jails he must first get him  --  elf out of the U.S.A. And without some such authority , he would have to take on the passport division of the State Department , the immigration service and maybe even the F.B.I . to get going . He 's got lots of offers of men and money to do the job , he says ; all he needs is permission . Naturally , nothing will come of all this except perhaps to stir Washington to a little more diplomatic endeavor on behalf of the captives  --  which is about all we can do . The days of such ultimatums as Teddy Roosevelt 's " Perdicaris alive or Raisuli dead " just wo n't work any more . There is too much at stake for anything but the most careful and precise diplomacy . ' Still , we must admit that Mr. Munson 's got something quite catchy in his request @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has an adventurous air , a smell of salt spray , a look of Hawkins and Frobisher and Drake about it that is particularly appealing in this age of conformity . Mr. Munson wo n't get his letter of marque and it 's best that he does n't . But if Congress only dared , and we were only younger . . . .                     