@@713945

txt Confronted with a Soviet ultimatum to the effect that there can be no Four Power conference except on Soviet terms , the United States , Britain and France have at last put an end to the Paris meeting of deputies on the ground that a coJtinuation of its discussions , which began early in March and had degenerated into a farce , would be of no practical utility . This also puts an end to further Soviet propaganda maneuvers to rig the conference for its own ends and compels Moscow to make clear whether or not it really wants a conference to deal with prevailing international tensions . The responsibility rests with the Kremlin , If , as the Western Powers say , a " large measure of agreement " was reached at the Paris meeting it was reached in the main only because of continuous Western concessions to the Soviet point of view . This , however , only encouraged the Soviets to advance new obstacles to final agreement in the shape of additional items , until the meeting broke down because of Soviet insistence on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not accept . That issue . as phrased by the Soviets , was the " Atlantic Treaty and American military bases . " The Western Powers made it plain that the general headings ' of the agenda already agreed upon provided ample scope for the Soviets to discuss at a conference of the Foreign Secretaries anything they liked , including the Atlantic Treaty and its implementation , and to give these matters any interpretation they saw fit , ' jpst as the Western Powers reserved the right to discuss Soviet alliances and Communist aggression and subversion . But the Western Powers felt that they can not put the Treaty on the agenda as a specific item , first , because this would imply that the Treaty is still subject to negotiation , bargaining and decision by a body which includes Soviet Russia but excludes nine of its twelve signatories ; and , second , because the Soviets insisted upon listing it not as an instrument of Western self-defense against Soviet aggression but as the " principal cause " of European tension . Any Western consent to such a maneuver , however @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ validity of the Treaty itself but would represent a shattering blow to Western unity and confidence in American purposes . That is , of course , the reason why the Soviets have pressed the issue , and that is also the reason why the West must refuse to walk into the trap . But however valid and inevitable the Western stand may be , there remains the question whether the Western case was presented as skillfully as it might have been , and whether , by permitting themselves to be dragged into an endless battle over technicalities , the Western delegates did not in the end come out second best . The real causes of the existing world-wide tensions were freely listed in the Western notes and in statements made outside of the Paris meeting , such as Soviet expansion and aggression , Cominform subversion , the huge Soviet armies , Soviet domination of Eastern Europe and remilitarization of the Soviet ' satellites ( including Eastern Germany ) and , finally , Soviet sabotage of the United Nations and of every constructive effort toward peace and economic recovery . But when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the West limited itself to generalities , thus opening the way to precisely the maneuver which the Soviets launched in raising the specific issue of the Treaty . The reason for the Western tactics was , of course , the sincere desire for a Big Power conference  --  a desire born of European , and particularly French , wishful thinking that the Soviets were at last ready to talk and would even make " sensational " concessions . In the pursuit of this illusion the Western Powers not only sought to avoid anything that might offend the Soviets but even delayed their own defense program . If they have achieved anything by these tactics it has been to demonstrate their goodwill and to cement their unity . But now that the illusion has gone up in smoke it is time for them to proceed full steam with the political and military programs upon which they have long since agreed as being essential for their own salvation .                     