@@720825

txt Scientists of the Army Signal Corps at Fort Monmouth , N. have discovered that two shells of energy , not just one , were thrown up around the earth the detonation last year of atomic bombs high over the South Atlantic . The newly discovered shell ? was a region of the ionosphere. or charged portion of the earth 's atmosphere , in which waves of magnetic energy had been trapped . The team of scientists be. : heves that the new finding may help bring about a better under standing of magnetic storms and other natural hydromagnetic phenomena . The magnetic shell was ere ; ated by the atomic explosions " that also enshrouded the world in a curtain , or shell , of electrons during the Defense Department 's experiments known as Project Argus . The project was carried out in August and September of 1958 . Each time a bomb was ex -- -ploded during the tests , such an electron curtain , or shell , was formed by great numbers of ; the negatively charged atomid. - particles that were released by the atomic weapons @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about 300 miles . The electrons spiraled back and forth along the lines of force in the earth 's magnetic field and slowly spread eastward to form a bulbous envelope around the globe . This curtain , which extended as far , out as 4,000 miles at the Equator , took about an hour to form , and lasted for several days . The Explorer IV satellite detected the electron curtain as soon as It was formed . The magnetic shell , however , was discovered only recently by the Fort Monmouth scientists after months of painstaking examination of miles of magnetic records . The records of magnetic signals that indicated the existence of the energy-trapping region in the ionosphere were collected in a matter of a few seconds shortly after 6 A. M. , eastern standard time , on Sept. 6 , 1958 . That was when a third atomic charge was detonated . The magnetic signals same from waves of hydromagnetic energy . Hydromagnetic waves are disturbances that move through an electrically conducting medium such as the ionosphere . On Sept. 6 , those waves were created by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the ionosphere as a result of the shock from the bomb 's fireball . Scientists involved in the Argus experiments had expected hydromagnetic waves to be generated by the explosion . They looked for and detected them at several monitoring stations throughout the world . The mere picking up the signals , however , did not mean that the hydromagnetic waves had been trapped in a , duct , or shell , within the ionosphere . In fact , the scientists did not expect the waves to be so trapped . They thought , rather , that the waves would travel along the lines of force in the earth 's magnetic field , thus describing great bulging arcs as did the electrons . Some of the waves did travel this way , but not all . The first indication that at least one type of hydromagnetic wave had been trapped and had moved radially within a concentric shell around the earth came in April . That was when the Fort Monmouth scientists looked at records of the time it took for a certain signal to pass between widely separated monitoring stations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at stations in Arizona ; Uppsala , Sweden ; Reykjavik , Iceland ; Maine , New Jersey and the Azores . What they found was difficult to explain at first . According to those records , the time it took for the waves to pass between stations was too brief for them to follow the long , looping lines of magnetic force . It looked , in fact , as though the waves had followed a much shorter path , one roughly parallel to the earth 's surface and known as a great circle route . This possibility was checked out by Dr. Hans A. Bomke , Dr. Wolfgang R. Ramm , Dr. Seymour Goldblatt , and Dr. Victor Klemas of the United States Army Signal Research and Development Laboratory at Fort Monmouth . To do this , they calculated the theoretical times for passage between points on earth that would be expected if the waves were traveling in a duct . The agreement between theoretical and experimental values was " remarkable , " the scientists found . They said that the finding suggested the existence of a duct in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In a recent interview , Dr. Bomke said that the mechanism by which hydromagnetic. waves are trapped in the ionosphere was not understood completely . According to theoretical calculations , however , the interaction between these waves , the diminishing density of charged particles in the ionosphere and variations in the earth 's magnetic field in the ionosphere should produce internal reflections of very high-speed waves between upper and lower boundaries . The scientists said they had been able to detect the hydromagnetic trapping because their detection apparatus  --  giant loops of wire more than fifty miles in diameter  --  was at least 100 times more sensitive than other such devices and because the signals received could be pinpointed very precisely in time .                     