@@720869

txt A preview in miniature of the 1960 Democratic National Convention was acted out here ; Way in the cheese and braunschweiger country . The occasion was the Wisconsin State Democratic Convention . But in addition to the purely local inflating that characterizes such affairs , this one offered a choice of two Presidential candidates and a dark horse . Senator John F. Kennedy of Massachusetts , preceded by a covey of lovely spontaneous demonstrators , showed his Presidential wares last night in the convention keynote address . Senator Hubert H. Humphrey of Minnesota flew in late today to press his Presidential case in a night speech before the same audience . There was a similar " spontaneous demonstration " for Mr. Humphrey . His demonstrators were equally lovely , and he also had a brass band . In his speech , Senator Humphrey said the United States had " fallen for a kind of ' pitch ' in our national life that substitutes nonsense for reality , public relations for public service , and showmanship for leadership . " Despite reports that Senator Kennedy was still in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ April 5 , the Wisconsin profes // sionals take it for granted that the Humphrey-Kennedy clash within the convention indicates a primary fight between them for the state 's thirty-one nominating votes in the national convention . The problem , which many professionals believe will become a nation-wide plague to both , began to appear last night in small hand-lettered notices posted through the Pfister Hotel , where the convention is being held . " Let 's talk Stevenson " the notices suggested . Delegates interested in Adlai E. Stevenson as an alternative were meeting tonight to discuss the possibility of getting him represented on the primary ballot . Unlike Senators Humphrey and Kennedy , Mr. Stevenson is making no effort to win the nomination . Nevertheless , pro-1 fessionals say that he still has ! a considerable following and in- ! fluential friends here . Officially Wisconsin 's two . biggest Democratic vote-getters , Gov . Gaylord Nelson and Senator William Proxmire , are neutral toward the contenders . Senator Proxmire , however , is suspected of strong leanings toward Mr. Kennedy and Governor Nelson is a warm friend and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ state recently , he and the Governor talked one night until 5 A. M. To complicate matters , Governor Nelson , who is 43 years old , has national political ambitions . He would like to keynote the national convention . Senator Humphrey 's strength lies in his long familiarity with most of the professionals and the fact that his name is well known to the state . Representing neighboring Minnesota , he is sometimes called " Wisconsin 's third Senator . " His strong following among organizational Democrats was indicated today by the preponderance of delegates wearing " It 's Humphrey in 60 " buttons , which retail at Si apiece . Senator Kennedy 's followers turned out last night adorned in adhesive-backed stickers proclaiming " America 's remedy ? Jack Kennedy . " The " spontaneous demonstration , " however , produced an embarrassing show of indifference among the 600 delegates . The parade consisted chiefly of handsome young ladies bearing placards and several young men whooping incoherently . Mr. Kennedy was seated at the platform as they passed up the aisle amid leaden silence from the delegates . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . By contrast , immediately after the demonstrators had left , Representative Henry Reuss , who is running for Mayor of Milwaukee , wandered up the aisle looking lost and received a roar of ovation . Senator Kennedy 's speech , however , was warmly applauded . And the delegates crushed around him later to pump his hand .                     