@@713687

txt Talk about redistricting of Massachusetts ' - 14 Congressional districts has suddenly flared up again , after a period of several weeks of quiet , marked only by some slight behind-the-scenes maneuvering . Cause of the renewed discussion is a memo from Representative Angier L. Goodwin ( R ) of Massachusetts , a member of the House subcommittee on reapportionment . Copies have been sent to all Bay State members of Congress and to all key GOP figures in the Massachusetts Legislature : The Goodwin memo points to Massachusetts as among the leading states as to the population equality of present districts . It proceeds to build a strong case , against the need for redrawing of the districts to attain equality. , Hearing Slated It comes at a strategic time . On March 28 , the Massachusetts Legislative Committee on Election Laws will hold a hearing on proposals for a Massachusetts redistricting . Under the proposed measures redistricting plans would be ' drafted by a special legislative committee or by a special commission appointed by Governor Dever . Of course , Bay State Democrats are eager to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ number of Democratic seats . Republicans , on the other hand , are satisfied to maintain the status quo . The line-up now is eight Republican seats and six Democratic . But barring a political deal each is stymied by the other . The Democrats control the House ; Republicans , the Senate . It already has been determined that , barring congressional action forcing redistricting in all states , the Massachusetts districts need not be changed on the basis of the present law . The IN Maw establishing the present districts was so written that it remains in effect until the Legislature establishes a new district setup . Loss of Seat Looms In his memo , Mr. Goodwin reports a consensus that no major legislation on redistricting will be passed at the 1951 session of Congress . On the basis of the 1950 census Massachusetts retains its present 14 seats in the United States House of Representatives . However , the Bay States was extremely close to losing a seat . In fact it has been pointed out that if 15 scat shifts had been necessary throughout the nation instead @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Massachu setts would have been dropped from 14 to 13 congressional seats . Furthermore , Mr. Goodwin forecast the 1960 census will cause Massachusetts to lose a seat , unless the state shows an unforeseen marked statewide population increase over the next 10 years . In his memo Mr. Goodwin shows that on the basis of the tentative Massachusetts census popttlation total of 4,690,514 , the ideal average representation in each district would be 335,037 . As presently set up the 14 Bay State congressional districts vary from this figure only 6.3 per cent , with 11 districts varying under 10 per cent and six under 3 per cent . Only three states , he pointed out , show less variation ? New Hampshire with 3.9 per cent , Maine with 5 per cent , and Rhode Island with 5.9 per cent . " New Hampshire and Rhode Island are two-district states and Maine " has three , " Mr. Goodwin said . " No state with a comparable number of districts and consequently greater practical difficulty in drawing district lines is even a close second to Massachusetts . The nearest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of 11.8 per cent . " COP Ammunition The Massachusetts representa71 live pointed out that President Truman , in his reapportionment message , suggested that no district show a variation greater than 15 per cent . As now set up , only two Bay State districts vary more than 15 per cent , the 7th which is 1.04 per cent off , and the 10th district , 65/100 of 1 per cent off . Only seven other states , he reported , among the 35 states with more than two districts have no more than two districts varying more than 15 per cent from the average . And none of the seven have as many districts as Massachusetts , the nearest being Minnesota with nine districts . So Massachusetts Republicans will be using the Goodwin memo to bolster their position against a Massachusetts redistricting this year . But Republican research has also determined that the Legislature can redistrict the congressional districts at any time its members desire . So a redistricting this year could be undone by the Democrats in 1953 anyway , if they capture both branches . Thus , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ year , by which some of their districts would be weakened , to strengthen Democratic territories . Population table : Page 9                     