@@717415

txt The failure of the National Assembly to agree today on a policy for Algeria opened prospects for a new Governmmt crisis and other consequences for France . Premier Edgar Faure lost his all-night fight to get parliamentary approval for moderate ' reforms in Algeria without putting his own waning popularity to the test . Maneuvers by the Gaullists , hostile both to M. Faure himself and to the Fourth Republic 's parliamentary regime , forced the Premier 's hand . He was constrained to ask for a formal vote , of confidence and the Assembly will vote Tuesday on whether to ' maintain or overthrow his Cabinet . The Assembly 's fumbling of , the Algerian question and the prospect of a Government crisis at a time when divisions in the Assembly made formation of a new majority more problematical than ever led to speculation in political circles . Many observers here felt that France 's protest against United Nations interference in the Algerian question was being undermined . Foreign Minister Antoine Pinay had asserted in New York that the Algerian matter was one of purely internal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Nations General Assembly when a majority voted to discuss the subject . Criticism of Paris Assembly Here , the National Assembly by its lack of decision on the Algerian issue ' has given aid and ' comfort to those who argue that Algeria is a matter of international concern , according to the observers ' opinion . " The party of General Charles de Gaulle * * decided to align itself with Yemen , Nicaragua and Byelorussia to condemn the policy of France in Algeria , " wrote Louis GabrielRobinet in the conservative Paris morning newspaper Le Figaro . He was referring to the Gaullist anti-Government maneuvers that appeared to justify the votes of the three countries named to put the Algerian item on the agenda a the United Nations Assembly . A French elder statesman , Paul Reynaud , Premier of the Third Republic at the time of the fall of France , said today a Government crisis would signify " the disavowal by the National Assembly of the Government that protested to the United Nations against the listing of the Algerian question on the agenda . " Discussion of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the scheduled date , June , 1956 , was stimulated by prospects of a Cabinet crisis . The date of elections can be advanced only by the National Assembly . The Deputies have traditionally been reluctant to shorten their own mandates . Most of them probably would , prefer to patch up a new shaky coalition Cabinet . However , a prolonged crigis  --  it would be the fifteenth since 1947 ? might bring enough popular pressure to bear on the Deputies to force them to dissolve the present Assembly , Some observers fgresaw not just another Cabinet crisis but the final crisis of the parliamentary regime . In the international field , a governmental crisis would reduce the weight of French influence at the Geneva conference of the Big Four foreign ministers , it was generally agreed . It would also be likely to stiffen opposition of Saar voters to the French-backed European statute for the Sit . ar in the referendum Oct. 23 . Formation of the council of the throne in Morocco , an essential part of M. Faure 's conciliation program for the protectorate , by Saturday @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ here . Officials say they are going ahead and might finish by Monday night , but it is believed that opponents of the council in Rabat , administrative capital of Morocco , have been encouraged to maintain their opposition in the hope that M. Faure will fall next week . Negotiations are continuing , with the latest plan calling for four instead of three members . The increase represents an attempt to compromise between the position of the Resident General , Lieut . Gen. Pierre Georges Boyer de Latour , and that of the nationalists .                     