@@718727

txt The army is planning to cut its combat divisions , now numbering 19 , to 15 or 16 atomic weapons divisions by 1959 , including four divisions as a " mobile strategic striking force " in the United States , Pentagon officials said today . The army already has scheduled dropping of two of its 19 divisions by mid-1958 as part of its shift to atomic age combat , relying heavily oil atomic rockets and cannon as well as airborne mobility . Divisions are being reshaped along the " pentomic " pattern  --  five battle groups in each division supported by atomic weapons . Army officials generally agreed on the need for four combat-ready divisions  --  two airborne , one infantry , and one armored  --  as the fast striking force that could be moved to any trouble spot in the world in 10 to 15 days . Airlift would be provided for one airborne division and one of the new airborne atomic missile brigades . Disagree on Size But Pentagon officials disagreed as to the future size of the army . Defense Secretary Wilson 's military @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the nuclear robot weapons that will become available in quantity by 1960 , believe the army can be cut from its present 1 million man size to 800,000 men . Army leaders , however , argued that the army strength NORMAN can not be cut safely , despite the expected availability of the new nuclear rocket weapons . They said Amer iCan troops must be maintained at outposts along the frontiers of communist countries in Europe and Asia . In addition , army leaders said , increasing numbers of soldiers will be needed to man Nike anti-aircraft batteries in this country in the rapidly expanding air defense system . They said scores of communities around the nation are demanding Nike protection . Only 19 cities are now ringed with Nike batteries , and many of these are not complete . Many of these batteries will be equipped soon with the new Nike Hercules rocket which carries an atomic warhead . See Expanding Need Even if some of the Nike rocket batteries are manned partly with national guar d troops , the requirements for full time soldiers will expand greatly in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said the army will nee d considerable increases in later years above the 9.2 billion dollar spending budget scheduled for the year starting July 1 . The extra funds , totaling possibly 1 billion dollars , would be required to outfit the four c omb at ready divisions in the mobile striking force with the new atomic weapons and the ground and air vehicles for rapid movement . Four Training Divisions Wilson 's military advisers , however , said they were confident the army budget and man power could be slashed by 1959 and 1960 without impairing the five divisions in Europe , the four divisions in the Pacific , and the four division striking force . The army also has partial divisions in Alaska and the Caribbean and four training divisions in this country . Cutting the army to 800,000 men would reduce materially the need for large training establishments , they said .                     