@@720098

txt Associated with Western defense Communist bloc Beyond Berlin The Larger Questions Berlin is a metropolis of more than 3,300,000 , almost equidistant from the Soviet frontier and the English Channel , its Western sectors an advance Western outpost behind the Iron Curtain . Germany is a land of 72,000,000 in the heart of the Continent , the pivotal area in the East-West struggle in Europe . Europe is the motherland of Western civilization , and with its population of more than 400,000 , - 000 outside Russia is an immensely important front in the cold war . Last week it became more and more clear that the new Soviet challenge to the West over Berlin was in fact a challenge to the entire Western position in Germany and Europe itself . All during the week Moscow kept the pressure high . Although Russia insisted that her only immediate . concern was Berlin , there was no question in the West that she was also using the city as a lever to force reappraisals of the Western position in Germany and the Continent . The Western reappraisals were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they would stay in Berlin . But there was uncertainty over how to meet the pressure , for new approaches to the broader problems of Germany and Europe . Question of Berlin Soviet Premier Khrushchev , in the Thanksgiving Day note that raised his challenge to the West , demanded that West Berlin become a demilitarized free city . He gave the West six months to think about this and negotiate on it . If by then there is no agreement , he said , Russia will turn its occupation . role in Berlin over to the Soviet-dominated German Democratic Republic . The immediate impact of that would be to put the East German regime , which the West has never recognized , astride Western lines of communication into Berlin . If the East Germans made trouble , the West would be hard put to it to maintain its 10,000-man garrison of American , British and French troops in West Berlin . Should the garrison withdraw or be forced out , the Communists would have accomplished their minimum objective of removing from their midst a persistent irritant . What is more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ position of going back on its commitments to stay in West Berlin , would undermine confidence in American pledges around the world . ' War of Nerves Recognition of all this has produced from the West a unanimous reaction that Khrushchev 's proposals on Berlin are unacceptable . President Eisenhower pledged anew last week that the U. S. will not go back on West Berlin , In Britain spokesmen for both the Conservative Government and the Labor opposition took the same stand . The two major parties in West Germany , which otherwise agree on little , agreed that the free city plait must be rejected . West German Chancellor Konrad Adenauer , who went to Berlin last week to campaign for his Christian Democratic party in the city elections being held there today , used the occasion to declare that the status of Berlin must be settled before there are any broader negotiations . " Unrestricted negotiations would be a damned war of nerves , " he said . The Russians , for their part , sustained the pressure . Khrushchev talked for eight hours on Tuesday with Democratic Senator @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ saying that the Russian move on Berlin is " fraught with danger . " The Government newspaper Izvestian dismissed as a " dangerous fantasy " the belief in some Western quarters that Khrushchev made proposals about Berlin merely to re-open the German question . Soviet newspapers hammered at the theme that the Kremlin means business with its proposals on Berlin , Observers in Moscow got the impression that the Soviet Government thinks it has a surefire plan for getting the West out of Berlin because the West will not risk war for Berlin , Question of Germany Khrushchev said very little about Germany in his note on Berlin . But it was evident to the West that to yield on Berlin could produce a series of fateful consequences for Germany and the West . The first would he de facto Western recognition of the East German regime and of the permanence of the Communist hold on Eastern Europe . The second consequence might be that the abandonment by the U. S , of its pledges to protect Berlin would touch off a worldwide surge of the neutralist view that the West @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , That would put the Kremlin in a good position to press its demand for the neutralization of Germany  --  a demand Moscow appears to regard with more urgency as the West moves toward providing the German armed forces with weapons that could carry nuclear warheads and toward establishing missile bases on German soil . Neutralization of Germany would push the Western alliance back at least to the French border and perhaps out of Europe altogether . West 's Position For , these reasons the West insists that there can be no change ? in the status of Berlin until the question of Germany is settled . Thus the consensus in most Western capitals is that the response to Khrushchev must be in terms of Germany rather than Berlin . But agreement on that does not constitute agreement on the policy the response should embody . On that matter there are differences within the West . On one hand is the view that the West can not retreat from its contention that the first necessity in Germany is re-unification on the basis of free elections and that the resulting Government should @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ armaments . In this view the Big Four would sign a peace treaty with the German Government , perhaps providing some sort of assurances for Russia against attack from the reunited country . On the other hand is the view that the free-election plan is obviously unacceptable to the Soviet Union because the voters would erase the Communist regime in East Germany and probably take all of Germany into the Western camp . In this view the West should consider the Soviet proposal for a " confederation " of the two Germanys  --  perhaps with some degree of neutralization to make Germany a buffer state between East and West . The supporters of this view contend that the Germans would settle their own problems in a confederation and that West Germany would prove to be the dominant member , Differences Aired These divergencies were aired in Bonn last week . Chancellor Adenauer  --  who is the most resolute proponent of the view that there can be no beginning on the German problem without nationwide free elections  --  appealed to the opposition Social Democrats for a " united front in the face @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ move by the West to neutralize Germany would leave the country exposed to Soviet conquest . The Social Democrats declined to subscribe to this policy , pressing instead the view that the West should explore the Ideas of confederation and neutralization in Germany . While this search for a policy was going on in the West last week , Moscow took a few opportunities to apply pressure on the question of a German *settlement . Khrushchev left Senator Humphrey with no doubt about Soviet determination to press for a change in the situation in Berlin in the hope of stirring up a quarrel among the allies about the future of Germany . The East Germans detained an American flier who had to abandon his plane and parachuted into their territory . They hinted that the U. S. will have to deal with them  --  not Soviet officials in East Germany ? for his release . Question of Europe Most Western Governments during the week emphasized their belief that any settlement of the German question would have to take account of the broader . issue of Europe . One of the problems @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ German question should embody some sort of military disengagement in Europe . The concept of , disengagement as a means of reducing tension has considerable popular support in Europe  --  a fact reflected last week by British Foreign Secretary Selwyn Lloyd . While insisting that the basis for a solution of the German question is free elections , he went on to say that " In the event of a reunited Germany choosing to join NATO , we should not take military advantage of the withdrawal of the Soviet forces . " That means the West would not move its forces into East Germany , he said , so that East Germany would become a buffer zone . Broader Proposals In other European quarters broader disengagement proposals have been advanced . The British Labor party , for example , has urged " the establishment of a neutral zone consisting of East and West Germany , Poland , Czechoslovakia and Hungary , " inside which " armaments would be reduced , nuclear weapons banned , foreign forces ? Russian and NATO -- withdrawn . " But the predominant view , . at least among @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is that disengagement would have ' limited significance . in an era of jet planes and intercontinental missiles . These men look for some more basic method of reducing the tensions of the cold war . One possibility they see is disarmament , or at least a start on it , under effective controls . At present the East-West talks in Geneva on suspending nuclear weapons tests constitute the only active negotiation on disarmament . Those talks have ' shown little progress in the five weeks they have been on , but neither have they appeared to be heading for collapse . Yesterday agreement was announced on a pledge for test suspension , but the crucial question of inspection to insure compliance ? on which the West insists and the Russians have been evasive ? remained deadlocked . Another basic means of.lowering East-West tensions is reducing the possibility of surprise attack , East and West have talked for nearly a month at Geneva about whether it is technically feasible to undertake measures of curbing the possibility of surprise attack . Those talks have appeared to be going nowhere . Meeting at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , S. for responding to Khrushchev with a broad initiative which would seek to tie together the questions of Berlin , Germany , disarmament and world security and to offer clear proposals for settling them all . It is reported from Washington that Secretary of State Dulles has proposed a meeting at Paris next week with British and French foreign ministers to discuss such an approach . That meeting will confront an apparent lack of agreement in the West about what to say to Khrushchev . Chancellor Adenauer talks of confining the response to Berlin , The French suggest ignoring Khruslichev 's proposals altogether , Mr. Lloyd says openly that the British are ready for a full discussion with Russia about Germany 's future and continental security . Thus it is evident that the Big Three foreign ministers ' meeting Dec. 15 and the meeting of NATO foreign ministers Dec. 16 will be of pivotal importance in the formulation Of the West 's reply to Moscow .                     