@@713722

txt The minutes of the 1945 Kings County grand jury that invest ' . gated the handling of an unsolved murder case by former Mayor William O'Dwyer and his staff , when Mr , O'Dwyer was District Attorney of that county , were turned over yesterday to the Senate Crime lInvestigating Committee by order of County Judge Samuel S. Leibo. witz in Brooklyn . This development came on the eve of Mr. O'Dwyer 's scheduled appearance at 9:30 A. M. today when the committee headed by Senator Estes Kefauver , Democrat of Tennessee , resumes its open hearings in the United States Court House in Foley Square . Frank Costello , the gambler , also has been summoned for questioning today . Forty packets of typed testimony presented to the grand jury , were released to the committee . They contained material relating to the slaying of Peter Panto , a longshoreman who had tried to organize a revolt against alleged gangster control of the Brooklyn waterfront . Albert Anastasia , an ex-felon , was a suspect in the case . The jurors handed up three presentments criticizing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ office . Hearing in Leibowitz ' Home The minutes were turned over to the Senate committee at the request of Rudolph Halley , its chief counsel , after a hearing in Judge Leibowitz 's home at Manhattan Beach . Arnold L. Fein , an assistant counsel , represented Mr. Halley . Edward S. Silver , chief assistant District Attorney for Brooklyn , also was present . While this was taking place in Brooklyn , and while Mr. Halley prepared , in seclusion in his courthouse chambers , for his examination of Mr. O'Dwyer , now Ambassador to Mexico , it was learned in Washington that the crime committee was making ready to start deportation proceedings against Costello . It had been brought out in the examination of Costello last week that he allegedly had made false statements in obtaining his United States citizenship . Although Mr. O'Dwyer is appearing as a voluntary witness , the ghost of his political administrations , both as Mayor of New York and as Kings County District Attorney , has stalked the committee 's hearings since they began here last Monday . By his presentation of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Halley has sought to establish a link between persons of questionable character or shadowy background and some of Mr. O'Dwyer 's political appointees . He also has inserted in the record statements by witnesses that gamblers and persons who had not readily classifiable sources of income had participated in political deliberations pertaining to New York 's municipal elections . Although the multi-faceted inquiry has involved persons in many walks of life , the hearings have reflected the efforts of the committee to spell out the interlocking character of crime and politics . Follow Thread of Testimony In an interview yesterday , Mr. Halley said the committee planned , in its examination of Mr. O'Dwyer , to pick up the thread of testimony given by witnesses last week . Some of the testimony in which reference was made to Mr. O'Dwyer follows : James J. Moran , now Commissioner of Water Supply and onetime chief clerk of the Kings County District Attorney 's office under Mr. O'Dwyer , testified last Friday that he and Mr. O'Dwyer in 1942 met with Costello and Michael J. Kennedy , then leader of Tammany Hall , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . said the meeting was in connection with Mr. O'Dwyer 's Army duties , Jerome G. Ambro , now an Assistant Attorney General and a former Democratic district leader in ' Brooklyn , testified he had seen Mr. O'Dwyer in a restaurant operated by Joe Adonis , the racketeer and gambler , at Fourth Avenue and Carroll Street , Brooklyn . Testimony was given by James F. : : cLaughlin , a former telephone company worker , that he had been hired at the time of the 1945 Mayoralty campaign by Irving Sher- an , 43. night-club owner , to check the telephone in Mr. O'Dwyer 's Brooklyn home to see if it had been tapped . Mr. testified also that he had seen Mr. O'Dwyer dining with Sherman in the restaurant of a club at 1480 Broadway . He said a steel door led from the restaurant to an-upper floor , where he had seen a gambling table . Charles Lipsky , a Republican business man and " old friend " of Mr. O'Dwyer , testified that he had met Adonis , at Sherman 's request , to ask @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ switch his support from one of the proposed candidates for the Democratic nomination for Mayor , shortly before Mr. O'Dwyer resigned his office . Testimony relating to the handling by the District Attorney 's office of the Panto , case was given by Mr. Moran and by Frank C. Bals , a former Deputy Police Commissioner , both of whom were on Mr. O'Dwyer 's staff during the investigation of the murder . Committee 's Request Cited In granting the committee 's request yesterday for minutes of the 1945 grand jury inquiry , Judge Leibowitz declared " it is obvious to the court that not only would discretion warrant this order ? it would be not only an abuse of discretion , but injurious to the public interest not to grant it . " Mr. Fein , representing the committee , pointed out in his application that Abe Reles , the gangster turned state witness in the Panto case , died in " mysterious circumstances " while being held in custody at the Half Moon Hotel in Coney Island . He said Anthony Romeo , another witness , was released by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Romeo was found murdered shortly afterward . Mr. Fein also said that a " wanted " card on Romeo had been removed from Police Department files by order of Mr. Moran . He added that the " wanted " cards of Anastasia and Jack Parisi , another ' witness , also had been removed from the police files while the Panto case was still active . In its presentments , which subsequently were expunged from the record by the late County Judge Franklin Taylor , the grand jury charged that " the neglect , incompetence and failure to proceed against Albert Anastasia was neither denied , justified nth satisfactorily explained by the District Attorney 's office . " The grand jury investigation was held in November and December ' of 1945 , shortly after Mr. O'Dwyer had been elected to his fir , st term as Mayor . Mr. O'Dwyer , Mr. Moran and Mr. Bals were among those who testified . . The hearing today , at which Mr. O'Dwyer and Mr. Costello are expected to be the only witnesses , will be marked by a second legal meeting between @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ O'Dwyer testified for the ' Army at a hearing of the Truman committee , of which Mr. Halley was an assistant counsel .                     