@@713748

txt Letters to The Times Publishing La Prensa in Exile To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Besides commiserating the plight of La Prensa-at the hand of violence , I think American newspapers , with THE TIMES leading , can rescue that great newspaper and contribute immeasurably toward the freedom of the press . La Prensa can be published in exile . This old paper in new form would be a rallying call to freedom and decency not only for Latin America but for all the world . ELIHU STAMM-COOPER . Iowa City , Iowa , April 5 , 1951 , Drafting College Students Question of " Equality of Sacrifice " Versus Deferment Discussed To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : I have read with interest the attacks by representatives of the Committee on the Present Danger upon General Hershey 's order permitting the deferment of students until they can complete their education . None of the speakers cared to point out what is evident from the statement by the Manpower Policy Committee on Page 24 of the same issue of THE TIMES , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " and that no longterm program can be developed until Congress decides a general policy . The problem of the relation of education to military policy is always difficult , but I do not believe a solution is to be reached by such an oversimplification as an appeal to " equality of sacrifice . " This is emotional only . What the country needs is not equality of sacrifice but equality of service , as the proponents of Universal Military Training admit when they argue that under their scheme some thousands of young men are to be returned to the colleges and universities for training . If by " equality of sacrifice " is meant danger of death , clearly young men so returned are for that period in less danger of dying than Eire other young men sent to the Korean front . Technical Warfare The argument which would send an appropriate fraction of young men back into the colleges and universities is an argument which rests upon the assumption that modern warfare is highly technical and demands scientific and technical skills . It seems to me this is only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such young men will almost inevitably be sent to technological institutes and to colleges and universities large enough to handle considerable numbers of such students and sufficiently equipped with scientific and engineering laboratories to be able to give the desired training . But there are scores of small liberal arts colleges over the country either not prepared for this purpose or so insufficiently prepared as to make training in them inadequate . What is to happen to these colleges ? The recent report of the dropping of one-third of the faculty at Rollins College is , I think , only a preliminary indication of what is likely to happen under the doctrine of " equality of sacrifice . " If the nation is prepared to sacrifice the cultural contribution made by these scores of colleges either by ending their existence or by crijipiing their life , surely some equality of sacrifice might also be exacted from the larger institutions . In the second place , the program , whether under U. M. T. or under the draft , by which young men are to be sent back to the colleges and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ forces for technical skills . This means that we are again preparing for war , but we are not preparing for peace . When , the Second World War being won , we had the task of rehabilitating Germany we found ourselves unable to reshape German education because we had too few persons acquainted with German cultural traditions . The consequence was that the American " advisers " attached to German universities were politely listened to by the German professors , who paid no further attention to them , and who , in fact , reinstituted the old German university system . ? Cultural Skills Similar failures to appreciate the profound need of cultural skills in and after modern war might be cited . I see nothing in the arguments of the representatives of the Committee on the Present Danger , as reported in your columns , to show that they have any real apprehension of this profound and perplexing problem . I am not saying that anybody who wants to go to college should , for that sole reason , be exempt from the draft or from U. M. T. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not see that the cry for " equality of sacrifice " meets the need . What is needed is a careful re-examination of the total problem , not only in the light of equality of service to the nation in an emergency , but also in the light of equality of service needs after an armed conflict sub sides . Current discussion of the problem seems to be dangerously , oversimplified and awakens more emotion than understanding . HOWARD MUMFORD JONES . Cambridge , Mass. , Aprfi 8 , 1951 . Deferring Students Opposed To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : I write to protest against President Truman 's draft-deferment plan for college students . The country desperately needs its colleges , which will be in dire straits if the flow of students is drastically reduced . The country needs trained and skilled men ? in all fields ? and will suffer if the colleges and graduate schools do not have students to whom to give this training . But the President 's deferment plan is very bad on practically every count . It will result in discrimination against @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ public education is not carried on at a high level . It will encourage going to college for the wrong reason . It will keep in colleges many young men who have no business to be there . It will lower the moral standards of the country as parents and sons  --  and even:some educators , I fear  --  scurry about to find ways . of getting the boys . into colleges and keeping them there . It will be a boon to " shyster " colleges the country over ; - As an educator , I want to dissociates myself from the Truman deferment plan . I do not want to teach American history to students who , by their very presence in college , will remind me that a sharp blow has been dealt to Arnett+ can democracy . I must ask , too , how the required military force is to be raised if many , college students are to be deferred . CHARLES R. KELLER , Chairman , History Department , Williams College . Williamstown , Mass. , April 3 , 1951 . Regulations to Control Smoke @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK Taira : Your edition of last Tuesday , April 3 , quotes Thomas J. - Barrett , director of the air-pollution committee of the National Association of Power Engineers , as having criticized the city 's air-pollution regulations as impractical and ineffective . Mr. Barrett , a capable engineer , is on good ground as to some of his ob . jections . But it must be remembered there are occasions when what is ed. , entitle is not always practical . For example , he criticizes the present method of estimating smoke emission as unscientific , and voices his approval of the Ringelmann chart . It is true that this chart is sponsored by the Bureau of Mines and is approved by most . engineering societies throughout the country , but this method , albeit scientific , is completely impractical for use in a city like New York . Here are the official United States Bureau of Mines instructions for use of the Ringelmann chart : " Hang smoke chart on a level with the eye , about fifty feet from observer , as nearly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ yes , but what about the big buildings , the large users of fuel ? How can these instructions be carried out in the case of tall buildings with their many structural setbacks ? Each smoke inspector would require an assistant to hold the chart fifty feet away , and probably would have to be suspended in midair from a helium bag to keep the chart in line with the chimney top . Mr. Barrett feels that smoke violators should be haled into court . All of us who favor smoke elimination agree with him . But the chances of a conviction based on Ringelmann chart observation will be slim unless the inspector can prove that the chart was held in accordance with the instruct . bons . Director Christy is to be commended for his attitude of cooperation rather , than arbitrary enforcement . He has had a long experience in smoke corm trol . He deserves the fullest cooperation . I am certain that he would throw his full weight behind any suggestions which might in any way improve the enforcement of the rules and regulations as presently adopted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ undeniable . Groups such as Mr. Barrett 's can serve a worthy cause by airing what they believe is faulty . It is only when such opinions are brought around the round table , debated fairly , and separating the wheat from the chaff , that we can achieve smoke control on a practical basis . IRVING G. ABRAMSON . New York , April 5 , 1951 . Hospitalizing the Aged To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : The unfortunate position of . the voluntary hospitals as cited by you in an article and an editorial in your issue of April 5 is repeated to a greater degree in percentage of loss in the homes for the aged maintaining infirmaries for the chronically ill destitute aged . When an aged person on old-age assistance ( a grant from federal , state and city funds ) becomes chronically ill , that person is removed front 0 . A. A. and becomes a ward of the Department of Hospitals . The homes for aged maintain complete hospital service , except for surgery , for which the Department of Hospitals pays $3.05 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ our institution was , for the six months ended Dec. 31 last , $8.35 per day . Private philanthropy is unable to endure this burden indefinitely . Inasmuch as the cost to the city in city institutions for the aged is close to $12 per day , the city should be delighted to settle with our agencies for $5.50 per day , If the city is short-sighted in recognizing the present inequities it is possible that the old-age group will be forced to throw many of their clients upon the Department of Hospitals at far greater expense to the city . It seems obvious that the city 's best interest lies in meeting the institutions halfway . PROSKAUER , President , the Home for Aged and In ? firm Hebrews . New York , April 6 , 1951.                     