@@717265

txt Hurricane Connie lurked lazily off the Carolina coast tonight , but the fury of her 135 mile winds raised danger signals all alone the eastern seaboard . - The storm edged its way slowly and erratically northwest , pointing its course toward the port city of Wilmington , N. C. , only a few miles from where Hurricane Hazel came ashore last October to wreak havoc all the way into Canada . But Connie 's future course was uncertain and the weather bureau warned all coastal areas from Savannah , Ga. , nortlf to kee , a sharp eye on her . Moves 6 to 7M . P. H. At 11 p. m . Chicago time the weather bureau said Connie ms 275 to 300 miles southeast of Wilmington and moving at 6 to 7 miles an hour . Her future movement , the bureau said , " is expected to be slow and erratic but probably in a northwest direction for the next 12 hours . " Her present progress was considerably slower than had been previously reported . Mxlier Connie had been moving steadily at 10 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was expected to reach the mainland tomorrow morning . Vacationers Periled The altered course raised a new threat to the Sout'a Carolina coastal vacationla:id still rebuilding after the winds and water of huric an e Hazel wrecked a large portion of the beach front property and holiday facilities . The beaches areat the height of their season and thronged with vacationers . Earlier it appeared that Connie would by-pass South Carolina . High waves already pounded the Carolina beaches as residents up and down the coast rushed preparations . Tides along the Carolinas coast were 2 to 3 feet above normal . Northward , the eastern seaboard , mindful of three disastrous hurricanes last year , already had plunged into maximum preparations against the possibility Connie might strike the land with full force . The weather bureau called Connie a dangerous storm , and said " all precautions should be taken immediately for the protection of life and property . " At Norfolk , Va. , two navy pilots were killed while evacuating a plane from the fury of hurricane Connie . Their plane plunged into Willoughby bay . The bodies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ aviation ordnance man , and the co-pilot , Porter Gladney Martin , chief aviation machinist mate , were recovered tonight .                     