@@717575

txt Consulate Cordoned Off Simultaneously with his dissolution of Parliament , King Hussein announced that new elections would be held and the populace would be allowed to decide whether or not Jordan should ally itself with Britain , Turkey , Pakistan , Iraq . and Iran in the Baghdad Pact . The King set no date for the elections . Meanwhile , Jordan 's Arab Legion was striving to restore order to a country whose people appeared to be divided into two opposing camps , reflecting larger schisms within the Arab world . Jordan 's current ordeal was set in train by the visit to Amman , Jordan 's capital , , of Gen. Sir Gerald Templer , Chief of the British Imperial General Staff , early in December . In defense talks Sir Gerald promised Jordan jet planes and heavy arms for the Arab Legion if the desert kingdom would join the Baghdad alliance , a project long nourished and developed by Britain and the United States , as a defense against the Soviet threat from the north , Riots Rock Jordan Split sharply on the issue @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be replaced by the government of El Majali , reportedly willing to enter Jordan in the controversial pact . Beginning Dec. 16 and increasing in intensity to the present , demonstrations and riots rocked Jordan 's cities  --  including Jerusalem , Amman , Nablus , Hebron , and Bethlehem ? as angry crowds denounced El Majali and pro-Baghdad Pact talk . Chiefly the protesters appeared to he Palestinians , people of Jordan 's " West Bank , " who became Jordanians following the Palestine War of 1948 when King Abchillah , then monarch of . Jordan , annexed that part of Palestine not occupied by Israel . Preoccupied with the division of their homeland , these new citizens of Jordan fear that Jorclanis adherence to the Baghdad Pact would divert attention from the Palestine problemand engage Jordan 's vergies in Western plans for defending the Middle East against the Communist threat from the north . Thus an issue , long latent , has ? burst violently into the open , splitting Jordan into two camps and involving the barren desert kingdom in a controversy which long has raged in the Arab @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rocked the Arab nations when it joined with Turkey in laying the foundations of the Baghdad Pact in February , 1955 . To frustrate the pact 's further expansion , Egypt and Syria concluded a bilateral defense pact which merged their armed forces and was intended to discourage other Arab states from looking to Baghdad and a " foreign " alliance . Saudi Arabia , long distrustful of Iraq , sided with Egypt and Syria . Lebanon and Jordan had remained officially neutral until British insistence forced the issue in Jordan , with the riotous results still unfolding . Nasser 's Hand Forced Iraq , in the belief that Arab strength and unity can be served best through alliance with the West , deplored the Egyptian-Syrian counterpact as dividing the Arabs and weakening the common front against Israel . An indirect result of the Baghdad Pact controversy came to light when Israel attacked Syrian positions east of the Sea of Galilee Dec. 11 , killing more than 40 Syrians . Technically , this also was an attack against Egypt , since Syrian defense forces under the terms of the Syro-Egyptian pact @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Egyptian , Maj. Gen. Abdel Hakim Amer . This forced Egyptian Premier Gamal Abdel Nasser to warn Dag Hammarskjold , Secretary-General of the United Nations , that any further Israeli attack against the Arabs would involve full-scale Egyptian retaliation . Though this may have been further than Colonel Nasser wished to go at the time , he was virtually forced to his declara. tion by the terms of the pact he had concluded with Syria , a pact intended primarily to frustrate the Baghdad alliance rather than commit Egypt to go to Syria 's aid when attacked . Egypt recognizes Sudan independence : Page 5.                     