@@719380

txt Newspaper readers may wonder sometimes why Washington dispatches so often discuss whether the public is sufficiently alert or whether the government has a sufficient " sense of urgency . " An answer to this query could discuss Washington 's resources of diplomacy ? whether the American presentation at the forthcoming NATO conference will kindle a new unity among the Allies . Or one might ponder the historic question of leadership ? Is or is not President Eisenhower to be insulated by new buffers and shields from the task of grappling with great issues ? But for the purpose of today 's column let us isolate simply the military picture and attempt to strike a balance out of conflicting reports the " rough with the smooth " ? and assess just where the United States stands , and will stand , vis-ANis the Soviet Union in the crucial weapons of this strange age . A A A Using some of the best intelligence data and military information available , the assessment would look like this : By means of that wide radar screen set . up in Turkey @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ number of intermediate - range missiles , the 700-to-1.500-thile-range rockets which could reach from Eastern European bases to American and NATO bases in Western Europe . The Soviets probably have these IRBMs operational and in place now . 11 The United States , on the other hand , has tested only a few of its own IRBMs , the Jupiters and Thors . Now it has ordered these into production as fast as possible . The first group should be ready by the end of 1958 , and Washington plans to install some immediately on launching pads in Britain and Western Europe , from which they could reach a good many Soviet major targets . The Soviets have tested a number of intercontinental-range ballistic missiles of 5.000-mile range . And it is believed they will have these ICBMs , capable ? of reaching the United States , . ready for production soon . They may have at least some aimed at main American targets by some date in 1959 . ? On the other hand , the United States has not yet successfully tested its ICBM , the Atlas , though @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Atlas this very week . There are three ' They Went That-a-Way , radner ! ' or four years of work ahead , it is conjectured , before the Atlas is operational . It will , by present schedules , be after 1959 before the Atlas is ready for instant use in big numbers . For the time being our Strategic Air Command remains a source of massive retaliation against any nuclear aggressor . But the Soviets are developing potent antiaircraft missiles . It will become increasingly difficult to reach Soviet targets by airplane in the months ahead . A A A Add up this brief summary and it means that , if all goes well , by the year 1959 , when the Soviets have their long-range missiles ready , the United States will be able to counter these by its intermediate-range missiles stationed in Europe . Meanwhile it will be dispersing its SAC bases , keeping its plane crews in instant readiness , and probably equipping more of its bombers with swift air-toground missiles like the Rascal , so as to be able to hit targets without bringing the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? a sufficiently safe situation . But the West is dealing with a bold Nikita S. Khrushchev , a daring opportunist . There the possibility that , once Moscow has both its ICBMs and its IRBMs in place , it will strongly suggest to Washington 's European allies that , since the European bases have been " neutralized " ? by Soviet missiles , these allies just pull out of the picture and avoid getting hurt . If the allies complied , this would leave the United States armed , with only medium-range missiles ? at home and unable to reach the U.S.S.R. ? while Moscow Would have its long-range missiles already zeroed in against American targets . The American ICBM would not yet be ready and SAC would be becoming increasingly less effective . A A So , to oversimplify , there is foreseeable a possible period of tension ahead , when the Soviets may believe they have the United States " outgunned . " And when they may try every trick of diplomacy and tension to improVe their world position , if not to attack , before the United @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ This then , is why " urgency " is an issue in Washington . " Urgency " might hasten the readiness of American IRBMs and ICBMs : It might arm more submarines with short-range nucler missiles  --  pretty effective in a pinch . It might enable the United States to deal more perceptively with its allies who hold the overseas bases . The fact that there may be serious testing times ahead should throw no pall over the Christmas season . But those who perceive the power of courage and alertness and righteous endeavor need to keep their sights clear and their lights burning . 