@@718380

txt Premier David Ben-Gurion rejected tonight a demand by the Soviet Union that Israel pay damages to Egypt for the invasion of Egyptian territory . Mr. Ben-Gurion said in a reply to a message last Thursday from Soviet Premier any A. Bulganin that if any damages were owed it was Egypt that owed them to Israel . Mr. Ben-Gurion cited what he said were all the acts of aggression and violations of the United Nations Charter by Egypt against Israel since 1948 . He stressed the fact that Egypt not only remained at war with Israel after the armistice agreement of 1949 was signed , but had amassed a tremendous buildup of military stores and arms in the ' Sinai Desert and along the Gaza Strip in readiness for an attack on Israel . Withdrawal Offer Repeated Mr. Ben-Gurion reiterated in a letter to Marshal Bulganin that " we Israel have announced that ' we are prepared to withdraw our forces from Egypt when satisfactory arrangements have been made with the United Nations in connection with the international force mentioned in the General ' Assembly resolution . This @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ flight and surrender of the Egyptian soldiers  --  peasants torn from their homes in Egypt and sent against their will to do battle in a remote desert  --  it is clear that these soldiers were not prepared to fight for the Fascist dictator of Cairo , " the Israeli leader said . " The first to flee were officers of the Egyptian Army . " " This is conclusive proof , " Mr. Ben-Gurion said , " that many people in Egypt understand now the true character of Gamal Abdel Nasser , who at the beginning , pretended he was concerned with improving his people 's health , education and economic develop- ment , but who since then has shown himself to be consumed by a lust for power and an ambition to impose his rule on all Islamic peoples . " He has squandered his country 's resources to increase his military power and his armaments in order to carry through his expansionist ambitions and make himself master of the Moslem world . " The Israeli Premier denied that his country 's military operations had caused harm to civilians or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ damaged the Suez Canal , " he said . " As far as we know the canal has been blocked by the Egyptians themselves , " " If there is a case for claiming compensation , " Mr. Ben-Gurion wrote , " it is we who are entitled to compensation for the Egyptian invasion of our country in 1948 ; for the death of thousands of our sons and daughters as a result of this aggression ; for the economic boycott and maritime ? blockade maintaineJ in defiance of the United Nations Charter and Security Council resolutions ; for hundreds of Israelis  --  Jews and Arabs  --  murdered by the fedayeen ( Arab guerrillas ) ; for all the damage caused to our economy , running into millions of pounds . " However , " he added , " if peace is established between Egypt and ourselves , we shall be ready to forgive all the past transgressions of the Egyptian rulers . " In his concluding remarks , Mr. Ben-Gurion reiterated that Israel was prepared for a settlement of her dispute with Egypt as well as with other Arab states @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " he told the Soviet leader , " that I have to point out that several of the expressions on Israel used in your letter are not likely to be interpreted by the Arab rulers as encouragement to the achievement of peace in our region . Nor would they appear appropriate to the accepted relations between member states of the United Nations . " I am confident that if the Soviet Union will lend its support to bring about direct peace negotiations between Israel and her neighbors this will be a real and significant contribution to the strengthening of peace in the Middle East and throughout the world , " the Israeli Premier said .                     