@@720707

txt Laos has requested the Secretary General to apply the " appropriate procedure " in regard to its request . The note specifies that on July 16 " foreign troops " crossed the northeastern frontier and engaged in action against Laotian garrisons . " It is obvious , " the note adds , " that ; these attacks would not ? have taken place if the attackers had not come from outside the country and would not have continued if the attackers had not received reinforcements of food and ammunitions from the outside : , Fresh attacks were launched Aug. 30 , supported by artillery fire from the other side of the frontier , and in which , according to the note , North Viet Namese elements took part . The government in Vientiane , the capital , has invited the UN to act in accordance with Article I of the Charter . It specifies that among the purposes of the UN is " to take effective collective measures for the prevention and removal of threats to the peace . and for the suppression of acts of aggression @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' The note having been sent to Mr. Hammarskjold , no initiative can be undertaken before his return to New York . The Secretary-General may then consult further with the Laotian envoy and inquire to which organ of the UN Laos wishes to refer the matter . The Secretary-General , as he has repeatedly stated , has no authority to intervene except if invited to do so by the Security Council or the General Assembly . Laos is unlikely to request that the issue be referred to the Security Council where it faces the Soviet veto . The General Assembly will not convene until Sept. 15 but it can be called into emergency session . Most diplomats , however . are urging caution . British officials , according to a Foreign Office spokesman , on the basis of their own independent observations are not yet satisfied that aggression has been committed . Britain and the Sotiet Union , as cochairmen of the 1954 Geneva conference which negotiated a settlement of the Indochina war , have a special responsibility in seeing that peace is maintained . Summit Watched London 's judgement in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the other Western countries . DiComats further consider that the present moment is psychologically not indicated for action by the UN General Assembly . The exchange of visits between Soviet Premier Nikita S. Khrushchev and President Eisenhower , and the prospect of a summit meeting later this year , are expected to more or less halt the General Assembly activities . No one seems willing to disturb the first serious prospect of an East-West agreement in many years . Serious doubts are also being held about the role of Laos within the framework of the Geneva agreements . The legal issues involved are complex and controversial . Their interpretation might require long consideration and reduce the chances of a direct intervention by the Diplomats here arc inclined to believe that the best approach to a solution might consist in a joint agreement by Britain and the Soviet Union . It is not considered likely that the crisis was opened by the Kremlin and most accusing fingers are pointed in the direction of Communist China and North Viet Nam . Commission Urged Britain has proposed the dispel:1i of UN observers to Laos @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Kremlin has neither accepted nor rejected the British offer . It has advanced a counterproposal of its own , however : The revival of a commission composed of India , Poland , and Canada originally set up to administer the Geneva agreements in Laos . Most likely , according to observers here , Mr. Hammarskjold might prefer to push further the diplomatic initiatives he has promised to Laos to undertake . He is understood to have requested Indian Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru to intervene by sending a special envoy to consult with the parties . It is not known so far if Mr. Nehru has agreed . By the Associated Press Turnberry , Scotland President Eisenhower , although doing a bit of vacation golfing here , is nonetheless keeping in closest touch with the developing world situation . Thus he has expressed concern over the situation in LaOs , where Communist troops from North Viet Nam are attacking two provinces ; he has welcomed congressional passage of a vigorous labor bill , and he has invited President de Gaulle of France to visit the United States " before too long . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on whether the United Nations should provide troops to meet the Communist threat . White House Press Secretary James C. Hagerty told a news conference that " the President is keeping in close touch with the situation in Laos and it is a matter of concern to him . " Mr. Eisenhower , who is taking a weekend rest in Scotland from his arduous diplomatic mission to Western Europe , is due to return to Washington Sept. 7 . But the President is enjoying his golf in Scotland and may stay a day longer . " If this good weather holds up I would n't be surprised if an extra day is tacked on the President 's stay here , " Mr. Hagerty told newsmen . At the same time , Mr. Hagerty said that Mr. Eisenhower teas " very pleased " over congressional approval of the labor reform bill . He said the President was " very pleased by the action on the bill to protect the working men and women of -- the , - United . States . " Mr. Hagerty added that Mr. Eisenhower had sent congratulatory messages to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bill , passed by the House Sept. 4 , is designed to enforce Democrnic procedures and financial honesty in unions . It would also curb abuses of union power and would exclude from office for as long as five years persons convicted of certain crimes . The President 's invitation to M. de Gaulle was contained in a letter Mr. Eisenhower wrote just before he left Paris to fly to Scotland . In a gesture of extreme warmth toward M. de Gaulle , Mr. Eisenhower followed up the letter with a message radioed from his jet plane saying : " We in the United States Government will deem it a great privilege to maintain close contact with you and your government . " Texts of the letter and radio message were disclosed by Mr. Hagerty . In his letter to M. de Gaulle , Mr. Eisenhower spoke of the " warmth of the welcome I have received in France . the hospitality you yourself have extended to me and my party . " The talks with M. de Gaulle , he wrote , - form a memory that I assure you will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he had been hoping for more than a year to meet M. de Gaulle and to confer with him . He expressed appreciation for the opportunity to learn the Frenchman 's views " on the great problems that lie before both of us . " Invitation Expressed He closed the letter by saying , " I only hope , AIr . President , that before too long you will find it possible to visit the United States and receive the welcome that awaits you there . " The message radioed from the plane en route to Scotland contained much the same sentiment . In it Mr. Eisenhower said : " I express also my personal appreciation of the opportunity we had to confer together , especially when alone . " He said he hopes that close contacts between the United States and French Governments will be maintained . " Again I salute the renewed health and vigor of France , " Mr. Eisenhower radioed in closing . " With lasting personal regards . " Correspondents asked . Mr. Hagerty why the President sent two somewhat similar messages to M. de Gaulle @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for him to explain the President 's action . He disclosed that messages of similar character also went to Chancellor Konrad Adenauer and to Prime Minister Harold Macmillan after talks in Bonn and London .                     