@@715911

txt The French Government intends to seek through the North Atlantic Treaty the new United States and British guarantees for the proposed European army that it has failed to get from Washington or London , a high authority said here today . Georges Bidault , Foreign Minister , was credited with the intention to raise this issue at next week 's ' meeting here of the North Atlantic ) Council , composed of the foreign , defense and finance ministers of the fourteen Atlantic Pact nations . The two major proposals that Bidault was expected to make , after having explained them at length to the United States and British leaders in the Bermuda conference last week-end , were de ' scribed as follows : Troop Withdrawal Opposed First , that the term of the North Atlantic Treaty should be the same as that of the pending European army treaty , which would run for fifty years . ( The North Atlantic Treaty is of indefinite duration though any member may withdraw after twenty years , that is after 1969 . ) Second , that some way should @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ army with German troops would not entail the withdrawal from Europe of United States and British troops . M. Bidault is reported to have in mind the extension of the military commitments under the Atlantic Treaty for a period of years instead of the one-year term now obtaining . The purpose of the first proposal would be to equalize in terms ofl time the commitments taken in Europe by the United States and Britain and those taken by France and the other prospective member hers of a - European army . The French want to be assured in treaty form that the United States and Britain will remain as fully committed as now for the whole period during which France would be committed to a European army if she ratifies the pending treaty to create it . Therefore they want the North Atlantic Treaty , which binds the United States and Britain to defend Europe , to remain in force as long as the European army treaty . The two treaties already have been linked by mutual guarantees between the signatories of both , and the planned European army is to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Treaty . Mere extension of the minimum period of the Atlantic Treaty would not , however , commit the United States or Britain to keep troops on the European Continent for that period or for any period . The troop commitments are not parts of the treaty but of the common defense programs re-established year by year by the treaty members in conformity with their treaty obligations . In view of the reluctance of both the United States and Britain to make commitments on their troops in more binding form or for long periods , M. Bidault is understood to have hit upon the idea of prolonging the obligations they have assumed under the North Atlantic Treaty . Obligation Renewed Annually These obligations run from year to year . They are renewed annually with the programs of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization devised by Supreme Allied Headquarters and approved by the North Atlantic Council . Each member nation agrees to a specific contribution to European defense for one year ahead . M. Bidault has suggested that these agreements might run for several years instead of one year , and there would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and his advisers consider that this would be a commitment that the United States and British Governments could take without appealing to Congress or Parliament , ' , as they would have to do for an extension of the period of the treaty . But this proposal appears to raise the same Congressional question raised by the plan of Rene Pleven , Minister of Defense , for a three-year armament production program with United States aid ? this question being that of Congressional appropriations running more than one year , against which Congress so far has balked . The argument is made here that the United States and Britain should consider these French proposals to help the French Government persuade the Frenoh Parliament to ratify the European array treaty .                     