@@713212

txt Letters to The Times BENNETT E. SIEGELSTEIN.PETER KALDOR.J.R . CROSSLEY , ABRAM V. MARTIN.W.L . BROCK . Letters to The Times Arbitrating Labor Disputes Compulsory Recourse to Tripartite Board Urged to Prevent Strikes To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMER : I am in accord with all you say in your editorial of Aug. 25 captioned " Time for a Showdown . " In these chaotic days , more than ever before I am of the opinion that the TaftHartley Act should immediately be amended to provide for compulsory arbitration of labor disputes , particularly where the public is affected . No man who is sane desires to take any right away from labor , but certainly labor is strangling itself when , through personal disputes with one employer , or dissatisfaction with working conditions or wages , it causes industrial shutdowns that result in thousands of innocent employes losing their jobs and remaining idle for months . Compulsory arbitration of labor disputes would protect labor and capital . The American community as a whole has too long been an innocent bystander to strikes in vital @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ capital alike : " We will appoint a board representing labor , capital and the public . They will judge the merit of each dispute . There will be a similar high court of appeal , but the final judgment will be legally binding . " All labor disputes have been costly , not only to the public in general but to labor in particular ; and it will take several years for labor to make up the losses sustained by strikes . Most of our laborers. are good Americans . We hope they realize that their gratitude and loyalty is due to the Government which has made it possible for them to get so much of what they want . They owe no such debt to some of the ruthless leaders whose policy is rule or ruin . Most of these laborers are honest , hard-working people with good reputations , but the reputations are being dirtied by the arrogant tactics of a handful of dictatorial union chiefs who play the labor movement as a big sucker game . Long strikes do not do the strikers any good and disputes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that workers are entitled to just wages and decent work , ing conditions and the employers to reasonable profits , and the Taft-Hartley Act certainly protects them in that direction . It is true that formerly our system was one-sided  --  the employers took advantage and stepped on labor , but I very much fear that the pendulum is now swinging to the other extreme , and labor , by its various strikes and its endeavor to have a closed shop , is virtually stepping on management and capital . As a former member of the State Legislature I endeavored to have a statute passed for compulsory arbitration , without any success . BENNETT E. SIEGELSTEIN . New York , Sept. 7 , 1950 . Maintenance of American Rights To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : It is indeed gratifying to find THE Tams expressing well-warranted concern over the maintenance of basic American rights in the present emergency . So many of us seem to be giving way to a vague panic , based upon fear and anger , that sane heads and a resolute defense of our long-cherished @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be cheered and encouraged . After all , what shall it benefit our country if we shall have gained a victory on the battlefield and have lost , during the battle , the political liberties we proudly proclaim on our banners The various bills now before Congress  --  the Mundt-Ferguson , the McCarran , the Wood bill , etc. ? hold a perilous blade over the heads of not merely the Communists but , in this period of passion and emotion , over the heads of all of us who may differ on important policy matters with the Administration 's policy-makers . If enacted any one of these bills could become a guillotine poised over the necks of loyal citizens with the courage to speak out and call attention to what may seem to be serious Administration errors in domestic or foreign policy . This nation is strong enough and wise enough to be able to deal with any real internal danger . Thought control has always been abhorrent to Americans . Today it would be prejudicial to our cause in the eyes of the world and a blow to our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . PETER KA LDOR . New York , Sept. 8 , 1950 . Garage Fees in New York To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : The editorial " Fair Garage Fees , " which appeared in THE NEW YORK TIMES recently , conveys the implication that there are fairly rigid legal restrictions in effect which hinder the city 's garage owners from establishing excessive rates for auto storage space . Actually there are no such legal restrictions on garage prices , except in so far as the law forbids garage and parking lot operators from charging rates higher than those they file with the Commissioner of Licenses and which they are at liberty to increase by giving sixty days ' notice to the Commissioner . The law places no restriction whatever on the amount that a garage or parking lot operator can charge for car storage . As a matter of fact , when the law took effect , in 1947 , a fairly common condition arose in which garage owners filed higher rates with the Commissioner of Licenses than those they were actually charging . The apparent purpose @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the idea of a fair profit in mind , " but with the idea instead of allowing those who adopted the practice the leeway of raising rates freely without waiting out the sixty-dd. , ? notification period required by law . According to the provisions of Local Law No. 61 , which concerns the licensing of garage and parking lot operators , garage owners are not prevented from establishing excessive rents in areas where space is scarce . Unfortunately , this is still the condition in many sections of the city . We take the liberty of calling this to your attention because we feel that it may help give you a more complete view of the New York City garageprice picture . J. R. CROSSLEY , Vice President , Automobile Club of New York , Inc . New York , Sept. 5 , 1950 . Against Atomic Control Value Doubted of Treaty Providing for International Bomb Disarmament To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK Timis ; So long as the United States remains free and the Soviet Government remains totalitarian there is absolutely no possibility of establishing any system of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all existing atomic bombs had been disposed of . This was not true when the Baruch plan was first proposed . But the reasons which today force the acceptance of this conclusion are simple and compelling , and it is important that they be clearly understood . The Russians now have been producing atomic bombs for about one year . Let us make the extremely conservative assumption that they have produced enough fissionable material for the manufacture of thirty or more bombs . If Russia and the United States were to sign a treaty calling for the destruction of all existing atomic weapons , then the Soviet Government might conceal , for use at some future time , half of the fissionable material which the Russians had produced ? enough for the manufacture of fifteen or more bombs . The Politburo could perpetrate such a fraud with virtually complete certainty that it would never be discovered , either by examination of the records of production or by cross-examination of scientists or by a search for the hidden material . For records can be falsified , and men can be zombified or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Soviet Union for a few hundred ( or even a few thousand ) pounds of carefully concealed radioactive material is utterly beyond the bounds of possibility . The United States Government could not sign a treaty for the violation of which it had already made careful preparation . It would certainly not be capable of coercing American citizens to participate in such a fraud . If we signed a treaty which called for the ultimate destruction of all atomic weapons , then the Soviet Government could violate the treaty without committing  --  after the treaty was signed  --  a single act of violation , other than lying . And the fifteen or more concealed bombs , if smuggled into the United States at a time when our suspicions had subsided , and exploded simultaneously with pinpoint accuracy , might easily cause such confusion and destruction as to be the ultimately decisive factor in our defeat . We may be certain that if such a treaty were ever presented to the Senate for ratification , then all these points would be brought out , and the Senate would very properly refuse to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ some by men in very high positions , calling for one more attempt at general disarmament , or otherwise suggesting that atomic disarmament is still within the realm of possibility . If we are to face the brutal facts of our dreadfully deepening plight , then we must realize that there can be no atomic disarmament , and hence no general disarmament , until the struggle between freedom and communism has been resolved . And the longer we persist in our attempts to live in a dream world the less likely it will become that freedom will survive that struggle . ABRAM V. MARTIN , San Jose , Calif. , Sept. 9 , 1950 . For a National Science Foundation To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : I was shocked to read that the National Science Foundation has again been shelved by Congress , this time by the House Committee on Appropriations . The $475,000 which President Truman wants is surely not excessive , being about one-tenth of 1 per cent of the Government 's budget . A hundred times that amount would be a small price to pay @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ our country . Money spent on basic research will repay itself many times over in increased production and in military security . Considering that our progress , both in industrial technology and in military equipment , is based upon scientific research done in the preceding years and that the life of our nation and our civilization is dependent on maintaining our lead in these fields , our failure to press forward vigorously in all fields of science may soon lead to a national and world-wide disaster , The Communist countries hold the lead in manpower ; we must hold the lead in science or ' perish . W. L. BROCK . Mt . Lake Park . Md .. Sept. 8. 1950                     