@@713648

txt The House Ways and Means Committee yesterday got sharply conflicting testimony on whether it should apply regular corporate taxes to mutual savinga banks , building and loan associations and mutual insurance corporations Representatives of state banking groups and state insurance agent associations said the present tax exemption for such organizations must be repealed in order to put all : groups in these fields on a fair , competitive basis with " commercial " banks . Representa- ! Lives of mutual savings banks and savings and loan associations said such an action should not even be considered . Secretary of the Treasury Snyder has recommended that the committee " continue its examination " of this problem . Last year . in its executive session work on the 1950 tax hill , the House Ways and Means Committee at I ore point by a 13-to-12 vote included a pro- , vision to tax these groups . However , it later ' ovoised itself and threw out this provision . Yesterday 's questioning indicated the committee members are still evenly divided on the 11-13 tter Present Tax Rate Defended Earl @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ chairman of the legislative committee of the National Association of Mutual Savings Banks , said the earnings of these banks " are already taxed in the only way they can be fairly taxed " ? through the depositors . Mutual sayings banks , he declared , pay out all earnings after expenses and after setting aside a reserve to protect the depositors . He maintained that retained earnings have not been excessive and that any tax on the banks would result in less of a dividend or interest rate . The bank would probably pay a higher tax rate than the individual depositor would . he admitted . Oscar R. Kreutz , executive manager of the National Savings &; Loan League , said a tax on his members would result in a lower dividend rate , less savings in building and loan associations and a sharp drop in the amount of private home financing available in the country . William E. Webb , Jr . representing insurance agents in 24 state associations , said the same tax must be imposed on mutual fire and casualty insurance corporations as are imposed on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rates . rcrease , the tax advantage of the vnutuRI corporations becomes greater . " We insurance agents do not see how our companies can continue to meet mutual competition when the mutual corporations can use the money they do n't pay in taxes for dividends . " Mr. Webb estimated that taxing the mu-1 tual and stock insurance companies on the same basis would bring a minimum of $60 million a year into the Treasury . The committee yesterday also heard from spokesmen of the State Chambers of Commerce , the American Farm Bureau Federation and the National Small Businessmen 's Association . Change in Corporate Rate Hit Clarence D. Laylin , chairman of the tax committee of the Council of State Chambers of Commerce , said his members opposed any increase in come/ate rates at this time . He noted that corporate tax rates have been increased twice and payment accelerated within the past few months , " with the result that the Government will be taking out of taxable net income the highest percentage in the history of the nation . without regard to the excess profits tax. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ office of the small businessmen group . urged the committee to defer all tax action until Congress acts on the 1952 budget . He said if the budget is cut $8 billion to $10 billion " as it unquestionably should be " and if present tax rates bring in more than has been estimated and " is quite likely to happen , " then it is altogether likely that additional taxes will not be required . Alan B. Kline , president of the Farm Bureau . supported the Treasury 's plan for a four-point boost in individual income taxes and an eight-point boost in corporation taxes . He suggested. further that the maximum optional standard deduction for individual taxpayers be cut from $600 to $500.                     