@@717398

txt MARGATE , England , Oct. 10 ? A grand inquiry into the decline of British socialism opened here t &lay; at the annual Labor party conference . Two radical resolutions , one demanding wider nationalization of industry without compensation and other asking that negotiations with employers begin while strikes were in progress , were overwhelmingly defeated . Speeches by James Griffiths , veteran right-wing member of the National Executive Committee , and Sam Watson , leader of the Durham miners and a member of the executive committee , contributed to the defeat of the motions . Although the dominant right wing of the party curbed interference from the left , it was less successful in its efforts to frame a new labor policy . A policy that would reverse the election defeat of last May and a reorganization that would make the nation conscious of policy are the objectives of this conference . Mr. Griffiths opposed the issuance of any " general statement of policy " by the National Exec , utive Committee at this time . In , stead , he presented a list of ten @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reports on later at conferences in 1956 , 1957 and 1958 . This proposal , with its impli // cation that the party still would be in the opposition three years from now , did not stir the delegates . Many of them have come to Margate expecting the party leaders to produce something " new and dynamic " that will act quickly . Others think the Conservative party 's conduct of foreign affairs is vulnerable and are annoyed because international relations was not on Mr. Griffiths ' list . The topics for restudy presented by Mr. Griffiths were : equality , the ownership of industries , housing , the publicly owned industries , social security and pensions , planning and controls , nuclear age and automatiop the use of machines to control the work of machines , education , agriculture , industry and society . In Mr. Griffiths ' list , the ownership of industries referred to those that might be nationalized by a future Labor Government and the publicly owned industries referred to those already nationalized . Subjects Before Conference As policy , reorganization and leadership are the party @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ debated here , although the debate on reorganization will be secret . The third is in the hands of Clement R. Attlee , party leader . Some Laborites believe that at the conference Mr. Attlee will give a hint of his intention to retire soon after the House of Commons reassembles this month . But others assert that " Clem " has decided to remain as leader for another year . There is an influential school of thought in the British Labor party that believes the party 's rethinking must start on a higher level . These politicians , largely the party 's " old schooltie " wing doubt whether concentration on the number of duplicating machines available at a district headquarters , the form of future nationalization and the relative merits of Hugh Gaitskell , Aneuran Bevan and Herbert Morrison as leaders alone can halt the decline of the Labor party . Indeed they assert that if the Labor party continues to concentrate on the problems and fails to think on a larger scale and get in step with ' a changing Britain it will fade as the Liberal party @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they charge the party has failed to understand the changes that have taken place in the British economy and society since 1939 and does not recognize the altered character of the Conservative party . Today there was a patter of applause when Mr. Griffiths said the party must appeal to youth . There also was some appreciative comments when Dr. Edith Summerskill , chairman of the National Executive . in her opening speech said : " Let us ' face up to the fact that youth is not responsive to the old emotional appeal of the Socialist party . " There certainly was a striking contrast between last week 's Conservative party conference and the Labor meeting . Today a high percentage of the audience consisted of either middle age or older persons . At the Conservative party conference a high percentage of the delegates mere *mug . Moiedier , by their accents and clothes many of them came from the industrial working class , traditionally Labor 's preserve . The influx of youth into Conservative ranks has been accompanied by a change in policies . These are now far more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ problems than would have been thought possible twenty years ago . , ? This alteration in the Conservative approach reflects the change in British society since 1939 . Critics within the Labor party feel that it was Labor 's failure to understand'that change that , as much as anykhinechst it the election . The veterans who met here today struggled for years ' and-ultimately won power on a platform calling for:economic reformithat would end unemployment , reduce poverty and extend social benefits . In the decade since 1945 these goals . have been won  --  tempoisrily at least . Recent Gains Noted In the four years of Conservative Government there has ( been full employment and continued economic growth . Working class incomes are rising . Social services introduced by Labor Governments from 1945 to 1951 have been maintained by the Conservatives . Intellectuals in the Labor party consequently deplore attempts to refurbish old arguments and demand the adoption of ideas already largely accepted in this country . A danger of discussions like those at this conference , as they see it , is that it will align forces of labor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ intellectuals say is useless to attack the Conservatives for the dole or mass unemployment . A great mass of the electorate just does not know what labor is talking about , the intellectuals say . Under the circumstances , these persons suggest that a policy swing either to the right or the left , a thorough reorganization of the party machinery and new leadership will not suffice unless Labor 's thinking is modernized . The . problem , therefore , is how the party is to be educated to modernity . A conference of more than 1,500 delegates is far too large an assembly for that , it is conceded . This conference is o ? bein attended by 604 delegates being trade unions representing a combined voting strength in the party of 5,552,000 , 613 from constituency labor parties with a voting strength of 1,160,000 twenty-nine from socialist societies such as the Cooperative Society ; 121 Labor Members of Parliament and peers and candidates and 141 party agents .                     