@@715604

txt A Senate investigation report charged today that since the outbreak of the Korean war , Western Allies of the United States had permitted an increasing and flourishing trade of more than $2,000,000,000 with Red China and other Communist countries at the cost of lives of United Nations troops . Such trading , it contended , was heavier during the first three months of this year than at any similar period since 1948 , two years before the fighting started . " It has been a traditional concept of warfare , " the report stated , " that a country did not carry on commercial intercourse with an enemy nation during a period of arm'eti conflict . In the present Korean war , this concept has not been followed . Although Red China has been an open aggressor in Korea , many of our Allies have been carrying on trade with and furnishing transportation services to the Chinese Communists since the beginning of the war . " This shocking policy of fighting the enemy on the one hand and trading with him on the other can not be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Senate Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations , the findings , to be presented formally to the Senate on Monday , took sharp issue with State Department policy conclusion that some trading by Allies with Red China could give " a net gain , " militarily , to the Allied side . The subcommittee report countered that the Department of Defense , the Atomic Energy Commission and the General Services Administration  --  the only . agencies procuring materials for national defense  --  had asserted that nothing Red China now supplied was needed in defense stockpiling , at least from the American view . In the background were extensive public hearings held last spring in which it was asserted that 450 merchant vessels under free world ownership or registration and immediate control had made approximately 2,000 trips with cargoes to Red China since the Korean conflict began . Resolution Adopted by U. N. The United States had stopped all shipments by its ' flag vessels after Chinese Red troops openly entered the war . In May of 1951 the United Nations adopted a resoilution recommending that its members embargo the flow of strategic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which held the registration and control of hundreds of vessels owned by nationals of other Allied countries , barred her registrant ships from entering Red Chinese and North Korean ports . Honduras and Costa Rica had taken similar action previously , and last March Greece prohibited her flag vessels from calling on Red Chinese ports . Britain , put a ban on shipments of strategic materials . Controversy developed during ' the Senate ' sub- . committeee - hearings over what , materials had , military . potentials and what were nonstrategic , Brit- taro , it was charged , had made her classifications top secret but had allowed shipments of materials as nonstrateg , ic that were items viewed by the United States Defense Department as having military potentials . The subcommittee , headed by Senator Joseph R. McCarthy , Republican of Wisconsin , read into the record a letter from Charles E. Wilson , Secretary of Defense , dated March 29 of this year , in which he stated : " * * * the ( Defense ) Department is convinced that any goods , or any services , reaching @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ forces in Asia not only to continue , but even to intensify and extend the present areas of aggression . " The report made public today was based upon testimony and exhibits developed by Francis D. Flanagan , chief counsel in the investigation , and Robert F. Kennedy , assistant counsel . Mr. Kennedy appeared as a witness , rather than as a questioning counsel . The report relied on his testimony and the exhibits he offered in arriving at the $2,000,000,000 trade figure . More Vessels Involved According to the testimony , 162 Western flag vessels were in China trade , of which 100 were British , during the first three months of this year . During the same period of last year , the report asserted , there were ninety-two Westernflag vessels in such trade , forty-six of them British . The report asserted that Allied exports to Red China in the first quarter of this year were twelve , times greater than during the same ) period of last year . It added : " Western Germany 's trade with ' China for the first four months of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Kong to China in the first five months of 1953 are 178 per cent greater than the same period in 1952 . " The report charged the State Department lacked a firm policy in its negotiations with Allied countries for stopping or curbing trade with Red China and Soviet-bloc countries . It cited cases in which . it said , the American Government had not entered protests that might have curbed or halted trading viewed by the subcommittee as being dangerous . " It is difficult to understand , " the report stated , " why the financial loses from an embargo of Red China should be borne by this country and some of our smaller Allies , but are considered too burdensome for some of our larger European Allies . " It is particularly difficult to understand the position of our Government in requesting such Allies as Greece aa Panama to stop this trade while we have not made similar requests of Great Britain , Norway , and others who are still carrying on flourishing trade with Red China . " The principal countries whose nationals were continuing trade with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were cited in the report as being Belgium and Luxembourg , France , West Germany , Italy , the Netherlands , Norway , Sweden and the United Kingdom . " Ninety-five per cent of the ( blood and the money expended in Korea by the United States has been American , " the report continued . " Under these circumstances the subcommittee is of the opinion that all of our Allies should be willing to discontinue their trade with our mutual enemy , the Chinese Communists . " It should also be emphasized that when and if a Korean truce is signed , it is a truce and nothing more than that . Until we have peace in the Orient , we and our Allies should not relax our vigilance so as to allow an upsurge in trade which would enable the Communists to repair and rebuild their war machine . " The report also dealt with testimony during the hearings that at least two vessels owned by Hong Kong British firms had transported Red Chinese troops along the Chinese coast . In one case , the subcommittee said , 462 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ secret ' during the hearings ) had been transported . In rebuttal , officials of one firm contended that the captain of the vessel had been forced at gunpoint by the Communists to perform this mission ; and that he had so reported to the British Government . The subcommittee asserted that this was no excuse for denials that any British-owned vessel had ever carried Communist troops . The report said that in another instance in which it had been charged that Communist troops has been transported by a vessel or vessels of a British-owned Hong Kong company , the company had pronounced the accusation " emphatically untrue , " and contended that the carriers involved had been seized by Communist authorities . Then , it was stated , the owners appealed to the Panamanian Government , under which the vessels were registered , to cancel their registries . The report introduced a letter front Roberto Heurtmatte , the , Panamanian Ambassador here , in which he asserted that instead of acquiescing to an appeal from the owners to cancel the registrations the Panamanian Government , because of previous violations of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the registrations " as an act of censure , or as a penalty . " The subcommittee gave emphasis also to a situation it found in which owners of vessels chartered for delivery of United Statesfinanced materials to allies in the fight against communism also had the same or sister ships carrying cargoes to Red China . The investigating group had recommended that no company engaged in such dual trading be allowed to collect transportation funds from the American Government . Testimony at the hearings had indicated that this would be opposed by the State Department on the ground that such a shutting off of business for shipping companies would constitute a creation of " a blacklist . " The subcommittee report asserted that , instead , such an ' action would be only " giving a choice " to Allied shippers between shipments to China or to American aid programs , and added that no such choice had been offered to American shipping companies when they were barred from such trade . . The report was signed only by the four Republican members of the subcommittee ? Senators McCarthy , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Illinois and Charles E. Potter of Michigan . The Democratic members of the subcommittee , Senators John L. McClellan of Arkansas , Stuart Symington of Missouri and Henry M. Jackson of Washington , participated in the hearings and appeared to be in accord with much of the report , but they resigned from the panel last week . The resignations followed a committee quarrel over the Republicans ' having voted absolute power to Senator McCarthy , ' the chairman , to " hire and fire " subcommittee personnel . The Democrats contended this created " a oneman committee . " Therefore , they withdrew from participation in conclusions and recommendations issued after their resignations .                     