@@712830

txt Senator Henry Cabot Lodge Jr. , Republican of Massachusetts , pointedly disassociated himself today from Senator Millard E. Tydings ' statement that the Federal Bureau of Investigation 's summary of its file put Prof. Owen Lattimore completely in the clear " up to this moment . " Meanwhile Professor Lattimore requested , through his attorneys , that a witness , reported to be ready to testify that Professor Lattimore was a Communist , appear at a public hearing and submit to cross-examination by his counsel . In what amounted to reproof of Mr. Tydings , chairman of the Senate subcommittee investigating Senator Joseph R. McCarthy 's charges that Communists had wormed their way into the State Department , Mr. Lodge declared : " I have reached no final conclusions whatever on any phase of this investigation . I certainly will not reach any until I have questioned a number of witnesses in executive session . When I do reach conclusions I shall announce them myself . No one is authorized to sinonk for me . " Name of Accuser Given It was after Professor Lattimore , upon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or fall , " swore before the subcommittee he was not . and never had been a Communist , that Mr. Tydings made the statement that the educator was cleared . Before a crowded public hearing he had said this was the " unanimous opinion " of the four subcommittee members who had gone over a summary of the F. B. file on the witness , a Professor at Johns Hopkins University . Mr. Lodge was the only Republican among the four . The other Republican member , Senator Bourke B. Hickenlooper of Iowa , went over the summary later and immediately charged that Mr. Tydings ' conclusion was " unwarranted . " Senator Lodge made his position clear as Senator McCarthy turned over to Edward P. Morgan , counsel for the investigating subcommittee , the name of the former Communist , once " high up " in the party who , he said , would swear that Mr. Lattimore had for years been a Communist . The name was kept secret even as it was made known to Mr. Morgan . The counsel said it would remain secret until the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ subpoena for his appearance . It is understood Thurs. day has been set tentatively as a date for the hearing . Lattimore Request Presented As Mr. mccartny gave the name of his witness to the subcommittee , the Lattimore attorneys , Arnold , Fortas and Porter , sent the following telegram to Mr. Tydings : " We note reports today that Senator McCarthy has supplied committee name of alleged witness concerning Owen Lattimore . Lattimore respectfully requests that this witness be heard by the committee in open public session . Lattimore believes the public entitled to full information concerning such accusations and that no witness should be permitted to make secret charges which can not be evaluated and appraised in the open . Lattimore welcomes publication of all the facts and allegations and asks for opportunity to refute such charges as may be developed . Tactics of McCarthy group have been such that secret testimony would undoubtedly be disclosed in distorted form and used as the basis for additional and unwarranted fabrications . " Secondly , Lattimore requests opportunity for cross-examination of alleged witness by his counsel , confined within such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ privilege is granted , Latti ? more feels it appropriate for him to submit to such further crossexamination by committee members , committee counsel , or others as the committee Liay desire . If this request is not granted , Lattimore nevertheless urges that the alleged witness be heard in open public sessions . " Interviewing Mr. McCarthy after Mr. Morgan had departed , reporters sought unavailingly to get him to release the name of the first witness he had asked the subcommittee to hear . The Wisconsin Republican parried repeated questions on whether the " mystery " witness was Professor Louis F. Budenz , now teaching at Fordham , as many here believed . " Is n't it a lovely day , " said Mr. McCarthy when asked when he had last seen Mr. Budenz . He reportedly had been visiting with the witness over the week-end . Hickenlooper Is Silent Senator Hickenlooper , meantime , declined to comment on a . published report that he might resign from the subcommittee because of dissatisfaction with the way the investigation was proceeding . He said he was trying to maintain a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and a fair investigation . " In making his position plain in the Lattimore matter , Senator Lodge again voiced disagreement with the procedure being followed in the investigation . " I still believe , " he said , " that the present procedure is very defective and the sooner these proceedings are brought behind closed doors , the better . " He said he still wanted an opportunity to cross-examine Mr. Lattimore in executive session as well as those " responsible for the follow-up procedures under the loyalty program " before he came to any conclusion in the current case . He left no doubt that he was irked at the Tydings ' statement , however , when he said : " Tydings speaks for Tydings , Hickenlooper speaks for Hickenlooper and I hope Lodge speaks for Lodge . " Senator McCarthy , in transmitting the name of his witness , pictured himself in the Lattimore case as a prosecutor , confronted with a corpse ( American China Policy ) and " a man standing over it with a smoking gun . " " The defendant says it was accidental @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ n't be questioned . The question is whether it was an accidental killing or murder . " Asked why his witness was being subpoenaed when he had said earlier the witness was willing to testify , Mr. McCarthy declared he thought every witness should be subpoenaed . He then rushed off to do a transcribed radio broadcast for the home state voters . Lattimore Defense Denied John E. Peurifoy , Deputy Under Secretary of State , answering telegram from Mr. McCarthy , sent a letter to the Senator saying that the State Department had not intended in a statement Saturday to defend Mr. Lattimore . But it added that this was " not because of any intention to reflect on Mr. Lattimore , but . was because Mr. Lattimore is not connected with the State Department . " Downtown , where another loyalty investigation is in progress , involving Michael Lee , chief of the Commerce Department 's Far Eastern branch , Charles Sawyer , Sec  --  etary of Commerce , told a news conference that he believed Mr. Lee to be a " loyal citizen and department employe . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Lee has not been relieved of his duties . Senator George W. Malone , Republican of Nevada , had demanded a full-scale Senate investigation into the question . Mr. Sawyer said his decision to keep Mr. Lee on the job was made after he had carefully studied the records of his department 's loyalty board , of the F. B. I. and of the Immigration and Naturalization Service . " I saw nothing to show that he should n't be hired or retained , " Mr. Sawyer said . The matter came up when a reporter asked for Mr. Sawyer to comment on a statement by C. V. Whitney , Under Secretary of Commerce , that on the basis of published reports about Mr. Lee , he would not have hired him . " If Mr. Whitney said that , I disagree with him , " Mr. Sawyer replied . The reporter 's question , however , did not accurately reflect Mr. Whitney 's testimony before a Senate Commerce subcommittee . What Mr. Whitney said was that , if he knew the truth of any one of the charges made @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ him .                     