@@715715

txt Four topics dominate the current South Pacific defense talks going on here between the United . States , Australia , and New Zealand . They are : 1 . Attitude of the three powers toward Communist China . 2 . Extent of a pledge to meet aggression in that area . 3 . Expansion of ANZUS to include Britain and other powers . 4 . Coordination of defense strategy and command . Representing their respective governments in these discussions are United States Secretary of State John Foster Dulles , Australian Minister of External Affairs Richard G. Casey , and New Zealand Minister of External Affairs T. Clifton Webb . This two years ago . Peking Opposed Now ! On the first point , attitude of the three powers towar I Communist China , the council is understood to have taken this position : Australia and New Zealand will support Washington 's op ! position to recognition of Peking and to United Nations member ! ship for Communist China . How ! ever , the two " down under " nations did not irrevocably bind ! themselves to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ explained that all Messrs . ! Casey and Webb agreed to do was to oppose seating Peking at ! the coming UN General Assembly meeting in New York . Also , they were reported to have qualified their commitments to include developments at any Korean political conference ? that might find Peking agreeing to Korean unification . Thus , while Australia and New Zealand agreed for the time being to oppose Great Britain on these issues , they did not align themselves indefinitely behind Washington 's current adamantine opposition to either recognition of Peking or UN membership for Communist China . Warning Spelled Out On the second point , extent of a pledge to meet aggression in the South Pacific , the three fOreign ministers were both exand implicit . Secretary Dulles and his colleagues made U.S. Says Iklo ' on Britain On the third point , extension cf ANZUS to include Britain and other powers , the council appears to have decided to continue to agree to disagree . Australia and New Zealand , as at their first conference last year , were prepared to invite Britain into ANZUS , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Secretary Dulles 's objection is rot to cooperation with Britain , but to publicly extending America 's defense perimeter in the Pacific to include Britain 's responsibilities there  --  Hong Kong , ' Singapore , and Malay . Secretary Dulles is willing to continue as things are for the time being  --  with a series of Pacific defense pacts . Mr. Casey I indicated hg and Mr. Webb I would continue to press for expansion of ANZUS , or , as he put it " a more comprehensive arrangement " for the Pacific . ? On the fourth point , cocrdinalion of defense strategy and command , little information can be reported . The subject is one for the military chiefs as well as the foreign ministers  --  and the nature of the topic being what it is , discussions are obviously lop secret .                     