@@714439

txt There are three significant facts concerning President Truman 's plan to send an American ambassador to the Vatican which have not yet come out into the open and which will give additional *eight ? if additional weight is needed  --  to the case for Senate disapproval . With sufficient diligence the Senate Foreign Relations Committee can establish these facts if the President submits another nominee to replace Gen. Mark W. Clark , who has asked that his name be withdrawn . The facts to which I refer are these : 1 . About a year ago , when special representative Myron C. Taylor made it clear that , for personal reasons , he did not wish to return to Vatican . City , State Department officials took the initiative to reexamine the value of representation at the Holy See and decided there was no diplomatic need to continue this wartime appointment . 2 . When President Truman decided he wanted to appoint an American ambassador to the Vatican he acted without prior consultation with the State Department , refrained from asking the department 's judgment and estimate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ notified Secretary of State Dean Acheson of what he was doing a few hours before dispatching the name of General Clark to the Senate . * 3 . In order to fortify the action after it was taken the StateDepartment asked the American Embassy in London to get from the British Foreign Office its experienced judgment of how valuable was the information which its minister at the Vatican had been getting over the years . The candid answer which came back was : The information nh tained from Vatican diplomats does not justify the maintenance of diplomatic relations , although , in the British view , diplomatic relations with the Vatican could be justified for other reasons . These facts may not be needed by the Senate Foreign Relations Committee to deal with the Vatican issue because , despite repeated affirmations by Mr. Truman that he is going to nominate another ambassador for the post , the opinion is growing . in senatorial quarters that he may well let the matter drop . But if the White House insists upon a Senate vote , members of the foreign relations committee will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than his mere assertion that the United States ought to have an ambassador at the Vatican in order to acquire valuable information and insight into what is going on in the world  --  which can not be obtained elsewhere . I- A The fact that State Department officials long have been unimpressed with the value of maintaining diplomatic relations with the Vatican and the fact that Mr. Truman 's latest move stemmed from White House initiative without prior consultation with the diplomatic arm of the government , suggest that the proposal is political , not diplomatic . But the President put his proposal to the Senate Foreign Relations Committee on a diplomatic-information basis and , if he is going to press the appointment , then this information argument deserves to be thoroughly explored . It can hardly be accepted on face value . The committee could well ask the President and the State Department to produce , for study in executive session , a full cross-section of the cables and reports which have come from Mr. Taylor during the past 10 years in order to demonstrate the value or exclusiveness ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cables and reports contain . Certainly the case would have to be impressive to persuade the Senate Foreign Relations Committee that a Vatican ambassadorship should be created by the United States . Thus far the trend of opinion ? within the committee and the overwhelming a trend of cards , letters , and telegrams . which committee members have been receiving are against the project . * On this issue the senators have been hearing from the country in massive volume . Chairman Tom Connally , who was opposed to ' naming General Clark for personal reasons but has now announced his opposition to any appointment , says his office has been receiving the heaviest mail in the memory of the oldest employee , ' that it far exceeds the mail which poured in ' at the time of General 's dismissal , and that it is almost unanimously against sending an ambassador . Republicap Senator H. Alexander Smith of . New . Jersey reports he has received 25,000 communications so far , that more is coming all the time , and that it is 90 per cent against the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ states that the V ? tican issue letters are running heavier than the mail ( the largest in congressional history ) and that most oppose the President 's plan . The letters are not vehement nor anti-Roman Catholic in any religious sense . Nearly all rest opposition to the appointment on the ' proper relationship between church and state .                     