@@712868

txt It will be hard this week to recapture the mood in which the representatives of forty-six nations met in San Francisco on April 25 , 1945 , to form a new organization to preserve the world 's peace and security . Some years seem as long as centuries . The past five years have been of that sort . As they near their close the most our Secretary of State can say is that the situation , though tense and demanding the cooperation of every citizen , is not heading toward a shooting war , and the most the President can say is that we must redouble our efforts if we are to win the war of words and ideas . We turn back toward April , 1945 , with some nostalgia . It is easy enough to reconstruct the scene in the San Francisco Opera House  --  erected as a memorial to the dead of the First World War ? as the conference opened . Against a bright blue background were the flags of the forty-six nations . The delegates and the rest of the audience @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the only delegate to be applauded as he entered was Mr. Molotov  --  and this rather because he came at all than because of any personal popularity . President Truman 's voice came by telephone from Washington . " In recent years , " he said , " our enemies have clearly demonstrated the disaster that follows when freedom of thought is no longer tolerated . " Mr. Molotov and the other Russians politely applauded . The next day Mr. Molotov made a speech in which he praised the late President Roosevelt , paid tribute to the fighting powers of Great Britain and the United States , took credit for Russia as the savior of European civilization and declared that the new organization , the United Nations , " must have the necessary means for the military protection of the security of nations . " The war in Europe was clearly corning to an end . Two days after the conference opened President Truman was able to announce that the AngloAmerican armies had effected a junction with the Russians in the heart of Germany . Within ten days the Germans surrendered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ahead over interminable months , but the end was manifestly approaching there , too ? even without that dreadful weapon , not yet revealed , the atom bomb . There were disputes and there were compromises . Some of these issues foreshadowed the future ; for example , the Russian insistence that the Moscowdominated government of Poland be recognized rather than the former government-in-exile . Some issues were not of really great importance . The Russians wanted and got three seats in the Assembly . That decision did not alter history . There were many things that the Russians did not seem to understand . Some observers thought that they were honestly trying to understand . The general atmosphere was hopeful . It did not seem possible that any government there represented would pursue in the future a policy of aggression at the risk of peace . American opinion was ready to believe the best of Russia and to take Mr. Molotov 's professions of belief in democracy at something like face value . This credulity is now hard to imagine , but it existed and it influenced intelligent and well-meaning @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in San Francisco can have foreseen the disillusionment and disappointment that were to follow . Yet we can not now say that the principles enunciated at San Francisco were wrong . We can not say that " faith in fundamental human rights , in the dignity and worth of the human person , in the equal right of men and women and of nations large and small " is less noble than it was in 1945 . We can merely say that this faith is more widely denied than we then thoug possible ; or , worse yet , that it has be ( blasphemed by those who say U words but offend against them by the deeds . The struggle was to be ma difficult and more prolonged than mop of us believed in 1945 . So far , in U Western World , it is a struggle Carrie on within the framework of peace . Ti United Nations has been a forum . has had some restraining power on vii lent acts . It has begun to build structure of world public opinion . If mankind is now divided @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as well as in word to the nob : principles of the Charter and those wi do not so adhere . The League of NI tions died because it was ineffectiN and men lost interest in it . The Unite Nations is not altogether ineffectiN and men have not lost interest in i That is , one step forward which doe something to relieve the sadness of au backward look .                     