@@714877

txt GENERAL WILL MAP HIS FOREIGN POLICY Dulles Says , After Conference , Eisenhower Will Give Plan to Curb Red Aggression By WILLIAM B. CONKLIN John Fdster Dulles predicted1 yesterday after an eighty7minute conference with Gen. Dwight D. Eisenhower at the Commodore Hotel that the Republican candidate for President would soon present a new foreign policy designed to cope effectively with Soviet aggression . Mr. Dulles , a leading Republican adviser on foreign policy , saw General Eisenhower in one of a series lof conferences on foreign and domestic issues . During the morning the candidate was told by Representative ' Joseph W. Martin Jr . of Massachusetts and Senator Styles Bridges ' of New Hampshire that the Republicans had a good chance to regain control of Congress this year . After talking with the minority leaders . both the House and Senate , General Eisenhower marched twenty-five blocks in the American Legion parade at the head of his post from Abilene , Kan . He reIMaimed with the parade from 10:30 A. M. until 12:45 P. M. , when he left the reviewing stand to return 1 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 2:15 P. M. until 3:35 P. M. 1On emerging , Mr. Dulles told newspaper men : " General Eisenhower ' agreed with me again that the most im1portant single issue before the American people is the issue of ( foreign policy , and whether we // shall continue the policies which brought us from a state of complete security in 1945 to a condition which President Truman himself describes as deadly peril . ' " The Democratic platform says we must continue these policies , and must not deviate from them . I say that if we do not deviate from them , and deviate sharply , we can hardly escape the condition of ' deadly peril . ' Only a new foreign policy and a change of administration will keep us from that perilous situation . " I think General Eisenhower will be quite clear on the new policies he has in mind when he makes a foreign-policy speech on which he is now working . I think the changes will be Spelled out so that there will be no doubt in anyone 's mind as to what his policies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , because we can not ignore the fact that we are in a major war there . " Mr. Dulles accused the Truman Administration . of " writing the ticket for World War III " by persisting in its foreign policy . " What we should do is try to split the satellite states away from the control of a few men in Moscow , " he urged . " The only way to stop a head-on collision with the Soviet Union is to break it up from within . It will not stop itself , and a head-on collision means World War III . " In effect , the Truman Administration has said : ' If you are willing to be satisfied with what you have , then it 's all right with us . ' Their hope ihas been that the Communists would be so gorged with 800,000,000 people that they would stay where they were . The fact that we were willing to make such a deal disheartens the captive peoples from attempts at passive resistance and slowdowns , which , could make the task of the Krem- @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Presidential declaration was needed , saying that this country would never accept as a finality the Russian rule over eighteen nations that for- I merly were independent . Though he had often asked for such a declaration , he said , the Truman Administration had never made it . Queried on Korea Mr. Dulles said the United States should never accept a divided Korea , a divided Germany or a divided Austria as a finality . Truce negotiations should be continued to end the fighting in Korea , he said , but they should not be used " as an arrangement which divides Korea permanently . " " Will General Eisenhower offer a plan to end the Korean war ? " Mr. Dulles was asked . " I will not anticipate him on that , " he replied , " but my personal view is that the fighting there has ceased to serve any purpose comparable to the loss and suffering involved . I have no confidence in the ability of the present Administration to negotiate a good settlement . " Mr. Dulles added that heavy American bombing in Korea should @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be taken to nullify the propaganda advantage that the bombings have given the Russians . " We need to approach this situation with imagination instead of the wooden attitude of saying the same thing over and over again , " he declared . " Nullify the Russian propaganda advantage , and you change the whole picture . " In his earlier conversations with Representative Martin and Senator Bridges , General Eisenhower was told that his campaign Was progressing well and was on the upgrade . Mr : Martin said there were good prospects for a Republican swing in Texas , Florida , Virginia , Tennessee and possibly Louisiana . He added that backers of Senator Robert A. Taft of Ohio had swung into support of the national ticket and that the Republican party would go into the election with a solid front . " Massachusetts is always a tough fight , " Mr. Martin said of his home state . " It 's one of the hardest nuts to crack among the i doubtful states in the North , but the swing appears to be for General Eisenhower . I think @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will do everything he ; can to elect him , and I am sure Mr. Taft will be invited to take a full part - in the campaign . " Vote Gains Predicted Mr. Martin and Senator Bridges said they had good hopes of a two or three vote Republican margin in the next Senate , and a gain of eighteen Republican seats in the House . Mr. Martin said Maryland . West Virginia , New Mexico , Kentucky , Arizona , Wyoming , Michigan and Connecticut constituted some of the " best prospects " for Republican gains . He also listed New York , California , Missouri and Pennsylvania as hopeful . General Eisenhower sent a telegram to State Senator Malcolm Forbes of New Jersey , thanking the Senator and other participants for starting an Eisenhower Citizens Club organization in that state . Acknowledging his need for help , General Eisenhower wrote : " This cause is too big for any of us to win alone . It will require the best of millions of political amateurs who will join us because of their deep concern for the future of our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , I can say that I have never entered any battle with greater confidence ! ) General Eisenhower will meet two groups of New Jersey Republican women workers at 1:30 P. M. tomorrow at the Commodore Hotel , after conferences with a group of New Jersey county chairmen and labor leaders . Budget Views Cited Senator Edward Martin of Pennsylvania , another Eisenhower visitor yesterday , predicted that the general would carry Pennsylvania . He said General Eisenhower would support a program on both foreign and domestic expenditures that the country could afford . " General Eisenhower realizes fully that if we go broke we have the beginnings of a socialized country , " the Senator said . Roy Wilkins , administrator of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People , expressed dissatisfaction late in the day with General Eisenhower 's opposition to a compulsory Federal Fair Employment Practices Act . This stand , he said , could conceivably be used to depict the Republican candidate as an enemy of the entire civil-rights program affecting 15,000,000 Negroes . Neither Mr. Wilkins nor Theodore Spaulding , Philadelphia attorney who accompanied @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ turn Negro voters against him . Both explained that the N. A. A. C. P. does not endorse candidates . Mr. Wilkins said he would report to the membership of 225,000 what General Eisenhower had told him , as well as what Gov . Adlai E. Stevenson of Illinois , the Democratic candidate for President , had told him earlier . Mr. Wilkins reported the Republican candidate was " tremendously sincere " in his opposition to racial discrifnination , but was equally sincere in believing that a compulsory F. E. P. C. was not the solution to the problem . By contrast , Mr. Wilkins said his organization believed that F. E. P. C. without enforcement powers was " merely good advice . " He said that in a forty-five-minute session . only civil rights had been discussed with General Eisenhower . All other election issues , he added , were " secondary . " General Eisenhower faces another busy day of political conferences beginning at 9 o'clock this morning , when he meets G. Mason Owlett , Pennsylvania Republican leader . At 9:30 he will receive a group of North @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with a group of New York , State legislators headed by Lieu-1 tenant Governor Frank C. Moore . At 11 o'clock the candidate will ' meet Oswald Ryan , assistant chairman of the Civil Aeronautics Board . His noon appointment is , with Dr. Louis Bauer , president of the American Medical Association . ' After lunch with Senator Irving M. Ives , Republican of New York , the general will meet J. P. Shields , grand chief engineer of the Brotherhood of Locomotive Engineers , and Richard Gray of Washington , an official of the International Association of Machinists . The candidate arrived at his Commodore Hotel headquarters at 8:05 A. M. yesterday . After a full day , he left the hotel at 7:20 P. M. for his home at 60 Morningside Drive . 