@@716944

txt Topics of The Times Many , many quesThe tions were asked dur-Big ing the Senate stock Question market inquiry last week , but one of them especially echoed the thoughts of a hopeful public . Senator A. Willis Robertson put it fo Harlow H. Curtice , president of the General Motors Corporation : " v * * I should like to ask this expert in the manufacture of automobiles whether General Motors is now putting a clock on their cars that will run for a reasonable length of time . " The question , irrelevFair ant to the inquiry by and the Senator 's amiable Unfair admission , was both fair and unfair . Fair , because Senator Robertson , like so many others , has evidently sustained the feeling of irreparable loss that comes with the last , tentative ticks of a new automobile 's clock ; unfair , because the clocks in cars produced by Mr. Curtice 's company are no more or less hardy than any'others . They , have their good days and their bad , observing self-proclaimed vacations , keeping time for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a warning tick . Clocks in automobiles are decorative . They often balance a dashboard 's design , adding another dial to an already impressive array . But they are not for telling time , any more than post office pens are for writing . The Senator 's question could have been more specific , however . A clock that runs for a " reasonable length of time " ? The term is open- for interpretation . Mr. Curtice might High well have retorted , alMortality though he did not , that Rate all automobile clocks run for a reasonable length of time : from the time they are installed at the factory until the moment the car is purchased in the showroom . The timing is , in fact , marvelously precise and not to be excelled by the finest chronograph . In all fairness to the clocks themselves it must be admitted that accuracy in an automobile installation is , as Mr. Curtice said , " a very difficult assignment for a clock . " When clocks were affixed to glove-compartment doors some years ago , passengers seemed to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ best  --  or worst ? of their ability . Each time a map or a pack of matches was removed from the . glove box , each tima it was replaced , another brutal blow was dealt the instrument . Small wonder , then , that the mortality rate was so appallingly high in young automobile clocks . But now ? Clocks Pampered are pampered as and never before . They Faithless are set in the bedrock , of dashboards , not on banging doors . They are far from the road 's rude shocks , secure as a speedometer , implacable as an ammeter . Electricity from the battery winds them regularly ( what device keeps track of the winding times ? ) and their mainsprings are maintained at near-maximum tension , a sort of Nirvana for any selfreipecring timepiece . They are subject to fewer extremes of temperature , what with warmer winters , improved heaters and lately automotive air conditioning . Surely the demise of A Degree a clock does not affect of the performance of a Accuracy new automobile , but the psychological effect on its owner @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to come in other , more vital centers of the Machine ? No longer does the car seem entirely new , although it may still smell new ' and feel new . Its clock has stopped . No longer is it a faultless machine , but suddenly a Used Car , and fender scratches can not be long in coming . If there is an answer to the problem , perhaps it lies in the dummy clocks erected outside jewelers ' shops and venerable banks : imposing timepieces , unencumbered by works , pointing fixedly at 8:19 and therefore accurate on two occasions every day .                     