@@713062

txt Delegates attending the National Education Association convention here are making clear their stand against communism in the United States and against any infiltration of Communists in the ranks of education . Divided for working purposes into 42 discussion groups , the 4 , - 000 teachers , who have come from all over the United States and its territories , are dealing , in their five day session ending . July 7 , with many urgent questions . Some of these concern their personal and professional welfare and the steadily growing needs of their curriculums . But in the meetings , large and small , various groups have momentarily put aside these pressing details to restate their faith in democracy and in the kind of teaching that trains the individual to think for himself . Disquali Cleat ion Cited More than one speaker has spelled out his conviction that anyone who joins the Communist Party has disqualified himself to teach on an American campus , because he has signed away the freedom to think and act for him . self ? a freedom which , these teachers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Education devoted the entire opening day to a symposium on national security and freedom in higher education . While some teachers taking part in this discussion expressed themselves as just as willing to take an oath of loyalty as the soldier who enlists in the service of his country , it was pointed out by Edward K. Graham , dean of faculties at Washington University of St. Louis , that " oaths of abnegation are revolting to American college professors . " Representing the military viewpoint in this symposium , Brig . Gen. Arthur G. Trudeau , Deputy Commandant of the Army War College at Fort Leavenworth , Kan. , reminded the teachers , freedom of any sort is a privilege that can be preserved only by a corresponding acceptance of related resnnnsibilities Positive Efforts ' " Freedom in higher education implies an acceptance of responsibility on the part of the teacher beyond the scope of any particular subject . The spiritual and intellectual talents of young Americans , or old , can not be developed by a mere exposure to books or demagogic lectures , " Without positive efforts on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , we shall fail , in the continued weakening of our character at a time when it must be strengthened . " Alonzo F. Myers . chairman of the department of higher education of the College of Education of New York University , told the meeting that a banker once asked him just how many Communists there were in the teaching profession , " I told him that I thought probably there is just about the same proportion of Communists among teachers as , , there is of embezzlers among bankers , " he reported . He continued the parallel by pointing out how damaging it would be for bankers if a deliberate campaign were conducted to stir up the idea that there was a lot of embezzling among bankers .                     