@@719889

txt Beacon Hill legislative machinery is being greased for swift action on aa , bill to activate the long-stalled MasSachusetts Port Authority program for economic progress in Boston . By late today it is possible the Legislative Committee on State Administration will bring out the legislation designed to obliterate financial roadblocks in the authority 's path . Despite Governor Furcolo 's opposition to an increase in the interest rate ceiling on the authority 's bonds from 4 per cent to 5 per cent , it is reported the committee plans to favor the ceiling hike to make it easier to sell authority bonds to finance its program . Committee Drafts Bill What other changes will be made in the Governor 's proposed legislation to activate the authority are uncertain . However , after hearing from the authority 's financial advisers regarding the Furcolo proposals , Ephraim A. Brest , chairman of the authority , is presenting several proposed revisions to the committee today . The state administration committee is meeting in executive session to draft a bill based on the Governor 's recommendations submitted in a long-delayed special @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are strongly opposed to the governor 's recommendation that provisions be made to bar finders ' fees in connection with sale of the authority 's bonds and that the authority be required to report to the State Commissioner on Administration within 48 hours all votes , resolutions , and orders . In addition , the authority is opposed to a provision that the Commissioner on Administration be given a 30 days ' notice of any proposed action to increase tolls on authority-operated facilities . Doubts Possible The authority chairman today asserted that finders ' fees are not paid for placement of revenue bonds . He said such a provision . against finders ' fees thus is not necessary and has not been included in laws establishing any other authority either here or elsewhere in the country . He insisted that no secret commissions have been paid or are paid in connection with placement of revenue bonds . Mr. Brest also stated that inclusion of the " unnecessary provision on finders ' fees might hamper the sale of the authority 's bonds because doubts might be raised in the minds of prospective @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 48-hour notice of votes , resolutions , and orders , Mr. Brest said objection to this provision is based on the fact financing groups would have to determine that such provisions are completely carried out , lest legal complications arise in the future . It would be a cumbersome , costly operation , he said . The proposed 30-day notice to the State Commissioner on Administration regarding proposed action on toll increases is unnecessary , Mr. Brest said . He pointed out that under the law establishing the port authority , there is a provision requiring the commission to publish in newspapers notice of such proposed action 10 days prior to consideration . The authority is ready to go along with the Governor 's proposal for gubernatorial approval of the financial adviser appointed by the authority . Under the Governor 's plan this adviser , before any trust indenture is executed by the authority , shall certify to the State Commissioner on Administration that such indenture fully protects the public interest affected by its provisions . Political Motivation Seen While many port authority enthusiasts have been disturbed by the tone of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , a number of them attribute the tough language to politics and to a gubernatorial desire to save political face on this controversial subject . Last year , the Governor vetoed legislation designed to activate the authority 's program , after the Legislature refused to go along with Furcolo proposals for gubernatorial veto power over authority acts and other provisions . On the basis of the financial adviser 's report on the Governor 's latest proposals , Mr. Brest said his group is still opposed to an audit of authority accounts by the State Auditor . It is a contention of the authority that the original act 's provisions for an audit - by an independent certified public accountant is the proper method . The authority group is agreeable to the Furcolo plan for separating the second tunnel project from the port authority . Originally the port authority was to take over the Sumner Tunnel and build a second harbor crossing to East Boston . The authority , however , has insisted building of a second crossing should be delayed until after traffic patterns are sufficiently developed to determine the best location @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his message last week the Governor pushed the House-passed measure to transfer the tunnel project to the Masachusetts Turnpike Authority .                     