@@716292

txt GENEVA , May ** pushing the formation of a Southes st Asia defense pact , the United States is seeking to promote an antiCommunist front in a comparatively weak and disunited part of the world . Most countries in Southeast Asia have only recently become independent of colonial rule and are politically unstable under new and inexperienced governments . In most a large proportion of the inhabitants is ' backward and illiterate . The entire Southeast Asia , region **27;1212;TOOLONG and lconomically weak and underdeveloped . Poverty is widespread , and in most territories there is already a revolt against constituted authority . The area lacks unity of outlook on the Communist problem . There are marked differences in political systems . The relationships bebetween territories , and governments in the area are in some cases not well developed and in others not amicable , Military Factors The military strength of most countries in Southeast Asia is limited . The Western nations that would take part in the defense affiance  --  the list of certain and probable participants includes France , the United States , Britain , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ real military power for the alliance . This involvement of Western countries would arouse a certain amount of pro-Asian resentment , both inside and outside Southeast Asia , particularly in view of the fact that France and Britain are still colonial nations . Favorable factors are not lacking , however . In the part of Southeast Asia most threatened by communism  --  Indo-China and adjacent Thailand ? there is among governments and peoples a will to resist Communist domination and a readiness to put a rule is reasonably popular and effective . Cambodia 's armed forces now total only about 20,000 regulars and auxiliaries but general mobilization is under way , and the Government plans to soon have 50,000 men ready to go to war when weapons are made available by either France or the United States . THAILAND . The Government of Marshal Luang Phibul Songgram is ready to join with the United States in a defense pact at any time . Thailand hag taken a stanchly antiCommunist position and would be one of the strongest assets of any Southeast Asia alliance . The Gov-i ernment is a military dictator-1 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of opposition , but it is , nevertheless , in firm control of the country . One of the rice graneries of Asia , Thailand , is reasonably stable economically . Her army of 30,000 men includes veterans of the Korean war and is an effective fighting force . Army , air corps and paramilitary gendarmes have been under American training for more than two years and are well equipped with American materials . THE PHILIPPINES The Philippines ha 's not officially committed itself to membership in a Southeast Asia pact , but Philippine representatives here are confident that Philippine participation could be counted upon . The Philippines already has a joint defense agreement with the United States , As the stablest of the newly independent Southeast Asian states , the Philippines would bring a considerable political influence into the pact . Its ground forces , totaling some 40,000 men ? American - trained and equipped , like its small air and naval forces  --  include Korean veterans . The forces are capable of quick expansion through the recall of reservists . The Philippines is the base for American air and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the pact would facilitate the possible use of United States forces in the area . The Philippines has largely suppressed its own Communist rebellion and its experience in this respect would be useful . MALAYA maximum effort into a joint defense scheme . Cambodia , Thailand and Laos are anxious to take part . The anti-Communist Vietnam Government of Bao Dai is both less effective and less determined than the governments of neighboring countries but appears capable of adding some strength to a coalition . The Philippines on the sea flank of IndoChina is a certain pact member and would provide important political and military support . Here is how the Southeast Asia pact project looks , country by country : VIETNAM Its acts still largely controlled by France , the Bao Dai Government of Vietnam has not yet committed itself on participation in a Southeast Asia pact . If France joins , it is virtually sure to be a member . The Government is not popular but still controls almost half the territory and a third of Vietnam 's population of twenty-three million and has an army totaling more than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Bao Dai army might be made into a force of real importance , although the pro-Vietminh sentiments of a majority of the Vietnamese people are an adverse factor . LAOS Laos is ready to , join the Southeast Asia pact whenever France , with whom she is linked by a defense treaty , gives the word . Laos would be a pact liability , however . Large in territory , Laos is sparsely populated and already dangerously infiltrated by Commimist Vietminh units . Although fully mobolized , her armed forces total only 30 , - 000 regulars and auxiliaries . She is financially dependent on French subsidies . The Laos Government , however , is effective and popular , and her people are basically antagonistic to the Communists . CAMBODIA Although technically still a member of the French Union and subordinate to France in foreign relations , Cambodia has , nevertheless , already said she is prepared to join a Southeast Asia pact , irrespective of what France does . The Cambodian people and Government are strongly antiCommunist , and King Norodom 's Still a colonial area , Malaya 's potential @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ part Britain 's . Malaya is Far East headquarters for British air , ground and naval forces , and these would add appreciably to pact strength if Britain  --  and Malaya  --  came in . Britain 's Malaya forces are at present largely engaged in suppressing a Communist rebellion in Malaya , but Britain would doubtless make certain contingents available for duty outside Malaya if this became necessary . INDONESIA The Government of Indonesia clearly would not participate in the pact . Strongly neutralist , Indonesia could be expected to oppose even its creation as tending to orient neighboring nations too definitely to one side In the contest between the Communist and anti-Communist world . Reports from Jakarta recently that ' Indonesia might consider a nonaggression pact with Communist China as a counter-balance to an American - sponsored Southeast Asia line-up are indicative of Indonesian thinking . Burma and India were mentioned as possible partners with Indonesia in a treaty with Peiping . Although in economic difficulties and torn by internal revolts and politicall instability , Indonesia , by opposing a Southeast Asia defense scheme , would provoke serious concern . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ routes to Southeast Asia , and in opposition to the Southeast Asia scheme Indonesia would wield an important influence on political elemertts against the pact in other Southeast Asian countries . It is possible , however , that Indonesia , with careful handling from the United States and other Allied powers , would consent to a neutralist acceptance of the pact . India 's attitude would have a large influence on Jakarta , and if India did not openly oppose the pact , Indonesia might follow . BURMA The Rangoon Government has already said that Burma would not participate in a pact . Burma , however , would go considerably farther than Indonesia toward accepting the fact of a treaty . Having experienced internal rebellion and.Communist pressure from the China colossus on her northern borders , Burma is basically antiCommunist . Burma 's neutralism is a thing born largely of realistic , anxiety not to provoke her powerful northern neighbor . If India took a neutral or approving line toward the pact Burma would probably follow suit and , indeed , might be a step or two in advance . Thai @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be brought into the defense scheme ,                     