@@715669

txt The death of Edward J. Flynn , long-time Bronx Democratic lead- , er , injected a new element of unH certainty into the Democratic primary campaign yesterday . It likewise opened the door to a new battle between New Dealish and conservative factions for domination of the party organization in the state . The acknowledged leader of the New Deal-Fair Deal faction , Mr. Flynn was one of the principal sponsors of Borough President ( Robert F. Wagner Jr . of Manhattan for the Democratic mayoral nomination . Until word of his death in Dublin reached here yesterday , he had been counted on to take a personal role in the primary campaign . What effect his death will have Ion the outcome ' of Mr. Wagner 's contest with Mayor Impellitteri for the right to head the Democratic ticket this fall was a matter of  |p3litical  speculation yesterday with opinions on both sides obviously colored by wishful thinking Representative Charles A. Buckley , who has been serving as Mr. Flynn 's deputy during his illness , was picked unanimously yesterday as acting leader at a special @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ likewise favored for election on a more permanent basis at another special meeting in the near future , perhaps within the next two weeks . The election of Mr. Flynn 's successor as one of the two New York members of the Democratic National Committee is not expected to take place until after the Sept. 15 primary election when the Democratic State Committee meets to nominate a candidate for Chief Judge of the Court of Appeals . The State Committee has power to name a successor . James A. Farley , former National and State Democratic Chairman , is expected to become a candidate for the vacancy . He is widely regarded as the head of the more conservative faction within the Democratic party in the state . Who the candidate of the New Dealish faction will be is uncertain . Among the possibilities are Averell Harriman , former Director for Mutual Security , and Paul E. Fitzpatrick , former Democratic State Chairman . The outcome of such a contest could depend very largely on the stand the Brooklyn organization takes . Last fall Brooklyn was responsible for installing Richard H. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with Mr. Flynn and the Tammany organization in opposition to William H. Morgan of Cortland , the Farley candidate . In this year 's city primary battle Mr. Farley has joined up with Kenneth F. Sutherland , the Brooklyn Democratic leader , in support of Mayor Impellitteri . Jack for Borough Head Other developments affecting . the Democratic primary contest yesterday included : lThe designation of Assemblyman Hulan . E. Jack , senior Negro member of the State Legislature , as a candidate of the Bronx-Tammany faction for Borough President of Manhattan . clAn announcement by Robert B. Blaikie , West Side Tammany leader and an independent candidate for the Democratic mayoral nomination , that he had instituted a court action to invalidate the designating petitions of Mr. Wagner and his associates on the ground that Mr. Flynn , who headed the committee on vacancies , had failed to enroll as a Democrat last fall and had given as his home address a " non-existent place . " iEndorsement by the Brooklyn Republican executive committee of Borough President John Cashmore and District Attorney Miles F. , both Democrats , for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nomination by Victor F. Anfuso , with the backing of the pro-Wagner forces . Mr. has no primary opposition and had previously received the Liberal nomination for re-election . Mr. Jack 's designation insures an all-Negro contest for the Democratic nomination for Borough President of Manhattan and indicates an all-Negro contest in the general election that will follow , since Negro candidates are unopposed for the Republican , Liberal and American Labor party nominations . Born in St. Lucia of the Windward Islands , British West Indies , Mr. Jack has been a resident of 1New York City since he was 17 years old . Active in many Harlem community organizations , he is president of the St. Thomas the Apostle Holy Name Society and a member of the executive board of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People . He lives at 45 West 110th Street with his wife , Almira , and their son , Hulan E. , Jr. , who is entering New York University this fall . Mr. Jack 's opponent in the Democratic primary will be Col. Chauncey M. Hooper , another Negro @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Impellitteri . Colonel Hooper is now a deputy city controller . Announcement of Mr. Jack 's selection was made officially by Mr. Wagner , who served in the Legislature with him . Mr. Jack 's designation had been made possible by the withdrawal of Assemblyman Herman Katz last week . Blaikie Files Notice Mr. Blaikie 's announcement of his attempt to invalidate the Wagner petitions , which also name Lawrence E. Gerosa of the Bronx as a candidate for Controller and Abe Stark of Brooklyn as a candidate for President of the City Council , was made at his headquarters in the Embassy Hotel , Seventieth Street and Broadway . He said notice of his action had been sent to the Board of Elections by registered mail several hours before he learned of Mr. Flynn 's death . According to Mr. Blaikie , Mr. Flynn did not register for last year 's Presidential election . Mrs. Flynn did register , he added , and gave her address as 2728 Spuyten Duyvil Parkway , the Bronx , the same as is listed for Mr. Flynn on the Wagner designating petitions . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " that the Flynns live at 2728 Henry Hudson Parkway and : Jew York Times SUCCEEDS FLYNN : Representative Charles A. Buckley , who was named temporary Bronx County leader yesterday to fill the vacancy caused by death of Edward J. Flynn . that there is no such address as 2728 Spuyten Duyvil Parkway . " Mr. Blaikie speculated that Mr. Flynn 's death would weaken Mr. Wagner 's chances substantially . ) " Any time the head of any dictatorship falls , there is bound to be internal strife , " he observed . ' " Look at what happened in Rus-1 sia , for example , after Stalinl died . " Besides Mr. Flynn , others listed as members of the Committee on Vacancies on the Wagner petitions were Carmine G. DeSapio , leader of Tammany ; Representative Buck-1 ley ; Barnet Port and James G. Sweeney . The petitions contained a total of 114,000 signatures , although only 5,000 were required by law . Mr. Blaikie 's action to void the petitions is scheduled to come up in Supreme Court for a hearing next Wednesday . In a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Attorney , John R. Crews , Brooklyn R-epublican leader , said both had earned the respect and commendation of the community . As to Mr. Cashmore , the statement said that a large number of active Republicans had urged his re-election on the ground that he had demonstarted " a high order of capacity for administrative responsibility . " With respect to Mr. , the statement declared that the office of District Attorney Was judicial in nature and that Republicans had long favored bipartisanship in nominations for judical offices . It cited also the endorsements the New York County Republican organization has given to District Attorney Frank S. Hogan on several occasions . Shift to Judgeship Rumored Reports are current in Brooklyn that Mr. may be nominated for the Supreme Court after the primary . ? In such event the Brooklyn Republican organization , under the . action taken yesterday , would be free to enter a candidate of its own for District Attorney against anyone whom the Democrats may substitute for Mr. as a candidate . Two Democratic candidates for the City Council in Brooklyn received @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for designees who declined to run was reached . They are Sam Curtis in the Tenth District and Assemblyman Philip J. Schupler in the Fourteenth District . Earl Brown , Democratic candidate for re-election to the City Council in the Twenty-first District , Manhattan , received a Republican endorsemen . He had previously been endorsed by the Liberals . Democrats in Manhattan named Rose Rothenberg to replace Emelyn Murray Bates as a candidate for Councilman in the Twentieth District and Bronx Democrats named Louis Schifrin to replace Elias ( Rosenblatt as a candidate for Councilman in the Twenty-eighth District .                     