@@716992

txt Little Austria , under Nazi-German occupation for seven years and under Big Four occupation for another ten , has suddenly become the center of world politics as a result of the Kremlin 's agreement to sign a state treaty restoring the country 's freedom . Compared to other stakes in the East-West struggle , such as the future of Germany or Formosa , the Austrian treaty may seem a minor issue . But there is good reason to assume that the Soviet willingness to withdraw from Austria is a shrewdly calculated move intended to influence the course of events in Western Europe in general . First reaction of the Viennese was joy strongly tempered by suspicion . But when Chancelolr Julius Raab arrived at the Viislau airfield late on April 15 and told his fellow-countrymen , " We will be free , and so will those Austrian prisoners who are still in the Soviet Union , " exultation began to sweep the country . Natural Reaction This reaction is not difficult to understand . The Austrians have waited for their state treaty for almost nine years  --  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1946 . A few times it had looked as if the treaty were in the bag . Every time  --  just when the pens seethed poised for the signature ? negotiations were broken up . Usually , a new Soviet demand caused the break-up . No wonder , therefore , that some Viennese are reported looking for a joker in the Moscow communiqu  --  s of April 14 and 15 and askint. r , what price Austria will have to pay for the end of occupation . Similar questions are being asked in Washington , London , Paris , and Bonn . Range of Talks The Moscow talks , which started April 11 and were conducted by Soviet Foreign Minister Molotov and Herr Raab , had to settle the following points : Austrian guarantees against a future " Anschluss " ( merger ) with Germany and for strict neutrality ; and a time limit for the occupation ; disposition of the so-called German property in Austria , notably the Danube Shipping Company and the oil installations in Lower Austria ( Zistersdorf ) . According to the official communiqu ? issued April @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The Austrian delegation pledged its country " not to join any military alliance or to tolerate military bases on its territory " and " to pursue toward all states a policy of independence which will guarantee adherence to this declaration . " For Its part , the Soviet Government declared that it would return full control over the Danube Shipping Company to Austria " for a sum yet to be named " and also to give back to Austria administration of the oil fields " in exchange for the delivery of crude oil in an amount to be agreed on between the two states . " Soviet Concessions As a further concession to Austria the Kremlin declared that it would accept Austrian goods deliveries instead of the $150,000,000 in cash originally provided in the treaty draft . The Soviet Government agreed to withdrawal of the troops of all four occupying powers not later than Dec. 31 , 1955 , after the treaty goes into effect . On the face of it , more concessions have been made by the Soviet Union than by the Austrians . Moreover , the guarantees @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ certain to meet the wholehearted approval of the vast majority of AustrianN Yet the unusual Soviet generosity does not mean . that the Kremlin has struck a poor bargain . For one thing , the Soviet Union 's military position in Central Europe is not weakened by withdrawal from Austria . It could even be argued that the three Western Powers give up much more by their troop withdrawal than the Kremlin . In addition , the Kremlin , after having blocked an Austrian treaty for the past eight years , has so cleverly played its hand that it now stands to win , whatever the final outcome . It will claim the major share of the credit if the Western Powers approve of the treaty terms and it will appear as Austria 's best friend , should the United States , Britain , and France balk at , or even merely delay , the treaty signing . Prime Motive But the prime motive for Soviet approval of the Austrian treaty terms probably lies in the political field and more specifically in the effect signing of an Austrian treaty may have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has been different in many respects from the German situation , with its blockade battle and the country 's partition , there is little doubt that the example of Austria getting its freedom and independence for the price of strict neutrality will swell the already crowded ranks of German groups clamoring for reunification and peace with the Soviet Union at the price of neutrality and demilitarization . Thus , if Moscow succeeds in preventing West German adherence to the North Atlantic Treaty Organization , the granting of freedom to little Austria will pay the Kremlin dividends several times higher than its investment . Related stories : Pages 13 iiind 17.                     