@@718571

txt Director of the Budget Brundage has ordered all Federal agencies to review their " service " work  --  such as pressing shirts , fixing flats and repairing radios . The idea is to cut out doing things the Government can have done by private industry . Thee are 10.850 " service " installations employing 54,000 people . They are , however , only about half of the total Government-operated activities which compete with private industry either in providing services to the Federal Government or manufacturing things for the Federal Government . None of these activities , of course . ' pays taxes . The private concerns which ought to be doing the business for the Government would pay taxes . It is always a difficult thing . though , to get the Government out of business once it is in business . It actually took an act of Congress to sell the Texas City tin smelter in 1956 . But it finally came about after some years of Congressional indecision : so it can be done and we hope that Mr. Brundage will order the Federal agencies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ private industry . Actually , the best way to get Government out of business is not to let it get in business . So we come to another phase of Government business that probably will balance off whatever savings Mr. Brundage brings about unless i ? stop is put to its growth . In the same column of this newspaper reporting Mr. Brundage 's order was a story about the Government 's real estate operations . During fiscal 1956 . Uncle Sam increased his holdings by $2.3 billion to a total of $40.3 billion . Altogether , Uncle Sam owns 775 million acres . more than half of it in the U. S. , and the balance in Alaska ) except for 1,000.000 acres owned in foreign lands ) . Eighty percent of the increase in the 1956 fiscal year was attributable to Defense Department acquisitions , and most of that went to the Air Force . We understand as well as the next one that the Defense Department must have land for its installations , and certainly the Air Force needs airfields and runways . What we do n't undetstand @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ land when Uncle Sam has , in this country , more than 350 million acres to choose from . Not all of it is suited to Defense needs , nor is it all as pleasant as some other prospects the military might prefer . But with that much around , the Government ought to be able to say , " Boys , pick yourselves a spot " without having to add to the total of land that brings in no revenue . and thus add to the burden of real estate that does .                     