@@720963

txt Members of the Communist bloc have signed an agreement for convertibility of their national currencies Whin the bloc , Rude Pravo , newspaper of the Czechoslovak Communist party , reported in last Saturday 's issue , just arrived here , that the agreement had been signed in Moscow by the state banks of the Soviet Union , Albania , Bulgaria , Czechoslovakia , Communist China , North Korea , East Germany , Hungary , Outer Mongolia , Poland , Rumania and North Vietnam . The agreement covered terms of payment for imports . 75% of Trade Within Bloc Roughly 75 per cent of the foreign trade of countries in the Communist bloc is with other Communist countries . It is supervised by the Council for Mutual Economic Assistance , known as Comecon in the West and as Cema in the East . Peiping has observer status in the organization . It consists of a number of industrial subcommittees that establish policies for economic integration of the Communist states . Its recommendations are submitted to a council of ministers . Bilateral and multilateral trade agreements are negotiated by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ One of the principal unknown factors in studying trade movements within the Communist bloc has been the lack of sufficient information about the pricing system . Communist economic officials have always I been reluctant to discuss this aspect with foreign visitors . When the rates of exchange ' under last week 's agreement are made public , Western economists will be in a better position to study inter-Communist trade practices and trends . Convertibility may reflect the degree of integration achieved by the Soviet bloc in its trade with the under-developed areas of the world . It also may facilitate cooperation by two or more Communist governments in taking up big industrial contracts and in extending longterm , low-interest loans to these areas . Barter System Outmoded Before the signing of the convertibility agreement , all Sovietbloc currencies were strictly domestic . They could neither be exported from nor imported into any of these countries . The limitations on trade created by this lack of convertibility has been met by a variety of expedients . In any case , trade between each pair of Communist countries tended to be essentially a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for goods ? with the effort made to bal , ance the values exactly . To get the advantages of multilateral trade , the members of the Council of Mutual Economic Aid several years ago instituted a system of multilateral clearings . In theory , this should have permitted , for example , Poland to import more than she exported from the Soviet Union but to balance that trade by exporting more to Bulgaria than she imported from that country , pro ' vided that Bulgaria exported more to the Soviet Union than she imported . There have been indications , however , that this system has not worked entirely satisfactorily . Thus the new convertibility move may represent an effort to get a better approach toward multilateral trade among Communist states .                     