@@716201

txt Once again the Soviet Union has seriously jolted the United Nations ' hopes of disarmament and nuclear-weapon control . . Even before the latest efforts to control the H-bomb had seriously begun , Soviet delegate Andrei Y. Vishinsky reached into his diplomatic tool kit April 14 and came up with these monkey wrenches which he proceeded to hurl into the machinery : 1 . A demand that Communist China take part in UN discussions of nuclear energy . 2 . A demand that veto power be given to all members of the UN organ set up to deal with the problem . 3 . A suggestion that India and Czechoslovakia , as well as Communist China , be invited to take part . Soviet Proposals Hit The United States and France categorically rejected these proposals . Great Britain criticized them , complaining they would introduce " complications of various kinds " which would " impede and delay " the UN 's work . The 12-nation Disarmament Commission adjourned April 14 without taking any decision . If no agreement can be worked out in private before the next @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ignore Mr. Vishnsky 's demands and establish a negotiation subcommission , without veto , consisting solely of the atomic " Big Five "  --  the United States , Britain , France , the Soviet Union , and Canada . The question then would arise as to whether the Soviet Union would attend the subcommission meetings : Most observers believe the Kremlin would be forced by pressure of public opinion to do so , since a boycott of efforts to control tole H-bomb would be a virtually impossible propaganda position . Inflexibility Indicated There was nothing in what Mr. Vishinsky said April 14 , however , to indicate any flexibility . He said inclusion of Communist China in the subcommittee was " essential " and that the Soviet Union was " unwilling to agree , to a committee made up solely of the atomic " big five . " " How can you expect to bring about a reduction of armaments without taking into ainsideration the armaments of a country of 500,000,000 persons ? " he asked , referring to the Chinese mainland . " Such a one-sided subcommission would inevitably lead @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on behalf of India appeared to be a play for Asian public opinion . " How can you ignore almost half of humanity ? " he demanded . India has not asked to take part in the H-bomb talks , in which Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru has expressed considerable interest and concern ,                     