@@715021

txt T h e first snow has fallen in Korea , and the third winter of the war has begun . It 's a strange war , this third winter  --  a war no man imagined when the Korean Communists surged across the 38th parallel in June , 1950 . It is a war of massed artillery , of barbed wire and mine fields , of 155 miles of mountain fortresses , stretching across the land from sea to sea . First Winter of Despair The first winter was a winter of despair for United States troops and South Koreans ? a ' winter of Chinese bugles in the night ; of waves of leaping figures advancing thru burning villages ; of sudden road blocks and gunfire from the hills above , and the cold , quiet snow . . The second winter was a winter of hope , a warmer winter , with snug hilltop bunkers on the ceasefire line . There were Christmas turkey for the infantry , peace talks at Panmunjom , and the new rotation policy . Fighting had dwindled to light patrols across @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , there is no despair but neither is there any hope . The war has become an institution that follows logically on a tour at the infantry school , a man 's assignment after the fall maneuvers . There is not so much talk along the front now about the war ending . Talk of Rotation Little by little , men have come to think of it as never ending . Instead , they talk about the only thing that does count , rota-1 tion , and ? the 36 points  --  two , three , or four a month  --  that bring a personal end of war to soldiers in Korea . Bitter is the anger when some emergency or staff bungling forces the needed rotation total up to 38 or 40 points . There is not so much fighting now . But when it comes , men still die . A man may serve 12 months at the front and never see more than a patrol skirmish . But if his regiment is flung into battle to take or save a hill fortress , he will be plunged into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the trenches of World War I. Then his division will count its casualties by the thousands . It 's freezing nearly every night now . Almost all the winter clothing has been issued . There is snow in the eastern mountains , and the first light falls have whitened the western valleys . Winter Freezing Rivers Soon the rivers and paddies will freeze solid . The heavy snows of late November will turn the whole land into a desolate world of white . Outposts will stamp and curse and beat their hands together . Men will pant and sweat and chill as they haul food and fuel to the bunkers on the ridges . At night , guns will flash while flares floodlight the enemy hills beyond . The rattle of a machine gun will echo above the distant snap of a carbine . The morning sun , climbing over Pie eastern peaks , will pick out new blood on the snow . This is the third winter . 