@@718105

txt The president of the United Steelworkers , Mr. , has just offered the nation an interesting theory of inflation . Boiled down , his argument is that steel wage increases do not tend to inflation but that the steel industry 's " irresponsible " pricing practices do . Now the Steelworkers ' economists are not naive . They recognize , in Mr. BrIcDonalci 's letter to prominent personages and in two accompanying reports , that it would be rather foolish to try to disclaim any connection between wage increases and price increases . So they buttress their theory with a Superficially impressive parade of percentages designed to show that steel prices have risen out of all proportion to wage increases . - These statistics , though , leave a good deal unsaid . They assume that steel profits should be geared to the common denominator of all manufacturing industries ; yet they ignore the fact that steel prices started their postwar climb from a lower level than other industries . Similarly , instead of dealing with the industry 's desire to finance expansion out of profits @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ somehow unAmerican ; they i11,1.DL Line industry should rely on the flotation of securities . Also , the Steelworkers put considerable emphasis on productivity in their argument that wage increases are good but that price increases are bad . Productivity has risen greatly , they note , and the implication is that this is the result of labor 's unaided efforts . Actually , of course , productivity increases come about largely because of management initiative in introducing better machines and techniques . The Steelworkers unwittingly concede this when they say that automation will further increase the growth of productivity . Well , who pays for automation ? Perhaps most important , the union seems to miss the point about inflation . It seems to define inflation as rising prices . But the real answer to the question of whether wage increase or price increases tend to inflation is that both may but neither necessarily does . Whether inflation exists or not depends on a good many things , such as whether too few goods are produced in relation to demand . Not the least of the considerations is whether the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had an inflationary wage-price spirarin the earlier post-war years . when the Government was inflating . In recent years there have been wage and prioe rises in a number of industries , including steel , but the purchasing power of the dollar has remained remarkably stable . No one can say for sure that such stability will continue in the future . But it ought to be clear that , the Steelworkers ' theory to the contrary notwithstanding , higher steel prices are not automatically inflationary . And it ought also to be clear that higher steel ! wires have largely been dictated by the higher wages a single union can impose on a whole raft of companies throughout the country ; where the higher prices tend to he inflationary , they are the result of inflationary wage demands . At any rate , it is a healthy sign that the Steelworkers are beginning to worry about inflation , even if they have produced a garbled theory of it . One of the big reasons we have had inflation in the past is that labor leaders have been only too happy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ national polity.                     