@@717931

txt The relative fortunes of the Democratic presidential hopefuls are beginning to shape up a little more visibly now , and certain prospects and portents are being emphasized by the party experts . Here s how certain Democratic knowledgeables would add it all up : The latest primary ballotings , here and there across the country . tell nothing definitely . But for several reasons it is possible to conclude that the stock of Adlai E. Stevenson is definitely on the rise again . Yet if he should stub his toe in the Florida primary , or more especially the California primary ? losing to Senator Estes Kefauverthen the centrist coalition of the South would face the northern faction led by former President Truman in a struggle to nominate one or the other of two gray-horse candidates . The South would favor Senator Stuart Symington of Missouri . The northern liberal New Dealers would insist on Gov . Averell Harriman of New York . This is a nutshell , thumbnail summation of the Democratic prospects as of now . Let 's examine it in somewhat more detail . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ perplexing Minnesota primary which so boosted the stock of Senator Kefauver , plus the victory of moderation-minded Senator Lyndon B. Johnson in Texas . plus the more vigorous campaign now being waged by the former Illinois Governor have all improved Mr. Stevenson 's standing . An astute Democrat measures the relative voter appeal of Mr. Stevenson and Senator Kefauver by this simple rule of thumb : The larger the community , the greater the Stevenson appeal : the smaller the community , the larger the Kefauver impact . At the Minnesota crossroads folksy Senator Kefauver did well . In urban New Jersey and the District of Columbia Mr. Stevenson won hands down . The problem for Senator Kefauver is that the United States has more voters in big communities and tall cities than it has at rural crossroads . Moreover , a reputable nonpartisan research outfit now has come up with new conclusions about Stevenson 's Minnesota setback on March 20 . It cites figures to prove that Republicans must have crossed over party lines in large numbers to vote for Senator Kefauver ( and there- Not Thrown Yet by to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Senator Hubert H. Humphrey , who had gone all out for Mr. Stevenson ) . Total reliance on such a cross-over theory to explain away a defeat would be dangerous business . But if . as the research figures seem to show , Mr. Stevenson actually won the bona fide Democratic vote in Minnesota by 55 per cent to Senator Kefauver 's 45 per cent , then this does improve the party impression of Mr. Stevenson 's voter appeal . Next we come to the Texas triumph of Senator Johnson . who will lead the powerful Texas contingent to the Chicago convention . The Johnson forces are not enthusiastically for Mr. Stevenson . but they accept him , and the South in general accepts him as the best  --  because the most moderate ? of the present front-rank contenders . There is talk that Senator Johnson may become more than a favorite-son candidate . He insists that his recent illness disqualifies him ? he has insisted up to now , anyway . If Mr. Stevenson , with his more hard-hitting candidacy , now can win a victory in the big @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ him . and the North , too . If Mr. Stevenson should falter in the Florida and California primaries and show again that he is not " getting through " to the voters , then the Johnson forces would be expected to trot out the candidate they are holding in reserve . Senator Symington . He would be the most friendly to the South on racial and civil-rights issues and platform planks . But in the event of a Stevenson stumble , the northern section of the Democratic Party would demand the nomination of that powerful " active-inactive " candidate , New York 's Governor Harriman . If Mr. Stevenson should " fade out , " a number of his liberal supporters would switch to Governor Harriman . The New Yorker actuall3 has powerful untapped nationwide support among the trade unions and minority groups , including the Negroes . This would mean North against South . Harriman versus Symington . contending for control . The prospect would be that Governor Harriman , aided by the support of Harry Truman , would then carry the day and win the nomination . This @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it is worth . And . oh yes , what about Senator Kefauver ? Only if he showed surprising and superb strength in the remaining primaries would the party professionals come even close to considering him for nomination at Chicago . That , at least . is what the party professionals do say .                     