@@716531

txt With a nine-power conference on the European defense crisis now agreed upon , Britons are taking stock of its prospects  --  and finding little reason for optimism . As the hectic events of recent weeks are reviewed in somewhat calmer perspective , one conclusion aired by numerous sources here is that London as well as Washington has been unduly unsympathetic with the French position . It is pointed out that the French plainly are not satisfied with Foreign Secretary Anthony Eden 's plan , which is based on alterations to the Brussels Treaty Organization . Informed Britons know why the French are dissatisfied  --  because the plan does not guarantee that Britain will become a full partner in European affairs and because it does not place sufficient safeguards on German rearmament. coming London conference may be unattainable . " " It will be no help , " the newspaper continues , " for critics in Washington or London  --  or in Bonn and Brussels ? then to complain that the French are ' hesitant ' and ' unpredictable . ' " The French requirements are already predictable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but other countries are hesitating to meet them . " ' In the reassessment of France now going on here , moreover , fair-minded Britons suggest that French confidence in the idea of a United Europe needs restoration as much as European and American confidence in France . The French , it is argued , must stand firm for their convictions rather than permit tier after useless tier of plans to he piled upon the fickle foundation of German distrust . ' ti , ' hile this stand is unpopular with Americans , it is better than proceeding on a false basis , according to opinion voiced here . Brussels Idea Traced The weekly Economist meanwhile weighed the Brussels idea on three encouraging aspects ? " for France , no loss of sovereignty ; for Germany , no invidious discrimination ; a means of grappling itself reassuringly to Europe within the framework of a treaty that exists and has long been generally accepted by public opinion . " Yet it would be willful blindness , " the Economist concludes , " to regard it as anything but a poor second best @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , though it may diminish , the difficulties of the problem of Germany 's future relationship to NATO . " Wary of Entanglements Moreover , it is emphasized here that if the forthcoming nine-power conference intends only to draft another complex arrangement whereby West German sovereignty would he restored without adequate restrictions and Britain could continue with nothing more binding than a moral obligation to the continent , then sooner or later France again will balk as it did on the European Defense Community . The British , it is acknowledged , are wary of European entanglements , just as France fears German domination , under any impending arrangement hacked out as an alternative to EDC . The British , moreover , admittedly are dubious about European ties and prefer the security of more familiar Commonwealth and American ties . Military Factors If these were the only factors to be considered , this country 's position would he easy to prepare . Britain would stand aloof . Militarily , however , Britain now is indistinguishable from Western Europe . And diplomatically , the historic policy of balance of power is unworkable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , British leaders realize this country no longer can isolate itself from Europe . But they also know that any effort to make formal commitments with the continent would call for an intense public debate and plenty of opposition here . if West Germany is to be sovereign and still accept enforceable restrictions on its rearmament , as the Eden plan apparently envisages , how are Britain and the other powers involved to avoid similar limitations ? Yet if they refuse such limitations , the Manchester Guardian declares , " Agreement at the                     