@@720269

txt Prime Minister Harold Macmillan appeared on Moscow television for thirty minutes tonight with the most forceful presentation of Western views and ways ever permitted here . The visiting British leader , in an eloquent speech , explained Western freedoms and said the British hold their freedoms " very dear . " He offered a formula for peace , stressing gradual agreement , deeds instead of words , and restraint in international affairs . Often with a wry smile and . as if campaigning for votes in the Moscow Oblast ( Province ) , he contradicted every major premise of Soviet propaganda about the West . The Prime Minister reeled off statistics , vital and trivial , to demonstrate to an audience estimated at several millions why his " small island " enhis " smal " the highest standard of living in Europe . " Britain , though heavily populated and riot naturally Wealthy , " produces twice as much as you per head , ' said . With obvious pleasure the Prime Minister recited British inventions and production records on the not unwarranted assumption that Russians knew @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ even more important , he - said , is his message that Britons live " by more than bread alone . " For this phrase he , quoted the Gospel and not Vladimir Dudintsev , whose novel " Not By Bread Alone , " critical of the Soviet system , was denounced and withdrawn from circulation here two years ago . Political Freedom Noted " Every individual  --  this is our belief  --  should have freedom to develop his personality , " . Mr : Macmillan declared . On this foundation our whole political system is built . " We hold that the state exists for man . In , our small island , we have thought a lot about political philosophy and we have worked out our system gradually over a period of a thousand years . Of course , the result is not perfect , but we think it represents a good compromise between the rights of the individual and the demands of the state . For the problem of the organized society is really how to combine order and freedom . " Mr. Macmillan said the British Commonwealth was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in no sense a military alliance . He said Britons had to live by trade and therefore their welfare depended , upon peace and prosperity everywhere . He was happyto .. note , , progress after " many : difficulties " in the Soviet Union , he Oidi stating : " You are beg*ing to see the fruits of all th'e ' . efforts which you have made to . develop your country . " Russian Tourists Invited Macmillan invited his listeners to come to Britain by the thousands , and not in delegations , . which is how some Russians.are now permitted abroad . No Soviet tourist has ever been denied permission to visit Britain , he said , placing , the onus for travel restrictions on the Soviet Government . The Prime Minister 's talk was translated a paragraph at a time by a- British interpreter who sat with him ' at a table in the Moscow studio . The program was carried on the more important of two Channels here and was relayed Over a network of nine treninitters in " the Moscow region , Which contains about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Thongh scheduled last week , the program was not advertised . Mr. Macmillan followed a hockey:match and a ten-minute documentary on radio technology . He spoke from 9:12 to 9:42 P .. M. in competition with an old German movie on the other channel . Aware of Soviet Needs In recent years former Premier Guy Mollet of France , Llewellyn E. Thompson " Jr. , United States Ambassador here , and Senator Hubert H. Humphrey of Minnesota have made appearances before the Moscow television cameras , but none spoke as bluntly as the British Prime Minister . Mr. Macmillan showed a keen appreciation of his ' viewers ' interests and lreeds . Most of the 3,000,000 new houses built in Britain since the war are separate suburban units , " one for each . family " and with a garden , he said . One-third of British households own a , car , he added . The British invented radar , penicillin and the jet engine , they have one tractor for every twenty-two acres of arable land and they hold the world 's land and water speed records , he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , freedom to discuss and argue , compromise and toleration in public affairs and the absolute separation of the executive and judiciary in Britain .. This flexible system has spread around the world , he said . He told the Russians , who daily hear of the eventual triumph of communism throughout the world : " We do riot seek to impose our system on anyone . At the same time , we hold it very dear ourselves . " The trouble in the world today has arisen because " we each see the world differently , " Mr. Macmillan asserted . To establish confidence , he proposed , without mentioning Berlin , that neither East nor West disturb existing positions in the world to the disadvantage of the other , and he asked that arrangements be made slowly , a step at a time . Contradicting Premier Khrushchev , who has maintained that a future war , while costly to the Soviet Union , would destroy capitalism forever , Mr. Macmillan warned : " In the present state of the world , military conflict between great powers can bring victory @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all . Similarly , in the political field , an attempt to gain total victory may well produce disaster . " So let us work together with patience and understanding , " he concluded . " Thank you for listening and good night . " He repeated the good night in Russian .                     