@@714298

txt The Egyptian Government has told the new session of Parliament , in the speech from the throne , that it will maintain its present attitude toward Britain in the Suez and Sudan and will not give in " under pressure of coercion . " The speech did not mention any future steps the government would take in the Anglo-Egyptian dispute on Mideast defense Proposals . In a separate statement , Interior Minister Fuad Serag el Din announced that the government would take control in a few days of all " liberation battalions " and similar bodies of irregulars now harassing the British . " The young men desire to undergo military training . " Mr. Serag el Din said . " The government therefore will organize and train them militarily . " The Throne speech was read in the presence of King Farouk by Premier Nasha Pasha to a joint session of Parliament meeting after a month 's recess . Tracing events leading to the present crisis , the Throne 's speech said that Egypt " for 16 months tried in vain every possible means and argument @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but despite our sincere efforts , the British niMntained their stubborn attitude toward this country 's aspirations . " Britain Blamed The pledge to scrap the 1936 treaty with Britain was fulfilled after the government became convinced " of the futility of contacts and talks , which the British used merely to gain time , " the speech said , adding : " It would have been more appropriate for Britain  --  after it became evident that the Egyptian people unanimously were determined to realize their demanris regardless of any difficulties and sacrifices ? to choose the way of peace and concede to reality . " But instead it chose the course of violence and sheer force . The peaceful people of this country resolved to recover their full rights and redeem their full sovereignty in virtue of their natural right to liberty and in adherence to the United Nations Charter . " The Throne speech expressed gratitude for the support of Arab lands and added , " They will not be dissuaded by promises or threats from accomplishing their far-reaching mission . " Peaceful Aims Stressed Egypt 's million Copts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ part for the first time . Realizing that xenophobic riots in the past have harmed Egypt 's cause abroad , the authorities were anxious to see non-Moslem groups take part and to bar all antiforeign outbursts . Official quarters invited Christian and Jewish groups to show natives ' and foreigners that the present movement in Egypt is national and not religious despite ' the slogans of Moslem Brotherhood and other extremists . Solidarity ' Headlined The Cairo press likewise launched a campaign to show Moslem and Christian solidarity in the land against " foreign domination . " Articles stressed the necessity of unity between different ci eeds in the country and recalled 1919 , when Copts and Moslems stopped their feuds to struggle for Egyptian independcam Feminist groups also came in strong force in the demonstrations , despite opposition of the Moslem Brotherhood and other religious groups which claimed that women 's participation was against Islamic teachings . Carried by the demonstrators were 5,000 banners , including several anti-American slogans such as " American Mediation Is an Imperialist Trick " and " Scrap Point Four . " Oneslogan said , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Eden reaffirms plan to defend Sudan : Page 7 . The speech said Egypt regarded " with sympathy and attention the cause of oppressed people in Moslem and Oriental countries and hoped to succeed in helping them lead a stable and peaceful life . " It also declared that the Egyptian people " do not want to attack or be attacked by anybody , but wish to live side by side with free nations , fulfilling international obligations and participating in and serving the cause of peace . " The opening of Parliament followed two days of silent demonstrations throughout Egypt except in the canal towns , where Egyptian authorities banned them to avoid friction with the British forces . In Cairo . an estimated half million marched to the Royal Palace Square , led by the Premier , opposition leaders , magistrates , and college deans in the biggest and quietest demonstration ever to take place here . The demonstration was an attempt to show national unity in. the demand for British evacuation regardless of creed , class , or political stand . Religious Leaders Join In Most significant was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sheiks of Alazhar University , religious focal point of the Moslem world : the Grand Rabbi of Egypt , and Coptic orthodox bishops representing the Patriarch Amba Youssab , head of                     