@@713046

txt To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Press reports of the shooting of prisoners and of other atrocities in Korea have raised the question of punishing the perpetrators as war criminals . On ? July 4 General announced that he would " hold responsible any individual acting for North Korea who deviates from * * * the humanitarian principles applied by civilized nations involved in armed conflict . " On July 12 General 's headquarters published documentary evidence of the killing of United States prisoners by North Korean troops . At the same time the State Department announced that its lawyers are " laying the groundwork today for prosecuting as war criminals any North Korean Communists who tortured or executed captured American soldiers . " The Red Cross and the United Nations have urged observance of the Geneva Conventions by both sides ; It is natural that photographs of slaughtered American soldiers should arouse the public . It is desirable that our Government should do everything possible to promote compliance , on both sides of the Korean fighting , with The Hague and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , it is vitally necessary , in order to safeguard both our national integrity and that of international law , that our first steps in this matter be taken only after full opportunity for reflection . South Korean Treatment For it seems apparent , if we may take the press accounts at face value , that the atrocities have not all been the work of the North Koreans , and that American soldiers are not the sole victims . A United Press dispatch from South Korea , dated July 10 and printed in THE NEW YORK TIMES the following day , describes the treatment meted out by South Korean police to prisoners who were apprehended behind the South Korean lines as suspected guerrillas . To be sure , guerrillas are not generally entitled to be treated as prisoners of war , but any person taken behind the lines , under circumstances involving no risk to his captors , is entitled at least to a summary proceeding to establish whether or not he is a guerrilla , or a regular member of the opposing combatant forces , or a noncombatant . Still @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a reasonably humane method of execution . According to the United Press account of the episode : in South Korea , the suspected guerrillas were killed by crushing their backbones with rifle butts . To say that such procedure falls far short of minimum standards is a gross understatement . The foregoing suggests that it will be wise for us ? to take account of several practical factors before settling upon our course of action . These include at least the following : Oriental Warfare ? The traditions and practices of warfare in the Orient are not identical with those that have developed in the Occident . Except in Japan , the Orientals have not been in the forefront in developing methods of mass destruction ; . on the other hand , individual lives are not valued so highly in Eastern mores . And it is totally unrealistic of us to expect the individual Korean soldier , whether he is fighting with us or against us , to follow our most elevated precepts of warfare ( which , indeed , have by no means been universally observed by Western armies ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fact embark on an effort to enforce compliance with international law by means of war crimes trials , our chief concern should be with the commanders and other highly placed officials who initiated the aggression and who are responsible for ordering or tolerating debased standards of conduct , rather than with the " little men " who merely follow the prevailing pattern . The laws of war and war crimes trials are not weapons like bazookas and hand grenades to be used only against the enemy . The laws of war can be " law " in the true sense only if they are of general application and applied to all sides . We will make ourselves appear ridiculous and hypocritical if we condemn the conduct of the enemy , when at the same time troops allied with us are with impunity executing prisoners by means of rifle butts applied ? to backbones . TELFORD TAYLG . New York , July 13 , 1950 . Utilizing Russian Exiles To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Your editorial of July 4 , " Radio Free Europe , " points out @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ aims : ( 1 ) " td give some solid assistance to those democratic , non-Fascist , non-Communist political and intellectual leaders who had managed to escape into the outer world " ; ( 2 ) " to employ the talent of these men both to build up the body of knowledge of Western Europe in this country and to keep alive the spark of freedom in their native lands . " May I say that such an organization is long overdue . Radio Free Europe can be of great use , and nobody is more qualified for this work than the exiled " democratic , non-Fascist , nonCommunist political and intellectual , leaders . " One thing which strikes me as strange , however , is the omission from the list of countries behind the Iron Curtain of one which seems to play a role at least as important to international relations in the twentieth century as that of Bulgaria and Rumania : the U. S. S. R. We have in the United States some first-rate and highly talented " democratic , nonFascist , non-Communist po  --  itical and intellectual @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " the U. S. S. R. in this country is not less poor than that of other nations behind the Iron Curtain , Unless the promoters and leaders of the Natiohal Committee for a Free Europe are able to provide some serious reasons for the discrimination against Russian " democratic , non-Fascist , non-Communist " exiles , this attitude remains quite incomprehensible . If they intend to arouse anti-Communist feelings , they should understand that to stimulate and support these among the 200,000,000 slaves living in Soviet Russia is a task of the utmost significance . If , on the other hand , they intend to provoke , among the satellites , anti-Russian feelings and hatred of the Russian victims of dictatorship , they can constitute an asset only to the Communist propaganda inside Russia , which already represents Westet'n democracies as hostile not toward Stalin 's government but toward the Russian masses . SAMSON SOLOVEITCHIK , Professor of History and Russian Civilization , University of Kansas City . Rockport , Mass. , July 7 , 1950 . Arms Plan Proposed Production Program Outlined for Atlantic Pact Nations The writer of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ service , has recently represented his country at international conferences on trade accords . TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : The people of Europe need the tonic of immediate and effective rearmament . As long as they fear new bunkerques their power of resistance will be low . They will fight when it becomes reasonable to hope that the enemy will be held and that resistance will not be just a hopeless sacrifice . Fast and effective rearmament requires a new division of the work among the nations of the Atlantic alliance . North America should immediately begin converting to the production of arms on a wartime scale . This would require a large degree of integration between the United States and Canada . Western Europe , on the other hand , should supply to North America civilian consumer goods , the production of which is stopped or restricted in North America by the conversion of industry to the making of weapons , and products for use in the arms program ( e. g. , steels , ball bearings , engineering parts , electronic components , textiles , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Amerloan Act being revised for the purpose. , There are ' three main reasons for such a policy . First , it is imperative not to set up in Western Europe a considerable capacity for arms production before adequate forces have been armed and trained to protect this capacity against sudden seizure and use by the enemy . Second , the impact of rearmament on the E. R. P. underpinned economies of Western Europe would be cushioned . Unemployment would greatly decrease , bringing more social stability and easing the burden of assistance to the outof-work . Increased extekorts would close the dollar gap and even allow Western Europe to earn dollars to pay for part at least of the arms it would receive . Third , quantity production of weapons will be reached faster by confining conversion to the North American industries , which have had recent and comprehensive experience of the problems involved and of how they are to be solved . There is , moreover , a large American force of trained labor , part of which is now unemployed . There is no possible policy by which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the one just outlined would considerably reduce the burden . Increased production by the fuller use of industrial capacity on both sides of the Atlantic would mean higher national incomes out of which to finance rearmament . The adverse effect of military expenditure on the standard of living would thereby be lessened . In some places where it is particularly low at present the standard of living might even rise a little , with a , corresponding easing of social unrest . Greater imports into North America would relieve the inflationary strain of larger payrolls with less domestic goods to buy in the shops . There would also be an increase of Government revenue from import duties and taxes . Britain would take a place in the scheme of rearmament in some respects similar to that of North America , with due regard to her existing arms production capacity , her position in the Commonwealth and her financial problems and requirements . Once the first and most critical stage of rearmament is achieved , European industry might gradually take over part of the continuing arms program , while American industry would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Brussels , Belgium , July 10 , 1950 . To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : The day before July 1 , 1950 , the date established long ago for the transfer of the Guam Government from naval to civilian auspices , President Truman I changed his own order and postponed the transfer . At this critical time the event may seem not very important . It is a regrettable event and may ; ' ecome important , for these reasom ... Ever since 1900 the treaty pledge of the United States to define by state ute law the status and rights of the Guamanians has undergone one after another postponement . The Navy consistently has imposed obstacles , as a rule invisible or covert ones ; tactic always has been one of delay . Now , today , with Congress all set to enact the organic law for Guam , comes this renewed executive postponement . As always through the years , it is stated to be only a postponement ; like th4 earlier postponements it will last through years if the Navy can so arrange . Independent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but only a hindering , effect upon the Navy 's operation concerning Korea or wider areas of combat . By the President 's now-postponed transfer order ( as by the pending Organic Act for Guam ) the Navy keeps untouched control over all its installations , all its operations internal to Guam , everything pertaining to the Navy . It does not add to the warlike efficiency of the Navy 's command to have to continue doctoring the Calmanians , teaching them in the schools , traffic-policing their town streets , etc . If in some crisis which might come the Navy 's absolute control over all its own installations and concerns were not enough , martial law could be pro- ' - claimed on ten minutes ' notice , as in Hawaii in World War H. No , the postponement is timed to appear as somehow involved in the Korean crisis ; but in fact its only relation to the efficiency of the United States in the crisis is a negative relation . . But in another aspect this postponement of the grant of liberty and responsibility to the faithful @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the position ' of the United States in the contest with communism , which is a contest of principles , not only of weapons and fighting men . Guam became a center of world attention after Pearl Harbor . Its citizens were tortured and butchered by the hundreds by the Japanese because they remained loyal to the United States . Guam 's capital city and its towns were devastated by United States bombardment when we retook Guam from Japan . Much of Guam 's land area was taken for military uses . Treaty Pledge In partial compensation and recognition , and in fulfillment of the fifty years ' unfulfilled treaty pledge , President Truman made it one of his basic policies to free the Guamanians from naval absolutism , to extend civilian administration to them , and to win for them an organic act . His position was inseparably a part and portion of our and the United Nations ' world-wide commitment to liberty under law for all peoples . The world knows thin record and this commitment and that Guam is the American test case for all of the far @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ except honestly , practically controlling reasons is injury to the American cause , injury in principle which will be noted by the world . There are no practically controlling reasons ; the practical reasons are all to the contrary ; there is only naval prestige-sentiment and willfulness . It is , in sum , very earnestly to be hoped that President Truman will not extend beyond Aug. 1 , 1950 , his postponement order for Guam liberty . JOHN COLLIER . Cherokee , N. C. , July 13 , 1950 . Past Military Judgments To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Now that military experts are agair , explaining everything , it is perhaps wise to recall some of their more startling conclusions in the past . My favorite is taken from the official United States Navy Study of Gallipoli ( printed 1927 ) which concludes with this brilliant glimpse into the future : " A larger actor in the drama was only temporarily punished and is once more entrenched in public place . Winston Churchill 's own words show that he regarded himself as better prepared to direct @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In peacetime the British form of government is delightful ; it offers personal liberty and security of property and person with a minimum of inconvenience to the individual ; in wartime with civilian Ministers unwilling to be advised , it imperils the existence of nation and empire . It is doubtful if even Great Britain could survive another world war and another Churchill . " JAMES A. MICHENFR . Tinicum , Pa. , July 10 , 1950 . U. N. Flag Day To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW Tome TIMES : With reference to your editorial , " Another ' Flag of the Free ' , " do n't you think that the initiative should be taken by this country to have the day on which the North Koreans started a war against their Southern brothers declared " United Nations Flag Day " ? This day , recognized as a holiday by the nations joining us in this crusade , should be celebrated every year . E. PONCHELER New York , July 13 , 1950 For Guam 's Autonomy Postponement Opposed as Injuring the American Cause The writer of , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ .                     