@@720217

txt If the current Turkish-Greek talks about Cyprus can produce a Cyprus settlement , nobody will be better pleased than the British . Provided , of course , the British Government 's official framework and basic ground I. rules arc incorporated in whatever solution emerges . The negotiations in zurien between the Greek and Turkish Premiers and foreign ministers naturally are being watched in this country . Britain . however , has no official representative present in the Swiss city and consequently is not receiving a ! blow-by-blow account of the i discussions . The three British stipulations ! that a workable Cyprus agreement should include are : ( 1 ) ! provision for a British base on the island : ( 2 ) guarantees that the island will not fall into ! foreign hands : ( 3 ) proper protection of the rights of norities . Situation Changed Reports that the conferees in Zurich were making progress has evoked queries in London as to why Greece and Turkey suddenly are able to find some common ground ? after five y.ears of persistent disagreement on most of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the British capital is that the answer probably lies in Greek and Turkish internal problems . Athens and Ankara are described in some circles as having become sufficiently concerned about unfavorable domestic affairs to be anxious at last to discover a modus vivendi for the Cyprus issue . Neither country is in a positiontto risk recourse to force of arms to settle the problem . Nor are they prepared to have the o ? csent uneasy stalemate continue indefinitely . Slogans Pall ? it is believed here , moreover . the familiar Cyprus slogans , with passage of time , have lost some of their popular appeal for the Greek and Turkish people . This may be only wishful thinking on the British part , but . the presumption is that the emotionalism and chauvinism that have beset the Cyprus problem these past years now are subsiding . The feeling is that Greece and Turkey may be finding that their chronic economic crises and the constant external threat of communism require more direct attention than they were accorded when passions were at a peak over the Cyprus dispute . Irrespective @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the disposition of the restive Mediterranean island colony will come as a great relief to the British People . After so many false alarms and disappointments , the Cyprus dilemma recently has been treated almost with apathy or indifference . Nevertheless , anything that points toward a definitive settlement -- -it it takes into account the three basic British premises  --  can be certain of a hearty welcome here . Good start seen on Cyprus ' talks : Page 4.                     