@@716417

txt Supersensitive Asians have not forgotten that as recently as three months ago Washington officially expressed its faith that the French could win total victory and that the Indochinese states would be saved from the Communist yoke . And yet today those dreams vaporized as conclusively as earlier visions of the United Nations that it would plunge its armies to the Yalu River and thereby achieve Korean unity . The grim fact which now cm-fronts the free nations of this part of the world is that the little band of guerrillas who once fought in the jungles of northern Vietnam against the Japanese on behalf if the Allies now have gone a long way toward establishing a new Communist state which by its nature and alliances poses a critical threat to Burma . Thailand , Malaya , and even Indonesia . It means that ever-active Communist propagandists v:ho ply their trade in the paddy fields and markets of this entire area have fulfilled another pledge . And for the West it means that an enemy has smashed a wide and dangerous hole in the line of containment upon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of anti-Communist powers . As of today there Is feeble hope among Southeast Asian onlookers that the West can successfully block the next Communist effort , which would be to translate an Indochina cease fire into a political tour de force which at the very least would result in a coalition government of Vietnam dominated by Communists and dedicated to a new era of " coprosperity " with the Sino-Soviet axis . New Containment Line A cease fire , in a sense , would be a major victory in that it removes for the time being the grave danger that the Indochina war might be expanded into an international conflagration . And this would give the capitals of the free world an opportunity to map new strategy tactics to meet the next phase of Communist attack ? nonmilitary infiltration and subversion . The first step in this direction undoubtedly would be an effort to set up a new line of containment . Maximum effort naturally would be to draw a containment line which would include Laos , Cambodia , and possibly even what would be left of decapitated Vietnam . But @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ potential political stability of Laos and Cambodia is open to serious question . And for that reason the tendency is to consider a new minimum-effort line which would run north and south along the western banks of the Mekong River . Both American and British authorities , for instance , believe Thailand is capable of offering decisive resistance to any political infiltration . The tiny nation possesses few if any of the ideological alternatives to communism . But it has a strong and effective police force . Burma in Jeopardy Here in Malaya , it is reasonable to expect that new and intensive efforts will be made to wipe out Communist guerrilla forces and develop some sort of joint military establishment which , in close liaison with Thailand , will complete a new containment line in Southeast Asia . Despite the fact that Burma appears to be leaning closer to western concepts of defense against communism and is itself waging a vigorous military campaign against internal Communists , the nation is in a highly vulnerable geographic position and is being subjected to intense Communist infiltration . Burma can be expected to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Asia . But . like India , it now is committed even deeper to a formal policy of neutrality in which there may be a dangerous inclination to accept too many of Peking 's sugary promises at face value . And if an observer now were to pick Peking 's " target for tomorrow , " his finger would move to this rising young Buddhist state which has a significantly lengthy common frontier with the Communist empire in the north . Communist audacity mounts in Southeast Asia : Page 4 . Hones for EDC M. Mendes-France will return to Paris as the man who , if he has not snatched victory , has at least succeeded in retrieving much . including national honor , from the jaws of defeat . For him it will be a great perso'nal triumph , winning him such popularity with the nation and with Parliament as no other postwar French Premier has enjoyed . For the time being his enemies and opponents will be virtually silenced . He has even effectively spiked the guns of French Communists who have backed his efforts and dare not criticize @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ After Geneva , confidence in M. Mendes-France 's leadership will almost certainly be such that should he so desire he could carry the Assembly and nation with him over the European Defense Community hurdle overnight . altering the whole uncertain picture of West European defense . The next few weeks should disclose his intentions . From the American standpoint it is most encouraging to see its divided , faction-ridden ally united at last behind a strong government . Moreover , the timely support the United States gave the French in the final crucial phase of the Geneva bargaining has been greatly appreciated . For it enabled the French to obtain terms far more favorable than they could have got unassisted by the United States . The correspondent of London 's Communist Daily Worker unwittingly put his finger on it when he complained that the shadow of United States Secretary of State John Foster Dulles loomed over the Geneva conference . Both the French and British delegations were extremely glad to have that shadow loom . Military Status Looking at a map and considering the plight of French forces and their Vietnamese @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seem too unfavorable . The loss of Tonkin with the fertile Red River delta cities of Hanoi and Haiphong is a bitter sacrifice , especially bitter for those of its 9,000,000 inhabitants who are anti-Communist . But in return the Communist-led Vietminh will clear out of their many enclaves , large and small , in southern Vietnam , including a large one just south of the demarcation line and another in rubber-rich Cochin iCn hgyfi ntoha. r the inland Kingdom of Laos eover , vital Route 9 linkwith the coast remains in free territory , being just south of the line which will be traced in the neighborhood of the 17th parallel . The air and naval base of Tourane and the ancient historic Annam capital of Hue will also be saved . While Cambodia will presumably be completely cleared of Vietminth invaders and the local so-called resistance movement will probably fade into the landscape , Laotians will probably be required to make some territorial sacrifices , but far less than half of the country which the Communists at first demanded . No Foreign Bases The Communist Chinese in particular have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to written commitments that no foreign bases will be established in Laos , Cambodia , or southern Vietnam . While this would preclude American bases in the area  --  the Americans denied they had even planned such bases  --  it would presumably not affect the French right to maintain bases under existing French Union treaties . While the Communists insisted on setting a definite date for Vietnam elections . they reportedly agreed these will be held two years hence and not within six months as they first demanded  --  a substantial concessi Nevertheless , the interim gives the West opportunity to make partial amends for past mistakes in Indochina , which gave the Communists their present advantage , by now granting the area genuine independence plus such political and economic assistance as will launch them on the road toward evolving into free societies . The danger of penetration and subversions from the Communist neighbors is admittedly great . But to say this challenge can not be countered is to evince lack of faith in the vitality and future of the free world and in freedom 's capacity to take root and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is that past American policy on the China issue is badly inadequate and does not cope with the situation and urgently requires careful study and reappraisal . Also the combined Berlin-Geneva experience should have taught the West that the world Communist partnership , in which the Soviet Union retains the senior role , is far more ably . flexibly , and resourcefully led than in Stalin 's day , and is therefore a more formidable danger .                     