@@714804

txt Anti - Truman delegations from Texas and Mississippi yesterday were given temporary credentials to the Democratic national convention opening tomorrow in Convention hall , but a floor fight to unseat them was promised with the announced support of Sen. Kefauver Tenn. , one of the Presidential candidates . Kefauver said that " party loyalty and political morality " require the barring of the anti-Truman delegations headed by Governors Allan Shivers of Texas and Hugh White of Mississippi . Copying Gen. Eisenhower 's successful strategy at the Republican national convention , Kefauver proposed that the Democratic rules be amended to ? ban the contested delegations from voting until the credentials disputes are settled by the convention . Demand Loyalty Pledge Meanwhile , in an open challenge to the anti-administration southerners , Averell Harriman 's campaign managers last night demanded that a loyalty pledge be exacted from every delegate to the convention . Rep. Franklin D. Roosevelt Jr . of New York , chairman of the Harriman campaign committee , said his group would seek to require that all delegates pledge their loyalty to the choice of the convention @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ off at an early session the same kind of bitter rules fight which marked the Republican convention two weeks ago . The Democratic national committee , meeting in the Conrad Hilton hotel , voted to seat the Shivers and White groups after beating down a proposal that no Texas and Mississippi groups be seated until the party loyalty issue is given another hearing by the convention 's credentials committee , which will meet tomorrow . Contests have been filed by " loyalist " delegations , pledged to support the Democratic Presidential nominee and platform under any circumstances , headed by Maury Maverick , former New Deal congressman from Texas , and Mrs. John A. Clark , Mississippi committeewoman . Delegate Report Adopted The national committee adopted the report of a credentials subcommittee , which favored temporary seating of the Shivers and White groups but recommended that the convention adopt a resolution placing all delegates on their honor to support the nominee . Under an amendment by J. M. Arve y , Illinois committeeman , Shivers , White , and other leaders of contested delegations will be cross-questioned by the credentials committee @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attend the credentials committee meeting , he said last night after the Mississippi delegation in caucus had voted first ballot support for Sen. Russell . He indicated that Fielding Wright , former Mississippi gover // Anti-Truman- Delegations Voted Convention Seats VOTE TO SEAT 2 ANTI-TRUMAN DELEGATIONS Texas , Mississippi Foes Plan Floor Fight // nor , would n't show up either . Other Mississippi leaders took the view that they would keep silent about party loyalty until the credentials committee forces the issue , which they hope it wo n't . Maverick told the national committee he was sure he would be seated by the convention in a fight that promises to produce a delegate contest controversy similar to that in the recent Republican convention . " If we seat these anti-Democrat delegations of texas and Mississippi , the people may not have a chance to cast ballots for their choice , " Kefauver said in a statement . Party Principles In Jeopardy " They may not have a chancel to support the nominee and the principles of the flatly that have made these states ? as well as the nation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not even give the people an opportunity to express their own wills at the ballot boxes . " This is a fight for democracy , a fight for the right to vote for candidates of one 's own choice , a fight for freedom . " I shall wage it as long as necessary . " I am sure that the delegates to this convention will join me in that fight  --  and that the antiDemocratic forces headed by Governors Shivers and White will not be seated at this convention . " Kefauver has promised to accept the Democratic platform on civil rights , the Issue that led to the 1948 Dixiccrat movement . Such southern leaders as Sen. Byrd of Virginia and Gov . Byrnes of South Carolina have taken a firm stand against continuation of the domestic policies of the Truman administration , but most northern leaders have lined up for a civil rights plank pledging a compulsory fair employment practices law , to which Dixiecrats object . Mississippi has 18 votes and Texas 52 in the convention . The temporary seating arrangement was a compromise , aimed to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ revolt when four states  --  Louisiana , Mississippi , Alabama , and South Carolina ? ca : ; t their electoral votes for a Stall ! Rights ticket rather than vote for President Truman . Warns Texas May Back Ike A warning that Gen. Eisenhower , Republican Presidential nominee , might carry Texas was made at the national committee meeting by Joseph L. Steadham of Austin , Tex. , a member of the Maverick delegation . He is legislative representative of the Brotherhood of Railway Trainmen . " If this committee sends this Maverick delegation from the grass roots of Texas to sit in the gallery , then by heaven Ike Eisenhower will be the next President , " Steadham shouted . The proposal to bar all Texas and Mississippi delegates from the convention floor until the credentials and loyalty issues are settled was made by Committeeman Byron G. Allen of Minnesota and supported by Paul C. Fitzgerald , New York state chairman who held a proxy . Backs Committee It was defeated , 65 to 22 , after National Chairman Frank E. said adoption would be a repudiation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ subcommittee . The subcommittee report then was adopted by a voice vote , with the Arvey amendment . The national committee 's chief action was to certify the temporary roll of delegates . The Republican national convention two weeks ago reversed the action of the national committee by silencing and then unseating most of its Texas , Louisiana , and Georgia delegates . Avery 's amendment did n't specifically mention Shivers and White , who are chairmen of their antiTruman delegations . Their names were brought out in debate , along with that of Wright , 1948 Dixiecrat candidate for Vice President , and national committeeman designate of his faction . Before the credentials subcommittee Friday , Shivers and National Committeeman Wright Morrow co-leader of the . Texas group , said they believe in majority rule as applied to decisions of the national convention . Shivers later told newsmen that " we 'll cross that bridge when we come to it " when asked if he would support the Presidential nominee if it is a northern advocate of civil rights legislation . Maverick said Shivers , in a radio program , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nominee . " Everybody in the United States knows that Gov . Shivers still clearly states that he refuses to agree to support the nominees of the Democratic party , " Maverick said . " We know that we will win in the convention . " " I will be happy to appear before any committee of the national convention and answer any questions that might be asked , " Shivers said in a statement expressing gratification that his delegation was seated temporarily . He said he would n't comment further until the Texas delegation caucused in the Palmer House at 8:30 p. m. tonight . The national committee deferred ratification of 's ' appointment of Atty . Gen. J. P. Coleman as Mississippi 's acting national committeeman . However , the credentials subcommittee later voted to seat Coleman . Kefauver 's statement asserted that the anti-Truman men " are not Democrats . " " By tightly controled par ty machinery , they chose their delegates to come here to the national convention and then paved the way for them to revolt if the decision of this convention does not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said he was " shocked " at a pledge -. aken by the White group reading : " I solemnly affirm that I an ' a state rights Jeffersonian Democrat and as such am politically loya ) only to the Democratic party of the state of Mississippi . " Mrs. Clark and Maverick were told that their delegations would have spectator seats when the convention opens . Maverick was promised that he could be on the convention floor during his fight for recognition . J. P. Coleman chatting with Mrs. John A. Clark , who led group opposing his Mississippi delegation , at meeting of Democratic national committee yesterday . ( TRIBUNE ? tolos Maury Maverick of Texas addressing the committee . c . Frank , national chairman , and Mrs. Dorothy Vredenbufgh , committee secretary , at the meeting . Joseph Steadham of Austin , Tex. , arguing case at the committee session . J. M. Arvey , Illinois committeeman , talking to the committee .                     