@@718143

txt The Egyptian Embassy here said today that Prime Minister Eden 's speech Wednesday was " incompatible with international courtesy and responsible relations.between governments . " Although the statement did not mention Sir Anthony , it paraphrased and denied the major items in his address on the Suez Canal dispute , which was broadcast to an international audience . The statement characterized the Prime Minister 's differentiation between President Gamal Abdel Nasser and the Egyptian people as an attempt to confuse the issue . Sir Anthony had said President Nasser was Britain 's sole enemy in the Suez dispute  --  not the Egyptians nor the Arabs . He characterized the Egyptian President as a Fascist-type dictator and plunderer whose word was worthless . He said President Nasser could be counted on to raise the canal tolls for extravagant projects and indicated that Britain would use force if necessary to break Egypt 's control of the canal . The Egyptian statement was one of several developments here on the situation that has arisen since Egypt 's nationalization of the company operating the Suez Canal . Day 's Developments These @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ confer with their British counterparts on possible military action to place the canal under international control . 11The Foreign Office said it was undecided whether to treat the Soviet Union 's note as acceptance to the international Suez conference opening here Thursday . . ( iThe Board of Trade imposed a virtual embargo on trade with Egypt by advising exporters that no payments would be Termitted from Egyptian sterling accounts for goods shipped after July 27 , the date all Egyptian accounts were blocked . cThe Prime Minister summoned James Griffiths , deputy leader of the Opposition , and Alfred Robens , Opposition spokesman on foreign affairs , to 10 Downing Street for consultation on the Suez situation . tiThe airlift of troops to the Middle East was postponed until Sunday . ( Thritish wives evacuated from Egypt with their children arrived by air . They said they had been content there and would have preferred to remain . 41Senior 5abinet ministers and military service chiefs conferred on the Suez crisis at 10 Downing Street . Robert Gordon Menzies , Australian Prime Minister , arrived to discuss the Suez situation with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ beginning to end and must be resisted . The Admiralty announced that the royal yacht Britannia , which is to go to Mombasa , Kenya , next month to take Princess Margaret to Mauritius and Zanzibar , would go around Africa to avoid the canal . The Egyptian Embassy statement challenged Britain 's right to call a conference to deal with the Suez question . It charged that the conference was packed in Britain 's favor by the exclusion of many countries ; that fell within the criterion laid down for the invitations . The statement noted that in Article 8 of the October , 1954 , agreement to evacuate the Suez lCanal base Britain had " solemny recognized that ' the Suez maritime canal is an integral part of Egypt . ' " Denying allegations that the nationalization law violated human rights , the statement said no penalties applied to officials who wanted to end their contracts after giving customary notice . It questioned the basis of Western indignation over Egypt 's intention to use part of the canal profits for development projects rather than keeping them exclusively for canal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the company had distributed more than ' ? 50,000,000 8140,000,000 to shareholders and maintained reserves of more than ? 40,000,000 while spending only ? 17,000,000 on maintenance . The statement concluded by emphasizing Egypt 's determination to fulfill international obligations to uphold freedom of navigation through the canal and her equal determination to increase the canal 's capacity and efficiency for the benefit of world trade and future Egyptian generations . The Egyptian spokesman challenged anyone to find an instance where President Nasser had broken an international agreement . ? On the other hand . he asserted that the manner in which aid for Egypt 's Aswan High Dam project had been withdrawn by the United States and Britain was a breach of faith as well as goodwill . Furthermore , he said , Britain had abused if not technically broken her agreement to release Egypt 's sterling balances by freezing the sums released . Sir George Young , Chief Foreign Office spokesman , said the Soviet note contained " statements which do not hang together and with which we are not in agreement . " He said Sri- , tain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ France .                     