@@715223

txt WASHINGTON , Jan. 26 ? President Eisenhower created today a nine-member board to study the problem of unifying this country 's psychological warfare to give it a dynamic thrust in the " cold war . " The President named eight of the board 's members and said the , ninth would be selected soon by ' Charles E. Wilson , Secretary of Defense-designate . Long on the President 's mind , ' this country 's loosely organized ' foreign information , propaganda ' and undercover operation may be1 reorganized drastically for the ' mission of countering the Soviet Union 's aims . Included on the board were persons with consider-I able experience in psychological warfare who were believed to be dissatisfied with the present setup . William H. Jackson of Prince-1 ton , N. J. , was appointed chairman ' and was asked to file a report and recommendations by June 30 . General Eisenhower , as well as a-sociate William H. Jacksonct Press John Poster Dulles , Secretary of State , called for a more vigorous psychological warfare program during the Presidential campaign . And recently @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be made to kindle a nonviolent liberation movement in Soviet satellite countries . " It has long been my conviction , " said President Eisenhower today , " that a unified and dynamic effort in this field is essential to the security of the United states and of the other peoples in the community of free nations . All executive departments and agencies of the Federal Government are authorized and directed , as a matter of common concern , to cooperate with the committee in its work . " The establishment of this committee and the scope of its inquiry vere discussed at the Cabinet meeting last Friday morning and received full and complete support . " The committee 's final report and recommendations are to be in my hands not later than June 30 . " The White House announcement said the committee would open offices here at 901 Sixteenth ) Street , N. W. Its official title is the President 's Committee on International Information Activities . " The committee will survey and evaluate the Government 's information and related policies and activities with particular reference to international relations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Members Widely Experienced William H. Jackson was Deputy Director of the Central Intelligence Agency from October , 1950 , to August , 1951 , and has served on committees that have surveyed aspects of this country 's intelligence operations . He was chief of the Strategic Intelligence Division of Lieut . Gen. Jacob Dever 's staff in Europe during World War II , and later was Deputy Chief of Intelligence in Gen. Omar Bradley 's Twelfth Army Group . Since 1946 he has been managing partner in the investment firm , J. H. Whitney &; Co. , and before that was a partner in the New York law firm , Carter , Ledyard and Milburn . The other members of the committee are : C. D. Jackson , publisher of Fortune magazine , who was Deputy Chief of Psychological Warfare at Allied Force Headquarters in North Africa and later at Supreme Headquarters , Allied Expeditionary Force in Europe . In February , 1951 , he took a year 's leave from Fortune to serve as president of the National Committee for a Free Europe , Inc. , which operates Radio Free @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Curtain . Sigurd Larmon , president of the advertising firm Young &; Rubicam , and a director of the Scarsdale National Bank and Trust Company , and the Rumford Press , a trustee of Dartmouth College and member of the executive committee of the Council of United States Associates of the International Chamber of Commerce . Gordon Gray , president of the University of North Carolina and president of the Piedmont Publish ' ing Company , publisher of The Winston-Salem Journal and The Twin City Sentinel , and operator of Station WSJS . He was the first director of the Psychological Strategy Board . Barklie Henry of Prince , ton , N. J. , a director of many corporations and institutions , including the United States Trust Company of New York , the Great Northern Paper Company , and the lUnion Sulphur and Oil Company . He commanded submarinechasers and destroyer escorts during World War II . John C. Hughes , president of McCampbell &; Co. of New York City , which represents New England and Southern textile mills as sales agent . In World War I he was an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Pershing . He is also associated with the National Committee for a Free Europe , Inc . Robert Cutler , administrative assistant to the President . Since 1946 he has been president and director of the Old Colony Trust Company in Boston . During World War II he served as special assistant to Henry L. Stimson , Secretary of ' War , with the rank of brigadier general . He has wide philanthropic and civic interests in Boston . He has published two love novels , " Louisburg ? Square , " in 1917 , and " A Speckled Bird , " in 1922 . He averages 1,000 miles a year . bicycling as a hobby . Abbott Washburn of Minneapolis , who will be executive secretary of the committee , was director of organization of Citizens for Eisenhower during the Presidential campaign . He was formerly associated with General Mills , Inc. , served with the Office of Strategic Services in Europe during World War II , and in 1950 and 1951 was associated with Gen. Lucius D. Clay as executive vice chairman of the Crusade for Freedom . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ techniques of the Central Intelligence Agency , the Psychological Strategy Board , the Voice of America , the Information Services of the State and other , departments , and the psychological warfare open rtions of the Army in Korea . The Psychological Strategy Board , subordinate to the National Security Council , and consisting of part-time members of the C. I. A. , the State Department and Defense Department , develops psycholo-1 gical warfare projects that are , carried out by various Government agencies . James C. Hagerty , White House press secretary , was asked if the conflict-of-interest statutes was considered in connection with any of the members . He said he did not know . In 1951 President Truman xreated a Commission on Internal Security and Individual Rights , headed by Fleet Admiral Chester W. Nimitz , but it was unable to function . Congress refused to pass a resolution that would exempt the members of that part-time cora= mission from a statute that barred any . Federal office holder from doing business with the Government for two years after he concluded his Federal mission . This statute is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was compelled , to divest himself of his-General Motors stock in order to qualify for his office . Some members of Congress thought the Truman commission was too legalistic , but the members declined to serve in the absence ' of an exemption in view of the opposition to their mission by Senator Pat McCarron , Democrat of Nevada .                     