@@715864

txt The damp , chilly gloom that hung over New York and the , suburbs all day yesterday was not a threat of another early snowstorm , but merely smog . This compound of fog and local industrial smoke prevented astronomers from observing the transit of the planet Mercury across the face of the sun , a celestial event they had been awaiting for fiftynine years . The poor visibility slowed traffic on the New Jersey Turnpike and some other high7 ways , and produced a cheerless atmosphere for Saturday football crowds . A warm , sunny day had been forecast by the Weather Bureau . But curtains of haze began falling in the pre-dawn hours and grew thicker through most of the day . This was caused by a layer . of comparatively Cool , moist air 1,000 feet thick . overlaid by a warmer layer . These strata ? acted- " as a lid , " the Weather Bureau , said , to hold down the smoke over the congested Metropolitan area . Air travelers - found blue skies soon after taking off . Low cloudiness hung @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was particularly dark from Southern Connecticut to Washington east of the Pennsylvania mountains . Visibility here was rarely more than two miles until late afternoon , and the temperature remained in the lower 40 's , about ten degrees below normal . The Hayden Planetarium staff of eight astronomers had set up four telescopes and two celestial cameras on the grounds of the Museum of Natural History to photograph Mercury . They stood by from 10:36 A. M. until 1:12 P. while the planet was moving across the sun 's face in direct line of sight between earth and sun , but never got a peek at it . To console ' 150 visitors , disappointed at not getting a look at the . black dot on the sun's- face through the big telescopes , the Planetarium reproduced the heavenly phenomenon inside the dome of its exhibition hall at 10:45 A. M ; Joseph M. Chamberlain , chief astronomer , said the last complete transit of Mercury was visible in the United States in 1894 . The next time will be Nov. 6 , 1960 , since it occurs only thirteen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Mississippi may have tin4ined pictures of it , though , Mr. ' Chamberlain thought . The New , .. lersey Turnpike had to start 8014 its speed limit from 60 miles . anAiciur . to 35 on some sections-O:tie highway as early as 1:26 yesterday because of the smog . The curtailment embraced the entire 120 miles of the road at ** while from 2:10 to 3:W A. M. no traffic at all was permitted between Elizabeth and Newark . After that , restrictions were gradually eased until all went off aboutAl A. M. , but a 35-milean-hour limit was reimposed last night because of fog . . In the afternoon , a west wind of 10 miles an hour began to blow the fog away , so the sky became considerably clearer by ? sunset . Today , the Weather Bureau said , will be mostly fair , with fog and haze in the early morning .                     