@@718743

txt Four of the five companies named in the Government 's complaint indicated they thought its allegations unfounded . The fifth concern , C. C C. Super Corp. , declined to make any comment . Ely A. Landau , National Telefilm Associates president , stated flatly : " NTA does not engage in compulsory block booking . " Its licenses do usually cover a number of films , he conceded , " but this is for the convenience of the TV stations as well as NTA , and it is not a requirement of NTA . " The needs of television stations for a continuity of programming which will meet the historical pattern of 13 , 25 , 39 or 52 week cycles make the sales of films in groups a natural distribution method in the industry without any element of compulsion . " If the Government should proceed with the ca'se after acquiring a more complete knowledge of NTA 's booking practices , we believe this case can and will be successfully defended by NTA . " " No Product Forced on Anyone " Lewis Chesler , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ frequently sold individual films to individual stations , and that various parts of its film library have been leased independently of others . " Thus it is apparent , " asserted Mr. Chesler , " that no product has been forced on anyone ; and we anticipate no trouble in persuading both the Government and the public of this fact . " Full compliance with any requests made by the Government , the executive added , " should in no way affect the future activities of the company or its earnings . " Careful Law Compliance Claimed A spokesman for Screen Gems , said the ' Government did not consult with " any representative of the company " before filing the suit . He said no formal statement was possible until papers have been served . But he asserted the concern  --  a subsidiary of Columbia Pictures Corp. ? " has , like its parent company , carefully established its sales structure within the framework of the applicable anti-trust laws . " United Artists also said it had not been served with a complaint . A spokesman declared , however , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not affect our method of doing business , " He continued : " It seems we have been lumped with others in a general action . We had no prior notice and the action was begun with-out any interview with our officers or investigation of our company practices . "                     