@@719946

txt A public . split over the candidacy of Dr : Charles Malik of Lebanon for President of the UN General Assembly is the first indication that Arab unity may once again be in neril . Last month , with considerable fanfare and not a little show of emotion , the Arab states pledged themselves to live and let live as cooperative members of one harmonious family . UN diplomats hailed the achievement of a d  --  tente , or general easing of tension , in the Middle East . Since that time , UN Secretary-General Dag Hammarskjold has been on a mission to the area to seek agreement on ways to carry out the decision and to render the d  --  tente permanent . Little has leaked out on his progress , but there have been broad hints that he was running into snags . Seeming confirmation now has been forthcoming . The political committee of the Arab League has . recommended " consideration " of Sudanese Foreign . Minister Mohammed Ahmed Mahgoub for Assembly President . The Assembly convenes Sept. 16 . Candidate Before Dr. Malik @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In 1957 , he lost out in a close race with Sir Leslie Munro of New Zealand . Since then , he has renewed his efforts and had seemed assured of election until the Arab League refused to support him . A candidate from a region normally has the support of other countries in the region , and refusal of that support is a severe blow . Nevertheless , Dr .. AzkOul , Lebanon 's chief year-round UN delegate , announced Sept. 9 that : Dr. Malik was still very much in the race , and still expected to win . Indeed , Dr. AzkOul said his election was " certaitf , ' " 71n - the light of private commitments made . The . Lebanese delegate attempted to cover up the Arab split , emphasizing ' that the Arab Leagne 's political committee had not been unanimous . in its recommendation ( Lebanon . . voted " no " ) ; that the committee had merely recommended , not decided ; and that it had asked " consideration , " not support as such , for Mr. Mahgoub . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and that the fact is the Arabs once . again are pulling in two directions , if only on a comparatively minor prestige issue . The Assembly ' presidency has little power , but it is a highly coveted honor . Opposition Aroused Dr. Malik , as a long-time friend of the West , has aroused opposition among some of the more neutralist and anti-Western Arabs . It was he who presented the principal case against the United Arab Republic at the height of the Lebanon-Jordan crisis . ? Dr. Azkoul said he did not know whether Dr. Malik would be a member of the incoming government of President Chchab . General Chehab takes office Sept. 24 . During inter-Arab negotiations behind the scenes here at the time of the emergency General Assembly in August , it was generally understood that the Arabs had all agreed to support Dr. Malik . Dr. Azkoul inferentially confirmed this impression Sept. 9 . ? Positions Agreed What has happened between mid-August and mid-September to divide the Arabs on this issue is not clear , but most agree it is not a harbinger of agreement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ scenes for the Assembly is virtually complete , and largely . settled . Argentina is due to replace Colombia , and Italy , Sweden on the Security Council . Iran is considered the leading candidate to replace Iraq , though some circles take seriously the newer candidacy , of Tunisia . If anything should happen to throw the Malik candidacy wholly off the rails , Dr. Victor Andres Belaunde of Peru and Foreign Minister Koca Popovic of Yugoslavia ; among others , are likely to give Mr. Mahgoub a battle . . Dr. Belaunde , however , has all but decided to wait until 1959 , inasmuch as Latin America is in line for two vice-presidencies and the chairmanships of the political and legal committees this year . Moreover ,                     