@@719514

txt Record snows and numbing temperatures left eighteen persons dead yesterday in New York State as the season 's worst cold wave continued to grip most of the country from the Rocky Mountains to the Atlantic Ocean . Two deaths were reported in New Jersey . In the city the cold wave dropped temperatures to 11.2 /degrees at 6:20 A. M. , equalling the year 's low recorded on Jan. 4 . The high for the day was 20.7 - degrees at 3:40 P. M. At 2:45 o'clock this morning the temperature was 16 degrees . New storms buffeted some upstate sections yesterday , blowing a forty-inch snow into drifts up to fifteen feet high ? The drifts snarled transportation , marooned hundreds , immobilized industry and caused schools to close . The United Press reported at least fifty-four persons dead across the country , including eleven in New England . A state of emergency prevailed in Syracuse , N. Y. , as the city tried to dig its way out of a thirty-seven-inch snowfall from the worst blizzard in thirty-three years . Twenty-six inches of snow fell between @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stranded or stalled in the Syracuse-Utica. area . The General , Electric AtObmpany shut down its four plants in Utica . The blizzard swept in from the Great Lakes Sunday with fifty-mile-an-hour winds . It covered most of the state from Lake Erie into Pennsylvania and east beyond the Mohawk Valley . A three-hour blizzard whipped Buffalo , lowering the visibility to zero at times . The airport , schools and downtown stores were all closed by early afternoon . The South suffered , too , with up to two inches of snow as far south as Vicksburg and Jackson , Miss . Bus service was suspended , schools were closed and motorists were warned to stay off the highways . Hazards Increased The snowfall increased the hazards caused by an ice storm that glazed a four-state area from Mississippi ail the way west to the Texas Panhandle . In Florida the season 's fourth cold snap damaged winter vegetable crops despite protective clouds . An early morning frost and a low of 29 degrees were reported in the Everglades . The Gulf Stream kept Miami Beach readings above 52 degrees @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ represented the coldest and wettest month in its records . Temperatures in the Plains States fell to 20 degrees below zero in some sections for the third day . Suburban Chicago awoke to 10 below . In the East seven of the New York deaths involved elderly persons ? 7ho were stricken by heart attacks while shoveling snow . Nine deaths were caused on the highways , including three in New York City . A 275-mile stretch of the New York State Thruway between Albany and Buffalo was reopened early yesterday after drifts had blocked the road for about ten hours . ' Stalled vehicles dotted most of the state . In Baldwinsville , outside Syracuse , the faint sound of an automobile horn led rescuers to a car buried under a huge drift for two days . They found a woman with her legs frozen . Her husband lay dead beside her . Farms Are Isolated Farms across the northern ' tier west to Rochester and Niagara Falls were isolated , some families without food . At Augusta , in central New York , the state police abandoned a stalled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a marooned farm wife and her eight children . They were taken to shelter on toboggans . The ill winds also spread out over the Atlantic , hampering shipping . The Cunard liner Saxonia , after battling heavy seas , docked in the Hudson River yesterday thirty-six hours behind schedule . Any hope upstate for better weather was chilled by today 's forecast , which predicted zero temperatures and up to fifteen inches more of snow . In the metropolitan area the outlook is for " mostly fair and continued cold " today with temperatures in the twenties .                     