@@715932

txt PARIS , Dec. 18 ? A strange diplomatic contest has begun within the Atlantic Alliance , mainly between the United States and France . It is dominated by the question of Western European military integration in a particular form and within a fairly limited time . In Washington the issue is presented in simple terms . Will the Europeans " fish or cut bait " ? Will the French Parliament say yes or no to the pending European Army treaty some time next spring ? It is solemnly suggested that upon this answer will depend the future of United States foreign policy and strategy , that the United States will or will not defend the Continent of Europe on the ground in accordance with the positive or negative vote of a wavering French Parliament . Such seems to be the official American doctrine enunciated by John Foster Dulles , Secretary of ' State , and endorsed by President Eisenhower . Europeans of great experience in foreign affairs refuse to agree that the issue is quite so simple , or that United States foreign policy is really at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and confused French National Assembly . Europe 's Leaders Hesitate Under the now explicit threat to cut off defense aid if the pending treaty fails , under the now open and frank pressure from the Washington Administration , European leaders hesitate to talk back . Butt it may be useful to notice some Eu-1 ropean attitudes . These attitudes include doubts that Europeans can be induced to unite by United States pressure arid doubts that such a union , if feasible , would prove fruitful . These doubts appear to have crept into Mr. Dulles ' mind on Dec. 1 when he counseled against " blustering and domineering methods " toward allies and warned of the futility of trying to coerce them . But the doubts apparently had vanished thirteen days later when Mr. Dulles in Paris issued what seemed a virtual ultimatum to the French on the European army . The purport of this ultimatum // that there must be a European army quickly or the United States might abandon its present European strategy  --  seemed to many in Europe to be in contradiction with the basic doctrine of United @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said repeatedly by the highest American officials that Western Europe 's security was vital to the United States , and the Marshall plan and the North , Atlantic Treaty were founded upon this thesis . But now Mr. Dulles seems to say it is not absolutely ) vital after all and that the United States might pull out of European , land defenses and give up defending Europe east of the Rhine . The pressure thus brought is exerted upon the French Assembly by a United States Administration , speaking in this context for members of Congress who have grown impatient with French procrastination . Bringing foreign pressure upon a national legislature , notably in a question involving national sovereignty as the European army treaty does , appears to many here to be hazardous for Allied relations . The French Assembly up to the present has given much evidence that it is so divided as to be incapable of taking the decision that the United States demands , just as it appears incapable of facing the basic domestic issues that long have threatened the existence of the Fourth Republic . Throughout @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would get a showdown in the Assembly on . the European army treaty , but when the time came he dodged the showdown by accepting a wishy-washy resolution . The question is asked , therefore , whether it is wise or worth-while to use the huge influence of the United States to try to force a French Assembly to make a decision that it appears inherently incapable of making . For several years Washington relied upon a few governmental leaders to unite Europe , although they did little to explain or commend their project to public opinion or even to parliamentary opinion in the countries concerned . Now an uninformed public and parliamentary opinion is called upon for quick decisions so as to avoid offending the United States Congress and upsetting United States foreign policy . The issue has been narrowed down to the European army , and to the particular form of it described in the pending treaty . This document has become official United States policy and by rejecting it the French Assembly will imperil the Atlantic strategy in its present form , according to Mr. Dulles . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ France and Germany , which Mr. Dulles said it symbolized . Thus Congress , as interpreted by Mr. Dulles , no longer asks Europeans to unite in their own way but demands that they unite in a specific manner devised by some of their leaders but not fully accepted by parliaments or the public . Con- , gress is credited with demanding that this be done rapidly on pain of losing dollar aid . It thus appears to be Congress that determines the foreign policy of the United States and seeks to determine that of France , or seeks at any rate to press for a decision that the French I are not ready to make .                     