@@714222

txt The Dewey Administration is charting a new approach to the narcotics problem in New York City , one that will combine state financial aid with the available facilities of private hospitals and welfare groups . Plans are now being drawn for an extensive program to be submitted to the next session of the Legislature . This program will increase penalties for peddling of narcotics , tighten state control of supplies and start an ambitious experiment in dealing with addicts . Complete details are not yet available , but it is known that current proposals envision alloting state aid , possibly on a per capita basis , to private hospitals and institutions that will undertake the care and rehabilitation of addicts . This approach has been made necessary , state officials feel , because of the almost complete lack of public facilities in New York City , where addicts , particularly teen-agers , could be isolated and receive specific treatment . Health officials also hope to enlist private welfare and social agencies in the program , so that vital follow-up psychiatric case work can be accomplished without an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ expensive and hampered by shortages of trained personnel . Narcotics authorities emphasize that the provision of hospital beds , where addicts can be weaned away from their craving , will do little good unless the individual is also given long-range help in meeting the psychiatric problems that make him an addict . Governor Dewey is known to believe that any program involving extensive new withdrawal facilities for addicts is out of the question now when aroused public // NEWNARCOTIC PLAN CDoenptarrotml. entir h ' a Buu nr ta nowf NI tacrecnostle sc Control , and the State Education Department , which has requested the Board of Regents to study edu- ' cational means to combat addiction , are cooperating . Other legislative proposals are understood to include : 1 . A bill making narcotics addiction a disease that must be reported to the State Health Department , as poliomyelitis and similar epidemic diseases are . 2 . A bill requiring that drug ad-dicts , not guilty of any other offense , be detained in a hospital rather than in a prison to stress their treatment as patients rather than criminals . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ committed to treatment facilities and released as cured to report for follow-up checks on their rehabilitation . Another move believed to be under consideration is the enlargement of the State Health opinion and humanitarian motives demand immediate action . The building of narcotics hospitals would not only require too much time , Mr. Dewey is said to be convinced , but such action would also put a heavy strain on an already tight budget and might very well be precluded by shortages of materials needed for defense production . A $50,000 Study The principal planning is under the supervision of Attorney General Nathaniel L. Goldstein , who was authorized by the last Legislature to undertake a $50,000 study of existing laws and to make recommendations for new techniques . The State Health Department , through its Bureau of Narcotics manufacturers and sellers and keeps records on all supplies of habit-forming drugs in the state . State health officials say this bureau may even b. shifted to the jurisdiction of the Attorney General , so that its inspectors and officers might work more closely with the state 's chief law enforcement agency @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ severity of legal penalties for sale and possession of narcotics , this legislation will fall far short of some well-meaning proposals now being advanced . For example , one of the state 's most influential legislative leaders has said privately that-he intended to back a bill calling for a twentyfive-year mandatory sentence for narcotics " pushers . " Legal authorities say such a measure would be self-defeating , because few if any juries would even convict for an offense that carried such a heavy required penalty . A law like this , they say , would only result in lesser indictments or defendants ' pleading guilty to lesser charges . Withdrawal Facilities Officials drafting the treatment program for New York City point out that the only withdrawal facilities for addicts are in the psychiatric divisions of Bellevue and Kings ' County Hospitals , and that this program was started only recently as a stop-gap measure . Four months ago the city announced plans to establish facilities for teen-age addicts at Riverside Hospital on North Brother Island . State officials say , however , that this project will be miniature compared with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Dewey authorized a pilot program for medical and psychiatric treatment of women addicts among the prisoners at Westfield State Farm in Bedford Hills , but this is the only such state activity now in existence .                     