@@718261

txt Letters to The Times EARL B. SCHWULST.JOEL GOLDBERG.ROBERT J. ALEXANDER , DAVID A. LURENSKY . Letters to The Times Activities for Teens To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Re David Lubell 's letter published Oct. 6 decrying a general lack of non-competitive teen-age activities : This problem , fortunately , does not exist in Queens as it apparently does in Croton-on-Hudson . Teen-age boys and girls from Queens high schools are building their own camp in Westchester . Starting from scratch , they have cleared several acres , built a road , three cabins , and have worked out a twenty-year development program , The Turkey Mountain program is sponsored and supervised by the Child Service League of Queens Borough . The league began this teen-age project nearly three years ago to carry out the idea that not only do high school students need such a camp for week-end outings but constructive " do-it-yourself " .. experience as well . JOEL GOLDBERG . Flushinm N. Y .. Oct. 8. 1956 . To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : The letter published Oct. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Zorrila concerning the present situation in Bolivia gives , I believe , a false picture of the state of affairs there . At one point the writers comment that Bolivia , until the present regime came to power in 1952 , " lived a restricted but independent existence . " The fact is that the economy of the nation depended largely upon decisions of three large mining concerns controlled from abroad , which for half a century had been - digging riches from Bolivian soil while leaving in the country very little in return . These mines have now been expropriated  --  not confiscated , as is claimed by your correspondents  --  so as to make available to the Bolivian people the largest possible amount of return from the tin mines . That the tin industry in Bolivia is now in crisis is due not so much to expropriation as to the declining percentage of metal in available ores and to the need for re-equipment of the mines . Transformation of Indians Your correspondents overlook the fundamental fact about the present regime in Bolivia . This is that for the first time @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ makes up three-fourths or more cf its people , has been brought into full participation in the country 's political , economic and social life . They are entering the market for things which they never would buy before . Whereas four years ago the " market " consisted of perhaps a quarter of a million people , today it is at least four times thateeize , and after the next harvest may have doubled once again . This has brought about a shortage of all kinds of goods in the cities . There is undoubtedly a crisis , and a serious one , but it is a crisis of growth , not of decay . Furthermore the Government , for the first time in the nation 's history , has an ambitious program of economic development which is seeking to overcome this crisis . In the meanwhile there is admittedly need for considerable aid from abroad , aid which the United States has given during the last four years and which in this writer 's opinion should be continued and expanded . Persecution of Parties This writer would be the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ perfect democratic conditions . But the fact is that such conditions have never existed . The present Government party , the National Revolutionary Movement ( M. N. R. ) Was at least as badly persecuted when it was in the opposition as are the present opponents of the Government . And the previous regimes did not have the extenuating circumstance that they represented the great majority of the population . Furthermore , in the months before and after the June election , the Government demonstrated its desire for an amplification of democracy by declaring a general amnesty and permitting elections which even your correspondents admit were honest , in the cities . The fact that the Government triumphed amply in the countryside and in the mining towns was due largely to the fact that the support of the regime by miners in the nationalized tin industry and by peasants who have benefited from the agrarian reform was so overwhelming . As to charges that the present regime is Communist , these are absurd . The Communists are violent critics of the present Government . The growth and triumph of the M. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the growth of the Bolivian Communist party , which received perhaps 1 per cent of the total vote in last June 's election . ROBERT J. ALEXANDER , Associate Professor , Department of Economics . Rutgers University . New Brunswich , N. J. , Oct. 6 , 1956 . Immigration as Political Issue To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : I read with much interest and appreciation The Times editorial of Oct. 4 , " Immigration Issue . " Governor Stevenson must know that it is not in keeping with the facts to tax the present Administration with the McCarran-Walter Act and that when considering proposed revisions it . is neither fair nor practical to overlook the difficulties that delay them . Both McCaetran and Walter , authors of the existing act , were Democrats . The act was passed by a Democratic Congress during a Democratic Administration . This does not necessarily reflect on the Truman Administration , which objected to the law , just as does the Eisenhower Administration . To belabor the present Administration for the act 's injustices and for problems of revision is to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the law , and not in playing politics , will concentrate in securing bipartisan support for the Administration in its efforts to change the act . DAVID A. LURENSKY . Newton , Mass. , Oct. 4 , 1956 . Housing Program Backed Benefits to Entire Community Seen in Slum Clearance Project To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : In recent months your reporters and editorials have covered , with their customary impartiality , the heated controversy concerning ' the slum-clearance program . I would like to add my voice to those which have been raised in favor of this program . One need not be a housing or real estate expert to appreciate the fact that serious blight and deterioration . n the housing inventory of this great city have developed to an alarming extent . The situation is perfectly apparent to all who have eyes to see . And the consequences are manifested not only in decaying physical structures but also in the records of our health , police , welfare and penal authorities . The scope of this problem is vast in terms of money and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ local legislation is bold and imaginative . It is not surprising , therefore , that in the early stages of executing this program difficult problems should have been encountered and mistakes made . The opponents of the program harp constantly upon these difficulties and mistakes , pointing I o the undoubted delays of the F. H. A. in approving specific procots , the hardships involved m tenant relocation and the more favorable tax treatment accorded to these projects in contrast to projects which are wholly private in nature . What the opponents of this program do not do is to suggest any other method by which this grave problem can be solved , Supplement to Private Capital I believe no one seriously questions that it is not possible today in New York City for private capital alone to provide the sorely needed housing accommodations for the middle-income segment of the community . This requires construction of accommodations which can be economically constructed and operated on rents in the neighbor hood of $20-$25 per room . This simply is not possible in view of the extremely high cost of land and of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Gf new construction . If the problem were less severe , the remedy might be less severe ; but it is not . The City Planning Commission in the City of New York , which has the responsibility for designating substandard areas , has found that approximately eleven square miles in the City of New York contain structures that are not fit for human habitation . Many additional square miles are on the borderline and are fast moving into the slum classification . To date ten redevelopment projects under Title I have been completed or are presently under contract . An additional seven projects are under final study and preparations have been made to study nine more in various parts of the city . Increase in Revenue When the first seventeen of these projects are completed , 24,082 substandard dwelling units will have been replaced by over 27,000 modern units . The taxes to be immediately realized by the city from the new structures will be well over $12 millions , as opposed to taxes on these properties prior to redevelopment of $4,373,914 . With respect to those projects which will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ realized by the city at the termination of the concession period will be substantial . Experience to date has shown that the tax revenues received by the city from immediately surrounding properties will also undoubtedly increase as the general neighborhood is upgraded by the new developments . The hard fact is that none of these results could be produced without some governmental assistance and some tax concessions . It seems to me that we have no alternative but to recognize this enormous problem . and to devote every effort to making the Title I program work . To date it has been demonstrated that responsible builders operating under sensible redevelopment plans can produce , With the aid of the Title I and allied programs , suitable housing accommodations within the income limitations of our middle-income group . I am not suggesting that lending institutions should make funds available solely for the purpose of serving desirable social ends . I am suggesting , however , that these ends can be justifiably served and sound niertgage investments can be made if Government , responsible builders and our major lending institutions will work together @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the cost of the nrozram. will redound to ill . EARL B. SOH WULST . New York , Oct. 3 , 1956 . Conditions in Bolivia Current Crisis Said to Be One of Growth , Not of Decay                     