@@714693

txt On his present visit to this country Foreign Minister Sharett of Israel has ' appealed to world opinion for moral pressure on Germany to discharge its debt of recompense for the crimes corn ' mitted by the Hitler regime against the Jews . This appeal will undoubtedly find a sympathetic response . Chancellor Adenauer has already offered both moral and material amends , and though Jewish leaders reject the possibility of moral amends for the 6,000,000 Jewish lives lost , they have been negotiating for material reparations to aid both Israel and surviving Jewish victims . The negotiations have been stalled , however , because Germany has failed to make a concrete and definite offer of payment ; and though Chancellor Adenauer has now promised to make such an offer before June 19,1 when the negotiations are scheduled to resume , the Israeli leaders fear that unless this offer is made before the signing of the German " peace contract " next week Mr. Adenauer 's promise may still prove illusory . For the " peace contract " would restore a good deal of German sovereignty , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ matter than a Germany still under Allied occupation . This fear finds support in the obvious split over this issue within the Adenauer Government , which has prompted the German negotiators themselves to charge it with insincerity and offer their resignation . Chancellor Adenauer is anxious to settle the question in order to restore Germany 's moral and diplomatic prestige as an ally of the West , but his financial experts balk at assuming new obligations unless they know how to meet them . Considering the fate of previous reparation settlements and the difficulties most countries have in making international payments , their concern is understandable . The total Israeli and non-governmental Jewish claims on all Germany amount to considerably more than two billion dollars . Israel claims $1,500,000,000 for the resettlement of 500,000 refugees at $3,000 a person ? $1,000,000,000 from West Germany and $500,000,000 from East Germany . The Communist East German regime , which applauds delivery of nearly $12,000,000,000 in reparation goods to Soviet Russia , has replied to these claims with anti-Jewish vilification , but Bonn can not ignore the claim against East Germany in view of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ $500,000,000 from West Germany for material losses , in addition to restitution of identifiable Jewish property amounting to several hundred million dollars more , These claims come on top of demands for three to five billion dollars for Germany 's pre-war and post-war debts , for $2,600,000,000 a year as Germany 's defense contribution , and for a 50 per cent capital levy to take care of the 10,000,000 refugees and other war ? ictims in West Germany . For a country with a national income of less than twenty billion dollars a year , these are large sums . But Bonn has already reached substantial agreement with the non-governmental organizations and has acknowledged Israeli claims of more than one billion dollars , of which West Germany 's share is put at $715,000,000 . The remaining differences do not , therefore , look insuperable , and given goodwill on both sides it should be possible to reach compromises on both the final sum and the methods of paying it .                     