@@717022

txt Those who see a dangerous enticement of Germany in the Moscow decision to grant a peace treaty to Austria are , I think , right as far as they go , but they do not go nearly far enough . The prospect of Soviet troops marching back out of a part of central Europe for the first time since the war is an enormously appealing one to Germans , but to many more than Germans . Surely there is no one thing more generally desired in all of Europe than the departure of Soviet soldiers from the western slope of the Carpathian Mountains . Moscow can obtain a vast amount of good will in Europe by the simple process of calling its soldiers back . Austrians are not inclined to count the cost heavily against the enormous relief which will be theirs to possess their own farms and villages and cities once more . Germans are not unlike Austrians in this respect . All of Western Europe , including the closest allies of the United States , would breathe a vast sigh of relief over a recession @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we need to ask ourselves is why the Soviets choose this particular moment to open up for Europe a prospect so much desired by Europe ; why it apparently chooses to buy just now the good will it can have and could have had at any time over the past 10 years by pulling back its soldiers . No matter what the immediate advantages Moscow may derive from the transaction , it still represents a spending of capital , and the kind of capital which can be spent only once . This is an asset which has long been hoarded . Nov it seems likely to be spent . assets of this kind except for the most carefully calculated reasons of state and for greatly desired ends . . What is it the Soviets hope to get by spending an asset of this nature and at the risk of exposing the satellite countries to western influence ? It must be something of first order , for the risks to them are substantial . A free Austria and a free Germany along the frontiers of Poland , Czechoslovakia , and Hungary are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ might well pay the price not only of a withdrawal of its troops from their military forefield in central Europe but also of a substantial loss of political influence in the satellite countries . The loss of the whole Danube basin conceivably could be involved . Only one thing , I think , could explain adequately an apparent willingness in Moscow to pay such a price at such a risk for good will in Europe . That one thing would be such an improvement in the relations of Moscow with the great capitals of Western Europe , most particularly of London , that Moscow could hope for the neutrality of I do not mean that Moscow could expect Britain to remain neutral in the event of an open war involving both the United States and the Soviet Union . That would mean a world war , and the men in the Kremlin surely know it as well as anyone else . I mean that if there should by a war between China and the United States , Moscow would hope to see it fought exclusively between the uniformed men of China @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the western allies of the United States should content themselves with giving indirect aid to their respective allies . In such a war Moscow , of course , would be of far greater help to its ally China than the western allies would be to the United States . Soviet weapons contributed to China , particularly the atomic variety , would reduce the disparity in strength between the two belligerents . Moscow would hope to secure the survival of China by nonbelligerent aid , and save its position in the Communist world , without fighting , by the double claim of giving China powerful military weapons and security from a world ? coalition . By such devices Moscow could hope to avoid the charge of abandoning its ally in distress , could hope to avoid direct involvement in the war , could hope to see China and the United States weaken each other while Moscow remained safe , undamaged , and with a vastly improved relationship with Western Europe . The end of such an operation , if successful for China , would leave the Soviet Union with greater security around @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ possessed at any time in modern history . Even if the United States damaged China , it probably would not have destroyed it . A weaker but more dependent China still would cover the Asiatic frontiers of the Soviet Union . The gratitude of Western Europe would cover the European frontiers , and the United States would be on the far side of the world deprived of its system of air bases which are presently essential to the projection of American air power against the Soviet Union itself . Such , I think , must be an approximation of what Moscow hopes to gain by holding out to Europe at this time the prospect of a withdrawal of Soviet armies from central Europe .                     