@@713475

txt GENERAL MOTORS HALTS DEALER SALE OF ' 51 MODEL CARS Directs Chevrolets , Cadillacsil and Pontiacs Be Held Up Pending Price Freeze Study TO APPEAL TO WASHINGTON Says New Autos Surpass 50 's , Cost More to Build  --  Control Agency ' Open to Persuasion ' Special to The FEW leant Ttetes . DETROIT , Dec. ** General Motors Corporation suspended the sales of three lines of 1951 passenger automobiles today as a response to the Government 's Saturday order rolling back prices to the Dec. 1 level . At the same time , Charles E. Wilson , president of General Mo-tors , told unions holding cost-of-1 living escalator wage agreements with the corporation that the Economic Stabilization Agency 's edict placed the agreements in jeopardy . General Motors sent telegrams today to its 12,000 dealers handling Chevrolet , Pontiac and Cadillac cars directing that they stop selling the 1951 models pending an examination of the price freeze order and the possible effect that it would have on wages . In- Washington , officials of the Economic Stabilization Agency said they were mystified by General Motors ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enough case to persuade the agency to reverse its freeze order . The agency was awaiting a telegram from General Motors presenting additional arguments for rescinding the price rollback . Dealers Get Instructions The corporation 's telegram to its dealers said : " Pending an examination of the discriminatory order of the Economic Stabilization Agency affecting passenger car prices including the possible effect of this order on I wages , all 1951 model passenger cars shipped to you , on and after today if accepted by you , will be upon assignment and will remain the property of General Motors Corporation . They are not to be sold until released from consignment . " With respect to 1951 passenger cars delivered to , you by the divisions of General Motors Corporation prior to your receipt of this telegram , and with respect to which title has passed to you , these are your property and the disposition thereof in the light of Price Regulation Number 1 or any future Government action must be determined by you . " Meanwhile , General Motors prepared to apply to the Stabilization Agency for a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reasons why General Motors has so vigorously resisted the order is indicated in the corporation 's assertion that its 1951 models are far superior to the 1950 models . In the . three lilies of passenger cars introduced , the corporation has listed as many as forty improvements . Some require the use of superior and more expensive , materials and a greater ratio of skilled IA orkmanship . In addition , the corporation has called attention to what it termed skyrocketing costs in wages , materials and operations . All materi // G. FREEZES SALE freezing wages in the automobile industry will be discussed . Under the National Defense Act OF 3 LINES OF CARS tries where prices are controlled . wages must be controlled in indusMr . Reuther left by plane this afternoon for Washington to confer with Government officials in // deleted 20 lines However , Mr Wilson , assured the unions that " General Motors intends to do everything possible to preserve its labor agreements and to maintain its policies for the fair compensation of employes . " A corporation spokesman said that 104,400 of the 1951 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dealers since Dec. 1 . He broke this down to 70,000 Chevrolets , 32,000 Pontiacs and 2,400 Cadillacs . He added that " about half " of the Chevrolets had already been delivered to the public but that no report had been received from the Pontiac and Cadillac dealers . He said that no provision had been considered for a possible rebate to persons who had purchased cars after Dec. 5 when General Motors raised prices 5 per cent . He observed that the Economic Stabilization Agency 's order affected only the manufacturer 's price to the dealers . General Motors long has maintained that its dealers were private business men . The corporation issues only " suggested price lists . " The spokesman said that the corporation was prohibited by law from setting retail prices . The Ford Motor Company and Nash Motors of the Nash-Kelvinator Corporation , which previously had assured Alan Valentine , Administrator of the Economic Stabilization Agency , that they would conform to the rollback order , were silent today . The Chrysler Corporation , the other maker that has raised prices on 1951 models since @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not . commented on the original rollback order . Chrysler , however , is not affected as yet because its 1951 models will not be on the market until January . Reuther Assails Order General Motors has two other lines to offer later , Buick and Oldsmobiles . The 1951 Buick models are now being produced but I will not be available to the public until next month . it became apparent that the other manufacturers affected by the Stabilization , Agency 's order preferred to permit r'eneral Motors to take the initiative in opposing it . Walter P. Reuther , president of the United Auto Workers , C. I. 0. , like Mr. Wilson , assailed the price order as discriminatory and pinpoint price control that ignored the basic reason for the spiraling cost of living . The two will be on the same side of the table at a Wage Stabilization Board meeting in Washington Wednesday when the subject of deleted 20 lines                     