@@717579

txt Secretary , of State John Foster Dulles announced the administration will ask Congress for a foreign aid appropriation of about 4.9 billion dollars . It would include a special presidental fund of 100 million dollars for use in the Soviet threatened Middle East . Mr. Dulles told a news conference he regretted very much a misunderstanding which he said had given congressional leaders the impression that the program to be submitted in January would he about the same as that voted this year . Backlog For Future Mr. Dulles said the new money request to be , laid before Congress will cover both military and economic and that the jump of about 27 billion dollars over this year 's program is to be explained in large part by a need to keep the pipeline of military supplies full . He drew a distinction between appropriations and prospective expenditures , explaining that actual spending on foreign aid will he only 200 million dollars more than the present fiscal year . ending next Juge 30 . The money appropriated , but not to be spent in the new fiscal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ aid spending authority for use in future years , It would raise this to about seven billion dollars . Ahead of Mr. Dulles ' news conference it had become known the administration was planning a request for nearly five billion dollars for foreign aid . Several Congress members indicated they would want to give it a very critical examination . Mr. Dulles said the requested new appropriations will be about 1.9 billion dollars for ? foreign economic aid and 3 billion dollars for the military aid program . The present foreign aid spending rate , Mr. Dulles said , for both mil itary and economic assistance is about 4.2 billion dollars of which 2.5 billion ( lc-liars is for military purposes and 1.7 billion dollars for economic assistance . By Mr. Dulles ' figures , the military spending rate will stay the same in the next fiscal year and the economic aid spending rate will increase by about 200 million dollars . In short , it is planned that spending for the 1957 fiscal year , beginning next July 1 , would be 4.4 billion dollars  --  leaving 500 million dollars @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are voted usually two or three or more years before they are spent since weapons take a long time to manufacture . Mansfield Answered Mr. Dulles said in response to reporters ' questions that he felt economic and military assistance from the United States to other free nations will have to go on for an indefinite period of time . Thus he said it is vital to keep the backlog at a high level so there will be no break in deliveries . Mr. Dulles was told that Senator Mike Mansfield ( D ) of Montana had said that if the administration asked about five billion dollars it would amount to " broken faith " with congressional leaders . A group of congressional leaders conferred with President Eisenhower , Mr. Dulles , and other administration chiefs at the White House just one week ago . Some of them later told newsmen they expected the administration 's request to Congress for foreign aid to be about the same as the program voted for the present fiscal year  --  around 2.7 billion dollars . Mr. Dulles said he was present only during a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was obvious to him there was a genuine misunderstanding and he regretted that this had occurred . He has the highest regard for Senator Mansfield , Mr. Dulles said , and if Senator Mansfield feels that he did not get the full story M. Dulles can only regret it . Special Mideast Fund As to whether the Soviet Union 's present policy maneuver 's affected the decision , Mr. Dulles said that at the end of last July 's summit meeting the President and he thought they would still need about the same foreign aid program as they had before and so they did not have to revise their plans upward in any way . Mr. Dulles never did explain in detail why he thought a 200 million dollars increase in economic aid was needed . Half of it , he made clear , would be in the form of a special presidential fund for bolstering Middle Eastern countries . The Soviets recently opened a rivjor cold war front in the Middle East . But Mr. Dulles did not say how the other 100 million would he divided . He did @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for strengthening Far Eastern countries and those of southeast Asia in their struggle for freedom , but he pointed out that this fund had first been authorized a year ago and that Congress had already voted 100 million dollars for it . Mr. Dulles took occasion at his news conference , to assail Soviet aid to other countries as a possible " Trojan horse " for penetrating and taking over those countries . He said this possibility arises because Mctscow does not have a surplus of goods to send abroad and because " of the long Soviet record in absorbing other countries . "                     