@@714519

txt Regardless of how the voting comes out , the New Hampshire primary has begun to bring into focus the kind of decision which the Republican voters and the Republican Party will have to make  --  and ought to make  --  in selecting the 1952 presidential nominee . Before the three contenders began to put their cases before the New Hampshire voters in direct competition with each other , this preconvention campaign was almost wholly preoccupied with the shortcomings of the Truman administration . Nothing could be more irrelevant  --  at this stage . The issues before the Republican Party in picking its presidential nominee are not the merits and demerits of the Truman administration . That is for the election itself . The issues before the Republican Party in all the oncoming primaries and in the convention itself are the merits and demerits of the Republican presidential candidates . In other words , the Republicans are not now called upon to ap  --  praise the strength and weakness of the New Deal ; they are called upon to appraise the strength and weakness of the competing candidates @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hampshire the Republican contenders have begun to deal with the real issue , the issue of why the primary voters should choose one candidate over the other . They have begun to lay down the arguments and the questions which can provide an informed basis for making this decision . They are arguments and questions which will concern Republican voters and Republican leaders across the country . Gov . Sherman Adams of New HampShire , in behalf of General Eisenhower , and Harold Stassen , in behalf of himself , have directed a series of questions at Senator Taftwhich are honest and pertinent questions which bear on the decision the Republican Party has to make and which , quite beyond the New Hampshire tests , will figure significantly in the whole preconvention campaign . The questions which Governor Adams and Mr. Stassen raised are these : " Why did Senator Taft vote against the North Atlantic Treaty and against the leadership of Senator Vandenberg when the common defense of the free Atlantic nations is so essential to American security and peace ? " " Why did Senator Taft , by opposing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Marshall Plan , vote against the rebuilding of our Western European allies when this rebuilding is so vital to prevent the spread of communism and to safeguard America 's - fu-ture ? " " Why did Senator Taft say in 1939 that Hitler and Stalin were no threat to America , and on Aug. 7 , 1941 , with Europe at war , vote to discontinue the Selective Service Act so needed to strengthen America ? " 1 ? , A " Why did Senator Taft oppose the 70-group Air Force and even after the start of the Korean war advocate on April 30 , 1951 , reducing America 's defense forces ? " " And why . " asks Mr. Stassen on his own , " did Mr. Taft vote for federal aid to the local schools at $5 per pupil when it is so important to keep complete local control over the schools of our country ? " Governor Adams 's and Mr. Stassen 's contentions are that " since Senator Taft has been so grievously wrong on the most vital issues of foreign policy and defense during the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be right during the next four , and would , therefore , make the least desirable Republican nominee . " Now , Senator Taft is not without his own pointed and pertinent questions , as . evidenced by his , closing speeches in New Hampshire . He is directing ? theft ' at General Eisenhower and there is every reason to assume that he will keep on asking them in his campaign from here out . His beginning questions are these : " Where does General Eisenhower stand on the Taft-Hartley Law ? " " Where does General Eisenhower stand on civil rights ? Is he for a voluntary or a compulsory FEPC ? " " Where does General Eisenhower stand on the conduct of the Korean war and other domestic and international issues on which he has taken no definite stand ? " " Is General Eisenhower prepared to call a spade a spade , without yielding to the natural inclination to avoid direct attack on his friends and associates in the present adminis-tration ? " A A A In his last question Senator Taft 's implication appears to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the administration because of the posts fit has held while this administration has . been in office . His contentions are that the national public opinion polls reflect an abnormal and inflated popularity for General Eisenhower " because he has n't declared himself on the controversial issues , that this marked popular showing will be deflated when he does , " and that he ought not have the Republican nomination unless the Republicans can know more precisely where he stands . . The beginning of good judgment is asking pertinent questions . Senator Taft , Mr. Stassen , and others are beginning to ask such questions . These are the questions which bear expressly upon the strengths and weaknesses of the Republican contenders . The . epublican voters will be in a better position to determine whom they would like nominated as the answers to these questions come more fully into the open .                     