@@712730

txt negotiators recesf. cc ' , late tonight without reaching r final agreement to end the strike , but hopes were expressed a 11 snags could be cleared in time to get miners back into the pits Monday morning . The bargainers f or John L. Lewis ' United Mine Workers union and the coal operators reported substantial progress had been made in nine hours of work toward a contract that would end the four-week old strike . They recessed shortly after 10 I ) , m . Chicago time until tomorrow morning . Earlier reports that Lewis had made new demands on the operators , after major points of agreement including the dollars-andcents terms were reached last night , were denied by UMW officials . Technical Differences Word from the drafting committees seeking to nail down the contract was that the differences were largely legal and technical and did not involve major points . Altho it was conceded a last minute hitch might prevent signing of the strike-ending contract this week-end there were stronr indications it will be completed to11101 ' 1 ' 0W . Thomas Kennedy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ session broke up : " All we have to say is we 've , been working hard all day . We 've made substantial progress . It 's a big job . We expect to complete it sometime tomorrow . " Welfare Fund an Issue Lewis summoned the 200 man UMW policy committee to meet here tomorrow afternoon to ratify the prospective settlement , but UMW officials said this call was , of course , subject to cancellation if the contract is not completedby then . A full list of the Items in dispute in the drafting session was not available . It was learned , however , that Lewis ' demands for a union shop and for welfare fund payments only to union miners were major points at issue . The operators contend such provisions are illegal under the Taft-Hartley act , and a federal court has upheld their position . Another point at issue involves administration of the welfare fund and selection of the three fund trustees . President Truman , acting on the assumption the new contract would be signed in time to send most miners back to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his demand for mine seizure powers sought in a special message to congress yesterday when negotiations appeared deadlocked . Windfall for Lewis The house and senate both met today but put off any action on a seizure on the theory the coal strike was at an end . Republican legislators in both houses accused the President of " mishandling " the strike by failing to use soon enough powers available to him short of seizure . Members of congress also said the Truman 11th hour seizure threat was a windfall for Lewis , who was able to use It as a lever to extract big contract concessions from the coal operators . The contract : rovisions previously agreed upon last night . and presumably still acceptitble to both sides would give the miners a 70 cent a day wage boost , from $14.05 to $14.75 , and boost the royalty payments into the miners ' welfare fund by 10 cents a ton to 30 Cents , Other settled terms would limit " methorial " shutdowns called by UMW to five days a year , and Strike out the " willing and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ strikes in the past . The proposed new contract would run until July 1 , 1952 , but either side could cancel it on 30 days ' notice after April 1 , 1951 . Excludes Southern Group Covered by the contract are the northern and western mines and the " captive " mines owned by steel companies . These groups employ 260,000 of the nation 's 373,000 soft coal miners and produce 350 million tons of the 500 million annual output . Industry sources reported the failure so far to include the southern operators stemmed from their arrears in payments into the welfare fund . The arrears amount to about 5 million dollars , because payments have been withheld since the old contract expired last June 30 . The other operating groups have agreed to pay up any welfare fund arrears . Chairman David L. Cole of the President 's fact finding board and Federal Mediator Cyrus L. Ching reported to President Truman today on the substantial agreement reached between Lewis and the operators last night . Ching said Mr. Truman was " pretty pleased " with the outcome . . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ week 's federal District court ruling that the UMW was not guilty of contempt for the miners ' failure to heed a court back-to-work injunction , A preliminary hearing was held today before the Court of Appeals . It was reported the appeal may not be pressed if the miners now go back to work as expected . Truman Favors Study The White House said Mr. Truman will urge congress to adopt a proposal in yesterday 's message for a commission to study the ills of the " sick " coal industry and recommend a long range solution of the problem , In spite of Mr. Truman 's desire to drop the seizure bill , there was some sentiment from members of both parties in congress for a " reasonable , workable " seizure bill that could be resorted to in an emergency . Sen. Capehart Ind. demanded the senate go ahead with consideration of a seizure bill to deal with crippling strikes in all industries affecting public wellare . " My state of Indiana has been hit as hard as any in the land in the last 30 days by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " We should pass legislation giving the President authority to avert these conditions . If we do n't we will be derelict in our duty . " Most Democrats praised the ' President 's handling of the coal strike , but many Republicans disagreed . Son . Wiley FR. , Wis.1 said Mr. Truman sought to " sabotage " the Taft-Hartley act by " maladministering " it in the coal dispute . Sen. Ives HI N. " Y.I accused the President of failing " either because of a lack of foresight or because of political ' expediency , to act promptly in the national inlerest and to take such measures as have been available to him . "                     