@@719347

txt Letters to The Times ERIC M. ROGERS.LOUIS CARP , M.D. Letters to The Times To Develop Scientists Long-Range Gains Seen in Teaching Real Science to General Student The writer of the following letter is Professor of Physics at Princeton University , concerned particularly with teaching science to nonscientists . To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : In the interest of nation-wide progress in science I want to take issue with Prof. Thomas Briggs . In a letter to The Times published Dec. 1 he makes a strong plea for special science teaching for the very able student ; and he suggests we should not let enthusiasm carry us into offering difficult science courses to the majority of students in high school , " * * * who will get along successfully and happily in life without much abstract theory , if they have knowledge of what is practical and how to apply it at need . " I want to make a strong plea for 313ecial science courses  --  with thorough study and appropriate theory ? for the very able student 's father , uncle @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the best teaching and growth of science and technology will agree that the future experts need special teaching in science and mathematics , with rapid progress to take full advantage of their potentialities . We hope that school administrations will no more insist on holding them back to the general level in speed and subjectmatter than they would insist on putting all students on the football team . High School Teaching My grave doubts arise over the suggestion that science teaching for most of the high school population should simply attend to the practical elements that every person needs to know . Professor Briggs ' heart is in the right place , but will his letter lead readers to a wise conclusion ? The present difficulty is not simply in the teaching of the ablest students . They teach themselves where necessary ; their achievement is almost independent of mistakes in training . The difficulty lies in how to discover them early and encourage them toward scientific studies . That is part of the still more serious difficulty:the mistaken atmosphere that surrounds science and scientists in the public estimation . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wild wizardry , and mathematical mysteries . And . the scientist , in contrast with the engineer , is a quirky long-hair who has strange theories and knows a lot of facts that he divulges incompetently . How can science grow , with such a reputation ? What students will choose such a field ? In reaction , parents encourage students to construct scientific instruments , from radios to model computers , As creative work in engineering construction , these projects make a fine beginning . As samples of physical science in the learning , they often mislead their makers . Training the Majority What is needed besides special training for able young scientists is special teaching of genuine science to all others : the next generation of parents who will influence a scientist 's choice of career , school boards who will promote his progress ; business heads , and government administrators , who need to meet with scientific advisers and researchers with understanding and goodwill . I agree a traditional training course in science , in school or college , does harm rather than good . It is too @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ discouragement  --  in plain words , it gives science a bad name . The usual alternative , a simpler diet of easier facts or practical applications , gives science a worse name . A survey of snippets of information , a smorgasbord course , makes people think scientists just " collect facts and explain things . " It is a series of practical descriptions , an oil-can course that teaches the lubrication system of an engine instead of the conservation of energy . That course puts theoretical science ' in a bad light and leaves people gullible for crank schemes and pseudoscientific explanations . Instead , we have tried offering the general student serious science at his own pace . He wants to know what science is really like . For this we offer a " block-and-gap " course . We choose some topics  --  about half the usual crowd  --  teach them carefully and spend the spare time discussing the way the underlying science is built . We choose the topics ( blocks ) that make a connected scheme  --  so that students see how scientific knowledge fits together . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ results , so that students feel they are " scientists for a day . " Facts Versus Understanding We leave out some topics ( gaps ) ; but , with book texts and encyclopedias always available , we have no great regrets . Ten years later facts are forgotten or muddled  --  if needed for use they can be relearned ! quickly  --  and there is more permanent value in a sense of understanding science . We believe that students who ' grow up through such courses feel they understand scientists and science , even if it is " not their line . " They know how scientific laws are extracted from experiment . They do not trust laws blindly , but know about limitations . They know how imaginative speculation can lead to advance in theory . They see science as theory and experiment woven into a fabric of knowledge , not as a tangle of loose threads of information . They understand how the setter tist is not merely equipped wits formulas and laws  --  any amateue can apply laws  --  but holds In his mind a pocketbook of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ POW and knowledge of nature . They have a taste for good theserg they can tell the well-meaning setWdll from the imaginative seieeMett. short , they like science and fed they understand it , All these virtues ht sadi alma dent ? Of course not . But we Zell that much can be done by &JAMS; a block-and-gap course tewera them . And , in changing the plant a thought , we must wait for hurtles. ing gains in several generations . Much can be done for the teed name of science in the eyes of UN general public ; but not by watered ? down courses of facts and rontehtlie applications . Earn M. Rots . Princeton , N. J. , Dee . 5 , 1957 . Medical Care for the Age Bill Extending Benefits to Gm . Over 65 Is Supported The writer of the following letter is president of the Board of Visite , * of the Rockland ( N. Y. ) State Hee ? vital . To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK Tamil In your issue of Dec. 4 Robert IC . Plumb has written a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the American Medical Association , scores a plan to give health benefits to the aged . This plan , which he calls " socialized medicine , " is embodied in a current bill in Congress sponsored by Representative Aime J. Forand , Demo ? crat , of Rhode Island . Briefly , the bill would extend hospital and medical benefits to Social Security beneficiaries 65 years and over . Suppose that the Federal Government collects Social Security taxes and uses these to reimburse physicians and hospitals for sadly needed medical care for those eligible to receive old age and survivors ' benefits . Is this not a type of insurance , especially for those in low and middle-income groups , who suffer iron prolonged illness with its tragic , financial , social and family results ? With increase in the life span , the problem of good medical care and hospitalization for the forsaken elderly is becoming more and more acute . Welfare and pension funds applied to individuals are not earmarked for medical care . Hospitalization Needs Medical facilities for the elderly with prolonged illnesses fall far short . There @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Of these it is estimated that 870,000 with chronic illnesses , excluding those who can be admitted to mental or tuberculosis hospitals , need hospitalization with its mobilization of professional skills . But there are only 70,000 nonFederal beds available for prolonged illness in all age groups . Since most Federal beds are occupied by veterans , it is reasonable to assume that there is no adequate medical care for most of the remaining 800 , - 000 senior citizens . The regulations governing the Federal Hospital Survey and ConLtruction Act of 1946 recommend chronic disease hospital beds on a basis of two beds per 1,000 population , making a total of 334,000 . Ae . tually , appropriations have not been made to carry out this recommendation . There are a number of plans afoot to help solve the serious problem of inadequate medical care for the aged . Dr. Allman 's stand against the Forand bill is all the more stir . prising since it is meant particularly for those who ca n't afford medical care of any duration . Furthermore , physicians and hospitals would be assured @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ A. M. A. , without a poll of its members , try to stop employer and employe from supporting the equitable provisions and constructive benefits in the Forand bill ? Actually , the elderly must be pre ? vided for , else Government will have to step in and give Dr. Allman what he designates " socialized medicine . " Louis CARP , M. D. New York , Dec. 10 , 1957.                     