@@715796

txt BOTH PARTIES VIEW VOTE IN WISCONSIN AS FARMER PROTEST Republicans Consider Defeat in Congressional Election as ' Warning ' to Party DEMOCRATS ARE JUBILANT Interpret Victory as a Portent of Capitol Control Next Fall ? 2 Seats at Stake Soon By W. H. LAWRENCE Special to Tim New YORK TIMES . WASHINGTON , Oct. 14 ? Shocked Republicans and jubilant Democrats agreed today there was evidence of farm belt dissatisfaction with the agricultural policies of the Eisenhower Administration . They pointed to yesterday 's upset Democratic victory in a special election to fill a vacancy in the " safe Republican " Ninth District of Wisconsin . There was renewed speculation , both public and private , about the possible early departure from the Cabinet of Ezra Taft Benson as Secretary of Agriculture . Leaders of both parties were agreed the election returns would have a bearing on the kind of new farm legislation the next Congress would be asked to enact . Happy Democrats hailed the first Republican setback since the Eisenhower landslide as a portent of a Democratic Congress after the November , 1954 , elections @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their party had better heed . In the election , Lester R. Johnson , Democrat , defeated Arthur L. Padrutt . Republican , for the seat left vacant by the death of Merlin F. Hull , Republican . 2 Other Seats at Stake In private , Republican strategists made no effort to conceal their surprise and dismay over yesterday 's returns , in which the Ninth District for the first time elected a Democrat to Congress . President Eisenhower , who left et 11:30 P. on a five-day tour that will take him through the farm belt and into Mexico , scheduled a speech for tomorrow night before a rural group in Kansas City . Republican leaders conceded that their confidence had been shaken over the prospects of saving both : Republican seats now vacant ? in the Twenty-fourth District of Cali-1 fornia and the Sixth District of New Jersey . The seats formerly were occupied by Norris Poulson of Cali-1 fornia and Clifford Case of New Jersey , both of whom resigned . Should both seats be lost to Democrats , the Republican strength in the House would be reduced to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one independent . The Democrats already have a numerical advantage of one in the Senate , holding 48 seats to 47 for ' the Republicans , with Senator ' Wayne Morse of Oregon classified as an independent . Orders went out from G. 0 . P. headquarters to party workers in New Jersey and California to intensify efforts to get out a big vote in those special elections set for Nov. 3 and Nov. 10 respectively . In New Jersey , the contest is a traditional two-man battle between the Republican , George F. Hetfield , and the Democrat , Harrison A. Williams Jr . The Republicans , on the record , have the edge . But in California there will be a " sudden death " decision , without // a primary or party designation . The highest vote getter among four contestants  --  two Republicans and two Democrats  --  will take the seat of Representative Poulson , who resigned to become Mayor of Los Angeles . The Republican ' candidates are State Assemblymen Glenard Lipscomb and John Collier , with Mr. Lipscomb favored by the party organization , Johnston @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of former Federal Judge Thurman Arnold , has the party organization support . The other contestant is Irving Markheim , a perennial candidate . Everywhere politicians gathered in Washington today the talk was of Wisconsin , where Mr. Johnston polled nearly 57 per cent of the vote . Both the Republican and Democratic chairmen issued formal statements and so did a number of Representatives and Senators . Few Republicans tried to minimize the outcome . Leonard W. Hall , the Republican National Chairman , conceded that by " any realistic appraisal " the results in Wisconsin were " not good . " " It is evident , " he said , " that the farmers are blaming a twoyear price drop under President Truman on those who had the misfortune to inherit it . " Our rural people are caught in a price and drought squeeze which is neither their doing nor the doing of the Eisenhower Administration . I think everybody understands this and sympathizes with our farmers . " The Eisenhower Administration is going to lick the farm problem . The average farmer and the average citizen know that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be solved in a day or a month or a year , nor are they going to be solved by electing Democrats to Congress to impede the progress that is being made . " Mitchell Notes Urban Strength Stephen A. Mitchell , the Democratic chairman , offered more restrained comment than did most Democrats . He declared simply that the " Wisconsin victory should give Democrats everywhere added confidence that our party 's role of constructive opposition is winning us new friends , but it should be no cause for complacency . " He noted that the Democratic candidate had picked up strength in the manufacturing as well as in the rural areas of the Ninth District . Senator Alexander Wiley , Wisconsin Republican whose home town is in the Ninth District , said the results " demonstrate that next November no Republican , particularly in the farm areas , can expect to win simply upon the high personal popularity of President Eisenhower . " Senator Wiley said that the Republicans " must have more ' accomplishments to sell to the people " and that the next session of Congress @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ farm legislation . Senator Estes Kefauver , Democrat of Tennessee , who was an unsuccessful candidate for his party 's Presidential nomination last year , said the special election " shows the voters are holding the President himself responsible for his Administration . " At the White House there was no comment . James C. Hagerty , press secretary , said that the President had been informed of the results , but had no comment . Senator Olin D. Johnston , Democrat of South Carolina , interpreted the results to mean " the farmers are fed up with Secretary of Agriculture Benson and his do-nothingness . " " The only thing President Eisenhower can do is fire Mr. Benson , who has been shaping the farm policies of this Administration , and get someone who will carry out President Eisenhower 's farm campaign promises of 1952 , " he said . At the Agriculture Department , Secretary Benson sent word to reporters that he would have no comment on WisconSia . Attorney General Herbert Brownell Jr. , who managed both of Thomas E. Dewey 's unsuccessful campaigns for the Presidency , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . He noted that the late Representative Hull , while a Republican in name , had been an adherent of the old Progressive party and often had opposed the Eisenhower legislative program . The Democratic winner had campaigned on a pledge to vote the same way in Congress as his predecessor had . President to Visit Mexico But other Republicans admitted candidly they had encouraged the pre-election idea that the Wisconsin vote would be a major ' test of the Eisenhower Administration 's popularity because they were certain in advance the Republican candidate would win . " We had aces back to back , " one Republican leader said , " and we certainly did n't expect the Democrats to fill an inside straight . " A special Baltimore &; Ohio train is carrying the Presidential party as far as Toledo , Ohio . From there until he returns to Washington early Tuesday morning , President Eisenhower will travel by plane . Tomorrow , night at Kansas City the President will address the convention of the Future Farmers of America and is expected to deal with the Administration 's farm policy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ complaints of the farm community makes the occasion a significant one , The President will be in New Orleans on Saturday for festivities marking the 150th anniversary of the Louisiana Purchase . On Monday , he and the President of Mexico , Adolfo Ruiz Cortines , will dedicate Falcon Dam , a twonation enterprise on . the Rio Grande near Laredo , Tex . Before the ceremony President Eisenhower will cross into Mexico for a brief ? isit . The President will rest on Sunday at the ranch of Texas ' Democratic Governor , Allan Shivers , near , not far from the international boundary . The President 's itinerary also includes visits and brief appearances at Defiance , Ohio , his home town of Abilene , Kan ? and a second stop at Kansas City on Friday night .                     