@@716121

txt Spedal to THE NEW Yoss " runs . WASHINGTON , March 6 ? The Pentagon groped all week for a policy on the treatment of suspected Communists in uniform that would satisfy Senator Joseph McCarthy . The junior Senator from Wisconsin was trying to convince the country that the Army had no policy and some cynics suggested that the Army was doing its best to_the vindicate him . It was essentially the Army 's problem . As the only one of the ? three-services that still depends on the Selective Service machinery to fill up its ranks , it has been the butt of the Senator 's Communist-coddling accusations . ? While fighting a rear-guard action to defend its handling of the ' Peress case , the Army was in a fever of rewriting regulations and plugging loopholes to forestall a recurrence . It was under pressure from the White House and the Defense Department , quite apart from the prodding of Senator McCarthy hims61f . Wilson Steps In By the end of the week Defense Secretary Charles E. Wilson had taken a hand in the situation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Pentagon , in addition to Senator Mc- , Carthy 's on Capitol Hill . One , with headquarters in Mr. ' Wilson 's office , was a joint ArmyDefense Department " task force " ' that was reviewing every scrap of paper and each administrative decision taken in the Peress case " so we 'll have the facts and handle things like this better in the future , " as the Secretary said . The second was a broad survey , joined in by all three services , to determine just what their policies were and how they could be improved . The third , conducted by the - Army Inspector General 's office , was a minute examination of the Feress case from beginning to end for the purpose of discovering why each step had been taken and by whom it was ordered . Its chief purpose was to pro- ' vide detailed answers for the questions Mr. McCarthy might ask when the Army Secretary , Robert T. Stevens , was called to testify before the Committee on Government Operations . The fourth was in the hands of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ study the legal aspects of the problem and to recommend remedial legislation , if necessary . The root of the problem is the nature of the draft , which cuts across state and party lines , putting young citizens into compulsory army service for two years , regardless of loyalty considerations . Draftees , unlike volunteers , are not required to fill loyalty questionnaires until after their induction , for the practical reason that the Army otherwise would be in the position of exempting from the obligation to serve anyone who invoked the Fifth Amendment or claimed membership in an organization listed as subversive . Lawyers ' Argument Thus the Army can not avoid having some suspected Communists or sympathizers on its rolls . Army lawyers argue that it has no choice but to use them so long as membership in the Communist party is not a punishable crime . The question , then , is how to deal with such men once they are in uniform . It is on this score that Senator McCarthy has been able to compile a record of conflicting policy , or lack of uniform @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Senator has accused the Army of protecting , promoting and covering up " known Communists . " The tangle of laws and policies is particularly evident in the case of physicians and dentists called to duty under the Doctors Draft Act . Three cases illustrate the divergent approaches the Army has taken under this law : ( 1 ) Dr. Stanley Orloff , a New York psychiatrist , was refused a commission in the Air Force Reserve because he declined to answer the loyalty questionnaire . He was soon drafted into the Army as a private . Vigorous Dissent He contended that the Army was bound by the terms of the Doctors Draft Act to commission or discharge him . A circuit court , and finally the United States Supreme Court , ruled that the Army was not obligated to commission Dr. Orloff , but that it did have to make use of his professional skills . However , three Supreme Court Justices , William 0 . Douglas , Felix Frankfurter and Hugo Black  --  dissented vigorously . ( 2 ) Dr. Peress , on the other hand , was commissioned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ too , declined to answer certain loyalty questions on constitutional grounds . He later was promoted to major in accordance with an amendment to the Doctors Draft . Act , voted in June , 11953 ; mandating the Army to adlvance the ranks of medical draftees to correspond with their age and professional experience . 13 ) Dr. Marvin S. Belsky , a 25-year-old Bronx physician , was ' drafted as a private and later denied a commission . He also invoked constitutional privilege in this failure to answer certain questions . Uniformity Lacking There were legal and procedural reasons for the lack of uni'formity in handling these cases , ' though the Army made little effort to explain them . Private Belsky , for example , was inducted under the Selective Service Act rather than the Doctors Draft Act ; thus the question of the Army 's being obligated to commission him did not arise . Dr. 1Peress did not fill out his loyalty questionnaire until after he had been commissioned . That was the administrative policy in force when he was called to service in October , 1952 . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has now ' been modified by a United States Court of Appeals ' ruling last Feb. 9 in the case of Dr. Herbert L. Nelson , also a dentist , who was denied a commission when he too invoked constitutional privilege . The Appeals Court upheld Private Nelson 's contention that the Army was bound to commission or release him . Although an appeal to the Supreme Court is being considered , Army lawyers view the three dissenting votes in the Orloff case as an indication that Privath Nelson may again be upheld . They point out that the Doctors Draft Act , as amended since the Orloff case was heard , is more favorable to the interpretation of the dissenters . To close this loophole the Defense Department has drafted an amendment to the law that would make clear the Army 's right to induct as enlisted men those doctors and dentists who do not otherwise qualify for commissioned rank . Stevens ' Order Secretary Stevens has ordered all Army field commands to speed their handling of security risk cases , to treat as a security risk any one who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Amendment , and to discharge under conditions " other than honorable " any officer who was held a security risk . Within the Pentagon , pointed questions have been asked about the legality of this course . Some lawyers feel that it amounts to a priori establishment of individuals as security risks and may be in violation of the Uniform Code of Military Justice .                     