@@714139

txt ACHESON ' SUPERB ' AT TREATY PARLEY , SAYS SENATE CRITIC Knowland Asks Early Ratifying of Pact , but State Department Will Not Press for Action KOREA SITUATION A FACTOR Administration Also Believes Initiative on Approval by U. S. Allies May Be More Politic By WILLIAM S. WHITE Special to Mt NEw Yorac Toms . WASHINGTON , Sept. 10 ? The State Department has decided not to press the Senate to ratify the Japanese peace treaty at this session of Congress and , indeed , is content to let one of the other associated powers carry the initiative for ratification . This has not become generally known even in the Senate itself , which only today heard the highest praise for the covenant and for Secretary of State Dean Acheson from a man who for years had attacked him as a deliberate " appeaser " of communism in Asia . Senator William F. Knowland of California , the head of a Republican bloc that long had been hitting at the Administration 's China policy , rose on the floor this afternoon to pay Mr. Acheson compliments in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than a year by any member of the Senate , including the Democrats . Mr. Knowland obviously spoke tvithout knowledge of the fact that the State Department , for a number of reasons , including urgent military necessity in the Korean war , had decided not to press for immediate ratification . Early Ratification For at the outset of his speech he appealed for early ratification , suggesting , if necessary , that it be brought about in a special session of the Senate this year after the scheduled adjournment of *Congress , around Oct. 1 . Senator Knowland described the San Francisco conference , at which the treaty was signed by fortynine nations and boycotted by the Soviet bloc , as " a great diplomatic victory for the free world " that should at once be consolidated by ratification so that the initiative thus wrested from the Russians could be maintained . This implied salute to Secretary Acheson was followed by an inquiry from Senator Paul H. Douglas , Democrat of Illinois , as to whether the Secretary and John Foster Dulles , the Secretary 's Republican policy adviser , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ say to the Senator from Illinois , " Mr. Knowland responded , " without any mental reservation whatever that I think the entire American delegation ? the Secretary of State , Mr. Acheson , Mr. Dulles and our senatorial representatives who were present , handled themselves in a superb manner . " I believe that fairness and equity would require me to say that the job which Secretary Acheson did in presiding over the conference was outstanding . " " May I ask , " Senator Douglas went on , " if the Senator from California noticed any tendency on the part of the Secretary of State to be overly tender toward the Russian delegate ? " In a Superb Manner " No , " replied Mr. KnowIand , who attended the San Francisco meetings as an observer . " As I have just pointed out , I think he handled himself in a superb manner , as the presiding officer of the conference . " I think there was a clear indication of the closest type of bipartisan cooperation . The President of the United States , Mr. Acheson , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the credit for this treaty to Mr. John Foster Dulles , " Mr. Knowland added . " As one member of the Senate , " Senator Douglas put in , " I thank the Senator from California for his very excellent speech , which rises above party . I think it is a very eloquent testimonial on certain matters . " By these " certain matters " Mr. Douglas meant the long attack on Secretary Acheson by some Republicans , led by Senator Joseph R. McCarthy of Wisconsin , charging harboring of Communists in the State Department . Senator Knowland was one of six Senators who in 1949 voted to refuse confirmation to Mr. Truman 's appointment of Mr. Acheson to the Cabinet . No member of // the Senate , apart from . Mr. McCarthy , had been a more persistent antagonist of the . Secretary , - whose ouster was formally demanded by the Republicans in both the Senate and House of Representatives early this year . The State Department 's decision not to push now for ratification will not be displeasing to highly placed Senate Democrats . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1 adjournment of Congress , and they would not Willingly see the Senate-alone brought back around November , as Mr. Knowland recommended , to ratify the treaty . Among these Democrats is a feeling that it would be as well for some other nation to carry the ball now on the treaty , and  --  the more so in the light of dispatches from San Francisco suggesting some anxiety in allied quarters that the United States might seem to move too far and too fast against the Russians . It is understood that the State Department takes the view that in light of possible requirements of a new Korean campaign Japan in her present status as a base for United States and United Nations military operations would be more useful to her own cause and the free cause generally than Japan as a newly independent state struggling to regain her bearings .                     