@@713929

txt Gen. Douglas 's Austin speech identified the former Far East commander with the domestic policy point of view of the presently leading element of the Republican Party . The following passages from his speech reflect the main themes of orthodox Republican arguments against the Demo-crats : " Corruption and rumors of corruption have shaken the people 's trust in the integrity of those administering the civil power . " " Government has assumed progressively the arrogant mantle of oligarchic power . " " The cost of government has become so great and the consequent burden of taxation so heavy that the system of free enterprise . . . has become imperiled . " " The rights of individuals and communities have rapidly been curtailed in the advance toward centralized power . " ' These four contentions are the very essence of present-day Republican gospel . Their inclusion in the general 's first big public speech places the speaker firmly and solidly upon the Republican side in the domestic aspect of the political alignment of forces . A A A The question which arises from this is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ himself in domestic policy matters will identify itself , in turn , with the general 's foreign and military policies ? That is the question above all others in political Washington today . The general 's views in this other field of foreign policy seem to be equally clear from his Dallas speech . He favors immediate , powerful , and decisive military action against China . He calls the present policy of limiting the war to Korea a policy Of " passive defense . " He forecasts that it will lead to " indefinite continuance of the indecisive stalemate . " He regards as " appeasement " any idea of a settlement short of total victory in Korea . He favors cutting loose from the restraints influenced by the views of our Allies and by our associates in the UN . He thinks that in some instances our policies have been " dictated from abroad . " He , of course , would disregard the British , French . and UN objections to his " decisive " action against China . A A If Republican leaders here could be absolutely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bring a quick and decisive end to the Korean war without starting any bigger war with Russia , they would be tempted strongly to return the embrace from Austin . However , most of them are inclined at the moment to hold aloof and to hesitate before committing themselves to the policy line . One reason inducing caution in Republican councils is the knowledge that there is a minority group in military circles which favors going further than General . This group ( the old " preventive war " element ) thinks it would be desirable to proceed to bomb not just the bases in Manchuria , but also bases well beyond the Yalu , including those in Siberia . Republican leaders are not sure that bombing in Manchuria would be kept to Manchuria if once authorized . Some of them are not quite sure that General 's phrase " gaining a decisive victory in Asia " may not involve the same idea of launching out now in a strike at Russian power in Siberia as well as Chinese power in Manchuria . Would this be good world @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ voices lifted in favor of such a course of action in Republican councils . There are also strong voices lifted against it . The majority appears at the moment to be against party endorsement of any such idea . However , the domestic views fit so closely with those of Senator Taft that there is an urge in Taft quarters to complete the Taft-qzmacq#Arthur identification by adopting the general 's military policies . The outcome , of course , lies in the future . For the moment , the important political fact is that General has chosen the Republican side in domestic politics which makes him a political " factor " which must be included in all calculations . The politicians have not completed evaluating the weight of this factor . Republicans are far from clear , or united , about going along with the general 's war policies . But overtime is being worked at both national committees on figuring the answers . 