@@714473

txt ALLIES , FOE AGREE ON TERMS OF TALKS FOR PEACE IN KOREA Scope of International Parley After Beginning of Armistice Is Left Up to Conferees REDS OFFER EXPLANATION Assert Text of Enemy 's Draft Will Not Force Meeting to Limit or Include Topics By LINDESAY PARROTT Special to Tux New Yoe ) , Times . TOKYO , Tuesday , Feb. 19 ? The Communist and United Nations truce delegations seemed to have reached a general agreement today on a proposal for an international conference after the start of an armistice in the Korean war to discuss a lasting settlement on the divided peninsula , ' At a brief meeting this morning , the United Nations negotiators moved for complete acceptance of the enemy 's draft of last Friday , with the ' reservations previously announced by Vice Admiral Charles Turner Joy , head of the Allied group . The Chinese and North Koreans suggested that the text be turned over to staff officers for considers. - tion of details . Admiral Joy contended that no further revision was necessary , and the session adjourned without setting the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ agreed that staff officers should meet at an unspecified date to work out mechanical details , The United Press said . The Allies specified that there would be no changes or additions to the wording of the agreement . " It appears that there is an agreement , since they suggest that it the draft be turned over to staff officers to work out details , " Brig . Gen. William P. Nuckols , Allied briefing officer , said . Basic Questions Remain He expressed belief that the lagreement meant a " full solution " of the fifth item of the truce agenda  --  although basic questions still remained to be settled regarding armistice enforcement conditions and an exchange of war prisoners . The United Nations proposed , acceptance of the draft after North Korean Lieut . Gen. Nam II , head of the enemy delegation , had ' explained in answer to the Allied lqualifications what he thought the text intended . " It neither binds the political I conference to discuss certain political questions nor does it ex- , elude certain political questions from the discussions , " he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the international conference must ' decide its own scope . Admiral Joy told the Communists the draft might be regarded as a complete solution and embodied in the armistice text . However , General Nam apparently wanted the verbal statements made by both sides during the talks attached to the draft and that staff officers be appointed to perform this task . Reds keverse Understanding Meanwhile , discussions by staff officers from both sides continued on terms for enforcing the truce . At yesterday 's session , the Communists reversed their previous understanding with the United Nations staff officers that all neu- tral nations who sent inspectors to check on observance of truce compliance would have to be acceptable to both sides . ' The Communists told the Allied staff officers that they declined to agree to the United Nations ' rejection of the Soviet Union as one of the " neutral " powers that might send inspectors behind the lines to insure that the cease-fire period was not being used to bring in fresh forces and weapons . ' North Koran Col. Chang Chun San declared that if the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there would be no neutral nation at all existing in the world . " The statement was made before the staff group discussing Item 3 of the truce agenda ? terms for enforcement of the armistice . Reading a long prepared address , the Communist negotiator called the Allied attitude " intolerable " and indicated that if the United Nations would not accept Soviet participation in armistice enforcement , the Communists would act unilaterally to designate their powerful neighbor to sit in . Colonel Chang seemed prepared to argue tuat if no mutual agree // ment was reached on the choice of the neutrals , then each side had the right simply to name its own representatives . The United Nations previously had named Norway , Sweden and Switzerland , and the Communists had selected Czechoslovakia and Poland  --  both acceptable to the Allies ? as well as the Soviet Union . The strong language ? of their statement was believed here to indicate that the Communists intended to make a major issue of Soviet neutrality despite the fact , that Soviet.planes and tanks have been among the most powerful weapons @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Communists also might be attempting to provide for Soviet inclusion among the " governments concerned , " whose representatives , it was proposed , should . hold an international conference on a Korean settlement within three months after the start of the truce . " Your side can not give any reason , nor does it have any reason to object to the nomination of the Soviet Union by our side , " Colonel Chang said . " The Soviet Union is one of the United Nations which not only has been most strictly opposed to intervention in. the Korean war , but also has been strongly in favor of a peaceful settlement of the Korean question . " Reconsideration is Asked Colonel Chang demanded that the United Nations " seriously reconsider " its stand and " withdraw ' its unreasonable objection " to the Soviet as a neutral . Then he added : " It is our opinion that if a ' procedure of approval is needed , both sides should approve simultaneously and all at once of the nominations of neutral nations by the other side . Otherwise , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in accord with the provision of Paragraph 38 of the draft agreement , without requiring any procedure of approval.t During a briefing of correspondents at advance headquarters last night , General Nuckols pointed out that Colonel Chang had made a switch in the Communist position . On Dec. 5 , in response to questions by the United Nations , the enemy delegates had replied in writing that what they proposed was the formulation of " a list of neutral nations agreed upon by both sides " and a. joint invitation to such powers to serve as armistice controllers . On Jan. 9 , General Nuckols said , the enemy delegates , in a revised version of a . United Nations proposal , again declared that neutrals should be " acceptable " to both sides . Before the name of the Soviet Union was introduced , there seemed to be no disagreement on this point . It had been worked out tentatively that nations that werq not combatants in Korea could be considered eligible for designation as neutrals , but there had been no concession that all eligibles automatically should be considered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be slowly hammering ' Out agreement on all points except the vital issue of forced repatriation of Chinese and North Korean soldiers in Allied stockades who had come to reject the Communist cause . Col. George W. Hickman said the Communists were redrafting a proposed agreement that " in every case but one virtually agreed to our comments . " The Communists agreed to permit the Red Cross to bring in relief supplies for prisoners and to accompany captives to exchange points after an armistice . Pooled dispatches indicated that some changes were discussed in provisions regarding the repatriation of displaced persons . Previously , the enemy had agreed that civilians should be assisted to return to their former homes , but would not agree to set up any machinery by which they could be counted and their desire to go or stay be checked in advance .                     