@@720209

txt Soviet Premier Nikita S. Khrushchev has invited President Eisenhower to visit any part of the Soviet Union he wishes and bring along anyone he chooses ? " they will all be welcome guests . " The invitation came Feb. 5 in his windup address to the Soviet Communist Party 's 21st Congress in the Kremlin . He said Mr. Eisenhower would not have to reciprocate the invitation . Mr. Eisenhower 's vacation headquarters in Thomasville , Ga. , declined comment on Mr. Krushchev 's proposal that Mr. Eisenhower visit the Soviet Union . James C. Hagerty , White House press secretary , told a news conference Feb. 5 that the President had heard about Moscow news dispatches on the Khrushchev proposal . " We have not seen the actual text , so I have no comment , " Mr. Hagerty said . He replied " No , not as yet , " when asked whether the Soviet Union had extended any formal invitation to Mr. Eisenhower . " Earlier in his lengthy address ? second of the nine-day session ? Mr. Khrushchev harshly criticized Mr. Eisenhower , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ leaders for their recent " keeping-on-guard " statements instead of whole-heartedly embracing peaceful coexistence . He said there is only one thing the Soviet Union wants ? " the quickest possible end to the cold war . " " Mr. Dulles , if you really want it so much , we are ready to concede victory to you in this unnecessary war , if only to put an end to it , " he said , according to the Soviet news agency Tass . " Gentlemen , consider yourselves the ' victors , ' but put an end to it quickly . " Berlin Plan Repeated Turning to Berlin , major point of East-West tension , Mr. Khrushchev again presented a formula he advanced Nov. 27a separate demilitarized West Berlin under UN auspices . West Berlin , though 110 miles from West Germany proper , now is officially a part of that country . Mr. Khrushchev said the Soviet Union would be willing to guarantee the city 's corridors to the outside world . This appeared to be firmer than his previous statement that the Soviet Union would guarantee that West @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by orders from East Germany and the Soviet Union . ' ' We are prepared , " Mr. Khrushchev said , " to take part with the United States , Britain , and France in drafting a - statute which would guarantee the normal development of West Berlin , the links of that city with all countries with which it desires to have relations , as well as the access of these countries to the free city . " The West has rejected the free-city proposal , advanced as a means of ending the four-power control of the old German capital . The Soviet Union has threatened to turn control of Wrest Berlin 's life lines over to East Germany if a Berlin settlement is not reached by May . Called ' Burning Fuse ' Mr. Khrushchev declared the situation in Berlin is like ? " a burning fuse in a gunpowder cellar or a delayed-action bomb whose mechanism may result in an explosion at any , moment . " " In our view , " he said , " the turning of West Berlin into a free demilitarized city would create @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would contribute to the safeguarding of security in Europe and consequently in the whole world . " On the question of Germany as a whole , Mr. Khrushchev addressed himself directly to West German Chancellor Konrad Adenauer . He told Dr. Adenauer . " Neither you by yourself nor with the aid of your allies is capable of abolishing the socialist ( Communist ) system in East Germany . " Mr. Khrushchev said the Soviets are willing to sit down and talk . " But if you make your condition the abolition and absorption of the East German Democratic Republic , the abolition of the social gains of the working people of the GDR , that is a condition that we can not even discuss . If we were to do that we would be taking upon ourselves functions that are not within our jurisdiction , since this would be interference in other people 's affairs , " He said Moscow does not object to free elections if East and West Germany agree , " but without the interference of a third party . " On the Geneva conference to end @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ never agree to Western proposals for control posts to detect explosions . The Soviet objection to these proposals is the main stumbling block in the Geneva talks . The congress unanimously endorsed Mr. Khrushchev 's ouster of the so-called " antiparty group " of former Kremlin leaders with a resolution saying : " The central committee acted correctly by resolutely condemning and casting aside the despicable group of factionists and dissenters. " 