@@715942

txt The Good Fellows did it again ! , Nearly 5,000 orphans and dependent children living in 18 organizational and private homes in Chicago and suburbs danced with glee this morning when they found that Santa Claus had not forgotten them . As they unwrapped the toys and other Christmas gifts which the Good Fellows had provided for them as Santa 's helpers , their eyes glistened and they shouted with joy . Campaign Big Success All of this happiness was ' brought about by Good . Fellows , adults and juveniles . Thru Chicr.go Tribune Charities , Inc. , they provided gifts and cash donations that made Christmas merry , for boys and girls who might have been overlooked by Santa . Its many respects , it was the Good Fellows ' Most successful campaign . Organizations and individuals saw to it , that a mountain of toys and other gifts rose in the Good Fellow bureau of THE TRIBUNE 'S . Loop Public Service Office at 33 W. Madison st . Then huge Tribune circulation trucks took the gaily wrapped packages to the homes that are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the gift distribution was a part of Christmas programs in which carols were sung and the story of the birth of the Christ child was told . ' Gifts Thrill Children Santa Claus left the cutest and softest stuffed doll you ever saw for Karol , 4 , who is looked after by the Chicago Child Care society . Mati , 6 , and Richard , 8 , who call the Norwegian Lutheran home their home , were thrilled , by toy trains and tracks . At the Arthur ; J. Audy Juvenile home , Carolyn , 8 , received a.Christmas box almost as big as she is , and at the Wendell Phillips Day nursery Donald , 5 , and Lloyd , 31/2 , are showing everyone a life size papier-mache Santa with a ' : flowing white beard , Good Fellows came froni nearly every walk of life . There were bankers and lawyers , doctors , insurance salesmen , members of luncheon and civic clubs , Girl Scouts and Camp Fire Girls , Boy Scouts , members of Key clubs in Chicago high schools , grade school children @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who merely sign . " Anonymous . " Many of the gifts and cash donations came long distances from older people who once lived in Chicago and recalled ' that the Good Fellow work was started back in 1909 at the suggestion of the late Edward C. Fitch , a city ' attorney at that time . So , Good Fellows ; be merry and gay . txlay . You have made possible a ijorious Christmas for 5,000 wonderful children                     