@@713293

txt Letters to The Times AHMED S. BOKHARI , JOSEPH A. RUBINSTEIN.CHARLES W. DOHN.BOGDAN RADITSA . Letters to The times Aid to Children Asked Propcised Limitation of Children 's ' Emergency Fund Opposed To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : In 1949 the General Assembly passed a resolution congratulating the United Nations Children 's Emergency Fund ( UNICEF ) for its great humanitarian effort in Europe and in the Middle East " now being extended to Asia , Latin America and Africa , in bringing substantial aid of lasting value , through feeding , medical and related programs , to millions of mothers and children . " noting with concern " the existence of children 's emergency needs arising out of war and other calamities as well as the great needs which the fund 's experience has demonstrated as existing in underdeveloped countries " and noting with approval " the decisions of the executive board of the fund to devote henceforth a greater share of the fund 's resources to the development of programs outside Europe . " What the General Assembly is now discussing , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ draft resolution which , according to our view , if adopted will drastically alter the path the fund has pursued in recent years and the following retrograde changes will occur : ? The stress so strongly placed on Asia , Latin America , Africa and underdeveloped countries in the 1949 resolution will be withdrawn , as the present resolution carefully avoids any mention of these areas . Relief supplies will be denied to children who may be seriously suffering from malnutrition , lack of medicines or lack of medical goods unless it can be shown that they have also been victims of floods or earthquakes or wars , etc . Restricted Help Except in " serious emergencies " aid will be restricted to advice and to such supplies as may be required to " demonstrate such advice * * * , " on the condition , moreover , that the countries concerned should undertake permanent programs of child welfare . IN other words , except in cases of floods , etc. , help will not be given in the form of food , medicines or medical goods and it will not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Burma ; India , Indonesia , Iraq and Pakistan have , jointly , tabled a series of amendments with the object of restoring , to a certain extent , some of the aims and objects of the fund as they obtained up to 1949 . We have done so ( a ) because we believe that the condition of children in many parts of the world , particularly in underdeveloped countries and in countries which have until recently been under foreign domination , are as bad as , and even worse than , what the more developed countries regard as " serious emergencies " ; ( b ) because some of these countries have been liberated only recently ( e. g. , Indonesia ) and are not yet in a position to start permanent programs of child welfare ; and ( c ) because what most of these countries desperately need for their children is supplies more than advice . We also believe that it will damage the prestige of the United Nations in the eyes of many nations in Asia , Africa and South America if it was suspected that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had begun to send urgently needed supplies to children outside Europe . United States Position The United States delegation has , in essence , made it clear that if the changes suggested by us are accepted by the General Assembly , Congress will find it " difficult , if not impossible , " to contribute to the fund . The United States has in the past acted with such magnificent generosity in aid for children that the threat now administered by the United States delegate has caused us considerable surprise . But we would be failing in our duty if we did not , on our part , stress what we know to be a fact  --  namely , that millions of children in many parts of the world and through no fault of theirs or of their governments are living , or rather dying , more pitiably than children in post-war Europe , which has so far been the largest beneficiary of the fund . Nor can we , who know the sufferings of such children at first-hand , subscribe to the view that " emergencies " should mean wars @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ here I quote from the statement of the United States representative ) " not conditions which have continued for many years , deplorable though they may be . " We I believe there are many people in the world who will take the view that children who have suffered longest deserve the most help , and not the opposite view that " deplorable conditions " which have lasted many years deserve advice but not relief supplies unless floods , earthquakes or wars come upon them in addition to the chronic misery which has been their fate . The effect of the United States threat may well be that international help will not be available to the least fortunate of children in Asia , Africa and Latin America on anything like the terms on which it was extended to European children . AHMED S. 130KHARI , Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary , Pakistan Permanent Representative to the United Nations . New York , Oct. 10 , 1950 . Excess Income Tax Protested To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Proponents of an " excess individual income tax , " based @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would destroy the " free enterprise system " and " individual initiative " on which the greatness of the United States has been built . ? An " excess individual income tax " which was wise but all earnings in excess of an average , base period makes no allowance for the period of growth and training in an individual 's ? life and the fact ' that when a person finally gets the " breaks " he or . she must in a few productive years build a " stake for the future . " In addition to destroying initiative . such a tax would i dsrupt family life and severely limit the families of thinking persons . It would make it almost impossible for the average wage-earner to send children to college or school them for the professions . In many cases , after a wage-earner would have paid such an increment liquidating tax , he or she would be compelled to turn to " public relief rolls " for subsistence living . There are today many instances where even with. ! out such taxation city and state employes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the welfare departments . Every medium of public influence should bring every pressure to bear . on Congress and exert eternal vigilance to avert such destructive taxation . JOSEPH A. RUBINSTEIN . Brooklyn , Oct. 6 , 1950 . The Hudson as Water Suppl'T Necessity StatA for Advance Planning . to Maintain Adequate Water To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : THE NEW YORK TIMES editorial of Oct. 7 concerning the local water-supply problem is commendable . The interest expressed in this vital ' subject will be appreciated by many engineers and others who have watched NevY York City lose many millions of dollars in construction costs and many other millions in inconvenience and risk to industry , business , individuals and general public health , all due to delays in authorization , construction and completion of the Delaware system . Most of this delay can be attributed to the lack of foresight in authorization . The greatest city in the world has the finest water-supply system in the world and to maintain this requires advance planning and constructing for future demands . A water-supply system is much like @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it can be drawn upon , and the " insufficient funds " note is apt to be drastic . The feasibility of the use of Hudson River water was studied by this writer some years ago while employed as an engineer by the New York City Board of Water Supply . At that time hit wrote to the United States Public Health Service and the Interstate Sanitation Commission in an effort to obtain a pollution survey of the Hudson and Mohawk Rivers . Such surveys are made by the United States Public Health Service for interstate streams , such as the Ohio , but had not been made for the Hudson River , as it was not considered of much significance as an interstate stream despite the fact that it touches two states and its valley is a recreational playground for people of all the states . Before engineers should consider ex4 tensive use of Hudson River water a complete pollution survey should be made and maintained up to date . The United States Public Health Service is the logical agency to perform this task . Based upon such a survey @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ taken to reduce the major ( and possibly all ) sources of pollution as indicated by this survey ; also from further reports by such agencies as the Interstate Sanitation Commission , which reports directly to the Governors of New York , New Jersey and Connecticut . At present the Interstate Sanitation Commission does not report on pollution abatement north of Peekskill . When the pollution-abatement program has been sufficiently advanced , including the entire Mohawk and Hudson River Valleys , then Hudson River water will be a good source of supply , with further treatment and purification ' as may be desirable . In the meanwhile upland waters should be fully developed in accordance with recommendations of the Interstate Commission on the Delaware River ( New York , New Jersey , Pennsylvania , Delaware ) , - with plans of local agencies such as the New York City Board of Water Supply and rulings of the United States Supreme Court . CHARLES W. noH.N . New York , Oct. 7 , IYOU . Imprisoned Yugoslav Liberals . To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : It is inaccurate to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Yugoslavia ) " have been released from prison " by Marshal Tito , as it is written in the otherwise fair account of the complex picture of the Yugoslav emigration ( THE NEW YORK TIMES , Oct. 5 ) .. For the record , I draw your attention to the fact that all the liberals ' are still in prison such as Dr. Dragolyub Jovanovich , the leader of the Serbian Agrarian Party , who enjoys a great prestige among the Serbian people ; Dr. Tomitsa Janchikovitch of the Croatian Peasant party , as well as the leader of the Slovenian liberals , Dr. Boris Furlan and many others . BOGDAN RADITSA . New York , Oct. 5 , 1950.                     