@@714763

txt British Socialists , in their most heated attack on Winston Churchill and his government since the election last year , today protested against the American bombing yesterday of power plants on the Yalu river between Korea and Manchuria . " If ycu want a war , why do n't you say so ? " Aneurin Bevan , most popular member of the party , cried out once during the noisy session of the house of commons . Emanuel Shinwell , former defense minister , shouted that the bombing threatened to enlarge the Korean war into a world war . Time and again Churchill , who had just come from a lunch with Secretary of S t a t e Acheson , bobbed to his feet to declare that the bombing did not constitute any change in policy in the conduct of the war . The American commanders have full authority to stage such a raid , he said , but he admitted he had not been consuited about it . Ask Full Debate ' the Socialists united in a demand for a full scale debate on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Nations to review its conduct . Churchill was able to delay the debate until tomorrow by saying that " the facts are not clear . " The whole protest grew out of a question from Sidney Silverman , left winger who has just returned from Moscow and Berlin , whether the government stood by the policy of confining the Korean war to Korea . Churchill said the policy remained . Air operations , he said , were carried on with " the entirely legitimate object of decreasing enemy war potential . " Silverman then asked if the bombings are not likely to lead to an extension of hostilities . " It is not a matter which I have the means of giving a decided judgment upon at this moment , " Churchill replied . Party Cheers Attlee The Socialists demanded to know if the British government had been consulted in advance . The opposition came down upon Churchill in full voice when he said he would ask the defense minister , Field Marshal Alexander , when he returns from Washington . Government leaders hope he will be here before the debate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ think the raids should have been made without " full consultation . " His party cheered him . DECISION BY U. S. BY LLOYD NORMAN Chicago Tribooe Press Service Washington , June 24 ? Defense Secretary Lovett today said the surprise bombing of the f ve hydro-electric power plants in North Korea was a military decision not linked to the truce talks . He said the British and other supporting forces in Korea were not consulted and did not have to be . Lovett told a Pentagon press conference that Gen. Clark , far east supreme e ... omminder , had full prior authority to bomb the four power plants in the interior of North Korea and obtained the necessary permission front the American joint chiefs of staff to bomb the fifth plant on the Yalu river border facing Manchuria . He said the joint chiefs can veto bombings along the-Yalu because of the danger of stray bombs falling on the Red China side of the Yalu  --  forbidden territory for American and supporting bombers . In Monday 's bombings , Clark asked for and received authority to bomb the Suiho @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to persistent questions , mostly from British and French reporters , Lovett said the United States does not have to ask permission from other nations for bombings within Korea . He said the governments with combat forces in Korea probably were notified routinely of the air attacks for information purposes . Clark 's Authority Cited He reiterated that in the event ' of extreme emergency , if American and supporting troops were subjected ? to a " full out " air strike by the Communists , Gen. Clark could retaliate with bomb ings across the Yalu river to safeguard his troops . He said Clark would have that authority as supreme commander . In fact , Lovett said , it would be his duty to pro- ? tea his troops . Clark is forbidden , however , to invade the Manchurian sanctuary for routine bombings because of fears such actions would spread the war and might provoke Russia to enter . Gen. , when he was far eastern supreme commander , urged that this restriction against bombing Manchuria be lifted . Lovett said he did not think the attacks on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Clark selected the military targets and decided when they should be hit . He said the power plants were hit because they had been repaired and restored to operation and were ripe military targets . Attacks by Fast Planes In reply to a question , Lovett said he was not sure whether the air strike could be classified as a tactical or strategic bombing attack . Aviation experts would consider the power plant attacks strategic because they hit at the enemy 's war making capacity far behind his front lines . They noted the significance of the fact that the bombings were made by fast fighter-bomber type planes , not the slower strategic bombers such as the ** which are vulnerable to the communist MIG-15 fighters . Asked about his conference yesterday with Harold Alexander , British defense secretary , Lovett said only that the British have suggested assignment of a British deputy to Gen. Clark . Would Welcome Briton He said this country would welcome a British officer as a deputy to Clark and recalled that British Field Marshal Montgomery had an American as a deputy in North Africa in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 30,000 or more of its military personnel in Korea and deserves a place on Clark 's staff . He said , however , that requests from other supporting forces in Korea for deputies on Clark 's staff would be considered only if they are making a substantial contribution to the war . Lovett said that after two years of combat in Korea there is no end in sight and no alternative but to " keep pitching . "                     