@@716414

txt Charities Get Half a Billion As1,800UnitsAskAidHere This is the first of lour articles on the problems of philan-I thropic fund raising and the competition for gifts here . By CM-1241 ( 2.7 , ES GYLIUTZZVER An estimated $500,000,000 was donated in New York to bring contributions to philanthropy in the United States last'year to the record sum of $4,500,000,000 . More than 1,200 local and 600 national organizations asked New Yorkers to give . One business man , who is a public figure , was the target of 1,500 solicitations . Several corporations gave to more than 400 fund drives . There is more beseeching and giving in this city  --  and greater bewilderment among givers ? than in any other community . It is not uncommon for twenty major appeals to be in competition simultaneously with dozens of lesser fund drives . Seasonal canvassers ring doorbells throughout the city , and every season is open season for any number of charities . Collection cans jingle the ' rear around in theatre and shopping districts . Urgings to give leap at New Yorkers from their radios , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at home and office , contains all sorts of invitations to send cash or check . Every appeal says or implies that the gift will help alleviate suffering , promote learning or religion , support research to curb some dread disease , or promote in other ways the welfare of mankind . Ninety-seven per cent of the golden harvest is spent honestly and with varying degrees of efficiency within limited fields . The average giver finds it difficult , though , to weed out the unworthy appeals from the worthy . It is even harder for him to decide , among many worthy causes , how to apportion what he is able and willing to give so that it will do the most good where the need is greatest . New York is the only city of more than 100,000 population in this country that does not consolidate the money-raising for its local philanthropies and some of the national health organizations into an annual drive in a community chest or extended united fund appeal . Eighteen hundred cities and smaller communities use the community chest idea . The nearest thing in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Greater New York Fund , which raised $6,216,292 last year in behalf of 424 local health and wel fare agencies . The fund has never pretended to be a community chest . It collects only from corporations and employe groups , including unions , leaving the general public as fair game for the criss-cross appeals of individual agencies and other federated groups . Disbursements by the Greater New York Fund covered about 13 per cent of the aggregate operating deficits of its member agencies . To make up the balance , the participating agencies had to compete for the general contributor 's support , either singly or in secular and sectarian alliances , with the hundreds of other philanthropies not affiliated with the Greater New York Fund . Giving Is a Free Enterprise Voluntary giving is a vital part of the city 's life . It is the most free . of all forms of free enterprise . The organizations that raise and administer funds for health and welfare are highly necessary . - Because of its very size , philanthropy has created in this city problems more complex than anywhere @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ governed by the laws of profit and loss , there has grown up in its fund-raising a degree of duplication and confusion that would have spelled bankruptcy for most other ventures . The estimate of $500,000,000 in voluntary giving by this city 's residents and business community could be described best as an informed guess . No one knows exactly the total of benefactions . Professionals who have spent years trying to measure the flow differ by margins of more than $50,000,000 for this city alone . Some , with exact figures on local fund-raising in particular fields of health and welfare agency work , feel it would be rank guess -- work to estimate the collections on church platters and by other fund - raisers who do not make public their receipts . However , for reasons to be explained , the figure of $500 , - 000,000 for New York is used in this report on a survey by The New York Times of some current trends and problems in philanthropy . No more accurate estimate has been suggested by any of the dozens of experts with whom this has been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that beseech New Yorkers for philanthropy to file by Sept. 1 with the State Department of . Social Welfare financial statements , open to public inspection . This will throw more light on philanthropic giving and how the money is spent , but many large corners will remain in. darkness . Various Groups Exempt The lawmakers , under pressure from some church groups , exempted from the new law all organizations claiming religious connection . The new laws also exempt from registration and filing of financial statements ' all educational institutions that confine solicitation to their students , alumni , faculties and trustees ; fraternal , patriotic and social organizations that solicit only among their own members ; and persons who ask financial aid for an individual to whom they turn over all funds collected without any deduction . The paucity of information , both present and likely under the new laws , about the amounts given to philanthropy leaves a serious gap in the picture of philanthropy here . Far more serious , according to nearly all experts in the field , is the confusion among most givers about the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ among various pleaders . There has been a big change in the last twenty years in the nature of philanthropic need . Many givers and some collectors have continued in a pattern now obsolete . The supplying of food , shelter and clothing to the needy , once a major task of private philanthropy , has been undertaken largely by Government under various welfare and social security programs . The handing out of Thanksgiving baskets at the Elks Club , sacks of coal at the district political club and free milk for poor babies in tenement districts has almost vanished as Federal , and local governments have undertaken the provision of basic needs . " Poorboxes " still make mute appeals on many church walls , and congregations are asked to give to the poor . Bowery missions continue to serve up Christmas dinners for the hungry and the derelict . In general , however , most of the money collected " for charity , " as distinguished from broader philanthropic purposes , is used now to a far greater extent than formerly to provide guidance , psychiatric help , job @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The position of orphanages and homes for the aged has changed considerably as a result of taxpayer aid through Federal and local government grants . This does not mean that such institutions no longer require private gifts . Homes for the aged , which now get about half their operating costs from public assistance and Social Security funds to which their residents are entitled , find themselves in the strange situation of requiring more private gifts than ever before . This is because of uneven development In two other fields , both of which draw largely upon philanthropy for their advancement . The fight against disease and bodily deterioration has gone so ! Well that an ever-growing percentage of our population reaches advanced years . But the social sciences have-not yet found a airay to keep the elderly from swelling the lists of those seeking admission to institutions . As a result , homes for the - aged ask Eye , Inc. , received in five years contributions and . bequests of $2,000,000 above , what it found necessary to meet current deManila . such dogs . The nonprofit National ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , ' ' calls ? attention to such significant facts . - Rarely does a- gift-supported organization go out of business voluntarily . The Will to self-perpetuatitng can ? - catriect further than in comirteiCe ' ; ' br industry . Oscine 600 fund-seeking national , organizations ' in ' the bureau 's list at the start of World War II , When a reappraisal was undertaken , only two ? conceded that their continuation was not indispensable to the winning of the war . The two that disbanded voluntarily were America First and the Institute for , Propaganda Analysis . The former 's announced purpose of keeping this country out of war had become an impossibility once we were in it . The institute could not , of course , make objective analyses of United States propaganda when that propaganda became a weapon of war . There is general agreement that voluntary philalithkophy should stay free  --  sof outside regulation , except ' for - legaX-  ' safeguards against racketeering , misinformation and gross wastefulness . Although duplication of effort and overhead costs are widespread and costly , and the dispersal of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the various fields , some **27;1725;TOOLONG : the only practical improvement can be made through education of the individual giver as to where and how his gift is spent and where the needs are greatest . Others feel that contributors should exert pressure to induce organizations that ask for-public support to consolidate their fund-raising and agree upon Standards of need , efficiency and ethics to which all beneficiary agencies would adhere . There seems to be a growing sentiment in New York for a community chest or united fund . It has been suggested that this might begin with the merger of some or all of the six major local federated appeals , and take in also the presently independent local and national drives able to meet its standards . The local federations commonly referred to as the " Big Six " are , in addition to the Greater New York Fund , the United Hospital Fund , Federation of Jewish Philanthropies , Catholic Charities of the Archdiocese of New York , Catholic Charities of the Diocese of Brooklyn , and the Federation of Protestant Welfare Agencies . - Each of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the-populace or serves specialized agencies , but there is some crossing of lines and duplication . The Greater New York Fund , the United Hospital Fund , and Jewish Federation distribute most of their funds to their affiliated agencies . The three other federations , which give limited financial aid to some agencies for specific programs , function primarily in the field of supplying welfare services and coodination to their member agencies . The " Big Six " collected in this city last year a total of $26,000 , - 000 . Staten Island , with its semirural population of 200,000 has raised funds for its health and for ever more gifts to enlarge their facilities and to meet the growing operating deficits caused by their greatly increased populations . Government allotments for orphan care have eased the financial burden of orphanages . The effort in modern philanthropy is to keep the aged independent as long as possible and ' to move them into institutions only when chronic illness or disability besets them . In child care , the effort is to provide foster homes , using orphanages only where @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ health and social conditions have altered the pattern of philanthropic need , if not of giving , in other ways . Years ago , when tuberculosis was a raging scourge with high contagion and mortality , it was standard procedure wherever ' possible to . ' send patients to Colorado or otbk high-altitude and relatively isolated places . Scores of organizations were formed to do the noble work of building sanatoriums in the West and populating them with ailing New Yorkers . Treatment of tuberculosis has changed , and fewer patients need travel great distances . Some local chapters of the National Tuberculosis Association have decided to broaden their programs to include other health problems , notably heart disease . Much good is still being done with philanthropic dollars in fighting tuberculosis through education in prevention arid early detection , and in expediting the admission of advanced cases to hospitals . Question of Duplication The need for self-study and possible consolidation or disbanding of some agencies appears to exist in many parts of the philanthropic field . Sixty organizations are listed by the National Information Bureau as conducting " national " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , at least fourteen raise money for prevention of blindness or to help the blind . Aside from the unnecessary expense of parallel fund-raising and administration , there is the question whether the very number of appeals on blindness may ' not eventually reduce the response of contributors who become confused or suspicious . Also , gifts are made often on an emotional basis rather than on what is the most important and immediate need . A guide dog for a blind person has such dramatic appeal that The Seeing welfare organizations through a local Community Chest since 1937 . Last year the campaign brought in $181,000 . Advocates of the community chest idea believe that the monies raised separately by the " Big Six " might be gathered in  --  and possibly a much larger amount  --  by one united appeal with far less overhead cost and less confusion of the public . Some executives of local philanthropies believe that New York , because of its size , poses special problems that require much study before a change of structure should be attempted . Opposition to the idea of consolidating @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ national " dread disease " organizations . Some say they are against joint fund-raisrig because they believe they can get more money from the public for their specific programs through their own appeals . Some contend that joint fund-raising deprives the givers of freedom of selection . This argument is disputed by the supportersof united appeals . 