@@719683

txt Neil H. , Secretary of Defense , dropped a broad hint today to military officers to resign if they were unalterably opposed to the President 's defense reorganization plan . In his first major speech since taking command of the Pentagon in October , Mr. moved to squelch in advance any open military rebellion and to soften Congressional opposition to the controversial reorganization plan . Meanwhile , the White House announced that President Eisen. hower would take his case f* Pentagon reorganization to the people next week in a nationwide radio and television broadcast . Editors to Hear President The forum for the opening rounds of the President 's fight for his reorganization plan will be a luncheon meeting Thursday of the American Society of Newspaper Editors . The President originally had planned to talk to the editors about foreign policy . James C. Hagerty , his press secretary , said the President had changed plans , however , and would talk on " why we have to modernize our defense establishment . " With a major Congressional battle building up , it was becoming @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ President Eisenhower 's public prestige in military affairs against the opposition of powerful members of Congress . The President told his news conference yesterday that he was prepared to carry his fight for the reorganization plan to the people , if necessary . Overflow Crowd at Club Mr. presented the Administration 's main arguments for the reorganization plan in a speech and a questionand-answes period before an overflow crowd at the National Press Club . Mr. , who would receive increased authority over military planning and spending under the proposal , declared ' that a centralized , wartime orIganization must be created to meet the threat of the missile. - I atomic age . At the same time , he attempt . ' led to meet some of the ConIgressional objections to the reorganization plan . He disavor , ed any intent to ' set up the Secretary of Defense as " a czar or dictator , " to create a single Chief of Staff or a Prussian type of general staff/ or to abolish the traditional military services . Furthermore , he said , the Administration was only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to transfer funds between the military services . Notes Opposition Taking notice of the opposi ? tion within his own ranks , par-. titularly in the Navy , Mr. Mc . Elroy served notice on military and civilian officials of the Pentagon that they were not to make public speeches in opposi. = tion to the plan . He also laid down certain conditions on the freedom with which they could testify before Congressional committees . And finally , he as much as told his subordinates that if they felt they could not live : under the reorganization plan , they should retire from duty . The issue of how far , military officers could go in speaking , out against the plan without be- , ing insubordinate was raised in the question-and-answer period Mr. came prepared with What he described as this " unequivocal answer " : " I can see no excuse for mill : ; tary or civilian members of thedefense organization undertakc ing to make public speeches in : their official capacities in oppo. sition to the program of their , commander in chief to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hand , officialS of the department are required when testifying before Congress to give their personal judgments and opinions when asked for them . Certainly I would expect each department witness to answer such questions frank-. ly and fully in light of his professional knowledge and experience and with full consideration of his opposition as a member of the defense organization , which is commanded by the President . " I would think if a man of integrity and conscience felt so strongly opposed to the basic policies and programs of his organization that he could not effectively discharge his responsibilities , he would so advise his superiors . I know this is what I would do . " Indirectly , Mr. 's statement seemed to reinforce the advice that military officers said they had been receiving privately from the Administration of " either go along with the reorganization or turn in your uniform . " Main Features of Plan The primary features of the reorganization plan would place strategic planning and control under the Secretary of Defense , with the advice and assistance of the Joint Chiefs of Staff @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as " separately administered " departments and would not act as executive agents passing along orders to unified commands in the field . Military funds would be appropriated directly to the Secretary of Defense , rather than to the individual military services as at present . Furthermore , th ? Defense Department would assume centralized control over all military research and development . Mr. said this centralized operational control was necessary to get " fast action " in a world environment " loaded with tension " and when there ou 1 d be limited warning of enemy missile attack . Mr. noted that , in every war in the last century , the nation had had to change the military organization after the war started . " We no longer have time in which to change command lines or to shift from a peacetime to wartime organization , " he said . " Any such shift must be made now . " Mr. took pains to emphasize that the reorganization was not so sweeping as assumed by some Congressional critics . The appropriation of money , directly to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ primary importance- psychologically in establishing that the Pentagon was one department . Actually , he said , the money will remain earmarked for the individual services , as in the past . The degree of flexibility in transferring funds sought by the Defense Secretary , he said , has been " greatly exaggerated " land will be " substantially less " than 10 per cent of the over-all defense budget . The flexibility is needed , he said , in event of an emergency somewhere in the world in which a service requires substantially more money , and to exploit unforeseen breakthroughs in research and development . The individual services , he said , will not be centralized out of existence and will continue to handle administrative functions , such as budget preparations , procuitment and personnel training . Radio and TV . Times The address by President Eisenhower before the American Society of Newspaper Editors will be seen live at 1 P. M. on the National Broadcasting Company and Columbia Broadcasting System television networks . It will be heard at the same time on N. B. C. radio , WOR @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by radio station WABC at 9 P. M. and by WCBS at 10 P. M.                     