@@719913

txt President Eisenhower said little about the Little Rock situation at his press conference : he implied much . Instead of submitting to questions from reporters on the subject of whether federal troops will be sent back to Little Rock if trouble develops again over the latest court ruling for integration without delay , the President read a prepared statement . The statement did not say yes ; it did not say no . It did say that the federal government will act if the state does not , in case it becomes necessary to use force to support the law and maintain order . No Equivocation ' What the President did , in effect , was to serve notice on Gov . Orval Faubus that the federal government stands ready to act today , as it did a year ago to prevent defiance of the court ruling on racial integration in Central High School , if such action becomes necessary . He did not indicate that he meant troops necessarily ; he did indicate he meant business . The President feels it is the duty of Governor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ forces " are suppressed and violence is prevented . In other words , that it is the responsibility of the state , not the federal government , to make sure that a court decree is carried out . But if the state fails in that duty , " there can be no equivocation as to the responsibility of the federal government in such event , " said the President . That is the way he felt about the situation a year ago ; that is the way he feels today . Board Action Waited The White House is following Little Rock developments minutely in order to be prepared for whatever move may seem necessary , whether it be the dispatch of federal troops or some other device to " insure the carrying out of the decisions of the federal courts . " The President and his advisers await the Little Rock School Board 's response to the challenge of Governor Faubus ' to find means of delaying the court-scheduled integration in Little Rock Central High School or resign . In Little Rock , the Associat- ed Press reported that Gov . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's statement that federal force might again be used to enforce a court integration order . Governor Faubus said the President was trying to enforce a court ruling that is unconstitutional . It had been anticipated  --  even announced  --  that the Arkansas Governor would summon the Legislature in special session to deal with the situation . His action in putting the school board on the spot was an unexpected change of signals . He has suggested that the whole " unhappy situation " would be solved if only the parents of the seven Negro children involved would consent to their withdrawal from Central High School enrollment to allow for the " cooling-off period " just denied by the ruling of the Eighth Circuit Court of Appeals . It is also possible that the board may resort to a pupil assignment plan , adopted by referendum in 1956 , to circumvent the scheduled integration . Assignment Plan There is 710 doubt that the administration would prefer not to be faced with a repetition of the distressing circumstances of last year . Defiance of the Supreme Court decision which can be carried @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; open mob rebellion another . Virginia , in particular , has been throwire ; up a whole elaborate bulwark of anti-integration laws , to be court-tested , one by one . The President , so far , has kept to an impersonal , letterof-the-law line on integration , making it clear that he does not conceive it to be his duty to enforce integration , but simply to uphold the Constitution as interpreted by the United States Supreme Court . He has been chided by critics for not taking more affirmative action in implementation of the Supreme Court 's reversal of long-established school segregation practices ? action that would help prepare the South for the tremendous social adjustments involved . Eisenhower statement and related story : Page 13.                     