@@716336

txt Sir Winston Churchill , with a misty gleam in his eyes . was formally installed a Knight of the Garter by his Queen June 14 amid medieval pomp and pageantry . The ? Prime Minister looked unusually pale and solemn as he hung his banner in historic St. George 's Chapel as a member of the oldest order of British chivalry . The ceremc  --  ny was a ritual of music and prayer . Sir Winston wore a flowing scarlet mantle and a great hat with a flopping brim . On his left leg he wore a jeweled garter . Hanging on a gold chain was a medallion bearing the insignia of St. George slaying the dragon . Queen Elizabeth II . who conferred the knighthood on her first minister April 24. 1953. beamed as she formally introduced him into Britain 's most elite order with the words : " It is our pleasure that the knight companion be installed . " Sir Winston is only the fifth commoner invested with the Garter since the order was founded more than 600 years ago by King Edward III @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's Knights of the Round Table . During modern days the selection of knights had drifted into the hands of politicians  --  and Mr. Churchill himself in 1945 turned down an offer of knighthood . Later he placed the power back into the hands of the sovereign  --  and only then accepted the accolade from the young Queen who now reigns . It was in the gray stone fortress at Windsor that Queen Elizabeth buckled the garter on his knee . Armor-breasted household guards stood by . A gaily dressed crowd looked op . Then Sir Winston led a march of Knights and Ladies of the Garter along the winding 500-yard processional route to St. George 's Chapel . Slowly going down the slope to the church , he halted twice ? and looked around to see if the others were with him . Queen Elizabeth , still showing the tan of her world tour , trailed behind on foot with her husband , the Duke of Edinburgh . With halting steps , Sir Winston took his place in his stall . The Bishop of Winchester . the Rt . Rev. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 20-minute Church of England religious service after the Prime Minister was formally introduced to the other knights as : " The Rt . Hon. Sir Winston Leonard Spencer Churchill . " Churchill joined in the singing of the anthem . . . " Fight the good fight of faith , lay hold on eternal life . " He seemed to regain his old exuberance on emerging . And as he rode triumphantly away he doffed his great hat of black felt , ornamented with a band of diamonds and a plume of ostrich feathers , and smiled at a cheering throng .                     