@@712649

txt Take the President 's message on taxes and hold it up to a mirror  --  a political mirror , of course  --  and you will see in newly sharpened outline the political strategy of the Truman administration for coming election campaigns . ' . The tax program has its technical rationale . That already has been provided by the report of the President 's economic advisers and the State of the Union message . The rationale is that government fiscal policy  --  Lboth budget . and taxes ? is a powerful instrument which can be used to stabilize and expand the economy of the United States ; that it should now be used to encourage a higher level of business activity , ' and that acceptance of an unbalanced budget for the time being is a desirable means toward achieving higher prosperity later . AA A The tax message recognizes the politically obvious fact that the Truman administration has few votes to win among oil well owners , big stockholders in big corporations , people who would suffer from estate and ' gift taxes , ? and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gains taxes . Such people , so far as the Truman administration is concerned , are not only politically expendable=they never existedamong the ranks of potential Truman ' supporters . On the other hand , the tax message offers very considerable - prospective benefits to small business and small-business men . The proposed ' relief from wartime excise taxes could mean a big boost in business to hundreds of thousands of retail merchants  --  the men who sell jewelry , luggage , furs , and cosmetics . Considering that one or more of these items are to be found in just about every form of retail establishment the land over , from the corner drugstore to the biggest big city department store , the tax message might win some new friends for Mr. Truman . A A It is not quite accurate to suggest that only small busi : ness would benefit from the tax cuts Mr. Truman proposes . Railroads and bus and'air lines would b'e relieved of the transportation tax . The ' telephone companies and Western Union also ' could sell their services minus the tax , which in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , these are all . big operations . But here it seems probable that Mr .. Truman 's advisers are more interested in lower costs to the consumer than any possibility that the members of the Railroad Executives Association might turn into Fair Dealers . Making allowance for that last factor , proposed tax relief to railroads and telephone andtelegraph companiq , the mes. ! sage is definitely an incentive program for the benefit of small and medium business . A A A Now , it would not be fair - to imply that this is done solely to seek votes in this economic bracket of the population ; nor do I mean to make ' that implication . Small business is a major foundation of American enterprise and prosperity . Aid to small and medium business is as desirable an activity as government could embark upon . Undoubtedly , much of the thinking which went into the tax message was prompted by nonpolitical economic thinking . Yet the fact remains that a tax message which offers aid and comfort to small . and medium business rounds out a political formula : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hard to beat . The ? last two ? elections have demonstrated that Mr ' . Truman enjoys the support of a. solid majority in the ranks of labor and among Negroes . ' His conr trilled interest in ' farm prices certainly has not injured his party among farmers . Now he offers comfort to small and ' medium.business . Whether this is intentionally or accidentally political is for each to decide according to his personal views . But whatever the motive , the end result is something Republicans will have to wrestle with foi some time to eome.                     