@@717144

txt Two leading prelates of this capital 's Roman Catholic archdiocese were dismissed today from their municipal posts by an executive decree . They were Msgr . Tato , Previsor , Vicar General and Auxiliary Bishop , and Msgr . Ramon Pablo Novoa , Diocesan Canon . Msgr . Tato has been substituting during the past few weeks for the ailing , 75-year-old Santiago Luis Cardinal Copello , in all negotiations with the Government . Msgr . Tato and Msgr . Novoa were called to police headquarters late this afternoon . Reports that both had been placed under arrest could not be confirmed . A Presidential decree , signed by the seventeen members of the Cabinet and Government secretaries , listed sixteen specific charges against the prelates . None of the Government 's four secretaries or super-Cabinet members , including the Secretary of National Defense , Gen. Jose Sosa Molina , signed the decree . The wording of the decree made it clear that it was the Government 's . intent to strip both prelates of their high church ranks . The Government based its argument on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Church and all appointments to the hierarchy are made with its consent . As Vicar General and Canon , Msgr . Tato received 1.970 pesos a month ( approximately $140 ) from the Government . He and Msgr . Novoa will no longer receive any pay from the Government . In a statement to the press prior to his departure to the po- lice department , Msgr . Tato said : " The ministers of the archdioceses are designated by the archbishop in conformity with the regulations of canonical order . The executive power limits itself to issuing the decree by which administrative steps are taken to incorporate those designated to their positions in the budget . " The Government 's charges against both prelates cited last week-end 's events . The GeVernment also referred to the disturbances throughout the country last May 8 when an estimated 140 Catholics were arrested . Warning Recalled The decree stated that prelates had been warned not to encourage the demonstration last Saturday . Yet , by taking the procession , which was supposed to have been confined within the cathedral , to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ balconies after the rites , the prelates encouraged the huge crowd outside the cathedral in continuing the dem- , hmstration , the charges said . Both prelates , it continued , had left their spiritual sphere to engage in acts of a temporal nature which are " exclusively re'served to the state . " The dismissals were a highlight of the struggle between the Perlin Government and the hierarchy of the Roman Catholic Church . In another action in this fight , the President sent a mes-1 sage to Congress that may lead to the impeachment of a member of the nation 's Supreme ) Court , Dr. Tomas Casares . President Peron informedl Congress that Dr. Casares , an outstanding Catholic , had impeded the work of the police who arrested at least 400 persons in the cathedral last Sunday evening . The justice also was accused of seeking army intervention during these events . President Addresses Throng This afternoon President Perot spoke to thousands of workers who had gathered in front of the Congress building in an " act of repudiation " of the flag burning that took place @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the workers were ready to offer their lives for him , the President advised his audience to let him handle pie current troubled situation . He said any action by organized labor now would be like wasting gunpowder on sparrows . The Government maintained that Catholic elements had insulted the national sovereignty by burning an- Argentine flag during a mass demonstration . The Assistant Secretary of the General Confederation of Labor , Hugo de Pietro , had asked the President to allow the workers to handle the current difficulties with the Church . " We will play this game and they can name whatever field they want to play on , " the labor leader said , without referring to the Church . He added that labor had the transport and all other means necessary to wage the battle and that it was all at President PerOn 's disposal . The President replied : " I promise that as always , with the greatest prudence of which I am capable , I will have the law obeyed , without violence as far as possible . But I will have the law @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whether to act din defense of the law . The moment of doing anything has not Associated Press Msgr . Manuel Tato yet arrived , and if it should we will give the order in due time . " Today 's ' abor stoppage was peaceful and a mass demonstration was calm . In the city of Mar del Plata here was a large Catholic demonstration as lay authorities took over the management of the Catholic orphanage from the nuns . An estimated total of forty children who fought the entry of Government-appointed authorities were transferred to this city . Unknown groups early this morning smashed the windows of the city 's Peronist newspaper , La Manana . Cardinal Protests Meanwhile , Church leaders called for a thorough investigation into events that sparked the week-end violence . Antonio Cardinal Caggiano of the Archdiocese of Rosario , speaking for the Argentine episcopate , protested the " imputations leveled by the press , as if the criminal had been discovered " before such an investigation had been Made . The Cardinal said such accusations created an atmosphere " which we repudiate because it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ very lives of Catholics , who are involved in an accusation as general as it is hasty and perilous . " Church sources estimated that as many as a thousand persons are now jailed . The police gave no figures but some newspapers reported some of those arrested had been released . The semi-official newspaper Democracia , reopening its attack on the clergy , shed some light on whom President Peron meant when he said last night that the " oligarchy " was " backed by an international force . " It was believed that the force meant was the Vatican . In describing the ? activities of Father Emilio di Pasquo , who is active in the Young Catholic Workers ' movement , the newspaper said he was in the service of the " black international , " a frequently used euphemism for the Vatican . The stock market did not fully recover from heavy selling yesterday which required the Government investment agency to step in and support the market . However , President Peren 's speech last night calling for an " alert tranquillity " resulted in a marked @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                  