@@717657

txt Many in Congress continue cool to the idea of giving the Administration the authority it wants to commit a billion dollars ' worth of foreign economic aid money as much as ten years in advance . But there is increasing talk of announcing , in the new foreign aid legislation . that in some form overseas subsidies will go on more or less indefinitely . For example , Chairman Richards of the House Foreign Affairs Committee , who disagrees with the ten-year proposal , favors a general statement of intent to continue foreign aid as long as needed . Seventeen other House Democrats , who would hold the Administration down to five-year commitments . believe Congress should expressly state that the United States is in " the fight for freedom to stay . " That is one way of putting it , of course . Some people might wonder what foreign aid has to do with the fight for freedom in such places as India . where the government is busily socializing all manner of things , or in Communist Yugoslavia . or in one-quarter-Communist France . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to see the advantage for the United States of putting " foreign aid forever " in black and white . True , there are advantages for the recipients . It offends the sensibilities of some of them to hear from time to time that Congress is thinking of ending foreign economic aid . A survey conducted by the New York Times reveals , among other things , that most recipients feel that continued aid is necessary ? hardly an earth-shaking revelation . It would doubtless be more pleasant for the recipient governments , as well as more convenient for their planners , to know that Congress had abandoned any notion of ceasing to support them . For the United States , though , it 's a different matter . Aside from the implied further commitment of money the taxpayer can ill afford , such an announcement would remove any leverage this country is now able to exercise in , the use of its foreign aid . If a nation thinks its American handout is going to stop this year or next , it may bestir itself to some self-help efforts : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it will take it easy and any United States advice will be so much wasted breath . That 's what will happen if . as Senator George recently expressed it , Congress puts up a big sign reading , We got it , boys ; come and get it . And if Congress does put up that sign , it will find it extremely difficult ever to pull it down .                     