@@717691

txt Tile Herter backing of longterm economic aid to underdeveloped nations is in keeping with his long-standing background as an Internationalist . It was Governor Herter 's work as a representative in Congress , prior to his gubernatorial service , which helped pave the way for the Marshall Plan . But the Herter position now is significant in that it marks the first speech on foreign policy he has delivered since becoming Governor in 1953 . An Eisenhower Republican long before the former NATO commander became a presidential candidate in 1952 . Governor Herter has steadfastly continued to back the President and has patterned his own state administration along the moderate Eisenhower line . Governor Herter made it clear here in his speech before the St. Petersburg Rotary Club and Chamber of Commerce that he believed a strong United States policy of long-term economic aid is vital to the American effort to combat Soviet trade and economic aid policies . No Specific Pledge ' " It is my strong belief . " he said , " that Congress should , through some policy statement , make it clear @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of those areas where some economic aid can produce a stronger economy , even though no specific pledge of funds for carrying out of policy is made over a long-term period . " I likewise feel that if some long-range project , such as the Aswan Dam on the Nile , is approved by the Congress as a long-term worth-while development in a country which needs help , it should be approved : on , a contractual ISasis by the Congress . " Most important of all , however , is that after due debate the United States should set a policy in this field with bipartisan support , so that the rest of the world may know what sour underlying intent is and will not assume that we are merely trying to buy good will for a brief period at the cheapest possible price . The spirit in which we act is as important as the aid itself . " Governor Herter told his audience that the longing for peace and personal freedom among people everywhere is a powerful ally of the free world in its worldwide battle with totalit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said , " that , given a chance , will some day produce a world in which brotherhood and dignity of man are everywhere respected . " The Massachusetts Governor stressed that United States military , economic , and foreign policy efforts must be dedicated to " the encouragement and strengthening of every effort to establish freedom . " A Powerful Ally ' He said the most difficult task in implementing United States foreign policy is using the ideological tool to " try to capture the minds of men in our basic belief that the freedoms of our system are better than the constraints of the totalitarian system . " " To the great masses of India and Asia , " he added , " for whom the word ' freedom ' itself has but very vague connotations , we must be certain that what we have to say and how we say it jibes with what we do as demonstrated in our everyday way of life . " The longing for peace and the fruits of peace is a powerful ally over the long pull . No less powerful , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which are the native birthright Of all peo.pies . : Where permitted to pursue a healthy evolution , such aspirations are bound to range themselves against any totalitarian system and any external threat of domination . "                     