@@712802

txt Letters to The Times To THE EDITOR OF THE New YORK TIMES : Senator McCarthy has mentioned the Institute of Pacific Relations several times in his attacks on Ambassador Jessup and Prof. Owen Lattimore , always inaccurately , and with false implications . Your readers may be more inclined to accept the opinion of ' the Rockefeller Foundation that the institute is " the most important single source of independent studies of the problems of the Pacific area and the Far East . " The Navy is a good judge of loyalty and competence . It has awarded the American I. P. R. its Certificate of Achievement . The Senator 's charges implicating the American I. P. R. clearly derive from those initiated years ago by Alfred Kohlberg . Among the trustees of the institute who rejected such charges on March 17 , 1947 , following a careful examination of the record , were Arthur H. Dean of Sullivan &; Cromwell , New York ; Waiter F. Dillingham of Honolulu ; Dr. Brooks Emeny , president of the Foreign Policy Association ; Huntington Gilchrist of the American @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ University , not then a trustee . The members of the American I. P. R. voted overwhelmingly in support of the conclusions Of these trustees , most of whom are still on the board , which at present includes President Robert G. Sproul of the University of California ( vice chairman ) , ; Dr. Richard E. Fuller , director of the Seattle Art Museum ( vice chairman ) ; President Arthur G. Coons of Occidental College , Los Angeles ; Prof. John K. Fairbank of Harvard University , Martha A. Gerbode of San Francisco , John R. Hersey ( " Hiroshima , " " The Wall " ) , W. W. Lockwood of Princeton University , Prof. Owen Lattimore of Johns Hopkins University , Gen. George C. Marshall , Sumner Welles , former Under Secretary of State , and the undersigned . All are fully informed regarding both the past and present activities of the institute . Contributions to Institute Charges from any source that the I. P. R. is or has been a Communistfront organization do not deserve serious consideration . Steps were taken several years ago to remove @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Jessup has pointed out , Senator McCarthy 's charge that the institute 's magazine , Far Eastern Survey , was controlled in 1942-43 through contributions from one source , while he was a trustee , is utterly false . Two of the largest banks in the United States recently doubled their contributions to the institute in recognition both of its integrity and of the value of its work in the public interest at a particularly critical period in American relations with Asia . The trustees and members of the American I. P. R. , which is one of twelve national councils in the Institute of Pacific Relations , are identified with it because they realize that free inquiry and the publication and discussion of its products are essential in dealing with the complex and often controversial problems of Asia and of American relations with Asia . They demand authority , competence and objectivity in the institute 's publications , but they welcome a diversity of views in the be . lief that Americans wish to form their own conclusions . The institute does not editorialize or take any position on foreign @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ views in its publications and is often congratulated on doing so . Inaccurate and irresponsible charges made by a Senator make headlines and stick in the minds of the public , while reasoned replies go largely unnoticed and unheeded . All who have had anything to do with the support of a nonprofit organization know how easily the flow of funds can be retarded . Senator McCarthy 's accusations against the I. P. R. are false , but they have already done it serious damage . Broader Support The American I. P. R. is now seeking broader public support of its activities and wider use of its publications by scholars , business men , officials , teachers and citizens who want to read factual , lucid and authoritative accounts of what is happening in Asia and what can sensibly be done about it . Its chairman , Gerard Swope , is now on a tour of the Far East . In his absence we request the hospitality of your columns , as trustees of the institute , to assure your readers that it fully deserves their respect and confidence . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's list of subversive organizations , as some irresponsible or uninformed persons have implied . It has been criticized as much on the extreme left as on the extreme right . It refuses to take either position . Asserting vigorously the claims of both academic freedom and freedom of the press at a point where they join , the American I. P. R. accepts the risks and responsibilities of both . It operates in the belief that events and tendencies in Asia can be examined and explained without sound and fury . Its methods are designed to produce light , not heat . JOSEPH P. CHAMBERLAIN . CHARLES K. GAMBLE . DONALD B. STRAUS . New York , April 12 , 1950 . Sales of Magazines at Curb-Stands To THE EDITOR OF THE NE77 YORK TIMER : The recent announcement by License Commissioner Edward T. McCaffrey that curbside newsstands would be restricted to the sale of newspapers beginning May 1 , 8 , nd City Councilman Charles E. Keegan 's subsequent announcement that a bill would be introduced in the Council to legalize the sale of magazines at the curb-stands , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the writer on several occasions in the past . Reference is made to the prominent display accorded by large numbers of curbside newsstands to the " burlesque " type of pie . ture magazines which is an affront to public decency and a menace to the public morals , particularly those of the young . It should be emphasized that not an curbside newsstand operators offend in this respect , but there are too many who sacrifice restraint for the sake of the profit element . Protests to individual newsstand , operators are met with replies in this vein : " As long as the other fellow sells them and displays them , I have to do it ! " The writer shares the general abhorrence of censorship , but those who persist in flouting good taste invite it . Iri assaying the problem of the curbside newsstand operator , the Council , License Department and all other municipal agencies involved would do well to consider the menace of the newsstand that deals in literature bordering an the salacious . T. J. MCINERNEY . Managing Director , Broadway Association , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Prayers For Peace Interfaith Meetings Suggested on Anniversary of Hiroshima To THE EDITOR OF THE New YORK TIMES : Aug. 5 marks the fifth anniversary of our dropping the atom bomb on Hiroshima . We killed 75,000 people that day and injured 70,000 others . Even though the then Secretary of War , one of our most distinguished statesmen , Henry L. Stimson , has persuasively explained our reason for that act ? shortening the war and thereby sating perhaps a million American lives and two million Japanese lives ? no sensitive American has really felt at ease about this American deed . We ought not forget it . If there is such a thing as national repentance we ' ought to consider trying it . Repentance by the entire nation will not purge us of the sense of guilt but may curb our inclinations to utilize again such a dread weapon and those infinitely more destructive yet to come . National repentance , perhaps more than anything else , may persuade the peoples of the world that we are basically a decent , peace-seeking nation . We might well dedicate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of commemorating Hiroshima and repenting as a nation . Perhaps in the City of New York we might assemble at Lewisohn Stadium for a twelve-hour service , from noon to midnight . In this service the three major religious groups would participate in prayer , meditation , and addresses on a repenting America . The Archdiocese of New York , the Federal Council of Churches of Christ in America and the Synagogue Council of America might be asked to prepare their respective services . We might ask John Hersey . Norman Cousins , Albert Einstein , J. Robert Oppenheimer , Leslie Groves , and one or two surviving residents of Hiroshima to participate . Surely the radio networks would cooperate and the Voice of America could carry this twelvehour message to the world . There might be a collection  --  the funds to be sent to the children of Hiroshima and Nagasaki for playgrounds , for joyous association with the American people . Chicago , at Soldier Field , and Los Angeles , at the Hollywood Bowl , might simultaneously follow this procedure . Across the nation would be heard the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and prosperity , resolving to seek peace and to pursue it , bidding the ignorant and arrogant of other lands join with us on the road to understanding and concord . ( Rabbi ) ELY E. Pmckinc . Newark , N. J. , April 7 , 1950 . F. 0 . Matthiessen as a Scholar TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK Tuns : The account of the suicide of F. 0 . Matthiessen in your issue of April 2 , , perhaps because it was printed as a news story rather than as an obituary , did less than justice to a distinguished man of letters . Thus it mentioned various left wing affiliations , but made no mention of the numerous literary and academic honors that Professor Matthiessen had received . Even more surprisingly , it did not refer to his monumental study of our major nineteenth-century writers , " American Renaissance , " or his many other contributions to literary criticism and cultural history . Instead it appended an officious statement by Howard Fast of the New York Council of the Arts , Sciences and Professions . Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of human personality , are far from certain that he undertook what he himself called " this desperate act " in order to provide Mr. Fast and his colleagues with a political object-lesson . In the ungarbled text of his own final statement , which appeared in The Boston Herald on April 6 , Mr. Matthiessen wrote with characteristic sincerity : " How much the state ' of the world has to do with my state of mind I do not know . " ' That his death has evoked such facile personal judgments , and so little public recognition of his importance as a fine scholar and a great teacher , is one of the saddest aspects of the tragedy . HARRY LEVIN , Professor of English and Chairman of the Department of Comparative Literature , Harvard University .                     