@@717103

txt Assurance by Secretary of State John Foster Dulles that the United States rejects a neutral role for West Germany has considerably cleared the air here . It also indicates to most commentators the urgent necessity that the Western powers clarify their views on common objectives and how best to achieve them before the new talks with the Soviet Union . Indications that the idea of a neutral belt of states in Eastern Europe has been officially examined and almost unanimously found wanting from Sweden to France . with both the federal government and the Social Democratic opposition agreeing that such development would be unhelpful to the Germans . have considerably cased Chancellor Konrad Adenauer 's position . Most important of all , however , in this respect- was Mr. Dulles ' statement of May 24 , which officially cleared up any misunderstandings on the possible future United States policy toward Europe . President Eisenhower 's " misunderstood formulation . " as it was described here , was for a short while accepted because it appeared to coincide with views which , according to some circles here , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ threat " will no doubt be more calmly deliberated , following Mr. Dulles ' reassurance during the Chancellors ' talks with the three German Ambassadors from Washington . London . and Paris . who were specially summoned here last week . It will also ease the government 's position in foreign policy debate due May 27 . And , still further , it will remove any reservations Dr. Adenauer might have about his coming talks in Washington with Mr. Eisenhower and Mr. Dulles in the middle of June , after he has received an honorary degree from Harvard University . It would be an exaggeration to maintain that , despite official government and opposition rejection of the neutral- belt of states concept , the general conception of neutrality or neutralism has been entirely abandoned here . But the possibility that the federal government might lose its identity and maybe the new Germany lose Its means of defense - has =pulled up - sharply someiof those people who have not thought out the implications of neutrality for a reunified Germany . New Security Plan ? For others , this talk about neutrality has suggested @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mentioned , it may-be worked out as a European security system acceptable to both West and East . The occasion is being used by some sections of the - West Ger= man press to recall what the Kremlin 's real ideas are concerning neutrality as - applied to Germany . These ' they see in its last note on the ' United Nations Disarmament Conference in London . There it dearly shows fiat . in the Kremlin 's view , a reducing of international tension and building of confidence could come through withdrawal of occupation troops of the four powers to their respective national territory . The Soviet Union 's reference to " strongly restricted contingents of local police forces in both parts of Germany " and common four-power control over them are also noted . To the Germans , this is little less than a return to the Potsdam Agreement of 1945 . United Policy Sought All this convinces most people here that the coming four-power conference is unlikely to lead far At the same time , however , it is emphasized that united Western policy is long overdue , and especially @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ here at home . An opportunity for this will come with the May 27 debate . when the Social Democrats intend to introduce a motion requesting that first , no legislation on so-called accomplished facts should be enacted before the forthcoming four-power conference . This Is to apply especially in military field  --  for example , introducing the law authorizing acceptance of volunteers for new German armed forces . Second . the federal government should exert . its influence with the Western powers to overcome the existing systn of East and West military blocs by establishing a comprehensive collective security system . Acceptance or rejection of these conditions , according to the press here , will decide whether cooperation between the government and the opposition can be expected in the near future in the field of foreign policy . This means particularly whether the Social Democrats are prepared to cooperate actively in the remilitarization prograni. 3 . More trade between . East and West . Europe 's East-West trade has reached its highest postwar level , and continues to build rapidly , according to the UN Economic Commission for Europe . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ counter in East-West negotiations . There are even rumors that Vyacheslav M. Molotov may one day be replaced as Soviet Foreign Ministef by that master-trader of Moscow , Anastas Mikoyan . Discussions between East and West will be wide-ranging . They will include , in all likelihood . disarmament , the position of armies and air bases , neutral belts across Europe , and the Soviet 's pet project of an all-embracing nonaggression pact covering most of the nations of Europe and including the United States . The Big Four " meeting at the summit " will indeed be-merely. the opener , the kick-off . Months of talk , argument , yand sion at various - levels and by various-bodies- ' -ForeignilVllnis=-ters , sPeeialized agencies , task forces , and ambassadors-7could follow . Favorable Atmosphere The West will need to be very flexible and very alert . The shrewd - negotiators ? of ' Moscow will seek to play on the world 's hopes for peace and to snake the most of the relaxation of world tensions which is-already evident Joseph Stalin with his blunt , belligerent , and expansionist policy was never @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the ' West as have the present perceptive rulers of the ' Kremlin . Quite frankly , the negotiators from the West do not know precisely " what the - Russians are up to , " any more than does Marshal Tito of Yugoslavia . as he prepares for the astounding visit to Belgrade of the two chief rulers of the Soviet Union . There ' are many theories . There are careful calculations . There is knowledge of Soviet strengths , and of serious Soviet weaknesses , Take the case of the Soviet - satellites . They have long since ceased to be areas of profitable exploitation for the U.S.S.R. Moscow , by the example of freed Austria and by its mission to Yugoslavia , has willy-nilly set in                     