@@716430

txt Brig . Gen. Herbert Davis Vogel , an engineering expert on water problems , was chosen today to be the chairman of the Tennessee Valley Authority . President Eisenhower nominated the 54-year-old , Michiganborn Army engineer to be a member of the T. V. A. board of directors . The White House said that after his expected confirmation by the Senate the President would appoint him chairman of the board . General Vogel , who was here today meeting members of Congress from the Tennessee Valley area , said he did not have the " foggiest idea " who suggested him for the job . When asked where he stood on the question of public versus private power , he said he could not generalize " because there is a lot to be said on both sides . " But he said , " of course , I do , " when asked whether he believed in the feasibility and wisdom of the T. V. A. The law states that members of the Valley authority board shall believe in the valley developmental project that began twenty-one years @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ under the law unless he did so subscribe , " General Vogel added . Partnership ' Wonderful ' He was asked his views of the partnership concept developed by the Eisenhower Administration ? a partnership of Federal , state , and local government , and private enterprise . He replied : " Partnership is a wonderful thing , whether in the echelons of government or elsewhere . " General Vogel said he wanted to go to the valley itself to see what was being done , what desires and hopes of the area were , before saying more . " You must have an understanding of the soul before there is an understanding of the being , " he saidH He said he was familiar with President Eisenhower 's directive to the Atomic Energy Commis-1 sion to negotiate a contract with two Southern private utilities to supply power to Valley Authority , but : he declined comment beyond saying , " That is something for the Congress to decide ; I am only a servant of the people who express their will through the Congress . " Asked if he thought @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he said with a smile , " Do n't put words in my mouth . I think I answered that when I said I believed in the feasibility of the act . " President Eisenhower once cited the T. V. A. as an example of " creeping socialism , " but has said- repeatedly since then that he has no intention of destroying it . General Vogel would succeed Gordon R. Clapp , whose term expired . General Vogel was nominated for a term expiring in 1983 . His appointment , subject to confirmation , would be effective Aug. 31 , when he will retire from the Army . He is a registered division engineer of the Southwest Division , Corps of Engineers , United States Army , with headquarters in Dallas . . Widely Known as Engineer He is a registered professional engineer in New York and Texas and is held by the profession in high repute as a hydraulic engineer . He is credited as the man who introduced large scale hydraulic engineering into this country . In 1930 , working with a small appropriation and figuratively with baling @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ experimental laboratories at Vicksburg , Miss. , that were used in the 1952 Missouri River flood to chart the course of the flood . As a result of running the " Missouri flood " through the , large outdoor Missouri model , engineers at Omaha were able to predict exact crests and prepare works that kept the water from inundating many points , including Omaha . General Vogel also is chairman of the Arkansas-White-Red river basins inter-agency committee , made up of Federal agencies working on developmental projects in those valleys . A .. notion of his approach is seen in a statement he made to the committee soon after he took over the Southwest Division in June . 1952 . " Academic knowledge , " said General Vogel , " is of value only when it has the ultimate application in the service of humanity . " He told the committee that the agencies were not there " to show how much we know about soil and water conservation , but primarily to help the people make I better use of their soil and water . " Secondly , he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ us in other basins and other times the value of experience we gain here . " General Vogel was born in Chelsea , Mich. , on Aug : 26 , 1900 . He was graduated from the University of Michigan with a degree in civil engineering , and from the United States Military Academy in 1924 .. He received a Matter 's degree in civil engineering from the ' University of California and a doctor 's degree in civil engineering from the Berlin Technical University , where he studied under an exchange scholarship . After his work at Vicksburg , he studied experimental hydraulics at the University of Michigan , served as district engineer in . Pittsburgh , 1940-43 , and in Buffalo , 1945-47 . During World War II he held logistical commands in the Southwest Pacific and the Philippines and later in Japan . More recently , he was assistant to the Governer of the Panama Canal Zone , going from that post to Dallas . ? Hearings on General Vogel 's nomination will take place Monday before the Senate Public Works Committee . Senator Albert Gore , Democrat @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ against the atomic energy bill that dealt with the public versus private power issue , said he had no predisposition about General Vogel and hoped for fair ' and impartial consideration of his nomination . Senator Lister Hill , Democrat of Alabama , said he hoped the committee would take " a long , careful look " at the nomination , with particular attention to whether General Vogel believes in " the wisdom and feasibility of the T. V. A. act . "                     