@@717291

txt Never liking to let Brooklyn get too far ahead , the owncrs of the New York Giants called yesterday for city aid in finding a new home for the Polo Grounders ? as well as the Dodgers . Mindful , perhaps , of this morning 's scheduled conference of Mayor Wagner , Brook . lyn borough officials and the Dodger owners , Horace C. Stoneham let it be known that the Giants had a problem , too . Mr. Stoneham , president of the Giants , said : " We could certainly use a new field . But instead of helping us , everything the civic fathers have done in recent years has been pointed at hurting us . " The Giants ' vice president , Charles F. Feeney. added : " It 's not just a Brooklyn prob- lem but an all-New York problem . If they 're going to build a stadium in Brooklyn , they ought to consider building one for the clubs here as well . " Suggests Park for 2 Clubs Mr. Stoneham suggested that a city-owned stadium to house both the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the East Bronx . The Yankees ' management could not , have been more surprised by the ' suggestion . " We 're very happy with Yankee Stadium , " said George M. Weiss , general manager . " It 's probably the best stadium in the country and we would n't consider moving . Not unless someone built one just as good and offered it to us rent-free . " The fuss over the baseball parks began Tuesday , when the Dodgers disclosed plans to play seven 1956 home games at Roosevelt Stadium in Jersey City . More sharply than ever before , this dramatized the Brooklyn owners ' growing dissatisfaction with Ebbets Field , the Dodgers ' home grounds in upper Flatbush . In outlining the problems at Ebbets Field , Walter F. O'Malley , president of the Dodgers , emphasized the difficulty of reaching it by rapid transit . In contrast , Mr. Stoneham suggested this was not of major importance for present-day ball parks . He noted that the site near the Whitestone Bridge was readily accessible by parkways from Brooklyn , Queens , Westchester and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would be difficult to reach by subway . " Milwaukee does n't have any subways at all and they do pretty well , " the Giants ' president said . " What a ball park needs now is parking space more than anything else . " The Polo Grounds and the Yankee Stadium , which face each other across the Harlem River between 155th and 158th Streets , have subway lines running almost to their doorsteps . But of far greater importance , Mr. Stoneham implied , was the action of city officials in taking over a parking lot across the street from the Polo Grounds . The lot holds 4110 cars . " They 're building a playground on that lot , " Mr. Stoneham added . " Now I 'd be the last to oppose building playgrounds . But there are probably more playgrounds in the section around the Polo Grounds than in any other coml.arable section in the city . " He also was critical of the increased property tax on the Polo Grounds and the 5 per cent tax on admissions . The Giants ' lease on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1962 . Mr. Stoneham made it clear that he no longer was interested in trying to buy the ball park outright from the estate , The Brooklyn Chamber of Commerce , representing 1,000 of the borough 's biggest business and industrial concerns , took note yesterday of rising fears among Dodger fans that the Brooklyn owners were considering moving away altogether . A statement by S. P. Williams , president of the chamber , said " it has been realized for some time that the Brooklyn National League baseball club has been in trouble . Their problem has not been in the brand of baseball they are playing . That is good . Rather , it is - in the business side of operations . " . The problem , he said , was to find a way ' for the Dodgers to remain in Brooklyn and still operate with financial as well as athletic success . He endorsed a suggestion that city aid be given for the building of a new Brooklyn ball park , in conjunction with a variety of educational , social and cultural facilities , at Flatbush and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that they were willing to pay for building a new park for their team . Mr. O'Malley has said that aid was needed to enable his organization to obtain land " at a reasonable price , " presumably by the city condemning the land . This is the major point to be discussed at the conference at Gracie Mansion this morning . City officials emphasized that the talks were to be " exploratory " and that they would do the most listening . The conference may clear up rumors that the Dodgers have sold or are committed to sell Ebbets Field and that they must vacate by 1958 . Talking to reporters yesterday , Mr. O'Malley made the cryptic remark that Ebbets Field- " must be sold by 1958 . " Arthur Patterson , assistant general manager , said later he thought Mr. O'Malley was simply underlining his belief that the present park was inadequate and outmoded . There was no specific reason for the 1958 date , he added .                     