@@716741

txt It now is expected that the first conscripts for the new West German armed forces will not be called up until the spring of 1957 . This is the earliest date foreseen even if Chancellor Konrad Adenauer has his way and the Bundestag ( lower house ) quickly proceeds to the second and third readings of the bills for ratifying the Paris treaties . Dr. Adenauer 's coming meeting with Premier Pierre MendkFrance is hoped to clarify the French and German positions regarding the Saar . But at the moment it is accepted here that the immediate goal to which all this is directed , namely the rearming of West Germany , still is come distance off Hefore he leaves for a 12-day vacation in southern Germany Jan. 8 , Dr. Adenauer will have discussed the times of . the new debates with the coalition parties . Later the matter must come before the " Council of Elders , " which is responsible for parliamentary procedure . Therefore it is assumed that the deputies will not be asked to vote on these treaties before the last week @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has to be gone through in the meantime . WEU Parley This means that the Chancellor and the French Premier will have had their talks before the parliamentary debates . Since M. Mendes-France must be back in Paris for the opening of the conference on cooperation between the Western European Union and other Allies Jan. 17 , he must meet Dr. Adenauer sometime in the middle of this month  --  probably in Baden-Baden which is the center of the French occupation zone . The agenda for such a meeting must obviously include the Saar , the Western European Union , and the armaments pool , as well as the problem of future relations with the Soviet bloc . But any detailed French - German discussions on the Saar agreement , if they are to be held at all , must come still later . Assuming that the Paris treaties are duly ratified in the various countries concerned in the next few months , then the first military conscripts can be called up only 11/2 years later  --  approximately the spring of 1957 . That Is the view held here among experts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1937 , not 1935 , as earlier considered . Building an Army German calculations in this Issue are somewhat as follows : If France has ratified the treaties by the coming summer , then West Germany will regain its sovereignty also in military , matters . I Then Parliament will be asked to approve the bill for en- Troop commanders will need at least nine months of intensive training in Atlantic Pact states and at home : Afterwards the recruiting of lower officers should be no problem . For training of noncommissioned officers some more months will be required . But only then will the first conscripts appear in the barracks  --  some 500 that must be built in the coming months . One important problem of the high command still is unsettled ? who is to be commander in chief of the armed forces in peace and war ? Leadership Pondered In almost all republics , the President fills this highest position since he already functions as national rather than political party representative . When the matter arose in this connection with West Germany 's possible membership in the earlier @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ highest German command should be given to the federal Chancellor . But now it seems assured that a majority in the Bundestag will support the Free Democrats ' proposal that the federal Constitution should be amended so as to make the President the commander-in-chief . Incidentally , less militarily-minded men than present President Heuss and Chancellor Adenauer would be bard to find anywhere .                     