@@714375

txt The Citizens Budget Commission urged yesterday that the state government insist on economies in city administration before granting the city more state funds ori more taxing powers . Mayor Impellitteri is expected to , ask the state soon for authority to ' levy several new taxes and con-i tinue others , including the 3 pH cent sales tax . Yesterday hisl budget director , Thomas J. Pat-1 ' terson , notified heads of city de-1 partments and agencies to keep ! budget requests for the new fiscal ! year within their current appro-1 priations . In its twentieth anniversary report , the commission predictedl " unprecedented " fiscal difficulties : for the city and its citizens . Rob-1 art W. Dowling , commission presi-I ' dent , who is head of the City Investing Company , said in al : foreword that 1951 might have been " a crucial year , the lull before the fiscal storm . " - Under the chapter heading , " Harvest of Improvidence , " the report recalled that a year ago the commission 's annual report found the city in financial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ crisis if it did not pull in its belt . Fast Warnings Recalled " Anybody familiar with municipal finance could have seen what the commission saw , predicted what the commission predicted during the past twelve months , " the report continued . " Nothing could have been plainer . We called the turn . We pointed the way to easing the painful pressure to Come . " But the sum total of official reaction has been a complacent acceptance of unavoidable doom . Initiative , imagination were notable for their absence . Instead we find only the kind of political thinking that solves all problems by finding new , and preferably painless ways to extract dollars from the pockets of taxpayers . " As the year ends , we can not fail to realize the unprecedented difficulties ahead both for a city which has muffed its opportunities to reorganize its wasteful operations and for its citizens who are already weighted down to the point of desperation by unavoidable Federal taxes for defense and unavoidable emasculation of their earned dollars . " The great need is for leadership : informed , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are opportunities for improved management , greater efficiency and economies consistent with the enormous size of our oneand-a-third billion dollar expense budget . The great need is for leadership which accepts responsibility for ferreting out those opportunities , with the will and ability to meet them . " There is no such leadership . Our most respected city officials have taken the transparently untenable position that there are no such opportunities , or that the opportunities add up to too small a fraction of the budget to bother about . " Their solution is wholly onesided , grossly unfair : greater revenues , heavier taxes to support excessively inflated and growing budgets . " The citizens of the City of New York have the right to reject this defeatism , to demand that whatever economies can be effected , whether great or small , be put into maximum effect before the public is asked to contribute more money for municipal spending . Survey Reports Cited " The citizens can and should expect the state to protect them in the exercise of these rights , and the state , as the ultimate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ upon the satisfaction of their just demands to economize before giving the city more taxing power or more state . funds , which come out of the same pockets as the city taxes . " The report cited proposals by the Mayor 's Committee on Managenient Survey to show that sub-1 ttantial economies are feasible . It pointed out that Education Management Survey had urged methods that would eliminate waste in building and in requisitioning of supplies . But , it added that suci. reforms could be achieved " only if there is the drive and determination necessary at top levels , " adding : " The whole picture of the consultants ' reports to the committee is replete with such instances . " While the management survey has made a substantial contribution , the commission report continued , final appraisal may show that it has not dug deeply enough and in the right places to show how " more service can be had per dollar of cost . " The report added that the commission would continue its efforts to keep the survey " on the beam . " " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will of itself eliminate waste and extravagance , or improve service , " the report said . " The essential ingredient is the will to do . " The report announced that the commission would continue its fight to compel the city to disclose the number of provisional jobholders and other " unpublicized " data . " Where the city 's money goes , " it explained , " can be determined only if these and similar facts are studied . " Referring to the court proceedings started by the commission to compel the Civil Service Commission to grant public access to the facts on the qualifications of exempt job holders , the report said : " Regardless of the outcome of the litigation , the commission is prepared to fight the issue in the area of public opinion . Plans are in process for the introduction of legislation , if that becomes necessary . " The report said that in this struggle the commission expected to have the continued cooperation of the Citizens Committee on Children , Citizens Housing and Planning Council , Citizens Union , Civil Service Reform Association @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Education Association and the State Chamber of Commerce of New York . 