@@715408

txt WASHINGTON , May 2 ? Presi , dent Eisenhower asked Congress today to name a bipartisan cornImission to make " a broad-gauge study into the question of what lour foreign economic policy should be . " In a letter to presiding officers of both houses the President said such a study " can prepare the way for a fuller utilization of the economic strength of the free world in the cause of peace and I prosperity . " Congressional leaders are exIpected to name three members of the Senate a ? d three from the ' House of Representatives on Monday to serve on the commission . At the same time President Eisenhower is scheduled to name fivei ' persons from business and indus try as members of the commission . A month ago the President asked ' Congress for a one-year extension of the present Reciprocal Trade Agreements Act . At that time he said there  --  was a need for a study of the whole foreign economic policy . In letters to Vice President Richard M. Nixon , presiding officer of the Senate , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the President asked that the commission be named so that its review of policies could be completed in time for action during the next session of Congress . Insisting that the commission be ( bipartisan " since commercial pol'icy is an integral part of our total foreign policy for which broad national support is vital , " the President said : " This commission naturally should work within the framework of our foreign policy and our global defense plans . Close liaison should be maintained with the group set up under the auspices of the State Department to follow the economic // and financial talks held earlier this spring between the United States and various European countries . " The President added that the review undertaken should seek to determine how existing laws could be modified or improved so as to achieve the highest possible levels of international trade without subjecting parts of our economy to sudden or serious strains . " An inquiry of this nature is imperative , " the letter continued . " The economic policy of this nation exercises such a profound influence on the entire @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ take . Changes in foreign economic policy  --  even those which have relatively slight consequences within this country ? may either strengthen our allies or plunge them into a downward spiral of trade and payment restrictions , lower production , and declining living standards . " Saying that this country 's foreign economic policy had important implications here at home , the President observed that declining imports would necessarily mean falling exports , resulting in a serious loss of markets for this country 's agricultural and industrial products . " Expanded imports , " Mr. Eisenhower continued , " may require some adjustments in our country . We must make sure that changes in foreign economic policy consonant with our position as the world 's greatest creditor nation do not benefit particular groups at the expense of the national welfare , but we must also make sure that such changes do not place unequal burdens on particular groups . " By increasing two-way trade and stimulating in every practical way , the flow of private investment abroad , the President said , this country can reduce and " ultimately eliminate the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Growing G. 0 . P. Rift Reported Meantime there were reports in , business circles here of a growing rift among Republicans both in and l out of Congress over the question ' of liberalizing foreign trade poll- , cies . Administration leaders were confident tonight that the one-year extension of the Reciprocal Trade program would be approved by Congress , but they conceded that it faced a much tougher fight than they looked for as recently as a month ago . Articulate pressure groups representing industries that have always been extremists in advocating tariff protection have had representatives working assiduously at Congressional hearings this week on the Reciprocal Trade Agreements Act . Although their spokesmen see little chance of getting Congress to terminate the Trade Agreements Act they are optimistic about getting restrictive amendments attached to the measure in its final form . Reports of the activities of the pressure groups that have reached , Europe have caused consternation ' among economists and officials there who accept at face value reports that the protectionists ' sentifi ments will prevail . The Europeans are particularly disturbed by reports that a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ those who contend that continued foreign aid would be cheaper for the American economy than a lowering of tariff , rates which , they argue , would per-1 nit a volume of imports damaging to certain of the country 's indus-1 tries . Advocates of freer international trade maintain that the foreign experts are too pessimistic in their assessment of American tariff sentiment . Those advocating more liberal tariff policies point to what they term the epic decision of the Chamber of Commerce of the United States here this week . The chamber , which represents 1,600 , - 000 business men in every economic walk of life but particularly producers and distribAtors of American goods , went on record here on Wednesday in favor of increased imports . The chamber 's resolution went further than that organization had ever gone before in behalf of twoway trade , observers reported . The chamber said in its statement of policy that the national interest rather than the narrow requirements of a particular producer should be the yardstick by which the Government decided whether or not a tariff rate should be lowered . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , would have been unthinkable from such a source a few short years ago .                     