@@715122

txt A Hoboken assistant hiring boss , who is slated to be an important witness today when the New York State Crime Commission resumes , its public hearings into waterfront conditions , received a last-minute police guard yesterday as a result of threats against his life . The witness is Anthony De Vincenzo , who alreadg has testified before the commission in private session on the extent of intimidation and cor.ruption on the Hoboken docks . That important New Jersey shipping City is to be the principal item on today 's hearing agenda . H. Norman Schwartzkopf , Nebo Jersey State Director of Law and Public Safety , was revealed to have assigned a substantial police detail to protect Mr. De Vincenzo . He will be protected by New York police while in this city . Spokesmen for the crime commission refused to comment on the reported threats to their witness or the measures being taken to protect him , Port 's Future Seen at Stake This threat to a state 's witness came as Edward F. Cavanagh Jr. , the city 's Commissioner of Marine and Aviation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Port of New York " may stand or fall " on the outcome of the present investigation . Yesterday 's developments were made known as the commission prepared to change the pattern of its hearings at the forthcoming week 's sessions in the New York County Courthouis . The accent will be on the dock worker himself , with intrepid rank and file longshoremen ready to testify on the grim aspect of working with gangsters in control of their jobs . Another attack on the problem of waterfront evils will be made by the Kings County rackets grand jury when it convenes today to inquire into conditions on the Brooklyn docks . The Brooklyn special grand jury , which was extended for six months last Friday , will begin immediate questioning of shipping executives and union officials who figured in stories told to the crime commission about intimidation and extortion on the borough 's piers . The importance of the pier worker in the inquiry into the Port of New York was emphasized yesterday when the City Club of New York sent a letter to the crime commission urging the licensing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ halls as a solution to dock crime . Asks Coercion Statute Be Used The City Club communication , which was signed by Walter M. Weis , the club 's president , said Section 530 of the Penal Law , the coercion statute , should be invoked to prosecute waterfront thugs . " Long experience with the problem has convinced the City Club ' that no halfway measures will work , " the letter said . " The conditions on the waterfront are so rotten and have been so grossly neglected by public officials who have closed their eyes to criminality , that it is no longer.possible to treat the waterfront problem as ? one might , for an example , treat an outbreak of juvenile misconduct " Testimony at today 's hearing will center on the iron rule of the Hoboken - docks by three officials of the International Longshoremen 's Union , A. F. L. The three , whose activities will be revealed as testified by them at private hearings , and by other witnesses , are Edward J. Florio , I. L. A. international organizer ; John ( Fifi ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Anthony ( Tony Marloni ) Aurigemma , delegate of Local 1198 . The commission has heard private testimmy about the influence in waterfront affairs of several Hoboken municipal officials . They include Mayor Fred DeSapio ; Michael M. Boreal , Commissioner of Public Safety , and John J. Grogan , Commissioner of Parks and Playgrounds . It was learned yesterday that one or more of the Hoboken officials may testify at today 's session . Commission spokesmen , how- ever , refused to comment on the identity of the witnesses . Florio , a former convict with a record of six arrests , is under Federal indictment for denying , that he had received gratuities from a Manhattan stevedoring company to supply labor . The commission also will hear testimony relating to the ice-pick murder in 1948 of Charles Yanowski , a notorious thug , who was Florio 's predecessor as I. L. A. leader in the area . The pressures upon shipping companies using Hoboker docks by racketeers and crooked union leaders also will be placed on the record . Affected by waterfront abuses , it is understood , were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , pan-Atlantic Steamship Corporation , the Moore - MeCor- ' mack Line and other shipping con-1 cerns . Following its inquiry into condi-1 tions on the Hoboken piers , the commission will question witnesses on the waterfront situation in Jersey City and Newark . Mayor John V. Kenny of Jersey City , who re fused to answer a commission subpoena , is scheduled to be examined by the New Jersey Law Enforcement Council at a public hearing Dec. 29 in Newark . The Brooklyn phase of the commission hearings is expected to be aided by disclosures made to the Kings County rackets jurors when they convene today . The jurors are expected to delve into the question of pay-offs by stevedore concerns to union officials and hoodlum domination of the docks . One of the witnesses before the Brooklyn grand jury today will be Frank Nawrocki , business agent of Local 808 of the I. L. A. Nawrocki received a suspended sentence for perjury Saturday after he had agreed to cooperate in the grand jury inquiry . He had been convicted of lying when he changed his story about an assault @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Brooklyn dock union officials . The waterfront investigation brought another development yesterday . Representative Franklin D. Roosevelt Jr . announced that he planned to introduce a bill authorizing a Congressional investigation of the security of the Port of New York in view of current disclosures . He cited the fact that interference may be caused with the shipments of military supplies and consumer goods to European allies .                     