@@720522

txt On the steps of Livadia Palace . once the summer home of Russia 's last Czar and in 1945 President Roosevelt 's residence during the Yalta Conference , a group of Pioneers , the Soviet boy and girl scouts . were assemtled to greet me when I drove up . They chanted shouts of welcome , gave me messages of greeting to the , children of America and sang songs proclaiming their devotion to the Soviet Union , peace , their summer camp and soccer . Seldom , I am told , since Lhe establisl.ment of Soviet-American relations twenty-five years ago , has an American been more warmly welcomed . To those young Russians , as well as to their elders who train them , Yalta represents the Russian-American wartime alliance ; and the security from war , which all of them crave , depends , they are convinced . oni the restoration of that wartime relationship . Critical Meeting Recalled As I walked through the palace my thoughts turned to the problems facing us at that critical meeting and to the lessons we might learn from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ palace I saw again the great white conference hall where the Yalta Pact was negotiated and signed , President Roosevelt 's oak-paneled study and living quarters , the offices where Gen. George C. Marshall , Admiral William D. Leahy , Secretary of State Edward R. Stettinius and the other members of the United States delegation sweated over the clauses of that much-misunderstood treaty . Today the palace with its appendages houses about 900 working people pn rest cures from all over the Soviet Union . The old conference hall is now their dining room . The Czar 's bedroom is a dormitory for ten women vacationers . President Roosevelt 's dining room is a nurses ' rest hall and the chair he occupied during the conference sessions is carefully preserved in the director 's office . In my old bedroom I found four coal miners from the Donets Basin enjoying a holiday on the Black Sea . I was told that they paid only about $50 for a twenty-four-day rest cure while their trade union paid the balance of the total cost of $160 . In recent years the Soviet Government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the former aristocracy , but also building dozens of rest homes and sanatoriums in Soviet neo-classic style with stucco staircases and statue-studded terraces stretching down to the shore . Each year 400,000 of the Soviet Union 's 200,000,000 population spend their holidays here relaxing or recuperating from illnesses . An even larger resort for workers has been developed down the coast at Sochi where I once visited Stalin in 1945 and where Premier Nikita S. Khrushchev now goes for his vacation . As I left Livadia a crowd of vacationers swarmed about me , many of them shouting " Friendship ! Friendship ! " The obvious sincerity of their pleas recalled to me the hopes , not unmixed with misgivings , with which I left that palace fourteen years ago . Although Yalta has since been much maligned , it was here that President Roosevelt and Prime Minister Churchill persuaded Stalin to subscribe to a joint policy for the liberated areas of Eastern Europe and to the establishment of freely elected governments in these areas overrun by the Red Army . Yalta Provisions Noted When the President and the British Prime @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recalled that the year before at Teheran Stalin agreed to launch an offensive on the Eastern Front to coincide with the , Anglo-American cross-channel ' operation and thus pin down , scores of ? German divisions that could otherwise have been di-1 verted to oppose the Western advance after the landings . And he had kept his word : At Yalta Stalin specifically agreed to " the earliest possible establishment through free elections of governments responsive to the will of the people " and to collaborate with the Western powers to " solve by democratic means the pressing political and economic problems " of Eastern Europe . Without Yalta the United States would have no legal basis to question , let alone to protest on behalf of the satellite populations , the Soviet vio , lation of its pledge to let them choose their own form of gov , ernment or to develop their national economies as they saw fit . In fact , our legal right to defend the freedom of the West Berliners stems directly from the Yalta Pact . 11 If one recalls that at the I time @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Battle of the Bulge while the Red Army was rapidly approaching Berlin , it is not surprising that Roosevelt and Churchill were gratified by the results achieved in the Crimea . I Historians will argue for many years why Stalin failed to carry out his commitments . It may have been that after returning from Yalta and hearing from East European CornImunists their doubts that they *'could install " friendly " Commist regimes under the conditions imposed by Yalta Stalin reconsidered the alternative policies open to him . A policy of cooperation with the West might bring loans and aid to rehabilitate his war-torn country . On the other hand , by ignoring his Yalta promises and " going his own way , " as he later put it to me , he could as'sure the political consolidation la the Red Army 's military occupation of Eastern Europe and exploit post-war economic dislocations to advance communism in Western Europe . The latter , in fact , was prevented only by the Marshall Plan and the North Atlantic Treaty Organization . Our headlong unilateral disarmament under public pressure to " bring @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Soviet Moves Recalled Whatever his reasons , the ' Communist coup in Czechoslovakia , the subsequent attempted takeover of Berlin by the blockade and finally the North Korean attack left no doubt which of the two courses he had chosen . When Mr. Khrushchev after Stalin 's death revealed the illtreatment he and his colleagues had suffered from Stalin 's ruthlessness , he might well have acknowledged the difficulties Russia 's wartime allies likewise enconntered from Stalin 's arbitrary behavior . The subsequent development of the hydrogen bomb with the threat of annihilating war may have modified the new Soviet leaders ' attitude toward the cold war . As Soviet military authorities have openly admitted to me , there are enough nuclear bombs in existence to destroy both the West and Russia . In addition , the cost of these new weapons is prodigious and competes seriously for Soviet material and financial resources with Mr. Khrushchev 's pledge to raise the standard of living of the Soviet people to levels comparable with our own . Furthermore , the reiterated pleas of Anastas I. Mikoyan , a First Deputy Premier , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with whom I have talked . They can not understand the reason for the American embargo on the export of machine tools , ' some of which they would like to have to increase the efficiency of their plants . Finally the pressure of Soviet public opinion on the Kremlin is not as negligible as some would think . The longing for peace and security that I have witnessed everywhere , in factories , farms and even prisons , must play a role in the Kremlin counsels . Need for Summit Seen As another summit conference looms on the horizon the West should have learned some lessons from our wartime dealings with Russia . Although I believe that meetings of heads , of government are sometimes , necessary  --  and certainly so now , ? it should be borne in mind that throughout history , historians have regarded such negotiations with grave misgivings . Heads of government are often loathe to devote the time necessary to achieve clear-cut agreements and prone to accept ambiguous formulas to disguise unresolved conflicts . Faced with failures they also have often lacked the courage to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ me that when the heads of government once again meet at the summit , they should try patiently to understand the legitimate aspirations of the , other side , to speak temperately but to negotiate firmly where basic principles are involved . Furthermore they should seek genuine agreements that leave no room for misunderstanding . Finally , where they can not agree they should be prepared to admit their failures and to 1 . await a more propitious moment to tackle unsettled issues . But in the last analysis , even with the wisest statesmanship on the part of the West , it will depend largely on the Kremlin leaders of today whether the next summit conference or subsequent ones achieve the basic settlements so devoutly desired not only by ourselves but by the crowds at Livadia Palace and elsewhere throughout the Soviet Union .                     