@@720385

txt Prime Minister Harold Macmillan and Premier Michel Debrd emphasized today the success of their two-day conference on the issties facing Britain and France in'Europe , the Middle East and Africa . Authoritative British sources described the talks as a " very valuable " contribution to the establishment of a common policy for the coming diplomatic encounters with the Soviet Union . In the House of Commons , meanwhile , R. Butler said that Chancellor Konrad Adenauer need feel no anxiety about British antagonism toward West Germany . Britain and the West German Republic remain " closely linked " in the Western alliance , the Home Secretary said . The differences between the two Governments , which he described as greatly exaggerated , " are on matters of emphasis and tactics rather than of substance , " he added . M. Debre 's comments on his meeting with Mr. Macmillan before boarding his plane for Paris went beyond those usual on such occasions . The Premier found Britain and France responsible for maintaining " the pause of coexistence . " Foreign Secretary . Selwyn Lloyd told a television @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the British were " a little more optimistic " about negotiations . The Soviet Union , he declared , wants ' ! serious negotiation . " Praising the " useful work " accomplished by himself and Mr. Macmillan , M. Debre said:I " We have conducted our diS- , cussions with such frankness ' and we were so eager to have the fullest explanations of each ) other 's point of view that we have every right to be well satisfied . " ? Mr. Macmillan declared that , he was " greatly encouraged by the success of our talks and the sense of common purpose that we have . " In the last two months similar statements of unity and friendship issued after such talks have soon been contradicted by conflicts of national policies . This time , however , both British and French sources insist , a great deal of useful work was done . Diplomats conceded , however , that there was as yet no indication that the basic difference over what some term the " philosophy " of the West 's approach to the Soviet Union had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the idea of a Central European zone where arms and forces would be limited by mutual agreement . French for Broad Agenda French sources in London said that during the talks here M. Debre had suggested that a summit conference should cover a much wider area than a foreign ministers ' conference that would deal with the German problem and European security . The British believe that the foreign ministers ' conference at Geneva next month and subsequent talks at the summit should be approached with the intention of offering the Soviet Union negotiable proposals on Berlin , German reunification and European security . This would involve , in the British view . offering concessions in return for Soviet concessions , perhaps on minor issues . Subsequent negotiation would create an atmosphere and build a basis of agreement contributing at other meetings to major settlements , it is maintained . The second view , held by the West Germans and to some degree by the French , is that the Western powers should offer the Soviet Union far-reaching proposals on key issues . Only by this method , it is contended @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a major settlement be ascertained . Unless the Soviet Union is prepared to discuss what is termed the " basic " issues connected with Berlin , German unity and disarmament , further discussions will be futile , advocates of this view contend . British Are Hopeful Government sources hope that , the talks with Premier Debre may have convinced him and perhaps President Charles de Gaulle of the wisdom of attempting real negotiations with the Soviet Union . Prime Minister Macmillan and Foreign Secretary Lloyd Were encouraged , it was learned authoritatively , by the interest shown by M. Debre and Foreign Minister Maurice Couve de Murville in the British approach . Ministers and diplomats too were pleasantly surprised by the weight placed on the " common reponsibility " of the two countries to " make sure that the Entente Cordiale shall sustain the cause of Europe , the cause of the Western world and the cause of coexistence . " The Entente Cordial is the name given to the friendly alliance completed between Britain and France in 1904 under the aegis of King Edward VII . The entente ended a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Africa . M. Debre reported a " common determination to work together " in Africa . This means , French diplomats said , an end to any futile struggle for influence among the emerging nations of that continent . Dominating the discussions were problems connected with , Germany . Each side apparently believed it had made some headway , which may be the reason for the joint expressions of satisfaction . The French , for instance , were by no means as hostile to Mr. Macmillan 's proposal for a zonal limitation of forces and arms in Central Europe as the British had expected . But the French raised the question of whether it was wise for the British Prime Minister to push this proposal to a point where it endangered Allied unity . They accepted , however , the British contention that a detailed proposal would ease the tension in Central Europe if it was accepted by the Soviet Union and that Premier Nikita . S. Khrushchev was responsive to a general proposal ' in Moscow last month . The British were heartened by French ideas on a summit conference @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . M. Debre appeared to go along with Mr. Macmillan 's view that unless there was a summit conference looming in the future , the foreign ministers ' meeting would be simply an exercise in negative diplomacy . Mr. Butler , discussing London-Bonn relations in the Hopse of Commons , said in reference to basic Western policies toward the Soviet Union : " On the essential , points we have to face in the coming months , there is full agree-menth The Home Secretary is skilled at dampening political fires . He almost succeeded in diverting discussion from Chancellor Konrad Adenauer 's broadcast last week in which the West German leadsr deplored " wire-pullers " damaging relations between the two countries . However , Denis W. Healey , a Labor member , criticized the " arrogant and dictatorial terms " employed by Dr. Adenauer and this  --  brought cheers of approval from both sides of the house .                     