@@717654

txt T1 , o separate but related moves on the United Nations diplomatic chessboard point to a major new effort to bring lasting peace to the volcanic Middle East . One such move is the unanimous vote Jan. 19 by the UN Security Council condemning in unprecedentedly sharp terms the attack by Israel against a Syrian military post near the shore of the Galilean Sea Dec. 11 . The other diplomatic move is arrival of UN Secretary-General Dag Hammarskjold in the Middle East to begin a period of intense exploration of the possibilities of a peace settlement . It is no coincidence that the two events have taken place simultaneously this week . It was because of the Galilean incident , and the Israeli-Egyptian clashes which immediately preceded it , that Mr. Hammarskjold decided to attempt his peace mission . Peking Trek Recalled Moreover , the vote in the Security Council is expected to strengthen his hand and increase the warmth- of his welcome where it matters most , in the Arab states , where the asking price for a lasting settlement is sormidered most.extreme. : .. It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ similar mission to Peking which eventually resulted in the liberation of imprisoned American fliers and the commencement of direct peace talks between Washington and Peking . Mr. Hammarskjold is careful to describe his latest effort in terms of exploration ; of " listening , of availability . " He was similarly ' cautious last year . But it may be safely assumed that the Secretary-General will do more , than merely listen . He has done his " homework " carefully , and is expected to have some ideas of his own to put forward , notably on the subject of Palestine refugees . Mr. Hammarskjold is perhaps the only diplomat of world stature who is wholly acceptable to both sides . The same can not be said of British Prime Minister Sir Anthony Eden or Secretary of State John Foster Dulles or President Tito of Yugoslavia , all of whom in recent months have also offered their services as mediators or peacemakers or were reported to have done so . Question of Face The quality of acceptability is even more important in the Mideast than it is elsewhere . Many @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than they dare to be in public . To a mediator whom they really trusted , they might well outline peace terms . which Israel would consider negotiable . At least , Mr. Hammarskjold hopes so . The problem of the refugees , to which the Secretary-General is expected to devote special attention , is a case in point . Pub- , licly , no Arab spokesman can even hint at any settlement short of total repatriation . But repatriation of all 900,000 refugees is a practical political and psychological impossibility for Israel . If some compromise based on partial repatriation , plus generous compensation , is ever to be reached , it must be reached in private and then imposed on both sides over the public protests of both , uttered vigorously for the record . ? Cooling-Off Period Some face-saving might be possible through a formula which recognized the " right " of total repatriation but which afforded Israel a private guarantee that in practice the right would not be exercised by more than a specified number of the refugees . If such an attack on the Arab-Israel problem @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will have to be a period of damped-down tensions , a cooling-off period , similar to the one which settled in over the Formosa area following Mr .. Hanunerskjold ' , s New Year 's visit , of a year ago : It- is , Tsrier to-tv/ireE attention must be directed in this latter connection . Israel 's policy of planned military reprisal is inconsistent with a cooling-off period . Skillful private diplomacy would be necessary - to persuade Israel to put its policy on the shelf , at least temporarily . Public pressure can also be brought to bear to this end . This is what the Security Council sought to do Jan. 19 in its condemnation of the Galilean raid . The Council 's censure of Israel was described by Herve . Alphand of France as the strongest ever adopted by the Council on such a matter . Others generally agreed . Sanctions Threatened It " condemned " the Dec. 11 attack as a " flagrant violation " of the armistice , expressed " grave concern " at Israel 's " failure . . . to comply with its obligations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Charter " would be considered in the event of a repetition . Sir Pierson Dixon of Great Britain said Article 39 of the Charter was meant . This article provides for economic and military sanctions . Syria had sought to have such sanctions imposed in the present case , and had also asked reparations . Neither of these demands was met , but otherwise Syrian Delegate Ahmed Shukairy got most of what he wanted . In large part this was due to the fact that the Soviet Union warmly champions the Syrian cause . The West felt it could not afford to let Moscow monopolize this posture , and thus went far toward meeting Syria 's - demands.                     