@@715111

txt There are still fourteen Americans on the Secretariat of the United Nations on whom the State Department has filed " adverse comments " seeking their ouster , a Senate internal security subcommittee was told here yesterday . Carlisle H. Humelsine , Deputy Under Secretary of State , testified that twelve were considered " security " risks to the United States and two were " morals " cases . The fourteen included at least two reported on adversely as far back as April and June , 1950 , according to Assistant Secretary of State John D. Hickerson in charge of United Nations affairs . Twentyeight other Americans , he testified , had been separated from the organization 's payroll since a confidential agreement in the fall of 1949 looking to the ouster of American Communists or potential Communists . The State Department , he said , had filed adverse reports on twenty - six of those . At United Nations headquarters it was reported that four Western European employes had been dismissed in the organization 's drive against those who might be security risks . Senators Herbert R. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ferguson , Republican of Michigan , who conducted the hearing at the Federal Courthouse , said the continued employment of the fourteen was " shocking . " Senator Ferguson said such cases made a " mockery " of the agreement . Robert Morris , committee counsel , indicated that the committee would propose " remedial legislation " be-1 cause of the possible " breakdown in security somewhere along the line . " A United Nations spokesman said %last night : " Action has been taken on all cases involving United States nationals where information has been given by the United States Government sufficient to , enable the Secretary General to reach a decision . It is impossible to comment further until the full record has been received and read . " Mr. Hickerson told the committee that " the State Department has not had evidence justifying the conclusion that espionage activities are being conducted by Americans employed in the United Nations . " He added that he believed the Secretariat would be " one of the last places " where Soviet agents would be put as it dealt in generally public @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ United Nations faced administrative and political difficulties in removing members of its international civil service . He noted that under Secretary General Trygve Lie , the organization had resisted efforts by Communist regimes to oust some of their nationals employed before Communist coups . The State Department , Mr. Hickerson explained , " followed up " its adverse comments , but he said that if it made " enough urgent representations , " it might be considered as attempting " instructions " to the Secretary General in violation of Article 100 of the Charter . Adrian S. Fisher . legal adviser to the State Department , another witness , testified that the Americans involved would , have no immunity for any violation of United States law . He said he had given a Federal grand jury here all the data the department has regarding the individuals involved . Identities Are Withheld ? Identities of the fourteen critisized Americans still on the United Nations staff were withheld , although the department officials offered to supply the information to the subcommittee and leave it to the Senators ' responsibility to decide on any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ United Nations on personnel problems , Mr. Hickerson said that when Mr. Lie became Secretary General in 1946 he asked the State Department if the United States wished to recommend any personnel . James F. Byrnes. then Secretary of State , replied that the United States would refrain from recommendations , and the only exception , Mr. Hickerson said , was American sponsorship of John B. Hutson as the United Nations ' first Assistant Secretary General for Administrative and Financial Services . Mr. Hickerson continued his testimony , from notes that were later inserted into the record , in part as follows : " When I assumed my present duties as Assistant Secretary of State for the United Nations Affairs in August , 1949 , I found that the Department of State was concerned over the situation which investigative reports were disclosing . " A few days after assuming these duties , I discussed the problem with one of the principal assistants of the United Nations Secretary General . As a result of our mutual concern with the problem , there was worked out a highly confidential arrangement under which the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ United States nationals emp , o : , by the United Nations or contemplated for employment who would appear to be members of the Ct =list party or under Communist discipline . " The United Nations official with whom I discussed this arrangement made it clear that the Secretary General and he both considered that the employment of members of the Secretariat and their discharge from such employment was , under the United Nations Charter , the duty of the Secretary General , for the execution of which he was responsible exclusively to the General Assembly . The Secretary General has always adhered to that position , as he has made clear in his handling of cases where the United States commented adversely on the continued employment of Secretariat employes . " It was agreed between the department nd the Secretary General that actual operations under the arrangement would have to be handled in a most highly confidential manner . Up to very recently , the Secretary General has not believed that he could discharge United States nationals on the grounds of their being disloyal to the United States . Good @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the Secretary General had to contend with the fact that many of them had satisfactory efficiency ratings . Further , he had to contend with an appeals procedure which could bring into play a joint management-staff . Ap- ' peals Board , with recommendatory powers , and an Administrative Tribunal , with power to demand a , reversal of the Secretary General 's action or damages lieu thereof . " All of these circumstances have made it essential that the Secretary General protect himself against the charge that he was taking instructions from the United States Government , in violation of the charter , wren moving against persons identified by the department under the confidential arrangement referred to . " Under this arrangement , the Secretary General undertook to submit to the department lists of names of United States nationals in the secretariat and United States nationals being considered for employment , with the request that the department inform the United Nations whether readily available information disclosed any police or criminal record . " The Department of State initiated name check investigations on the basis of the names and identifying @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ together with such information as was made available by the Federal Bureau of Investigation and other investigative agencies of the Government , was reviewed by the department . A routine reply was then made to the United Nations on each individual addressed to the question of evidence of a criminal or police record . " If the national agency checks had produced information which was considered to warrant an adverse comment on the grounds of Communist membership or subjection to Communist membership or subjection to Communist discipline , this adverse comment was conveyed by word of mouth before dispatch of the cover reply . " The security practices of the United States Government made it impossible to communicate to the United Nations information going beyond the adverse comment of the department . This did not mean clearance , and was so understood by the Secretary General . " Throughout this period of the operation of the Secretariat arrangement , ' we have been involved in the serious and delicate problems , inherent in an international staff of a world-wide organization . It is difficult for the United Nations to justify one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " The day 's testimony brought out that fourteen Americans had been separated from the United Nations staff before Oct. 1 and fourteen more since then as a result of the State Department reports or Senate and grand jury investigations . Of the latter group , Mr. Hickerson conceded , the department had ' never made any adverse report on I Joel Gordon , United Nations economists . Mr. Morris recalled that Mr. Gordon , dismissed last Friday , had refused to tell the subcommittee whether he had ever belonged to the Communist party or engaged in espionage .                     