@@712884

txt THE NEW YORK TIMES on May 1 carried an interesting article from London by Raymond Daniell . The main thesis of this article is that inasmuch as the main concern of the British Government is the maintenance of full employment , which necessitates the enforcement of various economic and exchange controls , it makes impossible the establishment of closer economic integration with the other members of the North Atlantic community . A second unsigned dispatch , also from London , which appeared in THE NEW YORK TIMES of May 8 stated that the article by Raymond Daniell and similar dispatches from London to American papers had caused " considerable surprise in Whitehall last week . " I am wondering who is trying to fool whom . The pertinence of this question becomes clear when one remembers that on Jan. 20 , Harold Wilson , President of the Board of Trade , made the following statement : " Basic controls , such as those of the location of industry , foreign exchange , and the volume 9f investment , will be maintained as permanent instruments to insure the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ employment program . " The simple truth is that when a Government pursues , as an overriding objective , a so-called full employment policy by means of economic planning it also needs to control international trade by means of exchange controls and import quotas . It is a known fact that socialism and free multilateral trade are incompatible , for the simple reason that the socialistic country is very apt to have perpetual balance of payments difficulties due to the nature of its policies , which are usually , carried on without regard to international solvency . Hence our people are also misguided when they are led to believe : ( a ) That the settlement of the British sterling balances would permit Great Britain to resume multilateral trade and the free convertibility of her currency as long as she has a socialistic Government ; ( b ) That the proposed International Trade Organization will permit expansion of international commerce by means of multilateral trade . The truth is that at the time the I. T. 0 . Charter was negotiated in Geneva , London and Havana the British were perfectly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ freedom of international trade , and therefore insisted , against the wish of the American delegates , on having Articles 6 and 21,4(b) included in the Charter . These provisions , as I have repeatedly stated , are the most important and dangerous provisions of the Charter from the American viewpoint and would permit , with our consent , a perpetuation of import quotas and discrimination against the United States trade . If we should ratify the Havana I. T. 0 . Charter we may as well give up the objective of restoring multilateral trade and the free convertibility of currencies . As Mr. Menzies , the present Prime Minister of Australia , said , ' ; The I. T. 0 . Charter is the worst document in world history . " It is not only the worst document in world history but a dangerous agreement because it would imperil the very existence of a free society . The I. T. 0 . Charter is a clear victory of economic nationalism over international economic cooperation . PHILIP CORTNEY . New York , May 10 , 1950 . East River Drive Footbridges @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ THE TIMES of May 9 , in the Letters column on the editorial page , Francis Keally , president of the Municipal Art Society , writes commending the city for the footbridges erected over the East River Drive . We deeply appreciate Mr. Keally 's satisfaction over the bridge structure , but would like to point out that the work was done by the Office of the Borough President and not by the Department of Public Works . The major architectural and engineering design is the work of Walter W. W. Jones and Jacob Friedland , civil service career men in this office , who are recognized for their pre-eminence in architectural and engineering design throughout the United States . Another note of passing interest is the fact that when the Triborough Bridge , and Tunnel Authority planned the footbridge to link the East River Drive with Wards Island they had designed a separate bridge to carry pedestrians over the Drive . At our suggestion the Wards Island approach across the Drive was combined with our overpass at the same location  --  viz. , 103d Street , making one pedestrian overpass @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ desired to use the promenade along the Drive . ROBERT F. WAGNER Jr. , President , Borough of Manhattan . New York , May 9 , 1950 . Independent Scientific Research To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : The National Science Foundation Bill was signed on May 10 by President Truman . The bill provides for Government loans and grants in the mathematical , physical , medical , biological , engineering and other sciences . Two years ago the President vetoed a somewhat similar bill that did not give him the power of appointing the director . Congress has now given him this power . The creation of this new government agency re-emphasizes the opportunity and obligation of individuals and corporate enterprises to maintain and increase privately financed basic research . The danger is that the Government may gradually take over . In any event , it is not in the public interest for government alone to assume this responsibility . Generally speaking , our private universities are now supported by contributions from private individuals , private industry , and through grants from foundations and the Federal Government . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gifts from private individuals , industry and foundations provide a free opportunity for basic research unfettered by politieler contrei . These have played and must continue to play a substantia ' role in preserving the freedom of research in our universities . Otherwise we submit to one more disintegrating step in our system of free initiative and free enterprise . The obligation now faced by industries and private individuals extends into the very roots of our economic and social life . In the failure to meet this test we may find that we have passed on to government the responsibility for one element of our traditional freedom e. , independent scientific investigation for the common good . GEORGE A. SLOAN . New York , May 11 , 1950 . Lake George Water Level Necessity for Repairing Damage to Shore Line Stated To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Your editorial of April 28 on Lake George is correct in every detail , in spite of the subsequent attacks by Dr. E. . Stanton and Charles H. Tuttle , both of whom , as representatives of the Lake George @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ side of the mill-owner , System Properties . The argument at issue on Lake George is whether the state or a private mill-owner is to have the right to control the water levels in the lake , and to determine what levels are best suited to all concerned . It is rather significant that both the Lake George Association and the Lake George Protective Association , the group to which Mr. Tuttle refers , are publicly on record as agreeing that a suitable minimum level would be one of 2.5 on the Rogers Rock gauge . Their fundamental disagreement is on the level at which damage to the shoreline and islands begins , and I note that Mr. Tuttle again repeats the old assertion that there is and has been no damage at all ? an assertion which anyone Who will take the trouble to visit the lake can disprove for himself . Both the state and private shoreowners have spent thousands of dollars repairing shore and dock damage , year after year , for several generations . Thirty-eight thousand dollars was appropriated by the state two years ago to repair @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this for several months last year . Additional shore damage will be repaired this summer , and additional funds for this work were included in the supplemental state budget . Since the Attorney General has annatinced his intention of resuming his work on the state 's appeal of the Lake George trespass case , there is no point now in trying to answer , item by item , the rather extravagant and in some details incorrect statements in Dr. Stanton 's and Mr. Tuttle 's recent letters to THE TIMES . Those of us who know that the facts in the Lake George case are really quite simple and can be observed by anyone who will take the . trouble to look for himself are grateful for the help you are giving in saving this world-famous scenery from further damage . May I repeat that you and THE TIMES are rendering a great service to conservation by your continued interest and informed comment on these critical matters . P. SCHUYLER MILLER , Chairman , Conservation Committee , the Adirondack Mountain Club . Scotia , N. Y. , May 10 , 1950 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ NEW YORK TIMES : Those of your readers who remember the political set-up in Austria before World War I will be surprised to learn from Bernard Gelles ' letter in THE TIMES of May 2 that it was Dr. Lueger " and his political party " who " antagonized " the non-German nationalities in Austria and that " after World War I Dr. Lueger 's political philosophy was adopted and enlarged by Hitler . " Dr. Lueger 's party was the Christian Social party , the Catholic party of Austria . It is difficult to identify political Catholicism with the rabid antiSemitism and racial nationalism of Hitler . Mr. Gelles probably had in mind Ritter von Schoenerer and his Greater Germany party . Von Schoenerer was both anti-Semitic and anti-Catholic . It was he who started the " away from Rome " movement in Austria and it is he who has been declared Hitler 's spiritual father by all students of central European affairs . FERDINAND GLATZELE Trudeau , N. Y. , May 2 , 1950 . Clothing Asked by Hospital To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ NEW YORK TIMES for used clothing of all kinds , as its supply is greatly depleted . Any contributions will be most appreciated . We especially need things to outfit homeless and destitute men . We ask donors to send parcels to the Social Service Department , Gouverneur Hospital , Gouverneur Slip , New York City . GRACE H. WELSH , Chairman , Social Service Committee . New York , May 10 , 1950.                     