@@720412

txt Secretary of State Christian A. Herter will fly to the Western foreign ministers ' conference in Paris tomorrow to work out the final Western position for meetings with the Soviet Union . He will leave Washington at 4 P. M. for meetings with the British , French and West German foreign ministers scheduled to start Wednesday . The ' Big Three of the West , the United States , Britain and France , will meet with the Soviet Union in a foreign ministers ' conference in Geneva starting May 11 . Mr. Herter 's principal aides , accompanying him to Paris , will be Livingston T. Merchant , Assistant Secretary for European Affairs ; G. Frederick Reinhardt , counselor ; Martin J. Hillenbrand , head of the Office of German Affairs , and John N. Irwin 2d , Assistant Secretary for International Security Affairs at the Defense Department . As Mr , Herter prepared to leave for Paris , there was a report from Bonn that the British had revised their plan to limit arms and forces in Central Europe . The revised plan was said to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Moscow and another narrower zone in which restriction on forces would be supervised by ground inspection teams : Diplomatic officials here said they were una*are of such a revised plan . The officials said the British , during the working group meetings in London , had largely abandoned proposals for a zone of arms limitations in Central Europe , The proposals aroused intense // opposition among the Germans and French at the Washington meeting of foreign ministers at the end of March . The British , according to these informants , agreed in the working group to link arms limitation to the reunification of Germany in line with United States proposals . These call for parallel steps toward a European security system and reunification . Reunification would proceed by stages . The first stage would consist of expanded cultural and economic relations and formation of non-government joint commissions . Eventually a German peace treaty would be signed with the one Germany . Steps toward a zone of limited armament and a European security treaty would be tied to each stage of reunification . But American officials preparing for the Paris meeting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ these , they observed , is the distrust of the British by the Adenauer Government . In spite of all assurances , the Germans suspect British that the might in the end buy an agreement with the Soviet Union at the cost of I German reunification . U. N. Presence Desirable Reports from Bonn today of a revised British plan for a zone of inspection and arms limitation suggested to American offi. dials that agreement in the , working group might not have been London 's last word . Many aspects of the Western stand on Berlin remain to be worked out , the officials said . That some form of United Nations presence was desirable was agreed , they pointed out . But no agreement had been reached , they said , on whether this would take the form of United Nations troops or civilian observers . Nor had it been agreed whether they should be stationed in Berlin or on the routes of access , how their permanence could be assured , and what their relationship to the United States , British and French forces would be . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ earlier wish to present a complete draft of a German peace treaty when the meeting with the Soviet Union takes place . This would have been in reply to the Soviet draft pro ' posal , which is already on the record . Instead the Western ! powers have acceded to the German insistence that only principles for an eventual treaty be put before the Russians . 1 State Department Vexed Meanwhile , the State Department studied with some irritation the disclosure by Premier Nikita S. Khrushchev of the Soviet Union that Prime Minister Harold Macmillan of Britain had in Moscow proposed a system for limiting the number of mutual inspections in any nuclear test suspension pact . The Soviet Union has exploited this British idea , the officials said , to give a positive  --  and divisive  --  thrust to President Eisenhower 's plan for nuclear test suspension by stages . But officials said that , Mr. Khrushchev 's effort to set the United States against the British on the nuclear test issue would not succeed . Although the United States would not have chosen to bring up the Idea @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it is willing to consider the subject . In a television interview today Senator Frank Church , Democrat of Idaho , said he thought the British proposal should be considered " along with the President 's proposal and any others that might contribute to breaking the deadlock at the Geneva conference . " The Senator thought that the various questions concerning nuclear test suspension might finally be resolved at a summit meeting .                     