@@715854

txt A wild scramble has developed among Republican State Senators fol , the combined ' office of Majority Leader and Temporary President , which would become vacant if Senator Arthur H. Wicks of Kingston should be ousted . The outcome may even be influenced by the harness-racing investigation now in progress . . The number of contenders for the position clearly indicated yesterday a widespread belief that Mr. Wicks would be unable to retain his Senate leadership over the combined opposition of Governor Dewey and Representative Dean P. Taylor , the Republican state chairman . Their contention is that Mr. Wicks violated the proprieties and subjected the Republican state administration to criticism by his visits to Joseph S. Fay , a labor union leader convicted of extortion , in Sing Sing Prison . Moreover , their desire to diesociate the Republican party from any connection with thoseliguring in the Fay.case or the harness-racing inquiry appeared primarily re , sponsible for another development yesterday . William S. King , secretary of the Senate , announced that Pat E. Provenzano of . Rochester had resigneif  --  a.s assistant secretary , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : Mr. Provenzano , a former Assemblyman , is head of the Batavia Downs harness-racing track . He also was listed in a recent state investigating report as the owner of 2,625 shares of Class A common stock in the Algam Corporation , which owns the physical plant of the Yonkers Raceway . In addition he was listed as the owner of 300 shares in the Yonkers Trotting Association , which conducts the racing meets at Yonkers . Senator Wicks ' explanation that // his visits to Fay were made for the purpose of preserving labor peace in his Hudson Valley district and saving thousands of his conIstituents from jurisdictional strikes has been rejected as unsatisfactory by Governor Dewey . At least ten of the thirty-seven G. 0 . P. Senators have indicated a willingness or desire to take over Mr. Wicks ' leadership position , which places him next in line ' to succeed the Governor . Because of the resignation of Frank C. Moore as Lieutenant Governor in September , the Temporary Piesident of the Senate automatically becomes Acting Lieutenant Governor . Leaders in Contention Among the leaders in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ now chairman of the Senate Finance Committee ; John H. Hughes of Syracuse , chairman of the Banks Committee ; Pliny W. Williamson of Westchester , chairman of the Judiciary Committee , and Austin Erwin of Geneseo , Livingston County , chairman of the Civil Service and Pension Committee . Others in the running include Earl W. Brydges of Wilson , Niagara County chairman of the Public Education Committee ; William S. Hults Jr . of Port Washington , chairman of the Internal Affairs Committee ; Mitchell of Manhattan , chairman of the New York City Affairs Committee ; Seymour Halpern of Queens , chairman of the Motor Vehicles Committee ; George T. Manning of Rochester , chairman of the Insurance Committee , and George ' R. Metcalf of Auburn . Despite the increasing indication that he was fighting a hopeless battle , Senator Wicks continued yesterday to make it clear that he had no intention of surrendering . In line with this policy he has decided to boycott a meeting of the Republican State Executive Committee called by Mr. Taylor to take place in Albany tomorrow . Challenge is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an official party stand on the issues presented ' by the Wicks visits to Fay . The Senator was reported to be drafting a letter to the committee challenging its right to give instructions to Republican Senators in the matter of his displacement : He feels that such action would represent an unwarranted political interference with the functioning of the Legislature . Mr. Taylor said yesterday in Albany that no attempt would be made at tomorrow 's meeting to oust Senator Wicks from the Republican State Executive Cmprnittee . Asked if the same standard of ethics for Majority Leader and Temporary President of the Senate did not apply to membership in the Republican Executive Committee , Mr. TaAor replied that party by-laws made no provision for ousting an Executive Committee member . Senator Mahoney ordinarily would be regarded as having a distinct edge in the race to succeed Mr. Wicks , but he is a possible witness in the harness racing inquiry by reason of his services as counsel to the Hamburg track outside of Buffalo and his ownership in a corporation that placed the track 's insurance business . Senator @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his close association with J. Russel Sprague , Republican leader of Nassau , who has been listed as one of the larger Yonkers Raceway stockholders.                     