@@718026

txt A main reason your children are n't taught to read well in school is because their teachers were n't taught correctly how to teach . Dr. Emmett A. Betts , an internationally known reading expert , gave that explanation today at a five day reading conference at Concordia college attended by 300 teachers , psychologists , and school administrators from across the nation . " If you want to improve . instruction in your schools ? reading or anything else , " said Dr. Betts , " you 've got to start on your teachers ' colleges now for results 40 years from now . " Urges Complete Change His pointed criticism of teachers ' colleges aroused a quick defense by Dr. A. L. Knoblauch , president of Moorhead State Teachers college , and Dr Glaydon Robbins , director of professional divisions at that college . Dr. Betts , head of a reading clinic at Haverford , Pa. , and conductor of the second annual conference being held here , recommended changing the whole teacher education program . He charged that not only are our children being @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ getting " gypped " in their education by professors who do n't know how to teach . Raps Lecture Method He attacked the " lack of practical experience on the part of professors who have the job of teaching teachers . " He aimed sharp criticism at the lecture method of teaching in colleges and its use , in turn , by the newly made teachers . He said , " You ca n't teach a boy to read by lectures any more than you can teach him to fly with lectures . " In criticizing the failure of college instructors to include more demonstrations in their courses , Dr. Betts asked his listeners hoot many , during their college training , ever had seen a professor give a visual , practical demonstration of what he was teaching . Only three or four of the audience of about 300 educators raised their hands . " And you wonder why our teachers ca n't teach reading , " he told them . Hindered by Politics Many colleges are hindered by politics and low pay , Dr. Betts said . He charged that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and greater expenditures are essential to obtaining better teachers , he asserted , adding : " You get what you pay for . " Officials of Moorhead State Teachers college challenged a number of his charges . They conceded he is an outstanding expert on reading but they took the view he is out of touch with many current matters in schools . Dr. Knoblauch took exception to Dr. Betts ' charge of politics and contended that Minnesota colleges are remarkably free of political influence . He said Moorhead college does n't hire teachers unless they know how to teach .                     