@@719334

txt The Algerian conflict is at the center of the difficulties facing the French Government both internally and internationally . . Just 36 hours before Britain 's Prime Minister Harold Macmillan arrived hi the French capital to patch up the singular lack of cordiality in the French-English entente after the Tunisian arms delivery , French Premier Felix Gaillard was confronted with a disavowal of his government 's . Algerian policy by a slim majority of his own Radical-Socialist Party 's congress in Strasbourg . M. Gaillard , who as a young and coming political figure had played*no part in the arguments two years ago that split the Radical-Socialist Party in three as former Premier Pierre Mendes-France took over leadership , was met in Strasbourg Nov , 23 by a strong opposition led by M. Mendes-France . War or Peace ' Asked Although this time the former premier did not put in his candidature for any form of party leadership , he was nevertheless the most outstanding personality at this 54th party congress . M. Mendes-France last week told the National Assembly that France must either end the Algerian @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " economy , being unable to afford the conflict as well as the tremendous increase of production and consumption that has rekindled France 's endemic in-flation , At the congress , the two leaders , M .. Gaillard and M. MendesFrance , engaged in an oratorical duel that grew more and more passionate as each clung to his thesis . M. Mendes-France 's arguments were briefly as follows : The war costs too much . According to experts , 700 to 800 billion francs ( about S1 , - 750,000,000 ) annually while costly social measures have also been granted to satisfy the public ; iCharaes Refuted Although a year has passed without bringing any signs of a bettering of the Algerian situation , the present government has picked up the political " framework law " for Algeria ( which toppled the BougesMaunoury government in the early fall ) and merely made it more reactionary in an attempt to satisfy Conservative groups ; If France is to stay in Algeria , the only hope is to reverse the present politics , and accept this idea of following up the Moroccan-Tunisian offer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Algerian war are neither the main ones nor the heaviest that have brought France to its present difficult financial position . He claimed they are in the neighborhood of only 1,000,000,000 francs a day . Be denied ? that the framework law was " reactionary " and said in that case it was singular it had been tossed out by the right in September along with his predecessor . Action Hinted He was much more cautious in his evaluation of the Tunisian-Moroccan offer of mediation than his . Foreign Minister , Christian Pineau , who in New York , Nov. 2 , had turned it down without any hesitation . M. Gaillard pointed out that he had not received official notice of the offer , which had been published over agency teleprinters , and commented that the King of Morocco and the President of Tunisia " appeared not to know there was a French Government . " He said the difference between " independence " and " sovereignty " ? the latter word being used in the joint communique  --  was not . clear to him . Finally , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , M. Mendes - France asked why the government did not publish the report of the Committee for Safeguarding Individual Liberties , and M. Gaillard replied angrily : " There have been some cases , but what makes you think the government had not taken measures so they will not reoccur , that we have not imposed sanctions on the guilty ? " Gaillard Rebuffed The fire and heat of the duel between the two main figures at the congress ended badly for M. Gaillard . No less than 648 delegates voted in favor of a motion inviting the government " to take the initiative of a negotiation with Morocco and Tunisia to study the means of settling this conflict . . . . " Only 472 voted against , tacitly in favor of M. Gaillard , who is following M. Mollet 's policy of cease-fire , free elections , and then negotiations in Algeria . For the Premier this is a slap in the face , although not perhaps as serious as it looks at first glance , since he has not lost the support of most of the Radical-Socialist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of provincial militants . It is , however , illustrative of the way opinion is very very slowly but profoundly changing regarding Algeria , where three years of unremitting cofliet have failed to bring peace and settlement much nearer .                     