@@719212

txt There is a distinct challenge which that Soviet earth satellite , circling the earth at 18,000 miles an hour , is hurling at our democratic system . Stated in a few words , it is this : How do we of the West gird our society and our government to accomplish , in peacetime , the giant , the out-of - the - ordinary pieces of business ? Has our democratic system , with its checks and its balances , its conflicting interests , and its eye on the budget  --  has it the capacity and the machinery for mobilizing for a colossal unroutinc task without the compulsions of war ? Surely it must have . In the very nature of things free men should be able to cooperate , manifest their God-given intelligence , sacrifice for the common good , and attain goals as high as or higher than does a dictatorship , where all effort is subservient to the state . Yet the Soviets hurled an earth satellite skyward ahead of the United States , and all of the excuses , the rationalizings , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and industrial priorities do not change the fact . Even more important , the Soviets apparently have developed an intercontinental ballistic missile ahead of the United States . A A We did n't run second best during the compulsions and patriotism of wartime . The United States mobilized gigantic natural science and industrial talent in the Manhattan Project to build the first atomic bomb during the war , and did the job in short order . Subsequently it achieved the first hydrogen bomb . Today there are a number of surpassing challenges which Washington faces in the international field . They will cost money . They demand alert appreciation of the national interest . They require something more than " business as usual . " One is  --  still is  --  the need to build a successful intercontinental ballistic missile . And after it  --  unless Mr , Khrushchey 's new proposals result in some Soviet-American understanding on missiles and space satellites  --  a countermissile , We have no crash program today . We could have , but we have n't mobilized one . Another need is to do something about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bellwether of Asia 's free nations  --  sees its second five-year plan faltering . A unique opportunity confronts the United States . It could underwrite this plan , enter a close and friendly financial arrangement with India . This unity might last . with vast repercussions for good , through many years of Asian development . A third need concerns Poland . The Poles , halfway to independence , asked the United States for goods and credits . It granted one-third of their request . Now they are coming back for more . Their recent history represents that gradual evolution which is , with painful slowness but inevitably . loosening bondage in Moscow 's satellite empire . Other grand-size projects will come along . Will the United States , as a democracy , as the leading nation in the free world , respond adequately ? Can it , politically , respond ? What , indeed , has been missing ? What has gone wrong so far  --  that the United States is coming in a humbled second in the ICBM race and the earth-satellite race ? A Surely one requisite is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ years which require a strong President . He alone , among the divergencies of special interests and local pressure on Congress , can represent the supreme national interest , point the need , lead the way . Another obvious requisite is a more alert public opinion . How many Americans were more than vaguely aware of the " earth satellite " project ? How often ( the answer is never ) did the Pentagon frankly tell the American people how fast , relative to the U.S.S.R. , the United States was moving in building the big missiles ? Have the newspapers , the mass media , done their job  --  or left it largely to a few columnists such as the Alsops and a few lone senators such as Stuart Syming-ton ? Then there is the overriding question of cost . The defense budget has been severely curtailed by the administration . the foreign-aid budget was slashed by Congress . The ceiling of the national debt is a forbidding barrier to heavier spending without heavier taxation . And Senator Harry Flood Byrd and ex-Secretary of the Treasury George M. Humphrey have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and cowed or overruled even the Pentagon 's service chiefs . A A Yet if a national referendum were held on the question whether to crash-program the big missiles , who doubts that the American people would have voted " Yes ! " even if it meant higher taxes . Surely the problem is to perfect our political system through strong leadership , through greater alerting of public opinion , through enthusiastic pooling of national effort , and through those efficiencies and talent in important jobs which will mitigate the heavy expenditures . Moscow says its earth satellite is the proud achievement of " the new socialist society . " Must the democratic society falter and temporize when a great urgency , involving even self-survival , confronts it ?                     