@@714889

txt Does James Michael Curley , former Mayor of Boston and Governor of Massachusetts qualify for a $1,000-a-month pension under a law slipped through the Massachusetts Legislature in its final hours before prorogation ? Chester H. Grant , secretary of the State Retirement Board says he does not believe that Mr. Curley can collect because he is over 70 years of age . Boston retirement officials . who have final cay if Mr. Curley makes application for a pension , will not make a definite commitment on this question until an application is before them . " The general feeling is. however . that Mr. Curley would be entitled to a pension under this law , " commented one city official . Requirement Cited Mr. Grant 's opinion is based on one provision of the general pension laws that requires an applicarktto apply for a pension before he reaches the age of in . Whether or not the recently enacted pension law would supersede this provision is a legal question not answered yet . city and state retirement officials agree . Another point on which they agree is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ biU . ' ' It is written to be incorporated with existing statutes . In several cases , retirement officials disagree on these interpretations . Other points of ambiguity include the effective date of the law . Some say Oct. 2 or 90 days after it was signed by Governor Dever . The bill as passed and signed , however . was written so as to go into effect immediately . The amount Mr. Curley would receive has been set at 51.000 a month in most reports . City retirement officials , however , say lhere are many undisclosed factors that would affect the exact amount . Since Mr. Grant 's unofficial , pinion that Mr. Curley may not Jualify for the pension . some legislators have questioned the need for a special session . But every hour today at the State House , more legislators have appeared to sign statements saying they favor a special session Sept. 25 to consider repeal of this law . Democrats and Republicans alike admit that the rumpus raised throughout the state over liberal pension laws for members of the General Court is hurting their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thought I could be reelected without spending more than S25 in my district . " said one legislator . " Now I do n't know if S2,500 will save me. " he added . Everywhere he went , people asked him what sort of a pension he has lined up for himself , continued this unhappy member of the House . If a special session of the Massachusetts Legislature is called for Sept. 25. the powerful Committees on Rules of the Senate and House will determine ' if action can be taken , to repeal the " Curley pension law " before it goes into effect Oct. 4 . Today there is little doubt that a majority- of the General Court will assemble on Sept. 25 to vote on the question of a special session . At that time , it will be decided by vote if a special session is necessary . At the same time , the legislators will determine what matters will be taken up during the special session . These petitions will be in addition to any special messages which might be sent to the General Court @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Dever intends to " flood " the legislators with special messages . calling for reconsideration of every piece of legislation he proposed during the regular session that was defeated . Herr is where the Committees on Rules in the Senate and the House come into power . They will determine the order of business for their repective branches .                     