@@719590

txt Secretary of State Dulles warned this morning that communism might have aggressive new plans for Southeast Asia . Speaking at the ' opening session of the Council of Ministers of the Southeast Asia Treaty Organization , Mr. Dulles noted the " unusual attention " Communist qua*. ters had given the meeting . He said the Soviet press and radio for the last few weeks had devoted seven times more comment to allegations of the alliance 's aggressive intentions than during the comparable period before last year 's council meeting . Mr. Dulles said it was the standard Communist line to term communism peace-loving and to call those prepared to resist warmongers . Dulles Issues Warning " Intensification of that charge at this time in relation to this area , " Mr. Dulles said , " should alert us to the possibility that there may be new aggressive Communist plans for this area , plans which Communist rulers fear SEATO might block . " He emphasized that ' ' SEATO and other free world collective defense groupings are purely for defensive purposes as authorized by the Charter of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ come into being as a result of Communist aggression and that since their formation no member nation had been taken over by international communism , Mr. Dulles was the last of eight delegation chiefs to deliver opening messages as the council meeting got under way this morning in the Hall of Flags in the Philippines Department of Foreign Affairs building . The three-day meeting brings together ministers of the eight SEATO nations : Thailand , the Philippines , Pakistan , France , Australia , Britain , New Zealand and the United States . President Carlos P. Garcia of // the Philippines paid tribute to the usefulness of the alliance in protecting the treaty area from aggression and promoting the common social , economic land cultural aspirations of the member states . He said that I " we should affirm that SEATO , ' today is as necessary as when it I was founded four years ago and that it will be maintained and strengthened . " The Presideht proposed some appropriate form of contact between the alliance and " other world collective security arrangements . " Dulles Praises Pacts In his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ security pacts " cope more effectively and resolutely than do others " with the problem of Communist subversion and infiltration . He said this did not mean automatic immunity from danger and he cited the danger of the new Communist economicpolitical offensive and the Chinese-Soviet bloc 's " immense efforts to build up military power of all kinds . " He warned that Communist economic programs were not altruistic but instrumentalities for the execution of their political purposes . He said the first stage of Communist aims with economic aid was an attempt to influence the foreign policy of the country concerned and the second was to render the countries dependent upon the Soviet Union for as large a part as possible of their economic existence . " The leverage that this affords makes it very easy in the latter stages for the Communists to exercise their techniques of secret infiltration and subtle indoctrination with the ultimate aim of etablishing Communist systems in these countries , " he said . The Secretary foresaw , despite present conditions , the possibility of an evolution in Communist nations that offered international agreements to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this to the paradox that development among the Soviet people of a capacity to compete in the modern world of science and industry meant also the development of " minds and spirits that are critical of the Communist dogma and system . " He said already " the Soviet , Government is accepting adaptation to conditions which , a few years ago , would have been rejected as irreconcilable with orthodox communism . " Selwyn Lloyd , British Foreign Secretary , denied that Britain 's alliances were provocative . He I said they were purely defensive and " a natural reaction to a threat . " It would be folly for us to abandon or weaken them , he said . Referring to a possible summit conference , Mr. Lloyd said Britain was " willing to enter into what would seem to be worth while discussions at any time or on any level . " Nawab Mozaffar Ali Khan Qizilbash , Pakistan Minister of Commerce and Industry , expressed the belief that the military threat to the Southeast Asian region " seems to have receded for the time being . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with India over Kashmir " remains a serious threat to the peace and security of the treaty area . " He said this was true despite the fact that Pakistan had " invariably accepted all reasonable proposals offered by the United Nations and its mediators aimed at solving the Kashmir dispute . "                     