@@716958

txt Thousands of demonstrators marched in Brussels today in a ' Roman Catholic protest against the Government 's proposed cut in subsidies to parochial schools . Although-the heart of the city was a surging mass of demonstrators , there were only minor and isolated outbreaks of violence . Checks on identification , searches and scuffles with . the police resulted in the arrest , according to official circles , of 614 ( ' persons on technical charges of disturbing the peace . All but fif'teen were later released , it was said . Scores of-those taken into custody were hustled- off to police headquarters in militia trucks before the demonstration actually got under way . Some informants said as many as forty demonstrators were injured slightly , but no official figure was given . No one appeared injured badly enough to require hospitalization . Downtown Brussels , alerted for a riot , was paralyzed from about noon to late afternoon by both the police control and the congestion of demonstrators in president of the Social Christian ( Roman Catholic ) party heading the demonstration , said the number @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ students from Catholic schools converged on Brussels last night and this morning in defiance of official bans on demonstrations . There were sporadic clashes that were limited in scope . In most instances they were confined to skirmishes between individuals and policemen on the fringes of the crowd . A fire hose was used at least twice to prevent breaking of police lines . Several city policemen had a scuffle with one demonstrator who managed to knock off a policeman 's white helmet before . being subdued . All morning the police were checking identification papers and occasionally searching pedestrians and motorists , presumably looking for weapons or , objects that might be used in combat . Some of the marchers hurled oranges , tomatoes and firecrackers at the police . One report said some students had thrown halves of potatoes bristling with razor blades , but that villa not confirmed . Downtown shopkeepers took no chances . Many of them closed grills across their windows or pulled down wooden screens . But the precautions against breakage and looting proved unnecessary . M. Le Fevre said the demonstration had been carried @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is surprising for Belgians , " with discipline . He also credited the city police and state militia with holding their tempers , although he noted sometexceptions . One , he said , involved a state militiaman striking a 50-year-old man with a rifle . Mounted state militia were the terror of marchers and on lookers alike . They moved slowly astride their mounts down the full width of streets , pushing the crowds before them . Anyone who hurried or tried to escape the net risked getting struck with the flat of a sabre or stepped on by a horse . March Started at Noon From the Place de Brouckere , where police jeeps and militia Trucks were concentrated , the shouts of the marchers could be heard shortly after noon as they surged , ahead far down the Boulevard . Adolph Max . For three more hours the marchers and the police waged a constant but bloodless battle of pressure and control . The purpose of the demonstrators was to bring all their forces together at some central point . The strategy of the police , which succeeded in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ disorganized . Roughly two hours after the demonstration had begun , M. Le Fevre went to various concentration points of the marchers and notified them the demonstration was over . The marching and singing continued but in another hour the police had begun to relax some of their controls . Both vehicular and pedestrian traffic began to move slowly through areas formerly closed . Mounted militiamen withdrew amid a barrage of fruit , firecrackers and contemptuous epithets . The marching and shoutipg continued for the rest of the afternoon and into the evening , but the spirit was out of the demonstration by dusk . Slowly , in response to both fatigue and the dispersal order , the demonstration began to crumble away . Only the most vigorous marchers  --  almost all of them students-rcontinued into the evening . The issue about which the Catholics were demonstrating is an old one , but it was summarized today in the marchers ' cry : " Down with Collard . " Leo Collard is the Socialist Minister of Education whose draft bill , now before a committee of Parliament , would reduce the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of about $10,000,000 and prohibit the opening of new ones unless they were " economically and socially " necessary . Critics of the plan regard it as a Government attempt to monopolize the school system and undermine Catholic education . About 900,000 students now attend Catholic schools in Belgium and 700,000 attend state schools . Some observers believe the Socialist-Liberal coalition Government is trying to correct what proponents of the Collard measures believe is an imbalance in Belgium 's education attributable to previous Catholic Governments .                     