@@712698

txt The Frencn Government expects to submit to ' Washington within a few . days a list of arms needed to hold or advance the line in Indo-China against Communist leader Ho Chi Minh . Ho now enjoys the official backing of Moscow , and is expected to receive increasing military supplies from neighboring Communist China . It is - expected that one of the main items ' on the list will be transport planes for conveying parachutists to isolated islands of territory , such as the post that has just been lost to Ho 's troops near I Lao Kay , according to today 's communiqu ? . To support their case for United States aid , the French count heavily upon Dr. Philip C. Jessup , special Ambassador , who is soon to return to Washington from his State Department mission to the Far East , including Indo-China . It is assumed here that United States policy regarding Indo-China will be determined on the basis of Dr. Jessup 's report . Dr. Jessup is expected to visit Paris on his way home . Leon Pignon , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , commander of the French forces there , are now in Paris to report to the Government on the new situation creContinued ated by Moscow 's recognition of Ho . The French contend that IndoChina , as the key to the security of all Southeastern Asia , including Thailand , Burma , the Malay Peninsula and the oil of Indonesia , and as a point chosen by Moscow for particular attention , has become not . a French but an international problem . They believe it thus qualifies as une of the areas that it must be United States policy to strengthen , as Secretary of State Dean Acheson phrased it last week . It is emphasized here that IndoChina is the scene not of a cold war but of a full-fledged war , with the Kremlin backing military resistance to the French and to the new semi-independent states there . French calculations are based upon the assumption that Ho will receive substantial if not massive military supplies from Mao Tze-tung 's regime in China , which might frustrate the French hope of defeating him in the long run . This @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and by sea . Therefore military authorities would like to be able to use fast ships to patrol those parts of the seacoast held by Ho to pretent the smuggling of arms , and boats capable of moving up rivers . Officials here said today that the field guns and mortars used by Ho 's troops in capturing Pholu , twenty miles southeast of Lao Kay , were of unusually large calibre . This suggested that Ho might have profited already from Moscow 's recognition , but the French I were not certain . Very Few French Troops French military authorities said that in the region of Pholu there were very few French troops , the forces defending the posts there ' against Ho being mostly Thais ( a Northern Indo-Chinese race ) using French arms . Lao Kay . lies in a region where the arms traffic between China and Ho's. forces . has been carried on . French officials said that Ho 's men had lately been repairing a. road running south of Lao Kay and linking the western part of Tongking with the Chinese province of Yunnan . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and it was assumed that the road was being improved to facilitate the supplies of arms from China . The French contend that the visible arrival of arms from the United States would have a profound moral effect upon French troops , upon Viet Nam followers of the Sao Dai regime and also upon the followers of Ho . The French found encouragement in reports of their officials that the United States Information Office at Saigon - had been enlarged . Some officials here argue that the key to the situation lies in China herself . They regret that Western policies toward Mr. Mao are not coordinated , the British having recognized his regime while neither the United States nor France has done so . It is denied here that France will propose compromise to permit Mr. Mao 's regime to acquire a seat in the United Nations Security Council . The French Government feels embarrassed by the scandal involving Lieut . Gen. Georges Revers and Gen. Charles E. Mast , which gives unfavorable publicity to the division and hesitation that have long existed ' in this country , even in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Government has likewise been embarrassed by articles in several newspapers opposing the North Atlantic Pact , and favoring instead a policy of neutrality as between the United States and the Soviet Union at just the moment when the French Government seeks United States aid for the defense of Indo-China against a guerrilla force recognized and supported by the Soviet Union .                     