@@714513

txt In his message to Congress , followed up by an address to the nation , President Truman has presented the most powerful and persuasive arguments yet made for continuing our military and economic aid to our allies and friends abroad as an essential part of a larger program to avert a new world war and preserve peace , to enhance our own national security , and to save our civilization . The plea was framed in full awareness of the fact that our huge defense costs and the exigencies of an election year- have produced mounting opposition to what is called " foreign spending " at a moment when our previous expenditures on- that score are beginning to produce results beyond anything - that could be expected a few years ago . For that reason Mr. Truman does not . confine himself to arguing the absolute and urgent necessity for the 7,900,000,000 he requests for the mutual security program for the coming fiscal year ; he also anticipates and answers the arguments of the opposition and appeals to Congressional statesmanship to see the program through . His arguments @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of his plea , which is also the keynote of our whole foreign policy , is that we are preparing for peace , not war , and that this peace can be assured in our present-day world only through collective strength , which is also the best insurance of our security . In answer to Communist propaganda , which always attributes to others what the Communists plan themselves , , Mr. Truman points out anew that , however large our defense expenditures , they are not and can not be large enough to create a military machine for aggression . But he also emphasizes anew that we are confronted with the grim threat of Soviet aggression , which proceeds on the principle of " divide and conquer " and seeks to pick off the free nations one by one , and that the only effective answer to this is for the free nations to stick together in recognition of the maxim that " in unity there is strength . " In line with this reasoning , which the founders of this nation applied to the states of this continent and which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ world , Mr. Truman presents the plain fact that we are in absolute and urgent need of allies and friends abroad , and that we can not achieve national security without them . He points out , in reply to " blind " isolationists who would retreat to our own shores and gamble our security on the one card of - air an.c1 naval power , that we need many raw materials from outside of the Western Hemisphere , that without allies and friends abroad the threat of aggression would come much closer to our shores , and that in abandoning them we would cripple ourselves militarily and economically . Our help to them is , therefore , not charity but enlightened self-interest . Beyond that , however , in abandoning them we would also abandon not only our own principles but also the leadership of the free world , which history has thrust upon us , and would thereby destroy whatever hope there be that the democratic counter-offensive will some day burst the bounds of tyranny . Furthermore , Mr. Truman stresses that the funds requested are absolutely necessary to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ provide them our allies will be unable to fulfill their part in it , and our friends in the less-developed areas of the world will be unable to fight the " stomach communism " that exploits their poverty . In that connection Mr. Truman details at length how much has already been achieved , despite difficulties and occasional frustrations , in raising Europe 's defensive strength and setting it on the road to unification , and how much can be achieved through Point Four aid in solving the problems of Asia . As a further point , Mr. Truman stresses that " foreign " aid is the most economical program for increasing our own defensive strength because the dollar goes much further abroad and yields at least twice as great a return in Europe as it would over here . Finally , Mr. Truman declares , the " economizers " to the contrary , that the cost of the mutual security program is well within our economic capacity because of our increasing production that . permits a defense program totaling ; 64 billions without seriously impairing our civilian economy . But @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the alternative we face if the mutual security program fails . That alternative , he points out , could only be an intensified mobilization which would not only cost much more but would also lead to rationing , increased controls and central regimentation beyond anything we have known . To ' bandon mutual security , hp declares , would be to abandon a low-cost plan for national security in favor of a high-cost plan of national insecurity , coupled with a retreat that would represent national suicide . We are confident that the nation will sustain Mr. Truman in this analysis .                     