@@713239

txt Developments of the last two weeks have made doubtful the result of the state election , which formerly seemed likely to bring victory to the Democratic party , and have considerably improved the chances for the election of the Republican state ticket . These developments included : 1 . Withdrawal of Lieut . Gov . Joe R. Hanley as a candidate for the Republican nomination for Governor and the renomination of Governor Dewey and the nomination of Mr. Hanley for United States Senator by the Republican State Convention . 2 . Resentment of up-state delegates to the Democratic State Convention at domination of the convention by the New York City leaders . These leaders first picked Albert Conway , Associate Judge of the Court of Appeals , for nomination for Governor in their desire to name a " balanced " ticket . Then when Judge Conway withdrew because of labor opposition they su , - stituted Representative Walter A. Lynch of the Bronx , another Irish Catholic , as the nominee . Big Impellitteri Vote Indicated 3 . The independent candidacy of Acting Mayor Impellitteri on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by some local Democratic leaders and the success of his supporters in getting far more than the necessary 7,500 signatures to his independent nominating petitions indicate clearly that he will get a sizable vote at the Nov. 7 election . Possibility of a large " bullet " vote for him constitutes a major threat to the Democratic statewide candidates . " Bullet " voting would mean voting for Mr. Impellitteri but for no other offices . 4 . Nomination of W. E. B. Du Bois , a Negro , for United States Senator , by the American Labor party , ' along with John T. for Governor and Paul L. Ross for Mayor . Last year , when Senator Herbert H. Lehman , Democratic-Liberal candidate for re-election , defeated John Foster Dulles , Republican , by a Majority of 196,293 , the Labor party made no nomination for United States Senator . Dr. Du Bois is expected to add strength to the Labor party ticket in Harlem and other Negrc sections of the city and state . Liberals to Meet Today Hope for the election of Supreme Court Justice Ferdinand @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Democratic statewide candidates rests largely on the support of the Liberal party , which polled 424,587 votes for Senator Lehman-396,735 in this city and 27,852 in the rest of the state ? in last year 's election . The state executive committee of the Liberal party will meet this afternoon at 1 o'clock in the Statler Hotel to nominate Justice Pecora for Mayor , and Mr. Pecora will accept the nomination in a ' speech to the committee . The state convention of the Liberal party has already renominated Senator Lehman and has nominated Representative Lynch for Governor , but named Liberal party members for the three other positions on the state-wide ticket to permit study of the records of the Democratic nominees for these positions . The three Liberal party candidates for the minor state offices ? James G. Donnelly for Lieutenant Governor , Harold Baer for Controller and Ira J. Palestin for Attorney General  --  are expected to decline these nominations . The party 's state executive committee will then substitute the respective Democratic nominees , Richard H. Balch , Spencer C. Young and Francis J. D'Amanda . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Liberal party also is scheduled to meet today to nominate Municipal Court Justice Vincent A. Lupiano and Assemblyman Owen , the Tammany candidates for City Court Justice , thus completing the Democratic-Liberal alliance . The vacancies in the City Court were caused by the resignations of Edward J. McCullen and Louis J. Capozzoli , who were nominated for General Sessions Judges at the primary election . The United Labor Committee , which is on record as favoring Mr. linit  --  lUteri for the Democratic nomination for Mayor , will hold a meeting today at the Commodore Hotel to discuss whether it will support the Acting Mayor or Justice Pecora for election . A member of the committee described the situation in the committee as " very much up in the air . " This committee , of which Michael J. Quill , president of the New York City C. I. 0 . Council , and Martin T. Lacey , president of the Central Trades and Labor Council , A. F. L. , are co-chairman , actively supported William O'Dwyer for Mayor in last year 's campaign . Walter T. Shirley @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Mr. ImpelUteri , said that offers of support of the Acting Mayor 's candidacy were coming in so rapidly to the main headquarters in the Chatham Hotel that coordinating headquarters in the other boroughs would be opened today . He announced that headquarters in Richmond would be selected in the course of the day and that headquarters in the other boroughs would be established as follows : Brooklyn , Hotel St. George ; Queens , Franklin Hotel , 89-05 163d Street , Jamaica ; Bronx , Concourse Plaza Hotel . Mr. Shirley added that nominating petitions were still being checked at the Abbey Hotel and predicted that petitions with 250 , - 000 signatures would be filed ultimately with the Board of Elections . Robert K. Straus , chairman of the Coordinating Committee of Independent Democrats , sent a telegram to Mr. Impellitteri , urging him to withdraw as a mayoralty candidate on the ground that his continued candidacy would hurt the chances of election of Senator Lehman , Representative Lynch and Democratic Congressional candidates . " Now that the Democratic county committeemen of the five boroughs have selected Judge @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ you to reconsider your plan to run as an insurgent and withdraw in favor of the Hon. Ferdinand Pecora , " the telegram read . " We are the last ones to deny that there are times when fighting for a nomination is justified . However , this is not such an occasion since Judge Pecora is an outstanding public servant and will make an outstanding Mayor . To run will only serve to help the Republican party , which you have so bitterly fought in the past , hurt the party which made you what you are today and jeopardize the campaigns of Senator Herbert H. Lehman , Walter A. Lynch and the Congressional slate . " The appeal of Mr. Straus stressed the same argument that emissaries from the Tammany leadership made when Mr. Impellitteri was offered the nomination for Supreme Court Justice that he                     