@@719828

txt SPeclul to The New York Times . BEIRUT , Lebanon , June 26 ? Lebanese official circles expect a major attack by rebels in this capital within twenty-four hours . The United States Embassy warned Americans tonight to stay off the streets tomorrow " because of possible adverse developments in the security situation . " The rebels seeking to overthrow the pro-Western Government of President Camille Chamoun fear there will be intervention by either a United Nations Emergency Force or by the United States and Britain on a direct appeal from the President . The heightened tension in Beirut comes at the time of the Moslem festival called Id Al // Adha , which is somewhat comparable to the Christian observance of Christmas or Easter . The Moslem festival lasts four days . Intelligence reports have said that various rebel groups have been massing their forces for several days . Also , women and children have been filtering out of the Basta district of Beirut , which houses the rebels , and young men have been drifting in . Probing Action Sensed There were outbursts of firing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . no effort to attack . The theory in some Government circles today was that the rebels were testing the security forces and their positions . Two heavy explosions were heard as this dispatch was being written but could not be located immediately in curfew conditions . A small garage 100 yards from the United States Embassy was dynamited this morning . There seemed to be no connection with the Embassy . There were other explosions this evening but it was hard to tell where they were . The United Nations observation group in Lebanon reported its first casualty today . An Indian officer , Maj. Gatanan Bhide , was slightly wounded when his jeep hit a land mine near Rashaya early in the morning . Major Bhide and another observer , coming to a bridge that had been blown up , tried to detour then car around it but ran over the mine . Major Bhide 's condition tonight was said to be not critical . His companion , a Swedish officer , was unhurt , Despite the incident , Galo Plaza , a former president of Ecuador , who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a press conference that the mission was going well . He said observers had not been barred by the rebels from any large areas and added , " we are coining in contact with those people in a friendly way . " Senor Plaza conceded there had been hitches , but said that they had been cleared away and that " the atmosphere clears up after we have had a little contact . " Tonight there were ninety-four observers on duty ' in the country and more were expected . Senor Plaza emphasized that the view of his group was that there were two problems here : internal rebellion and foreign interference . Observers ' Role Limited Sam* Plaza said the observers , authorized and sent to Lebanon by the United Nations , were concerned solely with any foreign interference in the internal affairs of Lebanon . The Government of President Camille Chamoun has insisted that the rebellion , which erupted May 10 , was instigated by followers of President Gamal Aidel Nasser of the United Arab Republic of Egypt and Syria and supplied with men and arms from Syria across @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ propaganda broadcasts from Cairo and Damascus , steadfastly has denied complicity . Informed Lebanese , in general , feel it is too late for the observers to do much good . They believe that either the Lebanese Government must fight it out with the rebels , something it has been reluctant to do for fear of wide civil war , or that Western armed forces must move in . Reports that Lebanon had asked for a United Nations Emergency Force to seal the frontiers were contradicted yesterday by President Chamoun in a press conference . An Associated Press dispatch from Beirut Wednesday said Premier Sami esSolh had asked Secretary General Dag Hammarskjold for a United Nations force . President Chamoun said that it would be " proper " to have one only if all other peace measures failed . At United Nations headquarters in New York Thursday , a spokesman for Mr. Hammarskjold said no request for an armed force had been received in Beirut . The Lebanese Cabinet ten days ago authorized President Chamoun to ask for foreign intervention when he might deem it necessary . President Chamoun repudiated yesterday @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ against his re-election . Says Vote Is Not Issue In a radio interview with Columbia Broadcasting System reporters in Beirut , Washington and New York , the President was asked if his leaving office and the country would end the revolt . " I do not share that opinion at all , " he declared . " The question is not one of the Presidency , but the interference in Lebanese affairs by the United Arab Republic . "                     