@@715403

txt President Eisenhower reluctantly , but forthrightly , has lumped into the four-week-old Senate floor fight over the tidelands oil bill in a bid to break tho " talkathon " being staged by its opponents . While concerned over the fate of the tidelands bill . the President appeared to be equally if not more disturbed over the delay in the entire appropriations program that this unofficial filibuster has brought about . Senator Wayne Morse ( Ind. ) of Oregon became " the new champion " of the Senate 's marathon talkers after more than 21 hours of continuous talking to delay the offshore oil bill 's handling . Expressing his well-known leluctance to get involved in legislative procedure , the President nonetheless called for prompt passage of the tidelands bill and action on the other matte 's that have piled tip behind this issue . Conflict Charged The President 's views vteie contained in a letter to Senator Clinton P. Anderson ( D ) of New Mexico , one of the leaders of a score or more of senatois who are fighting the bill because they charge @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ deltars . They woe ' in reply in a letter from 25 senators opposing the bill asking for clarification on certain issues involved in this tidelands oil dispute . The bill as now avoided would give coastal states uncontested title to offshore land " witlinti their historic boundaries " ? three miles to sea for most but 101/2 miles into the Gulf of Mexico for Texas and Florida . However , in testimony on the bill the President 's Attorney General suggested that title to land beyond the three-mile limit be retained by the federal government . And one of the things the 25 opposition senators had asked of the President was to clear up this apparent difference in views between himself and the Attorney General . The President 's reply indicated he still held to the position that the 10I/2-mile claims of Texas and Florida should be recognized . This would appear to put hen at odds with his Attorney General and also State Department witnesses who had argued against title grants beyond the traditional three-mile offshore international boundary . ' Educating ' Public Thus the opposing senators got ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tip and so were put in the position of being able to continue to argue that the bill should go back to committee for reconsideration and clarification . Opponents of the bill continue to deny that they are actually in a filibuster , though Senator Morse went so far in debate as to admit that their actions had " many of the attributes of a fill-buster , " The group that has been able to And he affirmed his " respect " for then sincelity and right to vote as they think best . But it was obvious that his effort to keep a " hands-off " policy toward Congress had neared the breaking point on this particular issue , and that if the authority and prestige of the presidency could break the four-week log jam over this issue , he was prepared to use it for that purpose . c Debateon tin ties np Ihr 4 , soctated pres , Washington Backers forecast victim ) , without compromise for a bill to establish state owneiship of offsho e submmged lands  --  a bill against %kind , Senator Wayne Mouse ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Senate 1 ecol It was far and away the longest speech in the current debate , starting at 11:40 am. ( e.s.t . ) April 24 and ending in today 's early hours . It beat at least one other effort for which a record was claimed  --  a 15 hour , 35 minute marathon by Senator Huey P. Long , Louisiana Democrat , in 1935 . But the proponents of state ownership had renewed support from President Eisenhower and one highly placed supporter of the measure said in an interview " there will be no compromise on this bill , " He forecast the long-talking opposition will be forced Into submission next week . Senator Morse criticized the indefinite provisions of the bill in defining state boundaries . He said the Senate should accept the recommendation of Attorney General Herbert Brownell , Jr. , that the boundaries be fixed by a map .                     