@@713763

txt Stalling tactics on the part of the dairy branch of the United ? States Department of Agriculture were charged today with encouraging monopoly in the Boston milk market and with threatening to undermine the welfare of New England dairy farmers . During the past four years , the United Farmers of New England , Jnc.  --  a cooperative association uniting 2,000 farmer-owners of the area who supply 225,000,000 pounds of milk annually to the Boston market  --  have been denied an amount in excess of $1,000,000 through such dilatory tactics , asserted Howard W. Selby , general manager of United Farmers . " We are opposed to any move that will increase the consumer price of milk under present-day conditions and which would not be in the public interest , " said Mr. Selby in addressing a hearing on the pricing of Class II , or surplus , milk today in the Federal Building , Boston . ' Statesmanship ' Hailed Following up his approval of the work thus far accomplished by the Boston Class II Milk Price Committee as representing " real economic statesmanship , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which , if aodpted , in time might slow up such monopolistic and threatening actions . Evidence submitted by the Class H committee , after a study of nearly 21/2 years , discloses that the allowance provided under the federal milk-pricing order for the manufacture of Class II milk hasbeen 50 cents a hundred pounds below the average cost of 10 of the leading manufacturing plants in the Boston milk shed . " In the year 1948 , " said Mr. Selby , " United Farmers was denied an amount of 5500,000 under the federal pricing order , which would indicate that the policy of the government is that a business must be on the verge of ruin before amendments are made and considerations are given to the support of sound business practices . " Except for the sound operation of other departments of the business , these delays might prove serious , " he asserted . Considered Unjust " While the work of the Class II committee has been highly gratifying , the delay has tended to destroy the opportunity of survival for such of these plants whose manufacturing efficiency @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In our opinion , " Mr. Selby continued , " it is wholly unjust and unfair to expect any minority segment within the industry to carry the burden of the industry as a whole . Sounding a warning of what might happen to retail prices of fluid milk to New England consumers , Mr. Selby concluded : " There is evidence presented at this controversy to claim that Class I milk should carry the entire burden of overhead cost . " This would . throw an expense onto the fluid milk consumed in this market to the extent of several cents a quart . "                     