@@720700

txt Two important changes in ? procedures for relocating tenants displaced by Title I slum clearance projects were promised by Mayor Wagner yesterday . First , the Mayor said , all apartments chosen as substitute living quarters will be inspected by the Department of Real Estate before they are occupied by tenants displaced from Title I sites . The present practice is to make the inspection after occupancy . Thig oxnoses displaced persons to delay in receiving moving expenses or forces them to seek still other quarters if the inspection shows the premises to be unfit for habitation . The second reform , the Mayor said , will be to make certain that no tenant displaced from a Title I site will be exposed to a new displacement by being moved to a site already contemplated for another Title I project . $10,000,000 Is Requested Mr. Wagner made his promises as the Committee on Slum Clearance . asked the City Planning Commission to allocate $10,000,000 to make payments in the coming year for the city 's share of land acquisition costs for eight Title I projects . The eight @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ request was made at hearings being conducted by the commission on the proposed 1960 capital budget . The Mayors promise was given at a City Hall conference with Federal and city housing officials and spokesmen for organizations representing tenants now being displaced because of the Penn Station South Title I project in the Chelsea area of Manhattan . The project , co-sponsored by the International Ladies Garment Workers Union and the United Housing Foundation , will displace about 2,000 families in the area bounded by Eighth and Ninth Avenues and Twentythird and Twenty-ninth Streets . Includes All Projects The City Hall meeting was called primarily to deal with tenant complaints about the Chelsea project , but the Mayor said afterward that his promise applied to all Title I projects . Later in the day Borough President Hulan E. Jack of Manhattan , who attended the meeting , announced the appointment of a watchdog com-1 mittee to cooperate with Fed-I eral and city officials and the Penn Station South co-sponsors in seeking a satisfactory solution of the relocation problem . The committee is headed by Theodore Epstein , publisher of The Chelsea @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ chairman is the Revnlobert T. Dunn , pastor of St , Columba Roman Catholic Church , 343 West Twenty-fifth Street . He is also president of the Chelsea Community Council , the chief spokesman for Chelsea residents objecting to relocation practices and other alleged inequalities in connection with the Penn Station South project . After the City Hall confer- , ence the Mayor said there was general agreement that the Penn Station South sponsors would provide improved maintenance in site buildings while they were still occupied by tenants to be relocated . He said the sponsors would see that prospective displaced persons would receive courteous treatment under relocation procedures . He also promised that the over-all public housing program would be speeded up to aid relocated families . Organizations representing residents of the site area had complained to Mr. Jack that these points had been neglected . In connection with the relocation of tenants from the site of the Penn Station South project , it was found that several tenants about to be displaced had been sent to their present , quarters after being forced to , move from apartments in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ clearance sites . Guarantee Avoided It was skid at City Hall there could be no absolute guarantee that areas to which displaced tenants were sent would- never become Title I project sites . Every effort would be made , it I was said , to see that they were not presently so designated or likely to be in the foreseeable ' future . The Mayor interrupted a vacation at his summer home in Islip , L. I. , to preside at the City Hall meeting . . It was called after Mr. Jack had met on Monday with groups representing the Chelsea area and heard their complaints about alleged shortcomings and hardships in the relocation procedures . Earlier the same day Mr. Jack , after an inspection of slum conditions in Harlem , had telegraphed to Governor Rockefeller a request for an appointment to discuss the situation . The telegram invited the Governor to " join the city in developing a full-scale program of housing , both rehabilitation and new construction . " After the City Hall meeting , the Mayor indicated that he did not resent Mr. Jack 's action @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ might influence the Republican majority in the Legislature to enact next year the city 's bills seeking greater power to act against slum landlords to compel improved housing conditions . The bills , he recalled , were killed in committee this year . Before leaving City Hall to resume his vacation , the Mayor said he welcomed any constructive investigation of the city 's housing activities by any responsible agency . His statement was made in reply to a request for comment on an announcement by the Citizens Union that it had asked Representative Albert Rails , Democrat of Alabama , for a " complete airing " of the operations of the Mayor 's Committee on Slum Clearance . Mr. Rains is chairman of a special House subcommittee on housing . Among those who attended the City Hall ' conference with the Mayor were Walter S. Fried , regional director of the Federal Housing and Home Finance Agency ; Mrs. Anne M. Roberts , relocation officer for the agency ; Father Dunn ; State Senator John Farrell , who represents the Chelsea district in the Legislature ; Real Estate Commissioner J. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Dwyer . Also present were Richard Stern , head of the Title I division in Mr. Davies ' . office ; Abraham Kazan , representing the Penn Station South sponsors , and Philip Lapidus of the Urban Relocation Company , Inc. , which handles relocation matters for the Penn Station South sponsors .                     