@@715838

txt Premier All Sastroamidjojo 's nationalist government is planning to launch a fresh major offensive against terrorists in the troubled south Celebes later this month . A high-ranking Indonesian Army officer has disclosed : " There will be no fanfare to announce the start of these major clearing sweeps . ' . ! Armed bands in the region , where terror steadily has mounted throughout the year , were served notice of events to come when a 10-day ultimatum to surrender expired Nov. 1 . The ultimatum was issued at Macassar. the capital of the Celebes , by the East Indonesian 7th Division under the command of Lt. Colonel Warouw . Second Sukarno Tour Authoritative sources from Indonesia have reported that the government during the past nine months has been forced to shelter and transport . more than a quarter of a million refugees in this undeclared- war . Thig has cost the hard-pressed Indonesian Government several millions of rupiahs and tons of precious rice . The ultimatum to the guerrilla bands was issued following President Sukarno 's second personal tour of the disturbed area in the middle @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ President called upon all dissidents peacefully to lay down their arms and to join in the reconstruction and development of the newly independent country . Copies of the speeches were distributed in pamphlet form throughout the countryside together with printed ultimatums guaranteeing the personal safety of all guerrillas and criminals who quietly turned themselves in at government posts before Nov. 1 . Economy Disrupted It is still too early to report the results of this peace campaign . Informed quarters here , however , are extremely doubtful that the ultimatum will prove effective . " There was no other course left open to us , " . Governor Sudiro , slated for transfer to Jakarta soon , told local correspondents . Two . groups literally have turned into a no-man 's land many parts of the south Celebes. a strategic rice basket serving all of east Indonesia . Most roads are closed and the economy has By Frank Robertson Special Correspondent of The Christian Science Monitor Singapore The current crisis in the natural rubber industry , mainstay of the Malayan economy , is deepening and threatening to undermine much of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ This year the price of rubber has dropped from 28 to 18 cents a pound , at which price only the most ; efficiently managed estates stocked with young trees can hope to produce at a profit . There is every indication that these low prices will continue indefinitely , bringing about the unemployment ; and unsettled conditions that gommunism in Asia thrives upon . The international rubber study group which has just concluded a session in London examining the crisis has come up with recommendations that have proved a deep disappointment in the rubber industry , here . Plans ' Disappointing ' Briefly , the group recommended renewed stockpiling by governments and commercial users , higher prices for natural rubber 's synthetic competitor , and acceleration of replanting since young trees are much more economical than old . The Straits Times , Singapore 's leading English-language newspaper , echoed the general disappointment in the rubber industry in the following editorial comment : " New thought is required , for the chances of substantial quantities of rubber going into fresh governmental or commercial stockpiles are slender . The possibility of America @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ promise of American manufacturers to buy what is surplbs is hollow . The study group conference has proved to be a sad if salutary disappointment . " The American manufacturers ' promise now referred to as " hollow " by the Singapore newspaper was made at the study group 's conference in Copenhagen last May . Nixon Briefed on Crisis During his recent visit to Malaya , United States Vice-President Richard M. Nixon was told of the dangers of a continued slump in the industry in a memorandum from rubber growers which stated that " this crisis might undermine or even affect the strenuous work carried out by the government in clearing the country of communism and banditry . " In Malaya , the rubber industry employs about a half million workers and supports many thousands of others who work their own small holdings . Wages are based upon the price rubber brings , on a scale running from 20 to 64 cents a pound . The price already has dropped below 20 cents , but growers have agreed they will not further reduce wages before next year . The export @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the government of Federation of Malaya , much of which is used to finance the fight aaainRt the r.ommunktc Restricted Output Urged In its editorial , the Straits Times suggests that Indonesia ? which also depends heavily upon rubber sales  --  and Malaya should get together to restrict production and at the same time increase rice planting . The paper points out that it is better for nine-tenths , of the industry to get ' a fair price for its product than for all to be battling at uneconomic levels . Malaya 's current economic difficulties with their attendant political implications are aggravated further by the slump in tin , the country 's second major export item . This metal now brings only little more than one-third the price it was fetching during the Korean war . Last year Malaya produced 583,000 tons of rubber and almost 57,000 tons of tin .                     