@@718876

txt The cause of anticommunism , strengthened by the Eisenhower Doctrine , continues to move forward in the Middle East . This is apparent today on two fronts  --  Lebanon and Jordan . In Lebanon , first returns in the country 's bitterly contested parliamentary elections show pro-Western candidates leading in most races held so far . In Jordan , King Saud of Saudi Arabia and his 21-yea ? - old fellow monarch , Hussein of Jordan , continued secret talks reportedly on ways to strengthen their new anti-Communist alliance . Jordan gave point to its current pro-Western trend June 10 by demanding the recall of two Egyptian diplomats on charges they had plotted against the ' security of Jordan . The Egyptian Government announced June 10 that it has asked Jordan to withdraw its Ambassador in Cairo , Reuters reported . According to the same source , Cairo radio broadcast a government statement accusing the Jordan Government of engineering a  --  plot to frame the expelled military attache and thus justify the expulsions . Two Egyptians Accused The accused Egyptians are Maj. Fuad Hilal , Cairo 's military @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Egyptian consul general in the Jordanian sector of Jerusalem . The charges against them harked back to mid-April. when King Hussein , backed by his Army , ousted pro-Egyptian Jordanian leaders allegedly seeking to overthrow the King . The talks between King Saud and King Hussein were spectacular because the fraternal kiss which the two monarchs exchanged at the Amman airport June 3 symbolized the end ? of a long feud between the Sauds and the Hashemites of Jordan and Iraq . In 1925 King Ibn Saud , father of the present Saudi King , drove King Hussein , great-grandfather of the current rulers of Jordan and Iraq . from the Hejaz in western Arabia . Long Feud Ends From that time until two months ago there had been mutual suspicion between the Hashemites and Sauds . In mid-April of this year , common concern that Arab extremists  --  urged on by Egypt , Syria , and the Communists  --  were threatening their thrones brought the Kings of Saudi Arabia , Iraq , and Jordan together in a new informal anti-Communist and pro-Western alliance . Since that time King Saud has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a similar visit to Jordan . His current talks with King Hussein are expected to result in announcements of concrete Saudi financial and military aid to impoverished Jordan . Equally heartening to the West were the electoral results in Lebanon , since in the past few days that tiny Mediterranean land had become a cockpit of political turbulence as Lebanese opposition leaders worked to weaken the pro-Western government of Premier Sami Solh . Pro-Westerners Lead Preelectoral violence had cost at least eight killed and 70 wounded in Lebanon , and had brought the Lebanese Army into open control of the streets . At issue in Lebanon is the selection of a new 66-seat Parliament , elections for which will be continued in different sections of the country throughout June . So far only Beirut , the capital , and southern Lebanon , have voted , comprising in all 22 seats . Fifteen of these 22 seats were won in the June 9 balloting by candidates backing the pro- Western position of Lebanon 's present government , headed by Mr. Solh , who is supported by President Chamoun . This government has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . 10 were won by government candidates . including Mr. Solh himself . In southern Lebanon , five of 11 seats were won by government candidates , and three each by opposition and independent candidates . The independents are expected to support the government on foreign policy . Contests for the other 44 parliamentary seats will be decided in voting on the next three Sundays . Already , on the basis of the June 9 balloting , the government is claiming a victory over opposition leaders who demanded that Lebanon hew to the policy line of Egypt and Syria . If the final results confirm the government 's hopes , Lebanon will join Iraq , Jordan . and Saudi Arabia in firm allegiance to anticommunism and opposition to the " positive neutralism " of Cairo . This " positive neutralism " of Egyptian President Nasser has had the effect of making Egypt dependent upon the Soviet Union for arms and economic aid . Syria is perhaps equally dependent today upon Soviet support . In ? a separate development , meanwhile , two London newspapers reported June 10 that . Israel had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Aqaba by sending an Israeli freighter , the 1,554-ton Athlit , up the Waterway to the Israeli port of Elath . The two neWspapers , according to the Associated Press . were the Daily Mail and the Daily Express . The Associated Press bureau in Jerusalem , when ? queried about the reports , replied only , " Unable send from here . " This indicated that . the Israeli Government may be censoring stories about the Athlit in the hope of establishing a precedent without undue public notice . Egypt and Saudi Arabia . supported by other Arab countries , have maintained that the Gulf of Aqaba is Arab territorial water . closed to Israeli shipping because of the state of war which the Arabs profess still exists between Israel and the Arabs .                     