@@713252

txt Political developments are piling up rapidly as candidates for party nominations to Massachusetts federal , state , and county offices brought their campaigns toward the final week-end climax before the Sept. 19 primaries .. These developments included : 1 . The Republican State Committee precedent-breaking endorsement of Roy C. Papalia , Watertown Selectman , for State Treasurer , in a party chieftain to block the nomination of Fred J. Burrell , former State Treasurer . 2 . Former Gov . Alvan T. Fuller publicly announced his support of former Lt. Gov . Arthur W. Coolidge for the GOP gubernatorial nomination . $4,000,000 Item 3 . Former Attorney General Clarence A. Barnes , candidate for the GOP nomination for governor , charged Massachusetts truck and bus operators must spend $4 , - 000,000 for new safety equipment produced by only one concern , as a result of legislation pushed through the Legislature in its closing days , with the approval of Governor Dever and by political maneuvering by one of his chief lieutenants. 4 . The harmony dinner staged last night by the Republican Club of Massachusetts in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by all rival candidates . The Republican State Committee endorsement of Mr. Papalia was the latest move by party leaders to shortcircuit the candidacy of Mr. Burrell . They feel that unless drastic steps are taken , Mr. Burrell once-more will be the party nominee for state treasurer and that once more he will be heavily defeated in the November election . Learned a Lesson ' Mr. Burrell resigned as state treasurer as the result of criticism which developed over his solicitation of advertising business from banks in which he deposited state money while state treasurer . Mr. Burrell insists that while the practice was unwise , it was not illegal  --  but that he has " learned a lesson . " However , party leaders are eager to block him from the ticket of nominee because they consider him a political liability . The Barnes charge regarding bus and truck safety legislation came during a radio talk . The former attorney general asserted the measure was amended in the Senate through the efforts of Senator John E. Powers ( D ) of Boston , a Dever lieutenant , to provide @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ truck weighing more than 4,000 pounds unloaded , and every tractor or trailer operating in Massachusetts must be equipped with one pair of adequate safety chock blocks . Discord Avoided Harmony reigned at the Republican Club of Massachusetts dinner at 46 Beacon Street , Boston . Only Admiral Louis E. Denfeld among the six gubernatorial candidates did not appear . He had a prior speaking engagement in Worcester . But all present pledged their support to the man nominated . Daniel E. , former Beverly Mayor and candidate for lieutenant governor , as Admiral Denfeld 's ticket running-mate , pledged his and the admiral 's support for the ticket . A possible discordant note in the harmony dinner was avoided when Mr. Burrell failed to learn , until after the event , that the state committee was backing his opponent . The headquarters of Maj. Gen. Daniel Needham , one of the six candidates for governor , announced a series of new endorsements of the general . Distinguished Record ' Meanwhile , John P. Marquand , prominent author , disclosed his support of Admiral Denfeld . In a letter he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ clear and present danger , Republicans in Massachusetts are singularly fortunate in being , able to cast their primary vote for Admiral Louis E. Denfeld as Republican candidate for governor , " Admiral Denfeld 's invariably distinguished record in the armed services admirably fits him for the heavy responsibilities which the chief executive of Massachusetts must face in the next few years , whether they bring hot war , cold war , or peace . " As a result of my close acquaintance with him I believe that no one among his distinguished field of opponents is better fitted to be governor of Massachusetts and that anyone can vote for him in the coming primaries with pride and confidence . "                     