@@717836

txt Attacks on the International Labor Organization , spearheaded by the United States Chamber of Commerce , urgently call for a rally . in its defense . " One of the oldest and most useful international instruments-for the development of a better way of life for all people , " President Eisenhower has called it . The drive to discredit the organization has grown out of the complaints of William L. , the most , recent United States employer delegate . He has charged that the participation of Communist states in the I. L. O. has made a. " mockery " of its tripaatite , employer-labor-gov-. ernment character , and has recommended that the United States pull but , or at least refuse to name another employer delegate . However , the Chamber and the National Association of Manufacturers have recently nominated Charles H. Smith Jr . for appointment by the President  --  but only for one year . In the meantime both organizations have called for Executive and Congressional investigations of the I. L. 0 . to find out whether this country should continue as a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The I. L. 0 . ' s record , open to anyone who takes the time to scan it , supports the President 's appraisal and documents the conclusion that the United States should not only continue its membership , but also increase its financial support . To do otherwise would merely strengthen the Communist influence , which is surely just what the Chamber is seeking to avoid . The recent acceptance of the IL S. S. R. as a member of the I. L. 0 . did , of course , accentuate a weakness in its present structure  --  a structure designed to give employers and-labor together an equal representation with Governments in its councils . This aim is deflected when a Government is the employer and workers are state employes , as in the U. S. S. R. and other Communist countries today  --  and that goes also for most fascist-type dictatorships . In these cases Governments get more influence than was originally intended . On the other hand , this situation is not nearly as serious as it may seem to the uninformed . In the first @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ set to deal with this very problem . A special committee has recently made a thorough study of the degree of independence of employers and labor in every member country , to be used in deciding whether representation changes should be made . Also , the Communists have very little influence in the I. L. 0. , even as things stand today . The voting strength of the sight Communist countries on the ; overning body is only one to thirtyline , while in the organization as a whole they have but thirty-two out ) f the 284 total votes . The U. S. S. R. ins so far failed completely to retard L. 0 . activities directed against Communist practices . What influ ; nee it has will obviously be less if he United States continues as a nember than if we should withdraw .. : Those who want an excellent digest d the facts . should write to the hilted States Department of Labor or its memorandum of Feb. 1 , 1956 , in " U. S. Participation in the a " ) ? F ) . irtherrnore , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Cornneree about the value of the I. L. 0 . a general . We agree with J. D. Zelerbach , United States employer delgate to the I. L. 0 . from 1945to 948 , who recently testified before the House Foreign Affairs Commi tee , that the I. L. 0 . " has help promote our national interests many useful ways . " Among other he said , " it has encouraged positil programs for alleviating poverty , security and human exploitatio which are among the princip. causes of social upheaval , revolt tion and war . " As he said , abai donment of our I. L. 0 . membershi would be " morally and political indefensible . "                     