@@718914

txt President Eisenhower has teed off with a new kind of pe , . - sonal diplomacy here by playing a friendly game of golf with Premier Nobusuke Kishi of Japan . This preceded Mr. Kishi 's appearance before Congress to pledge Japan 's continued partnership with the United States . It preceded the three days of negotiation in which the Japanese leader was expected to ask for a greater voice for Japan in the mutual security pact between the two countries . It preceded the careful sessions with Secretary of State John Foster Dulles . The golf game was n't necessary , to set up friendly relations between Mr. Kishi and the President . The Japanese Premier already is regarded as " pro-American " back home . Nor was this personal relaxation unique in diplomacy . Statesmen have gone hunting and fishing together . President Tito has hunted wild boar with visiting bigwigs in Yugoslavia , for instance . Informal Approach But the Eisenhower-Kishi golf match was one more development and extension of Eisenhower " friendly persuasion " and personal diplomacy . It was akin to the informality @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of India at the Gettysburg farm . This is a vastly shrunken globe , and a shrunken time span of history . A dozen years ago the United States and Japan were at desperate war ; Hiroshima was just ahead . Later , Mr. Kishi was purged for political activity by United States occupation fOrces . But somehow the world is mellowing . And within hours of the Premier 's arrival at Washington he and the President ? at Mr. Eisenhower 's suggestion ? were playing a round at the Burning Tree ClUb . Okinawa was n't discussed . The Girard case was n't brought up . No one alluded to the prospects of Japanese trade with Communist China . The problem of handing over defense of the Japanese islands to Japanese defense forces did n't figure . Gracious ' Start The President seized the diplomatic initiative , at Burning Tree , by presenting the Premier with a handsome set of Ben Hogan golf clubs . This put him " one up " in gamesmanship , but Mr. Kishi followed through nicely . He had brought his own set of clubs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the gift set . Perhaps one should substitute " graciously " for " gracefully . " Because the Premier , first to tee off , sliced his shot 140 yards into the woods and hit a tree . Even great men are vulnerable . His shot went 170 yards and drew some applause . The convoying group of more than a dozen Japanese newsmen were silent , however . Dressed more for protocol than in the " Harry Truman sport shirt " ? tradition , soberly watching and clicking their cameras , they were having a new experience in informality . Shot ' Flubbed ' Mr. Eisenhower outdrove Mr. Kishi by some 70 yards on the first hole , reaching 240 yards on his second try . Then , mayhap , Mr. Eisenhower remembered the diplomatic niceties for he flubbed his second shot , pulling one wide to the left , close to a sand trap . It was at this point in the game that the Secret Service , Presidential Press Chief James Hagerty , and the wisdom of the State Department dropped a bamboo curtain over further events @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the match ended with the second hole . The game , however , was a foursome , with Senator Prescott Bush ( R ) of Connecticut , if that matters teamed up with the Premier , while Mr. Eisenhower had as his partner Takizo Matsumoto , a Harvard-educated member of the Japanese Diet and Mr. Kishi 's interpreter . Mr. Hagerty later advised reporters that the game ended in a tie . " You wo n't believe it , " he declared . And when some newsmen did n't , he could have reminded them that he always had played fair and square with the press . The White House did n't give out any total scores , Mr. Hagerty averring only that " they all played pretty good golf . "                     