@@713205

txt ARMY SET TO SEIZE RAILROADS TODAY ; AREA CHIEFS NAMED General Heileman Designated to Supervise Government Operation of the Lines TRUMAN ORDER SENT OUT Canadian Strike Awaits Action by Parliament as Carriers . End Talks With Unions By LOUIS STARK Soecial to Tax Nsw Zara Timms . WASHINGTON , Aug. 26 ? Officers under Ftank Pace Jr. , Secretary of the Army , completed preparations today to seize the nation 's railroads at 4 P. M. , Eastern Standard Time , tomorrow . Karl R. Bendetsen , Assistant Secretary of the Army , designated Maj. Gen. F. A. Heileman , Chief of Transportation , to supervise the Government 's fourth railroad seizure in seven years . President Truman ordered the seizure yesterday in the interest of national security to prevent a nation-wide strike called for 6 A. M. Monday . General Heileman immediately chose seven regional directors of operations . Six are already reserve colonels heading various railroads and thus it was not necessary to swear them in . They were merely recalled to duty . The seventh , 1 Clark Hungerford of the South-1 west region @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Dispatched The Army moved quickly . A form of contract between the Government and the 301 railroads affected by the President 's executive order was drawn up and dispatched to the carriers . They were instructed to sign the contracts and return . them to the Department of the Army . The boards of directors of the roads will meet shortly to authorize approval of the contract . Negotiations for an end of the nation-wide railroad strike in Canada reached a stalemate Saturday night when the company representatives withdrew from the talks and left the issue for Parliament to deal with in a special session called for Tuesday . Meanwhile the carriers ' negotiating committee headed by Daniel P. Loomis remained in Washington to be available . W. P. Kennedy , president of the Brotherhood of Trainmen , and R. 0 . Hughes , president of the Order of Railway Conductors , left Washington after sending telegrams to Assistant Secretary Bendetsen promising cooperation . President Truman acted yesterday when it appeared certain that a strike of 300,000 trainmen and conductors would begin Monday . The seventeen - month dispute had resulted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ report which had recommended that their demand for a forty-hour week with forty-eight hours ' pay be modified . The board gave the shorter week only to 85 , - 000 yardmen , with an 18-cent-anhour increase that did not fully // make up for loss of the sixth day 's wages . To the remaining men the board denied rules changes they had demanded . Besides Colonel Hungerford , the other regional directors named today by the Department of the Army are as follows : Col. Gustav Metzman of New York , Eastern region ; Col. Roy B. White of Baltimore , Allegheny region ; Col. J. D. Farrington of Chicago , Central Western region ; Col. ' Ernest E. Norris of Washington , Southeastern region ; CoL R. H. , Smith of Roanoke , Va. , Pocahontas region ; Col. Charles E. Denney of St. Paul , Northwestern region . To the regional directors and the 301 railroads Assistant Secretary , Bendetsen sent a letter advising them that they would be expected " to continue , to man and to undertake the immediate day-to-day management " of the transportation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Truman Order Sent Out To each road went copies of the , President 's executive order , a list of the seven regional directors , an operating agreement , a text notice of Federal control and a text notice of seizure for posting . The seven regional chiefs will report for duty at 2 P. M. tomorrow . They will supervise the posting of seizure notices which will read as follows : " 1 . By Executive Order . No. 10155 , dated Aug. 27 , 1950 , the President of the United States directed the Secretary of the Army to take possession , control and operation of the transportation system as operated by the * * * and to operate or arrange for the operation of such transportation system in such manner as he deems necessary to assure to the fullest possible extent continuous and non - interrupted transportation service . " 2 . In accordance with the order , I have been authorized and directed to take possession of the said transportation system with any real and personal property and other assets used or useful in connection with its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ possession thereof is hereby taken by the Department of the Army . " F. A. Heileman , Major General , U. S. A. Chief of Transportation . " The notice of Federal control was a one-paragraph statement addressed to each carrier stating that the President had directed seizure of the road " to insure in the national interest the operation of said transportation . system . " Agreement Outlined The operating agreement between the Government and the carriers , submitted for the latters ' signature , states that during Government possession " the company will assume full financial responsibility " for operation of the properties , and " will retain all the come of proceeds resulting from such operation and will pay all operating expenses and related costs other than the compensation of and expenses of personnel of the Department of the Army . " The Government , according to the agreement , does not " assume any obligation existing at the time of possession or which will result from operation thereof pursuant to the terms of the agreement . " It is ' also made plain that the Government 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is insisted that title to the properties remains in the owners and that during Government control the Government will " assert only such rights as are necessary to accomplish the national purpose of preventing an interruption of transportation service threatened by a labor dispute . " The agreement also provides that the companies ratify all acts of the Government in carrying out the President 's executive order . Provision is made for release of the Government of all claims by the carriers except such claims al . leged to have been suffered by the company as a result of orders by the Secretary of the Army . How such claims may be filed is also set out in detail . In railroad circles it was pointed out today that long-standing interunion rivalries in the railway field may be intensified by the current dispute . Whether it was their intention or not , the trainmen and conductors have now effectively prevented the firemen and engineers from pursuing their recently served wage demands . This is the situation : The Railway Labor Act provides that the President may name an emergency board to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made by the employes . The firemen have now in process a demand for the forty-hour week while the engineers are asking for a 20 per cent wage adjustment . After joint conferences and mediation had , been exhausted the firemen and the engineers would have served strike notices to alert the Government that they wished an emergency board to consider their case . However , the roads are now in the hands of the Government . There is no disposition , so far as can be ascertained , for the firemen and engineers not to operate the trains when seizure becomes effective tomorrow . Since they will not strike against the Government and the roads will not return to private hands until the trainmenconductors ' dispute is out of the way , the firemen and engineers " back up on the siding " for the main dispute to be settled . They can not create the type of emergency that calls for the naming of a Presidential board as the roads have already been taken over because of the emergency created by the strike threat of their fellow-employes . If @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pos- sible that the firemen and engide nears could have expedited their dispute to the point where they may have settled directly across the conference table , or even through arbitration . Either way might have put them in the favorable position of leading the way while the trainmen - conductors ' dispute lagged behind .                     