@@713211

txt Letters to The Times GEORGE M. RAYMOND , E.L . SMITH.ARTHUR BLISS LANERICHARD E. PIPES.MICHAEL J. OB ... pg . 25 Letters to The Times Decentralizing Urban Centers Program Is Outlined . for Coordinated Planning Effort To THE EDITOR or THE Nsw YORK TIMES : The President 's request for funds with which to initiate the decentralization of essential functions of government spotlights the fact that our national security is threatened by the concentration of our population and means of production in small and vulnerable areas . The movement toward decentralization already evident in our large urban centers will undoubtedly be speeded in the future . Unless , however , any movement of employment and population which may take place will follow a carefully conceived plan wherein it would be closely ** with the provision of housing , schools , community and recreation facilities and open spaces , present unsatisfactory urban conditions are likely to be duplicated in new developments . To be sound , any such plan should be formulated before considerations of survival force the adoption of development patterns dictated by expediency alone . A @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ responsible for and the effects of the overcrowding of housing , business and industry . City planning agencies , while already concerned with such problems , are unable to arrive at satisfactory solutions unaided . State Leadership The great need of the moment is state leadership . Only the state can give city planning more positive direction and by carrying it across municipal boundaries insure that current solutions to development problems will not form a meaningless pattern when viewed from the point of view of the state as a whole . The following steps are essential prerequisites to any program of coordination of planning efforts in the State of New York . 1 ? The establishment in the Executive Office of the Governor of a Division of Planned Development charged primarily with responsibility for advising the Governor and the state departments on development policies , guiding and assisting local improvement programs and conducting continuing research into trends and factors responsible for significant environmental changes . 2 . The division of the state into regions , each with its own planning agency established with full local participation , in order to provide @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and insure that the planning of the state 's major cities , their suburbs and any surrounding open land needed for their sound future growth will be coordinated in the interests of the urban district as a whole . Tri-State Commission 3 . The early appointment by the Governor in cooperation with the Governors of New Jersey and Connecticut of a tri-state commission to determine whether the task of planning the New York metropolitan region should be performed by an official interstate agency , and if so the type of agency which would be best suited for the job as well as its area of jurisdiction . 4 . The enactment of legislation permitting the appointment of local Community Development Authorities as provided in the Land Acquisition Authorities Bill introduced in the 1950 Legislature by Assemblyman John R. Brooks of New York . GEORGE M. RAYMOND , Chairman , New York Metropolitan Committee for Planning . New York , Sept 9 , 1950 . War Weariness Observed To THE EDITOR OF The NNW YORK TIMES : Some writers and other public personages seem to believe that the attitude of the citizens @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one of either unconcern or passiveness . There is a strong probability , however , that the majority of the people have made up their minds , and that their attitude is more positive than negative . One senses that the men and women in the homes , in the offices or factories or on the farms are not beating the war drums . And most of them probably know why they are not . Psychologically , it has not been long enough since the last world-wide conflict to fan the flames of violence again . The people of the earth are tired of war for a while , In this country , particularly , there may be beginning a swing away from participation in foreign conflicts and politics . E. L. SMITH . Dallas , Tex. , Sept. 2 , 1950 . Change in Mexican Post Queried To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : As a native New Yorker and as a retired Foreign Service officer with eight years of experience in Mexican affairs , I was dismayed , to use understatement , to read in your valued @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to Mexico , had stated as follows : " I have been summoned by the President of the United States to undertake a job of vital importance to our nation 's interest . I feel it my duty in this period of national crisis to Itccept this assignment . " I mean no personal affront to exMayor O'Dwyer in pointing out that his acceptance of the vital post of Ambassador to Mexico required the retirement from that post ? and probably from the Foreign Service ? of the present Ambassador , Walter C. Thurston . Mr. Thurston , through his excellent knowledge of Spanish , his intimate association with Latin-American conditions for over thirty years , and his genuine friendship for the Government and people of Mexico , should logloalli be maintained ht Mexico " in this petal of national crisis . " The fact that the " national crisis " has reached the international stage lit Korea and elsewhere clearly points to the necessity of our having u our rep , resentatives in key posts such as Melt ? ico City men of the experience and capability of Mr. Thurston @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , with the exception of the Communist newspaper ? praised Mr. Thurston 's achievement in building friendship between Mexico and the United States . Service morale  --  already at its lowest ebb  --  will not be enhanced by the subordination to New York politics of our relations with Mexico , nor can the Mexican Government feel flattered . ARTHUR BLISS LAND , Former Ambassador to Poland , Washington , Sept. 9 , 1950 . Kalmyck Minority in Russia History Traced of Chinese Nomads Persecuted in Soviet Union To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : ' May I add a few words to your report from Lake Success in THE TIMES of Sept. 8 concerning the resettlement of a group of Kalmyck displaced persons from Germany to Paraguay . This report might convey the erroneous impression that those 700 D. P. 's are the only surviving Kalmycks . As a matter of fact , they represent only a small segment of a fairly sizable minority in the Soviet Union . The Kalmycks are a nomadic people from Western China , who migrated in large numbers into Russia during the seventeenth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Urals to the mouth of the Volga River , but due to pressure . of other nomads and Russians their habitat was limited to the lands adjoining the northern banks of the Caspian Sea . There they resided , some quarter of a million strong , at the outbreak of the March , 1917 , revolution . Striving for a certain degree of national self-rule , the Kalmycks organized , in the spring of 1917 , their own government , which they hoped would exercise a limited amount of local authority in a democratic , decentralized Russian state . Those hopes were shattered by the Bolshevik seizure of power in November , 1917 . The Bolsheviks soon afterward dispersed the Kalmyck national organizations as " counter-revolutionary , " and suppressed without mercy every sign of Kalmyck irredentism . As a result of this terror , which continued well into the Nineteen Twenties , and the forceful settling of this nomadio people in the early Nineteen Thirties , the Kalmycks were decimated : from a quarter of a million before the revolution their number fell to 134,000 in 1939 . Most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , When the German armies reached this area in the course of the recent war they had no difficulty in winning over a fairly large number of Kalmycks , whom they organized into detachments and employed for their own evil purposes . After the war the remaining Kalmycks were deprived by the Soviet Government of their autonomous region as punishment for their collaboration . They were expelled from their lands and scattered far and wide in other areas of the Soviet Union . Like many other national minorities , they remain silent prisoners of the Bolshevik regime . RICHARD E. PIPES , Cambridge , Mass. , Sept. 9 , 1950 . Recollections of Robert Harper To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK THAD I In his interesting story is THE TIMES about the return to Columbia University of a book borrowed by the library of King 's College in 1772 by Robert Harpur , the writer might prop . erly have mentioned that Harper , not Harpur , was an Irishman . He was born in Ireland in 1738 and was of an Anglo-Norman family who , in the thirteenth century @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ numerous . Soon after his arrival in New York , in 1761 , Harper was " engaged as Professor of Mathematics " in King 's College and taught there for fifteen years , and was referred to as " one of the most distinguished educators in the Province . " He became interested in bringing Irish emigrants to this country , and in the Colonial Land Papers of New York at Albany may be seen the " Petition of Robert Harper , " dated Jan. 19 , 1783 , stating that , " having transmitted favor . able descriptions of this Province to his friends in Ireland , " he asked for " a grant . of 1,000 acres of land for the accommodation of between 70 and 100 families , who would come from Ireland if they could be assured of a grant somewhere along the Hudson River . " He signed the petition " Robert Harper . " In 1780 he was appointed Deputy Secretary of State . which office he held until 1795 . MICHAEL J. O'BRIEN . New York , Sept. 7 , 1950.    @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @        