@@718852

txt Letters to The Times For Federal Aid to Schools Defense Spending Considered Wasted if Citizenry Is Poorly Educated To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : The Public Education Association commends The New York Times for the support it has been giving to Federal aid to scapol construction , However , in the hue and cry of today 's controversy over the $72 billion budget proposed to Congress , certain fundamentals seem to have been quickly forgotten . The billions of dollars which the Administration has budgeted for defense spending is in fact justified only because it is needed for the preservation of our citizens and the assets of our nation . The most important asset of our nation is its children : The White House Conference on Education last year found that ' these children were being short-changed because of the shortage of classroom space throughout the country . The conference also concluded that the state and local governments could not supply sufficient funds to begin to adequately meet these needs . False Economy Certainly , a failure to develop our most important asset , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ still to spend billions for their ' defense ? is incomprehensibly false economy . If the future generation is not equipped to cope with problems which the present budget is both creating and attempting to solve , then any expenditure of money by the Federal Government is to a great extent money wasted . The Public Education Association is particularly distressed by the efforts of the economy-minded Congress to stifle even the little more than token Federal financial support for school construction advocated by President Eisenhower . The present crisis in public school housing is clearly demonstrated by the facts that at the beginning of the current academic year the schools needed 159,000 classrooms , 80,000 to relieve overcrowding and 79,090 more to replace facilities unfit for use . Official figures show that for the past three years state school agencies have reported that the number of pupils in excess of capacity of the schools in use has been 2,225,000 children each year . This overcrowding leads to half-day sessions , makeshift facilities , obviously overcrowded classrooms and inadequate education . The difficulty , . however , does not stop here @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at the rate of one million more children in public schools for the next several years to come . This , together with the need for replazement due to obsolescence , makes the outlook , unless there is Federal aid to school construction , rather grim . Kelley Bill 's Provisions The emasculated Kelley bill ( H. R. 1 , as revised ) , now bottled ur in the House Rules Committee , would appropriate three hundred million dollars a year for five years , or a total of one and a half billion dollars , to the states for school construction . At the most this would provide less than 25 per cent of the school building shortage anticipated between now and 1960 , after taking account of the heroic efforts of the states and local school districts to meet the demands . The defeat of the Kelley bill will not relieve the taxpayer of any " burden : " in view of the fact that it concerns only oneLhalf of 1 per cent of the proposed budget , but its defeat could delay indefinitely the construction of 45,000 badly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as great , if not a greater , danger to the future of America than the armed attack by some foreign country , All of us agree that we must face the crisis in foreign affairs , but we must not be so shortsighted that we do not see that the investment in our country 's future  --  its children ? is of vital necessity to the doctrines of democracy and the free world . We must meet the fierce competition for the very survival of freedom in all vital ? fields ; to postpone the decision to use the power of the Federal Government to help provide a more adequate public school plant would be a reckless gamble for our country and the whole free world . FRANK E. KARELSEN , Vice President , Public Education Association . New York , June 4 , 1957 . Khrushchev Remark Challenged To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMER : A substantie proof of the fact that the so-called de-Stalinization has affected only the surface of the Soviet system is offered by the unceasing use of the total lie by the Communist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Nikita Khrushchev when in his C. B. S. interview he said , in substance , that the Communist regimes in . Eastern Europe rest on the will of the respective peoples . We of the . Assembly of Captive European Nations challenge yr . Khrushchev to prove his allegation by the only test that is truly conclusive : free elections held under international control , following the withdrawal of all Soviet forces of occupation . Mr. Khrushchev 's bargaining offer for withdrawal of Soviet troops from Eastern Europe presupposes  --  a certain right of these troops to be stationed there . ' This is nonexistent . Whereas the British , French and United States troops ' are stationed in Western Europe under the consent and invitation of freely elected governments , the presence of the Soviet divisions in Eastern Europe is due to aggression and continuous interference in the internal affairs of the captive nations . The Soviet attempt to legalize the presence of their occupational forces in the said area by signing agreements with their own agents whom they have forced as rulers upon the subjugated peoples can not have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The captive peoples have the right to ask for the unconditional withdrawal of Soviet troops for the simple reason that they have never given their consent to the presence of these forces on their.soil . These peoples know and the free nations should never forget that ' what Khrushchev really has in mind is not the withdrawal of Soviet forces from Eastern Europe but the enslavement of the whole of Europe as an inevitable result of the withdrawal of United States forces and of the disbandment of NATO . PETR ZENKL , Acting Chairman , Assembly of Captive European Nations . BRUTUS COSTE , Secretary General . . New York , June 4 , 1957 . Scope of U. S. L A. Agency Is Believed-to Be Only as Effective as Our Foreign Policy- . To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : . Arthur Krock 's commentary of May 27 on ? Senator Fulbright 's criticism of the United States Information Agency points up , I believe , one of the most , common fallacies in Congressional thinking about this controversial Government agency . Mr. Krock reports the Senator as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ antiAmericanism " are still another proof that the United States Information Agency has failed to popularize American policy * * * " ? Surely Senator Fulbright , who knows as much of the problems facing U. S. I. A. as any man on Capitol Hill , knows better than to ascribe Chinese reaction to the release of Sergeant Reynolds as the fault of U. S. I. A. What the Senator blinks ? and what is so often overlooked when the U. S. I. A. program is being examined ? is the fact that that agency can only be ? as effective as the foreign policy it is designed to implement ( or " popularize " ) . Unlike the propaganda agency of a dictatorship , U. S. I. A. is committed to the truth . It does not " make " propaganda . Its entire reason for being is to set forth the truth  --  and whether its message is a positive one exploiting United States policy objectives , or a - negative one exploiting the facts of Communist imperialism , that , message is only as valid as the facts which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ being put in the position of " second-class citizens , " and nothing If . S. I. A. has or has not done is going to " popularize " this particular example of American policy . No matte ? how . favorable a climate U. S. I. A. may have created toward the United States during the past ten years , all it takes is one incident like this to make the agency out a liar in the eyes of the local people . Senator Fulbright may have legitimate complaints about U. S. I. A. 's effectiveness or about its budget requests , but this rather dubious accusation is surely not one of them . RICHARD M. KETCHUM . Bronxville , N. Y. , June 3 , 1957 . Conditions in Central Park To THE EDITOR OF T HE Nnv YORK TIMES : In Central Park and Sixty-ninth Street on the west side the Park Department has erected numerous fences surrounding the ' lawns and foliage . Ostensibly these fences were put up to give the newly planted seeds a chance to grow . At the time such a procedure seemed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was soon to prove otherwise . Vandals have repeatedly knocked the fences down as fast as the Park Department tries to keep them in place . The result is that the park in this area is really in a disgraceful condition . It seems to me that it would enhance the park considerably if the Park Department took the fences down and instead put " keep off " signs on the grass . If anyone disobeyed those signs he could be fined . This punishment would perhaps serve as a reminder for the future that parks are meant for the enjoyment of all . MARION CITRIN , New York . June 6. 1957.                     