@@720174

txt President Eisenhower said Wednes ? day that " eventual " tax cuts " all along the line " can be made if Congress goes along with his goal of a balanced budget for 1959-60 . Mr. Eisenhower held . out little hope , however , for such tax cuts during the remaining two years of his tenure . He said the first need in this field is for " over-all tax reform , " which he explained is now being studied by the treasury department . The President 's remark s were made at a 50th anniversary National Press club luncheon during a 45 minute question - and - answer period that was nationally broadcast and televised . More than 500 newsmen attended the luncheon . The President was presented with a membership in the club . 1960 Cut Uncertain Mr. Eisenhower said that even if Congress holds down spending so that the upcoming budget is balanced he is " not prepared to say " that he will propose a general tax cut in 1960 , his last year in office : The President , whose , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dollars for the current year ending June 30 , defended his 77 billion dollar balanced budget for next year as one that will meet the nation 's essential needs and help to check inflation . " If we can keep under control the problem of rising costs , " he said , " it can result in having what we need and eventual modification of our taxes . " First Club Appearance This was Mr. Eisenhower 's first appearance as President at a luncheon of the Natonal Press club , which has been a forum for many prominent Americans and foreigners . The Wednesday session differed f rom , the President 's regular news conferences , in that written questions were submitted , and John V. Horner , club president , selected those to be put to Mr. Eisenhower . At his regular news conferences reporters ask questions orally without advance notice . The questions and answers at the luncheon ranged from broad fiscal and foreign policy to Gen. Eisenhower 's World War II days . Replies to Questions In his replies the President : 1 . Said he could not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nomination a n y aspirant who did not go along with his own basic political philosophy . He added , however , that he could write out a list of up to a dozen " fine , virile " Republicans whom he would gladly support for the nomination . He named no names . 2 . Laughed off a suggestion that he had shifted from " modern Republicanism toward traditional Republican conservatism . " The President said he is trying , as he has for the last six years , to apply Republican principles to modem problems . Need More than Laws 3 . Called for giving the federal government more power to protect voting rights of Negroes , but said , as he has before , that the school integration problem can not be solved just by laws . He called school closing to thwart integration a " tragic " move that can not be corrected by the federal government alone . 4 . Said that , " contrary " to what he has read in some papers , he likes to hold news conferences but that he objects to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , such as once a week . Last year he averaged less than one news conference every two weeks . 5 . Defended his World War II generalship , which has been criticized by British Field Marshal Bernard Montgomery among others . Mr. Eisenhower said he believes it is " not profitable " to second-guess in siich cases , adding that " we did win the war . " Churchill Great Man In reminiscing about the war the President called Winston Churchill one of history 's truly " great men . " He said he probably had more " warm arguments " with the former British prime minister than anyone in the allied forces , " because I happened to be of a nationality that he could not shut up if he wanted to . "                     