@@719463

txt Venezuela 's political-military crisis continued in full swing this week-end . President Marcos Perez Jimenez was reported to be facing new pressure by officers of the armed forces . Insistent reports circulated today that the dictator had spent most of last night in conferences with officers at Miraflores Palace , which is still ringed by tanks and armored cars . According to informants , the officers who stood by Ge-neral Perez Jimenez during the critical moments of last week-end are now demanding that the President alter his intransigent stand toward all forms of opposition in the light of the growing unrest here . Student demonstrations against the regime , which have been going on-all week , diminished in ' scope yesterday , with only three minor incidents reported in ' Caracas . But civilian public opinion is becoming increasingly outspoken . An appeal for the restoration of freedom in Venezuela , signed by eighty-eight prominent per= sons including eleven former Cabinet ministers , three former state governors and two former mayors of Caracas , has been circulated since yesterday . It seems to have had a deep @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ This was at least the fifth in a series of such manifestos by different civic groups to appear here in recent days , and additional ones were known to be in preparation . This one appeared to be the most important , however , because of the , signers ' high standing in the community . It was noted in Venezuelan quarters that this was the first time since the inception of dictatorial rule here in 1948 that such leaders , including influential business men , had , been willing to identify themselves publicly with the opposition movement Among the well-known signers were Dr. Arturo Uslar Pietri , former Finance and Education Minister , winner of a national literature prize and now a prominent business man ; Dr. Pastor Oropesa , former president of the National Congress ; and Dr. Enrique Tejera , onetime Minister of Health and Education , Governor of Carabobo State and internationally known physician . Leader Going Into Exile But despite this growing civilian activity , no central political leadership has been emerging here . The one man still in Venezuela who is regarded as capable of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for exile in the United States . He is Dr. Rafael Caldera , head of the Copei party , a Christian Democratic group , who has been in asylum at the Papal Nuncio 's palace since Jan. 2 , the day after the military uprising that set off the present crisis . Dr. Caldera was released from a secret police prison Christmas Eve , after four months ' detention , with orders to leave Venezuela as soon as possible . But on New Year 's Day orders for new arrests were issued , a rebellion broke out and Dr. Caldera fled to the Nuncio 's protection . Meanwhile , as General Perez Jimenez sought to consolidate his power following his near ouster by the military a week ago , political prisoners remained in custody and new arrests were being made daily . In addition , teen-age students are being detained in connection with school riots and teachers are receiving similar treatment . This week several uniyersity , professors were fmprisbnefb.faCkidifIg the dean of the engineering school of the central- university here . A number of those who have signed protest manifestos @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the organization 's chief , Col , Jose Teofilo . Velasco . None of the : signers has been arrested thus far , but . they have been advised that the Government las no intention of giving any attention to these- petitions for freedom . It was " reported that on Thursday night secret police agents broke up ' a meeting of the Caracas Bar Association as a manifesto was being drafted by the lawyers . In the increasingly tense sit . ' uation here , the capital has been subjected to -a wave of rumors , ranging from predictions of the immediate downfall of the President to reports of pending new changes in the Government , a forthcoming general strike , a strike in the nation 's important oilfields and new demonstrations . Business Activity Beelines The effect of all this is a drastic decline in what a few weeks ago was booming business activity . Yesterday the banks were reported to be cutting down on credit and business men were complaining of losses . This phenomenon is thought to be psychologically important in the present situation , because @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were unthinkable ? in Er time of prosperity . The manifesto issued by the eighty-eight leaders said that the signers felt it to be their civic duty " to declare publicly our conviction that it is necessary for the institutional and democratic rehabilitation of Venezuela that the Government guarantee full exercise of the citizens ' rights . " Consequently , it added , there must be respect " for the life and safety of individuals , freedom of assembly and expression in all forms ; for the home ; for the constitutional principle of division of powers . " In reference to the rampant corruption here , the manifesto urged that through " watchful and energetic action the administration of public monies be moralized and dignified , so that our natural resources , may be used in a manner truly beneficial for the community . "                     