@@718255

txt The other night at Colorado Springs , Colo. a Republican campaigner got : around to dealing with the basic philosophy of the Eisenhower administration  --  the " liberal conservatism " to which President Eisenhower has often alluded . The spokesman was Vice-President Richard M. Nixon , and the address , to which the Republican National Committee particularly called editors ' attention , might have been written by Arthur Larson , . Undersecretary of Labor and author Of that new volume of basic GOP tenets , " A Republican Looks at His Party . " Certainly the basic ideas were proliferated ' by Mr. Larson , or by such Eisenhower intellectuals as Gabriel Hauge or Arthur Burns , White House economic advisers . It was a most useful moment for Mr. Nixon to put this outlook into campaign verbiage . Not only are some voters unaware of any coordinated philosophy behind the Eisenhower program , but a number of Republic , ans in office  --  senators and congressmen in particular  --  would seem by their actions and their voting record to have had little.firsthand acquaintance with this philosophy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the GOP is a " special interest " party catering to the needs of big business . At times the Republicans have done little to counteract this impression . But Mr. Nixon at Colorado Springs . declared : " Ours is the real progressive approach . Ours is the realty forward look . " What is this " forward look ? " Has the GOP. as did the Conservative Party in Britain , developed a set of domestic tenets which are more than mere opposition to the New Deal , more than mere encouragement of a favorable business climate ? While Democratic presidential aspirant Adlai E. Stevenson , in his output of " white papers " is defining his viewpoint with detailed proposals , how does the Eisenhower-Republican outlook add up ? . . The  --  press generally headlined Mr. Nixon 's promise at Colorado Springs of a four-day work week . But this was only the end product . " Our first aim , " the Vice-President declared , " is to wipe out the remaining pockets of distress and economic discrimination . " And then he underlined a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ take positive steps jointly with state , local , and private groups . " Partnership Stressed " Under this administration , " M . , Nixon continued , " the government is a partner with the people  --  not the boss . It deals with state and local governments as mature agencies of their citizens , not as children to be led around by the hand .... . " This ? administration is not opposed to business , or to labor , or to the farmers . It favors them all and it discriminates against none . " Partnership is the principle here , with favoritism for no one . Mr. Larson , in his volume , finds a historical maturing proc ess at work . In a large mouthful he declares : " What we are now observing is the raw force of ninteenthcentury capitalistic private enterprise supplying the driving power to produce a steady prosperity , and the raw force of twentieth-century collective labor action supplying the driving power to improve the wages and working conditions of workers  --  while the state and federal governments , using the techniques @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and actions against the public interest , and make provision for the hazards and insecurities that are a by-product of free private enterprise . " Balance Claimed " In all this , " he underlines , " the key word is balance . " In short , he says that the Eisenhower administration has promoted a balancing of all forces in the community and that an " authentic American center " has been established in politics  --  under the Republicans . A general and genuine " American consensus " has been achieved , says Mr. Larson , " consolidating all that is best in American life , whatever its origin . " So we find President Eisenhower calling for a " partnership " policy in water-power development . We find him standing strictly neutral , preserving collective bargaining , in the recent steel strike . We find him urging a federal-state , not a , totally federal solution for the ' school classroom shortage , severe though it be . " Our second great aim , " Mr. Nixon declared in his Colorado Springs speech , " is to wipe out @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not belong here . They are leftovers from the socialism and class distinction of older nations . " Expansion Held ' Must ' " Our third goal , " and here he underlines another main point , " is to promote a new way of life  --  and we will do this by unleashing the research facilities of our scientists and technicians . . . . " The goal is to keep the econ- omy unfettered and continually expanding . Henry C. Wallich , Yale economics professor , writing in the current Yale Review , enlarges on this particular Republican theme : American businessmen , he says , have made a tremendous contribution to the world : " The production of material wealth . " Business expansion and continued investment are " musts . " From this dynamic expansion of production will come that doubled living standard in 10 years forecast by Mr. Nixon . There is more to this Eisenhower - Republican philosophy . Government , says Mr. Larson , has a responsibility for " the general welfare of people , which it discharges best by initiating systems of income @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , safety , and the like , with a maximum of private and local content and a minimum of centralized control . " Philosophy Challenged And what our the rights  --  and responsibilities ? of the individual ? Conservatives , Professor Wallich says , " share with liberals their belief in the supreme value of the Individual and his freedom : they feel that the best way to develop the qualities of the individual is to exercise them by leaving to each man all the responsibility he can carry . " This , in its bare bones , is the kind of basic Republican philosophy presented by Mr. Nixon and the others . Now it is being challenged by the Democrats with the kind of vigorous criticism which the two-party system provides . The Democrats are asking whether this thesis is basically valid . Do the self-centeredness and lack of vision of some elements of the business community , they ask , make it unworkable ? Does the desperate school-classroom shortage make the " partnership " thesis unrealistic ? Does the nibbling away at TVA indicate that the " partnership " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ companies operate against the public interest ? And is Mr , Stevenson right when he declares , " The trouble is that the Republican leadership just does n't think of the world in human terms ? in terms of people . When the Republican Party hears the word ' economies , ' it sees stocks and bonds . " Republican spokesmen have an opportunity to expound and publicize this Eisenhower philosophy in the remaining campaign weeks , and the Democrats to contradict as they will , The voters can determine whether Republican practice conforms to Eisenhower preachment.                     