@@719566

txt President Eisenhower said today that he had a " clear under7 , tanding " with Vice President Richard M. Nixon on what to do if the President should become unable to perform his duties . " Mr. Nixon knows exactly what he should do in the event of a Presidential disability , " the President told his news conference . He said others around him were " completely privy " to the arrangement . And he left the impression ? although he refused to say so outright  --  that he had put instructions in writing on the disability question . Indications are that the " understanding with the Vice President " covers these two points : Cif the President himself were too ill to declare his own inability , Mr. Nixon would be responsible for making that decision . ClAr . Nixon would become " Acting President , " leaving open the possibility of General Eisenhower 's return to office if he recovered . The President seemed rested and in good spirits after his ten-day vacation in Thomasville , Ga . His physical appearance was notably better @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , when his voice was hoarse and his manner listless . He spoke firmly today , though occasionally with deliberation , as if he were , searching for the right word . Reporters could detect no signs of a sore throat , but on the way out of the room he tapped his chest and told one man : " I 've still got this goldarned hoarseness . " Disclosure of the EisenhowerNixon agreement on Presidential disability will inevitably tend to remove the sense of urgency about finding a solution for the perplexing constitutional problems involved . The Constitution provides simply that the Vice President shall succeed in the event of the President 's death or inability to serve . It does not say who shall determine the President 's inability , nor whether the Vice President takes over permanently or only until the President recovers . Because of these uncertainties , disabled Presidents have been reluctant to relinquish their powers . Vice Presidents have been just as reluctant to claim power from a disabled President , for fear of being attacked as usurpers . President Eisenhower 's three serious illnesses @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a small stroke  --  have dramatized the itnportaiice of clarifying the succession procedure . The Presiderdhas repeatedly asked Congress ' to act . But action has been prevented so far by differences on how to approach the problem . The only thing all sides seem to favor is the view that a Vice President takes over only the powers of an ailing President , not the office itself . The Administration favors a constitutional amendment to have a council pass on Presidential disability . Congressional Democrats say that would take too long . They favor a Federal law to the same effect . The Administration says a mere statute would be unconstitutional . At today 's conference the President was asked , in view of the continued Congressional inaction , about reports that he had made some arrangement with Mr. Nixon . General Eisenhower repeated his call for a constitutional amendment to settle- the matter . But then he added : " Now in my own case , because I think in between Mr. Nixon and myself there is a rather unique state of mutual confidence , I think there is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ what he should do in the event of a Presidential disability . " Later the President was asked whether he had " put in writing any specific expression of your will . " He said with a smile that he should really not answer , because " if I have , then probably lyou would want the letter , then you would want to see whether my grammar is correct . " Senator Wayne Morse , Democrat of Oregon , protested on the Senate floor this evening against the " secrecy " of the Eisenhower-Nixon understanding . " The Constitution does not make the Presidency a tight little preserve like a quail-hunting lodge , " Senator Morse said . " The American people should be declared in on this . "                     