@@720865

txt WASHINGTON , Nov. 14 ? High Army officials have been outraged by a Budget Bureau proposal to deprive the Army of its general war mission and bring back from overseas at least two divisions , an authoritative source said today . The reported proposal was based on an argument that since the Army felt itself to be the ideal force for dealing with limited wars , it should restrict itself to that . Consequently , according to this view , the Army-should re'duce many of its other costly obligations , including its responsibilities for continental air defense and its broad overseas deployment for general war defense . The proposal was said to have been contained in a memorandum by the Budget Bureau , dated Nov. 12 , forwarded to the Army leaders by John W. Sprague , acting Pentagon controller . The Budget Bureau is the President 's fiscal control unit . Dispatched With Note Mr. Sprague sent the memorandum to Secretary of they Army Wilber M. Brucker and Gen. Lyman L. Lemnitzer , the Chief of Staff , with an advisory note that they be prepared @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The meeting took place yesterday in the office of Neil H. , the Secretary . The Army responded to the memorandum with one of its own , a high Army official disclosed . He said that Army staff officers , after working all night , had produced a retort that the Budget Bureau 's proposal was not only unwarranted but would also require changes in law . The roles and missions of the armed services are established by law , the Army response emphasized . There was no indication that Secretary supported the bureau proposal . The meeting also dealt with other subjects . Budget Plans Ready This week the Pentagon completed its work on the military defense budget for next year . It will be discussed at a meeting of defense and other officials with President Eisenhower at Augusta , Ga. , on Monday . Army leaders took some com fort from their interpretation of Secretary 's attitude toward the proposal . But they called attention privately to a study in the Joint Chiefs of Staff . This study , presumably one of many , was based @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a cut of two overseas divisions were ordered . The Army has five divisions in Europe and two in Korea . For the purposes of the pro // posal , it appeared that an Army division In Hawaii was considered " overseas " and that the suggestion had been made that it be brought to the mainland . Air Force Proposal The reported Budget Bureau proposal coincided with a paper , ) said to have been prepared by the Air Force , recommending al reduction in the size of United States land forces in Europe . Reports of possible overseas cuts have been circulating here on the eve of the parliamentarians conference of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization , which opens Monday . The NATO defense ministers will meet in December . These reports have been prompted by the United States ' publicized efforts to reduce dollar expenses abroad . West European countries already have been advised that the United States would like to alter the present proportion of logistics contributions in NATO and cut its own majority share somewhat . So far , however , assurances have been repeated that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ military commitments to NATO , including air and ground units . Gen. Lauris V. Norstad , Supreme Allied Commander in Europe , recently asked for and received similar assurances . Strong Moves Evident However , it has become evident here that strong moves are developing for some major alteration in the United States ' military forces  --  perhaps not in the immediate future but inevitably . The Army source that called attention to the Budget Bureau memorandum described it as an attempt to turn some of the Army 's own doctrine against its claims for roles and missions . The Army , according to this interpretation , insisted that the most likely form of war was  --  a " brushfire , " or limited war . In addition , it was said , the Army insisted that it was the best suited unit for dealing with such wars . For example , the Marines have contended that their amphibious capabilities give them an advantage for brushfire wars . However , the Army , arguing for a build-up of its strategic Army corps , had stressed that only the Army and not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of period because the Army brought its own supplies . The Budget Bureau memorandum said that if the Army sincerely wished to build itself up as a highly mobile force for limited engagements anywhere , it ought not to waste its energies and resources on some of its older roles and missions . Therefore , the memorandum concluded , the Army ought to abandon its pretensions to being part of the over-all deterrent force . It ought to accept the assessments of some military authorities that there is no need , other than psychological , for large ground forces abroad . In addition , there ought to be no need for the Army to expend its energies on continental air defense , when the Air Force can easily handle that assignment , it was suggested . Throughout the memorandum it was made clear that the primary consideration for altering the Army 's mission was financial , since there would not be enough money to satisfy all the Army 's ambitions . Called Perll to U. S. Discussing the Budget Bureau memorandum , the Army source said that if its recommendations were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ position of the United States in a most critical period in world affairs . He found it inconceivable that responsible officials should be discussing overseas cuts at a time when the United States was entering negotiations for an East-West summit meeting and the President was planning a world tour . Another source , not in the Army but with close relations to its officials , said that the Budget Bureau memorandum delved deeply into the most detailed aspects of the Army 's force structure . The memorandum discussed the eArmy 's operations and the number of divisions it should have in any given area , the source said . But he said that most of the high Army officials were angry , because they felt it not only opposed their basic conception of the Army but also that some of its premises were not founded in fact . One Army official was reported to have described it as an effort to turn the Army into a police force .                     