@@715108

txt French police began rounding up Nationalists and Communists blamed for the recent bloody Casablanca riots tonight shortly after the Sultan of Morocco had-thrown his support to the French in the current crisis . The police reported that a " large number " of members of the Istiqlal Nationalist party had been arrested . Late tonight , it was announced that six Communist leaders  --  all of European origin  --  also had been taken into custody . ( In New York , the Political and Security . Committee of the United Nations decided , by a vote of 26 to 24 , not to invite the Bey of Tunis to send a representative to present his views on the disagreement with France . The arrested communists includ-1 ed three minor Government employes , a railway worker , a former director of a now defunct Communist newspaper here , and a woman believed to be a Russian . Report on Arrests Vague Little information could be obtaMed about the arrests , which occurred only a few hours after local ' officials had reported to the French Government that there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ worked together to touch off the rioting . The police announcement said only that leaders of the Istiqlal " at present in Morocco as well as numerous members of the Istiglal have been arrested late this afternoon . " The announcement hit the tense city like a bombshell and there were fears of new violence . Sultan Sidi Mohammed Ben Yussef , the Arab leader who has I campaigned for the Nationalist cause since the end of World War II , disavowed the Nationalist violence which erupted into a rebellion and called for cooperation between the Moroccan and French populations . He issued a statement to the press shortly after the French municipal authorities had sent a telegram to Premier Antoine Pinay asserting there was " evident collusion " between Communists and Nationalists in the riots . Public reading of the Sultan 's message was disrupted by a crowd of 40,000 Frenchmen outside the Casablanca Cathedral for a memorial service for the eight Europeans stabbed and burned to death in the rioting . The crowd remained silent when the " Marseillaise " was played at the end of the service but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the military band began playing the Moroccan national anthem . The noise was so great an official of the Sovereign 's court was unable to read the message . " Our Majesty has been deeply ' affected by the events which have bloodied the city of Casablanca , " the Sultans statement said . " We disavow any act of violence . We pay tribute to both the French and Moroccan victims . We pray that // God extend to us a reign of calm land peace so that a friendly and peaceful cooperation between the , inhabitants of this country and especially the French and Moroccans may be achieved . " The Sultan , in Casablanca when the rioting started , went immediately to his palace at Rabat and remained silent until today , although French authorities had . urged him to issue such a statement . Funeral services were held today for eight Frenchmen hacked to pieces or burned Monday by the mobs , and tonight all movies , restaurants ' and theatres- were closed in mourning . The big bell of Notre Dame Cathedral tolled dismally throughout the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ quarters was asked to attend special prayers in the Mosques Friday for the more than fifty native rioters killed in clashes with police and colonial soldiers . Police planned extra precautions to counter the threat of new incidents . French officials of the Casablanca Government , reporting to Premier Pinay on the worst antiFrench rioting in thirty years , said : " These events were the inevitable consequence of a policy of national renunciation and international miscomprehension in regard to Moroccan problems . We sound the alarm before the evident collusion between communism and the Istiqlal . " The telegram did not cite specific instances of Communist incitement in the riots , touched off by a twenty-four-hour strike to protest the assassination of the Tunisian Nationalist labor leader , Farhat Hached , but Communist agitators were among the 300 or more arrested . Reports from the interior of Morocco said the death toll reached three in riots yesterday between 1,000 demonstrators and police . Two Arabs were killed in the riotLing at Beni Melia ! , 100 miles southeast of here , and a police guard died today of injuries . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them for allowing notorious political ' and - racial agitators to organize the violence . One telegram called the events " absolutely foreseeable " and said they " followed the liberty allowed to extremists provoked by the base instincts of racism and religious fanaticism . . . "                     