@@713052

txt CITY TEACHER UNION QUITS N. E. A. GROUP TO PROTEST RED BAN Program of National Body Held Blow at Academic Freedom by New York Letter CONVENTION WAR LOOMED Some Delegates Were Ready to Move for Ejection of Local Now Under Fire By BENJAMIN FINE Special YO THE NEW YORK TIMES . ST . LOUIS , July ** a surprise move , the New York City Teachers Union , Local 555 , United Public Workers , has withdrawn from the National Education , Association . It withdrew in protest against a proposed ban on Communist teachers in the public schools The letter of resignation , dated June 28 , reached the association 's executive committee over the weekend and was unanimously accepted . Several delegates had been prepared to raise the question of ejecting the union from the association . Its voluntary withdrawal has averted what might have become a bitter floor fight . The development came at the opening of the eighty-eighth annual meeting of the association , attended by 4,000 teachers , school administrators and college officials from every state . With an active membership of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ generally considered the most powerful and influential teachers ' organization in the public school field . The Communist Issue A year ago , at its summer conference in Boston , the Association declared ? itself against employment of Communist teachers . On Thursday the delegates are to vote on a change in the Association 's bylaws that would go even further. , The new by-law reads : " No person shall be admitted or , continued in membership in the N. E. A. who advocated or who is a member of the Communist party of the United States or of any organization that advocates chang-1 ing the form of Government of the United States by any means not provided for in the Constitution of the United States . " There does not appear to be any doubt about the passage of this by-law . The proposed action was cited by the New York union as one of the reasons for its withdrawal . In a letter to Dr. Willard E. Givens , executive secretary of the Association , signed by Abraham Lederman , president , and Mrs. Rose V. Russell , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been proposed in good faith but for ulterior motives . " We believe that it is a false issue whose target , behind the smake screen of ' anti-communism ' is adademic freedom , and whose victim is the very institution of free , public , secular education , " the union declared . " The Current Hysteria " " We are convinced that many others besides ourselves , who recognize this danger , will nevertheless bow to it out of fear , while still others , carried away by the current hysteria , will be misled into accepting policies which they will some day regret . " The teachers union will not embark upon a witch hunt , however popular it may be to do so . Woare convinced that it will bring incalculable harm to education , from which recovery will be slow and painful . It is ? for these reasons that the teachers union feels obliged to withdraw from the NationalEducation Association . " We shall , however , continue , as in the past , to support such issues as Federal aid to education and to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ community for the improvement of our public schools , the advancement of child welfare and teachers ' interests , and the perfection of democracy . " Withdrawal of the teachers ' union from the association cuts its last remaining tie with the organized educational profession . Earlier in the year the Congress of Industrial Organizations ousted the United Public Workers , and with it the union . The New York Board of Education voted not to recognize the union in dealing with teachers ' groups . Eight of its members , including Mr. Lederman , the president , are facing depart // mental trials for refusing to answer the question on Communist membership . Most of the teachers assembling here have not yet heard of the union 's action . Until a few days ago , the union had planned to be represented . Mrs. Russell had been selected as official delegate . The union 's move has averted a full-scale controversy over the question of implementing the association 's non-communism position . It is also likely that the seating of the union delegates would have been challenged from the floor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Thank goodness we got rid of the union without a bitter , knockdown fight . We 'll be better off without them . " " The union 's decision to leave the N. E. A. was entirely voluntary on its part , " Andrew D. Holt , president of the association , explained . " There was no pressure of any kind from the N. E. A. " Increased school enrollments , an elementary teacher shortage and a serious lack of adequate buildings are the major problems facing American education at present , leading educators declared . Comments from key officials attending the convention indicate that while improvements have been made in some directions , in the main the public schools are in need of greater financial help than they have received .                     