@@719370

txt With the drama of the Teamster Union 's expulsion behind it . the A.F.L.-C.I.O. ' convention this week takes up a long-smoldering issue which strikes at the heart of labor unity . The problem is a dispute between the building trades unions , such as carpenters , bricklayers , steel metal workers and the like , and industrial unions , formed by workers in plants . The building trades contend the industrial outfits arc trying to take over construction work in and around their plants which the building trades claim is in their jurisdiction . Verbal fireworks over the issue arc likely to be set off att the convention in a speech this week by Auto Workers ' President Waiter Reuther . Barring a complete reversal of his previous position , he 's sure to stir up building trades delegates with a defense of the stand taken by his and other industrial unions . However , there 's little prospect'of a walkout at the current convention . despite an official statement from the Building Trades Department that - we sincerely feel that until a mutually agreed upon solution @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the labor movement . " The building trades agreed at their own convention last week not to . take any " drastic " action until more talks are held on a solution . But if no agreement is reached by the end of February . presidents of the building trades groups will meet and decide what their future course will be . In expelling the Teamsters Union , delegates voting the strength of their union memberships , cast 10.458,598 ballots for expulsion while =6.497 votes were cast with the Teamsters against expulsion . Thus President Meany got far more than the necessary two-thirds vote to boost out the federation 's biggest member . 2.1 Unions Back Teamsters Teamsters got support from 21 unions , all former A.F.L. organizations . Leading the way was the Carpenters-Union. beaded by ' Maurice Hutcheson. who wired congratulations to James P ... Rolla when he was elected Teamster Presi. dent in September . The vote followed a report by Alex Rose , chairman of the appeals committee , condemnin.7 Mr. Hoffa and holdover President Beck for alleged corruption . Then Patrick Gorman of the Meat Cutters @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ how he tried to arrange last-minute meetings between 76 ? 7Hoffa and Mr. Meany . None of these efforts succeeded , he said . President Meany then verified the Gorman peace overtures . Bihar MOhn. administrative vice president of the Teamsters , read the union 's formal statement to the convention , but made no real effort to arouse delegates to Teamster defense . Aging John F. English . secretary-treasurer of the Teamr , ers , told the delegates . " it makes my blood run cold " to see the time when the Teamsters would be ousted from the labor organization . He alternately pleaded with and defied the delegates and urged them to grant the union a year 's reprieve . Other unionists spoke for the Teamsters , but when the voting got under way it was clear the Teamsters were headed for exile.i When it was all over . Mr. Rohn held a press conference , again promised ' the Teamsters would do nothing to start a war with the A.F.L . C.I 0 . and then left town . His peaceful statement matched similar remarks from A.F.L.-C.I.O. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ battle with the truck union There 's still a chance that in the months ahead the union might be in a position to return to the federation . Labor leaders on both sides want peace , and they do n't want to do anything that could prevent it . they indicated . Itepri -- al . Threatened Despite the peaceful outlook . however . a Teamster local in Louisville . Ey .. already has threatened reprisals . A strike is under way there by the Hatters Union . headed by Alex Rose who delivered the expulsion statement to the convention . Louisville Teamsters threaten to cross the union 's picket line today in revenge against Mr. Rose . This is only one of 59t locals in the Teamsters Union . however . and Teamster leaders were reported trying to calm the Louisville situation . Mr. Rose said he believed the Louisville Teamsters were " waiting for a signal from someone higher up . " Teamsters the Teamster Union has been obsernng the Hatters Union 's picket lines . The A.F.L.-C.I 0 . convention must deal now with the suspended Bakery Union . about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ himself for re-election . The union is trying once more to prevent an ouster . The United Press reported an AFLCIO official said the Bakery Union would be given a temporary reprieve . The convention would be asked today to expel the Bakers as of March 15. in order to give the union time to rid itself of Cross ' leadership . ' the unidentified official said , according to the press assoctalion . Mr. Cross was accused by the A.F.L.-C.I.O. of being a corrupt influence and was one of the reasons the union was suspended . At his request , he appeared yesterday before the appeals committee , the group which formally puts expulsion recommendations before the convention . He again stated he will not bar himself from office as the A.F.L - C.I 0 . demands . however , so it 's unlikely his new appearance availed hum anything . After appearing before the committee . Mr. Cross said : -I 'm guilty of nothing . " The appeals committee is expected to give its report on the Bakers to the convention today . when the issue will come 110 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ committee , meanwhile , loitered in the wings , ready to launch a new bakery union with an charter if the old Cross union is ousted . The committee yesterday held a rump convention . from which the press was barred . Other Teamster Trouble .. trial in which 13 New York Teamsters are seeking to void Mr. Hoffa 's election will continue today When the trial was laSt in sea . skin last week . the president of Cincinnati Teamsters Joint Council 26 . James T. Luhen. told of a rejection by Mr. Huila of his corn . plaints about what he considered racketeering in a Teamster jukebox local . The Special Senate Investigating Commit . tee planned today to look further into violence involving the Teamsters in Tennessee and neighboring states . After receiving testimony Friday and Saturday pointing toward alleged political influence of Teamsters erigiiged in bombings , shooting and other acts of terrorism , the committee indicated it will check into the vigor of Tennessee law enforcement officers in solving some 173 cases in whet Chairman ( D .. Ark i called a " reign of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @              