@@717349

txt BONN , Germany , Sept. 14 ? Chancellor Konrad Adenauer faced today the task of convincing the Germans that the agreement to establish diplomatic relations with the Soviet Union would contribute to German reunification . Immediately on his return from Moscow , Dr. Adenauer found himself involved in a propaganda war with the Social Democratic Opposition and a segment of the Free Democratic party , the second largest group in the Government coalition . Individual members of the Chancellor 's own party , the Christian Democratic Union , also expressed misgivings over the Moscow agreement . The verbal clash was focused on an accusation that contrary // to the stand he took before his discussions in Moscow , the Chancellor had agreed to the Soviet demand for diplomatic relations in exchange for the release of German war prisoners and in so doing , he had , by implication , created a set of conditions that would lead to the indefinite partition of Germany and the coexistence of two rival German states , The Deutsche Presse Agentur , ( German news agency ) put into circulation a report @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Adenauer . Ac-I cording to the report , Charles E. Bohlen , United States Ambassador in Moscow , handed the Chancellor a message from General Eisenhower expressing the President 's fullest confidence in Dr. Adenauer . Half an hour later official support from Washington was announced on the wire circuits of news services operating in West Germany . The text of a statement issued by a State Department spokesman was distributed . Taken within the framework of the struggle that ' began soon after the Chancellor 's return the ' statement appeared to be direct-I ed to the West German people 's opinion . It asserted among other things that the Moscow agreement represented an abandonment by the Soviet Union of its " bankrupt German policies " and stressed that the October meeting of Big Four foreign ministers would be directed to the problem of reunification . Triumphal Return Planned The political struggle , which gathered momentum throughout the day , began with the Chancellor 's arrival at Wahn Airfield . ' The Government had made an ' effort to provide for a triumphal ' return . Thousands of dahlias banked @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the coalition parties and schoolchildren , were present . All told , about 1,000 persons were ready for the Chancellor 's return from the Soviet capital . As the Chancellor and Dr. Heinrich von Brentano , the Foreign Minister , moved across the apron a woman dressed in black dropped to her knees and kissed Dr. Adenauer 's hands . It was assumed the woman had a son or husband who was held prisoner in the Soviet Union and had come to thank the Chancellor for having obtained the release of all German prisoners . The Chancellor made a brief statement for the press and television reporters . He confined his remarks to the promise of the Soviet leaders to return  --  the prisoners of war but did not mention the prospects of reunification . He said : " It was no easy conference . We shall have an opportunity , later to speak of the politicalI questions involved . But at the moment I only want to say this : the Soviet ' Prime Minister told me last night that before I arrive back in Bonn the process ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have no doubt that Bulganin will keep his word . " Dr. von Brentano echoed the Chancellor 's remarks , but added the significant words that although the Moscow decisions were difficult , " I believe we have returned home with clear consciences . " Karl Arnold , Christian Democratic Minister-President of North Rhine-Westphalia , who accompanied Dr. Adenauer as chairman of the Bundesrat 's Foreign Affairs Committee , confined himself to the remark that the Moscow trip had been worthwhile . Kurt Georg Kiesinger , Christian Democratic chairman of the Bundestag 's Foreign Affairs Committee , took a more personal line . He said : ' " I do not come back jubilant , but I am satisfied . I think the fact that thousands of Germans will come home is more than a meager result . " " We knew all along and we know now that the establishment of relations raises serious problems but we did it in the hope of serving peace and the German cause , " he added . Neither Dr. Adenauer nor any of his inner group that had accompanied him to Moscow re- @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Moscow agreement , on the restoration of the German ' national state . Prof. Carlo Schmid , Social Democrat who accompanied the Chancellor in his capacity as vice chairman of the Bundestag 's Foreign Affairs Committee , refused to say anything at the airfield but went into immediate session with his Social Democratic colleagues in Bonn . The first attack on the Chancellor 's agreement with the Soviet leaders came out of this meeting . Professor Schmid was quoted as having said : " The enthusiasm is all very nice , but unjustified . The Russians made it clear that they have lost all interest in German ' reunification as a result of the Paris agreements for the alliance with the West . " The Bavarian section of the Free Democratic party telegraphed Dr. Thomas Dehler , chairman , calling for an immediate meeting of the national executive . The Bavarian section said that an exchange of ambassadors with Moscow would amount to de facto recognition of the East German Government . Dr. Adenauer summoned a Cabinet meeting for 9:30 A. M. He has invited Professor Schmid to attend  --  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ participate in a cabinet meeting . The Chancellor will meet with Bundestag floor leaders at noon to explain the Moscow agreement . He will hold a news conference .                     