@@712969

txt Letters to The Times Building Goodwill in Asia Cooperation With India , Policy of Opposition to Colonialism Urged To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : The bewilderment of many Americans over our policy in South and Southeast Asia stems from unfamiliarity with the region and from the contradictory nature of our policy . If there is general agreement that a further spread of Russian influence in Asia is detrimental to American interests , our policy must be based on a few basic premises , from which certain consequences follow , Most Asian nations are trying to remain neutral in the cold war . When the Asian nations are forced to choose between the Soviet Union and the United States we can not take it for granted that they will join us . The most important criterion by which Asian peoples measure every nation 's foreign policy is colonialism , very broadly interpreted . Our political strategic position compared to Russia 's is bad . The Soviet Union has been able to create the myth that there is no racial discrimination within its borders , while @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Russia can work with local Communists subversively , while the United States necessarily works in the open , so that Asian Governments can easily be accused of " selling out to the United States . " Russia has never been a colonial power in the region , while we are closely allied to former and present colonial powers . Finally , American troops and ships are all over Asia , while for obvious reasons no Russian ones need to be there . Western militarism has bad connotations in Asian minds . None of these American disadvantages can be improved at the present moment . Therefore they must be balanced by a policy proving our goodwill to Asia . We fail to do this when we support Bao Dai and others who are considered puppets in Asia of colonial powers ; when we praise independence and justify British and French ' colonialism ; or by promising economic aid and sending military equipment . It can be argued that these actions are inevitable at this late hour . We should refuse support to colonial powers in Asia . If this permits IndoChina to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ trust of all free nations . India , not Indo-China , is the crucial nation in Asia . We can not find a better ally than Nehru . He is looked upon by all free Asian nations as a great leader , and we should do the same . If India so wishes , we should support it in every way possible now . The measure is constructive and will appeal to other Asian nations . Finally , in case the Chinese Communist regime should turn out to be successful in raising standards of living we must be ready to prove that our assistance can do the same and with vastly preferable methods . WERNER LEVI . Minneapolis , June 6 , 1950 . To Train Future Diplomats To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : For many years I have been trying to get a school for diplomats started similar to West Point and Annapolis . I saw Rresident Roosevelt in 1937 regarding this idea and many other important officials in Washington over a period of years . In view of the present world difficulties and the many problems @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ something along this line could be invaluable to the United States . We see how important West Point and Annapolis have been in the many crises of this country and still so in these critical hours of our history . Although graduates of West Point and Annapolis have not been trained for diplomatic positions , many of them are filling these posts throughout the world today . West Point and Annapolis take men in their formative years , from 17 to 22 , from all over the United States and from all walks of life and mold them in the principles of duty , honor and country . In this way we can also have a corps of diplomats which would really represent the American people and which certainly would be invaluable to our whole country and its future . ALFRED BERGMAN . New York , June 6 , 1950 . Preparation of Expositions To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Jay Walz 's article in your paper of May 27 is indeed sad news about the Freedom Fair . Yet none of the reasons given by your correspondent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to which the President and Congress have already given their approval . Without going into the events which brought about the prospective collapse of this celebration , it was obvious from the start that the time allotted for the preparation of the Freedom Fair was too short . No successful international exposition was ever prepared in less than three to four years . The London exposition of 1951 has been in the making for several years and France has started preparing an exposition Cor 1955 . President Truman 's remark that it ooked as if Washington did not want ) . Freedom Fair shows also that a nation-wide matter was left for decision only to Washingtonians . It might be relevant to recall that he preparation of the Centennial cele ) ration of 1876 in Philadelphia started n 1871 , when on Marcn 3 Congress sassed an act for the celebration of the : entenary of American independence . Me Centennial Commission and altercates were appointed by the President in the nomination of the Governors of ach state and territory . The Fedral Government 's active participation is also shown by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Grant published a proclamation Stressing the goal of peace of the celebration and inviting all nations to take part . Official invitations were also addressed to all countries by the Secretary of State . A sesquicentennial celebration by an international exposition , to stimulate millions from here and abroad to visit our great capital , is an excellent idea and will still be timely a few years hence . A drive in favor of such a celebration should be nation-wide and all the states of the Union should nominate representatives to the organizing body . Congress should also reconsider the matter and authorize the setting up of a non-profit corporation to plan a grandiose Freedom Fair for 1953 , which will ring freedom and peace throughout the world . MAX M. TAMIR . New York , June 6 , 1950 . Post-War Activities of Fiat Charge of Restrictive Practices by Auto Manufacturer Denied To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : I read with interest and surprise the report from Rome entitled " Europe 's Recovery Is Held Sabotaged " in THE TIMES of June 8 . The charges made @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ particular against the Fiat Company in his speech delivered in Rome at a meeting of the American Chamber of Commerce for Italy are misleading and unjustified . Speaking on behalf of Fiat , Italy 's largest manufacturer of automobile equipment and very often referred to as " the General Motors of Italy , " may I point out that many of the direct accusations made by Senator Benton , as reported by THE NEW YORK TIMES , are easily proven unjustified by the following facts : Fiat is not a monopoly . True , it is the largest manufacturer of auto vehicles , but it is one out of nine Italian automobile manufacturers , not to speak of the dozens of independent custom body makers to whom Fiat sells chassis . Fiat production is not exclusively for the " highly protected home market . " In 1949 Fiat produced 75,000 cars , a record production , but of these 17,052 were shipped abroad , or 22.73 per cent of its production . Since in Italy there is only one car to about 100 persons , against one for 3.5 in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the Fiat Company is not doing its best to take care of the potential domestic market . As to Fiat entering the United States market , a statement supported by the alleged reason that it is easier to sell in a protected market instead of bringing down the costs , I would like to make the following comments : Fiat immediately after the war carefully studied the possibility of entering the United States market , but the study proved negative on the following counts : Our production could only provide an infinitesimal contribution to the over five million a year American market , even if we had exported 100 per cent of our ewn production . To sell in the United States we would have had to set up a proper organization and to supply a minimum of spare parts and service , which would have called for a tremendous capital outlay which we could not have afforded then ? when we were . busy in rebuilding our own war-shattered plants  --  and we are unable to do so even now . The Fiat Company is owned in Italy , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stockholders . It has a capitalization of sixty million shares and last year , the first profitable postwar year , was able to pay dividends aggregating two billion lire ? about three million dollars  --  a return of about 5 per cent on capital . The best proof that the Fiat organization is one of the most important factors in the welfare of Italy and is not managed and guided for personal gain alone is the repeated and substantial financial assistance granted to it under the E. R. P. LUIGI SOSSI , United States Representative . New York , June 8 , 1950 . City Engineers for Public Projects To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : The longest vehicular tunnel in the United States , the Brooklyn-Battery Tunnel , designed and supervised entirely by civil service engineers , has just been opened to traffic . These engineers now face a lay-off , with very few city departments having openings for them . Nevertheless we read daily of engineering work being farmed out to private firms . This is especially true in the Park Department . We believe that a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ place in the city 's plans for public improvements . The farming out of such projects , in addition to the obvious injustice , is wasteful of the city 's capital funds . NATHAN LEVINE . Brooklyn , June 3 , 1950.                     