@@718908

txt President iisenhower 's civil rights bill was passed by . the House of Representatives today . The vote was 286-126 . It followed a bitter fight by Southerners , who received some supDort from the North . Just before the passage , the House rejected by 251-158 the South 's fourth attempt to write into the legislation an amend/ ment to require jury trials in contempt actions arising under the bill . The measure as passed would permit the United States to seek injunctions in the event of violations or threat of violation of civil rights . Defiers could be punished for contempt of court . Administration Fought Plan The Administration has fought jury trials on the implied ground that Southern juries would be reluctant to convict violators . The measure also would set up a bipartisan commission to study civil rights problems and would establish a civil rights division in the Department of Justice . The measure also would set up Senate at once . Waiting there was a coalition of civil rights backers who have studied , up on parliamentary rules for a plan to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The idea is to bypass the Senate Judiciary Committee , which has held up the Senate 's version of the President 's program since January . Would Block Eastland The move would prevent a possible imprisonment of both , the Senate and House bills , within the Senate Judiciary Committee , headed by Senator , James 0 . Eastland of Mississippi , a foe of civil rights legislation. ; At best , the civil rights ' program , which from the start was an assured winner in the House , was running into the usual Senate storm . That branch has been the burial ground for such legislation for many years . The Southern minority there can employ the filibuster  --  using the right of unlimited debate to prevent a vote . Southern lungs and strength apparently were on the starting line today . Proponents were on the mark , too , as ' the rights ' bill came over from the House . But the bill was blocked by a parliamentary rule . The Senate was under an agreement to continue consideration of the treaty to establish an international @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Thus the civil rights measure was crowded out for the time being . There were thoughts in some Senate quarters that this parliamentary situation might start a filibuster in the debate on the atomic energy treaty , to delay a showdown on civil rights . Senator Spessard L. Holland , Democrat of Florida , said that no such plan was contemplated when he inquired into the parliamentary intricacies of the civil rights battle coming up . But Senator Richard B. Russell , Democrat of Georgia and leader of the Southern bloc , reserved the right for other matters to enter the debate on the atomic energy program . Filibuster Is Expected Such a filibuster , even though continuous night and day sessions were ordered , seemedt to be within the strength of the South . it would delay the defense appropriations bill , the foreign aid program , and other urgent measures , However , after a White House conference of Republican Congressional leaders this morning , Senator William F. Knowland said that he favored early debate on the civil rights program , filibuster or no filibuster . In today 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the bill . Opposed were 107 Democrats , mostly from the South . Nineteen ReIpublicans joining them were from the South and from Michigan , Idaho , Ohio , Illinois , Minnesota and New York . The three New Yorkers in the opposition were Representatives Clarence E. Kilburn , John Tabor and John H. Ray , all Republicans . In the fourth try by the South to include a guarantee of jury trials in the measure , the vote was 251-158 against the move . Favoring the inclusion were 113 Democrats and forty-five Republicans . Against the proposal : 112 Democrats and 139 Republicans . The real fight is expected tomorrow when Vice President Richard M. Nixon , in the Senate chair , may rule on whether the Judiciary Committee should be bypassed to allow the question of early consideration of the bill by the Senate . It was indicated that Mr. Nixon had not yet reached a finarconclusion on the ruling he would make . .                     