@@716896

txt This is no longer a two-power world in the way it was during most of the postwar decade . True , the United States and the Soviet Union are still the biggest and the strongest reservoirs of physical power in the world , and still outclass all possible rivals by a substantial margin . Yet one of the three principal characteristics of these days , which distinguish them from the postwar decade , is the fact that the voices of Moscow and Washington are no longer the only voices in the world which speak with influence and authority . Add the present trend toward a de-polarization of power in the world and the inclination of both Washington and Moscow to give first attention to their domestic as opposed to foreign affairs and one has , I think , the major outlines of a new pattern emerging around us . A A A As was pointed out earlier in this series , the emotional hostility of the United States is directed currently not at the Soviet Union , but at Communist China . For Americans , Communist China @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ itself attests to the revival of a center of physical power and influence lying between the territories of what were once the only two important powers . Paralleling this is the tendency for Moscow to see its " new enemy " in Germany , rather than in the United States . Moscow propaganda tends to blame Washington for the reemergence of Germany , just as Washington blames Moscow for the emergence of a new and powerful China . Yet anyone wading through the texts of recent Moscow pronouncements on the state of the world will find that insofar as Moscow has -a definable foreign preoccupation it is Germany and the alleged menace which Germany constitutes to the Moscow bloc of countries . This attests to a fact we all know and recognize ; that the postwar fact of German helplessness is passed and that a new and vital political force has risen to refill the emptiness which was Germany , at the end of the war . Germany is no longer a collection of people who can be commanded by their conquerors . It is again a political force to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to . Another new-old center of physical power and influence has risen between the territories of what were once the only two important powers in the world . But the story does not stop with the emergence of a new China and the reemergence of an influential Germany . The time long since has passed when Washington can call the tune for London and Paris , and even for Rome . Britain has reclaimed its economic health , and with it a voice in world councils far exceeding its apparent physical power . One can argue , if one chooses , whether London has restrained Washington from war with China or Washington has allowed London to rescue it from a position it did not really want to be in . The fact remains that current American policy toward Communist China is Londonesque in fact , al- though still r.now.tandesque in sound . And France , although still incapable of finding a way to strong and responsible government , is strong enough to pursue a foreign policy which increasingly veers away from Washington 's preferences . Rome is still the least independent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Washington as law , but even in Rome there are occasional ventures into semiindependence . Washington no longer commands an alliance ; it is only the most influential single member in an alliance . A A Whether Moscow experiences a similar straining away from " leadership " on the part of its European dependencies is something we know little about , but it is clear that Moscow has to negotiate with Communist China and has very much modified its attitude toward other countries in the world . The voice of Moscow is most respectful toward India . ( The American voice is tending in that same direction . ) And the Soviet Union , having failed to intimidate Turkey and Yugoslavia , has become soothing and placatory toward those small countries on its borders which had the courage , and the temerity , to defy the thunderings of the Kremlin . One of the least noted , but extremely important , trends of the times is the emergence of Canada as an independent and influential voice in world affairs . Washington long has thought of Canada as a thinly populated place @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ longer suffices as a definition of the role of Canada . Its population is growing rapidly , and its influence is growing even more rapidly . Frequently the restraining influence on Washington which is presumed to be from London actually comes from Ottawa . More than once during recent years Ottawa has exercised almost a veto on plans and policies of Washington . Canada is one of the new centers of influence and power in the world , and one which very much possesses a mind of its own . This all has changed the political geography of the ' world . It is no longer a two power world . It is more nearly a six-power world -- the United States , U.S.S.R. , Germany , China , India , and Britain . If the first two are still the most powerful , the other four are far from being insignificant . On the contrary , those four , if they chose , and if they ever evolved a common policy , could control the course of events . Potentially , those four exercise a balance of power . And on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to recover than Germany , but the days of rising Japanese influence are not far off . And there is Canada claiming a role of importance in western councils and , pefhaps , one can not be sure , Poland is becoming a Canada in the Moscow world : Moscow and Washington still do a lot of proposing , but they no longer dispose as they did in the first period of postwar history . Even if they wanted to have a big war with each other , they might have some difficulty with the other powers in the world . Times are changing .                     