@@714741

txt The appointment of Andrei A. Gromyko as Ambassador to London was believed by diplomats in Moscow today to indicate that British-Soviet relations now stood on the threshold of a new and significant period . By naming the Soviet Union 's chief Deputy Foreign Minister to the London post  --  a diplomat who is high in Soviet councils and confidence  --  Moscow has indicated in unmistakable fashion the very great importance that it attaches to its relations with Britain in the present cycle of world affairs . The - best opinion in London held that Mr. Gromyko was coming with a message to present with all the authority of the Soviet Foreign Ministry and with powers to act beyond those of his predecessor . One suggested possibility was that the Soviet Union seriously wanted to negotiate a German settlement and that Mr. Gromyko had been assigned to find out if any basis for such a settlement existed . While the naming of Mr. Gromyko came as a surprise to the diplomatic corps in Moscow , the factors that lie behind the appointment have been visible for some time . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Soviet commentators have emphasized the advantages that would accrue to Britain from a general improvement in Soviet-British relations . Soviet commentators have noted repeatedly the divergence of interests between Britain and the United States in the Far East , for example , and also with respect to policies on the European Continent and in particular with respect to Germany . What are described here as " Anglo-American contradictions , " that is to say , conflicts in basic power interests between tho United States and Britain , have been receiving increasing attention in Soviet official publications . While Soviet-British relations can not be described as warm or cordial , it has been noted by diplomats in Moscow that on both , sides they have for nearly a year ' been marked by great correctness and scrupulous respect for diplomatic protocol . This was marked during the later months of the ambassadorship of the former British envoy to Moscow , Sir David Victor Kelly , and the same policy has been carefully pursued by Sir Alvary D. F. Gascoigne , his successor . The conduct of both the Russians and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ considerable interest on each side in keeping the way clear for a gradual rapprochement should circumstances make this possible . It was believed in Moscow that Soviet interest in improving relations with Britain was by no means . limited to exploiting such possibili // ties as might be opened up , for instance , through the overthrow of the Churchill Government and its replacement by Laborites with a foreign policy oriented in the direction of the views of the leftist , Aneurin Bevan . It is believed by diplomats in Moscow that the Kremlin holds it entirely possible that the mutual interests of Britain and the Soviet Union could make some steps toward a reconciliation of the two powers possible without a change of British Government . It has been noted in Moscow that the Soviet press , with occasional exceptions , has rarely attacked Prime Minister Churchill in such scathing fashion as has been employed against United States leadern . And it has been very apparent in recent months that the Soviet press was tending more and more tri- center its fire on the United States while devoting much less @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ role of Britain in Western policy . Link With Moscow Conference There was an inclination on the part of some diplomats to link the Gromyko appointment with the contacts that occurred between the British and the Russians at the tithe of the April economic confer- , ence in Moscow . The British group was the only Western delegation that included a number of fairly top-ranking individuals . It was headed by Lord Boyd Orr , a leader , of British independent political thought , and included both Conservative and Labor members of Parliament , This British group was indefatigable in advancing with Soviet representatives the point of view that sound political and economic bases existed for a rapprochement between the two countries . The same point of view was presented to the British by Soviet representatives . It is apparent from these and other factors that there is a considerable body of opinion , both in Britain and the Soviet Union , that regards the present close alignment of Britain with . the United States as not necessarily permanent or irrevocable . It requires no great insight to observe that Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ circumstances . It is likely also that Mr. Gromyko , as a high Soviet diplomat with the greatest personal experience in Anglo-Saxon , affairs , may be expected ? if any Soviet diplomat can  --  to exert some influence upon the course of British-Soviet relations .                     