@@715398

txt A marked change appears to be taking place in the national atmosphere of ? collective bargaining . Its permanence , however , remains to be tested . ? The substance of it is this : more than ever before , negotiators on both sides of the labor-management fence are realizing that their welfare depends on their own ability to come to terms , without government intervention ? and to a large extent they are trying to settle their disputes , peacefully , on that basis . Paitly this change is the result of circumstances that have little direct relation to government . But in part it is also due to the end of a 20-year Washington climate that amiled on unions and often glowered at business . And in part the change has been wrought , perhaps unwittingly , by the new Administration ? though its labor policy has yet to face a significant challenge . A. look at today 's industrial scene , and a comparison with the picture a year ago , points up the contrast . In the spring of 1952 , the steel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the C.I.O. Steelworkers and the companies had never amounted to much more than going through the motions . The oil industry was hit with a nationwide shutdown because the C.I.O. Oil Workers sought from the Wage Stabilization Board the industry-wide bargaining the companies had refused . That same spring a major trucking strike threatened the south and west . No Big Strikes This Spring This spring there are no big strikes , and none impends . The prospects for industrial peace are the best since World War IL One reason , of course , is that major strikes do n't normally occur two years in a row in the same Industry . Another is that the cost of living has been steady  --  thus tempering workers ' demands that their leaders produce more money for them . ( This . incidentally , rather than the altered bargaining table attitudes , chiefly explains the fact that labor 's gains this year wo n't be what they 've averaged in the decade past But an equally important reason for the healthier climate is that the new Administration , knowingly or not , has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their disputes peacefully at home . The Administration has done this in three ways : It abolished wage and price controls . It announced publicly a determination to keep labor disputes out of the White House . And it declared that when it must intervene in a dispute , it will do so as a partisan of neither labor nor management . In a sense , these actions were all negative . They all represented a desire to keep hands off the private business of unions and companies ; they provided no positive program . But the effect of these actions already . and the future effect at the bargaining table , will be anything but negative . End of Control Law Removes impediment The abolition of wage and price controls removed a most important impediment to genuine bargaining . In numerous instances while controls wore in effect , labor-management negotiations took a back seat to bargaining with the government over prices  --  and until the arice negotiations were wound up . companies were n't much interested in coming to terms with their unions on wages . The steel case , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The existence of price controls created a dispute between the companies and the government that left the labor negotiators sitting on their hands The bargaining up to the first Krike deryiline brought not a single concession by ei the : aide , and not until the compasses lead been assured price relief they considered acceptable did any real bargaining materialize . Wage controls , in one case after another , had the same stultifying effect on collective bargaining . Employers ' insistence that Federal wage increase allowances were the ceiling and unions ' insistence the allowances were just a starter led to scores of strikes . Last fall 's coal strike was precipitated by the wage board 's decision that the $1.90 a day raise John L. Lewis had negotiated was overceiling . Not until President Truman promised the miners the fruits of their bargaining did they return to their jobs . Wholesome Effect on Negotiators The new government'p determination to keep big labor disputes out of the White House has had an equally wholesome effect on bargaining . Time after time , especially in steel and on the railroads , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ intransigence that they knew would produce a national crisis and White House intervention ? assuredly on their side . This knowledge that the White House would ! Rep in had its effect , too , on businessmen 's attitudes . They saw no sense in making any concessions when they knew they 'd soon be under White House pressure to make more . Now that the President has made known his decision to stay out of labor relations , the bargaining table at home has replaced the White House as the court of last resort . In past years , according to veteran mediators here . negotiators have repeatedly sought White House intervention  --  both because it added to their prestige and because It made it easier for them to justify to their union or stockholder constituents the concessions they were sure to make . When it is known the White House will not intervene , then bargaining at home must necessarily be more genuine , and more likely to produce a settlement . President Eisenhower , in his State of the Union message , provided the third administration stimulus to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said , " can do a great deal to aid the settlement of labor disputes without allowing itself to be employed as an ally of either side . Its proper role in industrial strife is to encourage the processes of mediation and conciliation , " Moreover . he added , " these processes can successfully be directed only by a government flee from the taint of any suspicion that it is partial or punitive . " Here again , the President encouraged honest bargaining at home by making it clear to both sides the government wo n't use its influence to bolster the case of one side or the other in a labor dispute . Thus he destroyed much of the incentive for negotiators of one side or the other to fiddle am be recalcitrant In bargaining until they 've induced the White House to step in on their side Test of Vi bite House Policy Still to Come So far so good . but the improvement in the climate of bargaining is not all-pervasi  --  e , and even if it were , it would n't eliminate all strikes . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ plant is accused by top government officials of refusing to bargain in good faith : a six-week strike is threatening to hold up fighter plane production , and could induce Federal inter- ention to protect the defense program . Even the most forthright of bargaining often fails to produce settlements , and unions and companies set out to test their economic strength through a strike or lock . out . Sooner or later , in steel , coal , oil , or the railroads or in some essential defense plant , a shutdown will present a genuine threat to the public welfare . Then will come the test of the White House policy . The President may be forcec to intervene . And the manner of his inter ention , whether partial or impartial or to ( soon or too late , will determine in impor ? tent measure whether his policy stands a falls .                     