@@715729

txt An American attache of the Red dominated Polish delegation at the United Nations defied senate investigators today when asked it he carried secret orders from theErtmlin to iron curtain ? delegates A .. and to American Communists In the U. N. Julius Reiss , who was born New York City 96 years ago , placidly invoked his constitutional protection against selfincriminatory testimony in refusink to answer questions about his own communist connections and those of others in the international organization . Named Top . Functionary Reiss , also known ' as Joel Remes , denied that he was a spy against his country but , when milted if he had conferred in the last two weeks with communist leaders in connection with instructions from Moscow , he refused to answer . He also remained silent when asked if he knew other . U. N. employes engaged in. espionage . Reiss was named last Friday at a hearing before the senate investigations subcommittee by Sen. McCarthy R. , Wis. as one of the highest functionaries in the American Communist party , an associate of such party leaders as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from John . Lautner , former chief of security for the Communist party , who was expelled in 1950 and has testified for the government in numerous anti-communist cases since then . McCarthy , who conducted the questioning in closed session attended by a U. N. representative , Blaine Sloan of the legal division , announced he would confer tomorrow with Ambassador Lodge , head of the American delegation to the U. N. Communist Liaison Agent McCarthy said he would outline to Lodge the nature of evidence which indicates the extent to which United Nations policy and actions are influenced by American Communists in the U. N. secretariat and among foreign delegations . The American public has not realized , McCarthy s aid , that Americans work in the U. N. for delegations from Russian satellite nations as well as for the secretariat . The names of other Americans working for the Polish delegation were procured from Reiss , he said . Reiss , or Reines as he was known in communist circles , has spent much of his adult life in the Communist party , the evidence showed . A @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , he smilingly parried all questions about his role in the U. N. Reiss was a Communist party organizer in Michigan and Louisiana , assistant editor of a communist magazine , and secretary of the national youth commission of the communist party before he was assigned in 1950 to attach himself to the Polish delegation at the U. N. , the evidence disclosed . His post was labeled that of " documentation clerk " but his actual function , McCarthy said , appeared to be that of liaison agent between the American Communist party and members of the Red delegations in the U .. N. Reiss was in ? the American army during the war , he admitted , and described his duty as that of teaching army instructors the proper technique in indoctrinating and educating American soldiers . Quizzed on Running Secret He pleaded possible self-incrimination in refusing to answer when asked if he was under communist orders while in the army and was presently engaged in coordinating international soviet policy by carrying secret instructions from Moscow to both American and foreign communists in the U. N. Roy M. Cohn @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ director , confronted Reiss with evidence indicating he had channeled Kremlin orders in connection with the Korean peace talks . The witness said any answer might involve him in prosecution for a crime . He refused to answer questions concerning the manner in which he acquired his job and the identity of U. N. officials who recommended him . Another witness was an American woman employe in the social affairs 3ffice of the U. N. secretariat , who admitted she had been a Communist from 1935 to 1940 . She gave the subcommittee the names of a number of Americans she knew ELs Communists , McCarthy said .                     