@@720778

txt With the steel strike going on for nearly three months and negotiations completely broken down , the President has made no secret of his deep concern and of his intention to act . He has called the situation " intolerable , " and warned he would use : every conceivable personal and official influence available to me to break the impasse . " His personal influence failed when after separate meetings with labor leaders and heads of the steel industry a resumption of negotiations brought no results . Following this the President made it clear that if no settlement had been reached by the time he returned from Palm Springs , he would try to force one by government action . This he has now done on the grounds that " the national interest demands an immediate resumption of production in this vital industry . " Panel Appointed Named to the three-man fact-finding panel are two experienced labor arbitrators and ar expert in political science : George W. Taylor of Philadelphia , Paul N. Luhoczky of Columbus Ohio . and John Perkin : of Newark , Del. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of-their report will determine whether the President will instruct Attorney General William P. Rogers to obtain a resume-work injunction affecting not only workers , but negotiating . The law requires that the men go back to work for a period up to 60 days , and that negotiations between labor leaders and industry heads resume . Both industry and labor have said that they did not want the Taft-Hartley Law invoked in the steel strike . Walter P. Reuther , president of the United Automobile Workers . immediately charged tthat government intervention is playing into the hands of the industry and weakening the position of strikers . 80-Day- Cool-Off The steel companies say they have offered 15 cents an hour in gains over the next two years . The union has said it wants that much on an annual basis . Steel workers have been averaging $3.11 an hour . But even with the government bumping their heads together , there is no assurance that labor leaders and the steel industry officials will reach an agreement . And if no settlement is reached at the end of the 80-day cooling-off period @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would give the government recourse from then on only to mediation . Industry spokesmen made no immediate comment on the President 's invoking the Taft-Hartley Law . However , David J. , Steelworkers president , said in Pittsburgh , according to the Associated Press , thatthat the President in strike ernergen- Associated Press David J. " Nothing settled permanently " Taft-Hartley procedures " would settle nothing on a permanent basis . " " Instead , " he said . " it may completely destroy the mutual trust and good faith relationship that has been traditional in our industry . Perhaps now the steel companies will finally faceupto the basic issues that ten:intent us and engage in serious , sensible bargaining . " Panelists Experienced Membership of the fact-finding board which the President has appointed encourages hope of its effectiveness in bringing the two sides together . Mr. Taylor . who is chairman of the panel , was chairman ' of the War Labor Board in World War If and chairman of the Wage Stabilization Board in the Korean conflict . He is professor of Industry at the University of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and auto industries . Mr. Perkins is former budget director and comptroller of the University of Michigan . Mr. Luhoczky has arbitrated more than 2.400 labor-management disputes and has been teaching at Ohio State University since 1928 . President Eisenhower 's concern about the steel crisis was summed up in his statement , to this effect : " The strike has closed 85 per cent of the nation 's steel mills , shutting off practically all new supplies or steel , Cabinet Advice Sought " Over 500,000 steelworkers and about 200,000 workers in related industries , together with their families , have been deprived of their usual means of support . " Present steel supplies are low and the resumption of full-scale production will require some Weeks . " If production is not quickly resumed . severe effects upon the economy will endanger the economic health of the nation . " Before taking action , the President consulted with four members of his Cabinet  --  Labor Secretary James P. Mitchell , Secretary of the Treasury Robert B. Anderson . Attorney General Rogers , and Secretary of Commerce Frederick H. Mueller . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the President 's Council of Economic Advisers : David Kendall , presidential legal counsel , and Wilton P. Persons , assistant to the President . Related stories : Page 5                     