@@716677

txt The United States now is learning ? in the school of bitter experience  --  some of the reasons why it still is making slow progress in its struggle for the loyalty , support , and friendship of neutralist Asia . The lesson is being driven home with cruel force here at the United Nations that this support can not be purchased with money or material goods , even when those material goods are the much-cherished , even fanatically desired , ingredients of atomic energy . There are things the Asians want more than material well being . They want respect , equal treatment , and a sense of partnership with the West . The United States has placed before the UN General Assembly a plan rarely if ever equaled in its scope and generosity . Its principal beneficiaries would be the underdeveloped countries of Asia , Africa , the Middle East , and Latin America , many of which are the countries which hang perilously between communism and freedom . Frigidity Replaces Ardor This plan ? the Eisenhower atoms-for-peace plan  --  logically should have evoked a chorus @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ grateful voices have been heard . But as details of the plan have unfolded , enthusiasm has waned , gratitude has been displaced by misgivings , and the bitter cry of " colonialism " and even " exploitation " has begun to be heard . Incredible as it may seem , the United States today faces something very like a revolt of Asian powers against some features of the Eisenhower plan . This revolt is not the work of the Communists , except insofar as they have stood aside and let it develop , cheering from the sidelines . It is the direct result of a policy . decision made within the United States Government some time last summer , and announced by President Eisenhower on Sept. 6 . The decision was that a selected group of atomic powers would establish the proposed atomic energy agency outside the UN , letting the UN do no more than express its approval of the move . U.S. Decision Explained This decision meant many things . But to the Asians , it meant one principal thing : they would be recipients , not partners @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ peaceful use . This impression was strengthened when it was discovered , in UN debate , that even after the agency should be established , its role would be that of a clearing house , or broker , between a generous donor and a presumably grateful recipient . The gift would be from one country to another , not from the UN to a member of the UN family . There were a number of reasons for the American decision . Some were these : 1 . The United States would win more gratitude , it was argued , if the source of the benificence was held clearly before the recipient 's eyes . It would be easier to get money from Congress in these circumstances . 2 . The agency could be established more quickly if smaller , nonatomic powers were not brought into the preliminary negotiations . Their ideas would be visionary , impractical : they would want projects that would he too expensive . It would be well , it was argued , for the United States to assure its control over the plan . 3 . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be interpreted as forbidding any grant of nuclear materials or information to an international The result , when the plan was explained to the UN , was an undercurrent of disappointment , expressed privately at first . The Asians asked questions behind the scenes and tried to persuade the United States to give the UN a more active role . Others , including Secretary-General Dag Hammarskjold and his principal aides , tried to warn the United States that its approach was wrong , psychologically if not in other ways . They pointed out that both the Eisenhower plan and the UN would be damaged if the world organization were bypassed . Grievances Outlined Now that these efforts have failed , Asian disappointment has boiled to the surface . Almost every other speaker in committee debate Nov. 19 was a representative of an underdeveloped country who , politely but pointedly , voiced misgivings , doubts , or suspicions . The principal grievance was that the eight countries which are to set up the atomic agency are all from North America , Western Europe , or the British Commonwealth ( plus the Soviet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as " partners " rather than " poor relations . " " All of Asia , and all of Latin America is to be excluded , " said James Barrington of Burma . " Even Africa has only one country ( South Africa ) included " in the preliminary negotiations , Mr. Barrington said he believed the backers of the Eisenhower plan were " sincere . " " I can understand their anxiety for speedy results , " he added , " but I can not help asking if that is the best way to embark on an international undertaking . . . . Balks at ' Minor Role ' 