@@720552

txt Prospects for a strike-free settlement of the steel industry wage negotiations have dwindled to just about zero . The clue to this conclusion was the offer by the industry to the United Steelworkers of America to postpone a scheduled strike of its 500,000 workers at midnight June 30 . The offer made no change in the terms earlier stated by the industry . While the union waited with its formal reply in order to ! submit it for approval by its 171-member wage policy committee , it was almost certain to be " no . " No Talks June 25 This answer , in turn , was expected to set off the process of Cooling clown furnaces in preparation for a shutdown of . steel mills producing about 90 per cent of the nation 's steel . Observers who foresaw this line of development pointed to the following factors : 1 . No - further negotiations were scheduled between the two four-man bargaining teams of the industry and the union June 25 . This made it unlikely that any settlement could be reached before the deadline which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ set . In announcing what appeared to be the industry 's final offer June 24 . Mr. Cooper , a vice-president of United States Steel Corporation , said the cool-down would be started without delay if no guarantee of uninterrupted operations would come from the union the next clay . Wage Freeze Sought 2 . The industry did not offer any higher wages or fringe benefits along with its plea to stay at work beyond the June 30 contract expiration while negotiations would continue . Union spokesmen expressed their disappointment at the refusal of the companies to alter their stand . 3 . Mr. Cooper reiterated the industry 's insistence on a one-year wage freeze  --  a demand the 12 big steel companies had made at the very opening of the wage talks almost two months ago . Mr. Cooper said that the companies were unchanged in their determination to prevent another rise in labor costs this year . David J. president of the Steelworkers Union , declined to say anything more than that he would tell his wage policy committee that the companies were holding to their - zero minus @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? Other members of the union here reportedly said that an acceptance of the truce proposal would be equivalent to agreeing to the industry demand for an indefinite wage freeze . The company had offered to continue present wages and work , ing conditions until either side gave 10 clays ' notice of its intention to end the truce . Mr. Cooper Atates that the union had not offered any contract proposals which constituted a basis for agreement . that the industry would not change its attitude , and that a settlement on AMC 25 , therefore . would be impossible . Mr. put the onus for the collapse of the talks on the industry . He said he had proposed a " noninflationary reasonable proposal . . ? of a specific character . " He declined to mention the terms of that proposal . His reference was the first official ' confirmation of reports that a proposal had been made by the union other than its original broad list of demands . Strong pressure has been ON - cried on both sides by President Eisenhower to reach a " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . However , recent reports from Washington said the federal government was trying to help in reaching a settlement on the basis of : some sort of increase in wages or benefits . The industry has denied any knowledge of such efforts . Wide Chasm Noted In N.iew of the fact that the union had originally demanded " substantial " wage increases exceeding its largest raise in the past , the positions of the two sides have been so far apart that hopes for a strike-free new contract have ' been small from the start of the talks . But some observers had speculated the industry might weaken the union 's bargaining position by making a modest offer at the last moment . Polls have indicated that steelworkers generally are opposed to a strike and prefer a rise in benefits . An offer without any prospect of an increase , it was pointed out , would tend to strengthen union sentiment in favor of a strike .                     