@@716492

txt Britain 's Ambassador here called on Premier Pierre Mendes-France today to discuss the British attitude toward West German rearmament as it had been defined by the Cabinet , in London yesterday . It was made clear to the Premier that the British Government had an open but skeptical mind regarding M. Mendes-France 's plan for bringing Britain into a substitute for the rejected European Defense Community treaty . This response to the French plan was interpretgd with some optimism ' by French officials , ' who inferred that while Britain ' would not now back this alternative European grouping , she would be willing to consider it . French More Hopeful The reply brought by the Ambassador , Sir Gladwyn Jebb , was better , from the French point of view , than the non-committal reception that Prime Minister Churchill gave to the same French proposal when it was submitted to him by M. MendesFrance Aug. 23 . This was the day after the French Premier had failed to get at Brussels the agreement of the five other signatory states for a drastic revision of the defense @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ British considered that the crucial factor in their attempt to incorporate West Germany in the defense of West Europe would be Bonn 's willingness to give assurances limiting the size of its forces and the extent of its armament . The Premier still clings to the idea of bringing Britain into any European defense coalition that may be created . He hopes one will be created as a method of rearming West Germany that would be intermediate between the proposed supranational defense community and the entry of the Bonn Republic into the North Atlantic Treaty Organization . British Leadership Sought M. Mendes - France believes , with others , that in French eyes the great defect of the defense treaty rejected Monday was that it would have established a kind of partnership of France and West Germany but without Britain . He intends to do all he can to arrange a British-French-German European grouping instead of a French-German one . Another way of putting it would . be to saythat France , having backed away from the leadership of Europe that some believed was offered to her in the Coal and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Britain to take that leadership . It is expressed in this way by some Frenchmen and by some Britons , who contend their Government erred in standing too aloof from the Continent at a time when the French feared to join up with the Germans without the counterweight of Britain . This French fear grew with the passage of time , and today the French probably would accept almost any , form of European defensive community or coalition if only it included Britain . The presence of Britain would be considered as fully offsetting the lack of supranational authority ( by those who value such authority ) and as adequately compensating for the absence  --  now believed inevitable  --  of very strict controls over German armed forces . The project for a defense coalition including Britain , which was drawn up by officials of the French Foreign Ministry , called for some supranational powers . Apparently it was assumed that British membership could be arranged somehow without her acceptance of such bowers . The basic idea of the project was that of integrating armament industries on the Continent instead of . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for heavy industries established through the Coal and Steel Community . Here again Britain would need to be in a separate category from her partners since nobody expects she would pool her defense industries any more than her coal and steel . Same Six Nations Listed According to the French plan , the partners would be the same six nations that signed the European Defense Community treaty ? France , West Germany , Italy , Belgium , the Netherlands and Luxembourg . The theory that the Germans , in spite of their demand today for unlimited sovereignty , might accept once agai nsome limitation of their military freedom and power if the same limitation were applied to the other members of the coalition , above all the French . In this way the French hope to stave off the day  --  which some believe inevitable ? when West Germany will enter the North Atlantic Treaty Organization . The French suspect they will need a lot of help in inducing the West Germans to accept new military restrictions to replace those they accepted in the defense community treaty the French rejected . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this French action , If this French project for a - little NATO , " as it is called , should materialize , the United States would have to decide whether to transfer to this broader but looser European group of nations the guarantees granted in advance to the expected European Defense Community . These guarantees covered keeping United States troops in Germany while there was deemed to be a danger of aggression , and the channeling of United States military aid through the community .                     