@@714516

txt To survey Chicago 's air pollution problem , 1 pounded 50 miles of city and suburban pavements wearing a crisp , white duster each day to catch dirt . 1 spent more than 25 hours in five different districts ? Chicago 's Loop , its south , west , and north sides , and a representative sauro  --  to report on the daily soot storm for which Chicagoans pay more than $35,000,000 a year in fuel waste , property deterioration , a n d padded cleaning budgets . Collects Dust and Cinders This walking dust mop collectee in the Loop the daily share of dust , cinders , and penetrating exhaust from the endless stream of motor vehicles . I was the victim of hundreds of smoking chimneys , fuming sta " ks. and eddying currents along the city 's trash littered streets . What I saw in the residential sections of the south , hce  --  th. and west sides was grim testimony to the mockery of the city 's smoke abatement efforts . How does this city 's polluted air affect you ? How does @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? What 's the price you pay in doctor 's bills , ill damaged draperies , rugs , furniture , clothes ? Other Damaging Effects What is the source of the soot that causes your never ending cleaning chores ? Why does your mortar wear away , your house I paint peel , your stone work blacken and disintegrate , your gutters corrode ? Where do the particles come from that form the greasy film you wipe from your car windshield each morning ? Why does the chrome on ' your new car become pitted after only a few weeks ' exposure ? How much soot falls on you leach day to stain your shirt collar I and be rubbed into your clothes ? To answer these questions , I Iconferred with scientists at Armour Research Foundation at the Illinois Institute of Technology . The foundation is familiar with every aspect of the air pollution problem thru researche projects for individual industries . It is recognized as the authority in dust sampling techniques . As a public service , technicians there analyze each month the dust samples ' collected at 2:5 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bureau . The experts were enthusiastic . " We 're more than willing to lend our full indorsement to any project that will point up to the public the ever present pollution problem , " Morris A. Fisher , super , visor of the small particles section in the Foundation 's chemistry department , said . Because nothing like this ever had been tried before in Chicago , Fisher expressed some skepticism of my accumulating any visible amount of soil in such a short time . Infinitesimal Particles " There 's no doubt that we are bombarded daily by billions and billions of air pollution particles . " he said . " But do you realize that these are so small they are measured in microns and it takes 25 , - 000 microns to make an inch ? " The exhaust fumes you breathe measure from one to a tenth of a micron . Smoke particles are even finer . They vary in length from four tenths of a micron all the way down to .001 . " Chicago 's 213 square miles were the target for more than 162,700 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in five Hours would my two yards of jacket gather enough grime to make testing possible ? Runs Into Billions Counting the individual particles I could collect in only five hours would require years , Fisher pointed out . Even a " guestimate " would run well into billions . For the best measurement with particular meaning for Chicago 's soiled shirt victims , the Armour expers recommended reflectance readings such as those taken at the American Institute of Launderin3 ; in Joliet . These readings , the authorities explained , indicate how much whiteness my duster would lose in its five hours in the open air . I was ready for my first five hours in the Center of the city . What I turned up that day was shocking and conclusive proof of the nee for a tightening of Chicago 's smoke abatement code and increased vigilance in its enforcement .                     