@@713586

txt Bus service on the struck Public Service lines used by 1,600,000 New Jersey passengers daily was resumed beginning 11 A. M. today after an early morning seizure of the company by the state and a later compromise agreement under which union representatives of 6,300 drivers agreed to an 11-cent-an-hour wage increase , bringing their pay to $1.70 an hour . Service , however , was far from normal . Best estimates tonight were that between 65 and 75 per cent of operations had been restored on the company 's 282 intrastate routes , which extend from Camden to the New York State line , and on the interstate routes reaching into Pennsylvania and New York . Company and union officials look for normal operations to begin with the 5 A. M. shift tomorrow , when the first full complements among the 6,500 drivers , mechanics and maintenance men are scheduled to report . Because of the strike conditions early today many persons drove their automobiles to work . As a result a flood of cars jammed downtown Newark and caused heavy traffic congestion between 5 and 7 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ put on duty to cope with the situation . The police estimated each bus back on the road could have replaced thirty-seven cars . Majorities of the membership of ten locals of the union , the Amalgamated Association of Street , Rail and Motor Coach Employes , A. F. L. , approved the return to work at morning and afternoon sessions . Their affirmation took the form of voting confidence in their officers . The proposed contract , which also provides for an increase in minimum annual pension payments from $600 to $720 , will be voted on by secret ballot next week . Terms Reached at 5 A. M. The strike , which began at midnight Wednesday and forced more than half of the state 's population into a catch-as-catch-can routine of riding to and from work , came to an official end at 5 A. M. today in the offices of the State Board of Mediation here . Company and union officials had been in almost continuous session for fifteen hours since 2 P. M. yesterday with State Treasurer Walter T. Margetts Jr. , who was named as state @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Clee , chairman of the State Board of Mediation , and State Labor Commissioner Percy Miller Jr . The state officials had been armed with Gov . Alfred E. Driscoll 's directive for state seizure under the Public Utility AntiStrike Act when they arrived at the conference . Hoping for a settlement without state intervention they avoided use of the document until 2 A. M. , when the disputants were still deadlocked and the prospect of compromise seemed dim . Three hours later the proposed agreement , incorporated in a stipulation , was announced . The provisions were a marked downward revision of the union 's major demands for a 21-cent-an-hour increase . A reduction in the work week from forty-four to forty hours , a three-week vacation after ten years instead of the current fifteen-year requirement . The union retained a one-year scope for the contract as opposed to two years asked Jay the company . Membership meetings of some of the locals revealed some dissatisfaction with the proposed agreement . The Paterson local , third largest in the state , rejected it at a morning meeting but reversed its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ addressed the sessions stressed the provision in the Public Utility Anti-Strike Act that provides for a fine of $10,000 a day against companies or unions guilty of causing strikes or lockouts in public utilities . The act also provides for fines of $25 to $250 a day for company or union officers involved in such work stoppages . Mr. Margetts is expected to remain in control of the company until after the agreement is ratified by the union membership . State officers of the union predicted that the contract would be overwhelmingly approved . The company today renewed its application to the Board of Public Utility Commissioners for an unspecified temporary fare increase above the current 5-cent-a-zone rate , under which it has been operating since last July 1 . It has maintained it was unable to operate profitably with the 5-cent rate . The application parallels another for a permanent increase to 8 cents a zone , which has been in public hearing for four months .                     