@@718288

txt Britain asked the United States today to join in getting the Suez Canal Users Association into operation this week without waiting for the completion of organization details . Once this was done , the ships belonging to the fifteen members of the association , including Britain , France and the United States , would pay tolls to the association , not to the Egyptian canal authority . Egypt would get nothing from the association unless and until Egypt had agreed to " cooperate " with it , British circles said . They emphasized that , whether or not Egypt had given this agreement , Britain would use force to assure the passage of the canal if Egypt stopped a British ship after the association began operating . Selwyn Lloyd , British Foreign Secretary , requested United States cooperation in these moves in an hour-long talk with Secretary of State Dulles at 1 o'clock this morning . Reply Through Channels Mr. Dulles promised to send his answer through diplomatic channels . The two had just returned frOm the dramatic night session of the Security Council at which the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . This killed the sections endorsing international operation of the canal and calling on Egypt to submit a plan providing guarantees to the users that would be " not less effective . " However , the Security Council agreed unanimously to the preamble of the resolution , which stated that " any " Suez settlement should meet the six requirements , ? or principles , on which the British , French and Egyptian foreign ministers agreed during their secret talks here last week . British sources said the ens dorsement of the third principle , providing that operation of the canal should be " insulated " from " the politics of any country " was welcome . However , they repeated that no progress was made on carrying out these principles through " automatic " sanctions against violation by Egypt . Question of Using Force It was not revealed whether Mr. Lloyd had told Mr. Dulles that Britain planned to ' use force if Egypt barred British ships from the canal after the users ' association began operating . Prime Minister Eden , in a speech yesterday before the British Conservative @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a last resort could not be excluded . The United States has made clear throughout the Suez crisis that it was opposed to the use of force , and Britain has not asked for American participation . In the British view , moreover , Mr. Dulles ' behavior throughout the Security Council proceedings on the Suez question was not open to criticism . However , both the British and the French feel that the United States has been dragging its feet on what they consider the essential next move  --  the denial to Egypt of any tolls from ships belonging to members of the users ' association , which account for an overwhelming proportion of the canal traffic . The organization of the users ' association has been delayed because of difficulty in finding a suitable man as administrator among Dutch and Scandinavian shipping executives . A week ago Mr. Lloyd asked Mr. Dulles , as a stop-gap , to order United States registry ships to pay tolls into blocked accounts in London or Paris  --  or in any event accounts not under Egyptian control . Dulles Refusal British and French @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ governments believe that prompt United States action in stopping payments to Egypt would persuade wavering countries to follow the example of the Western powers . However , Mr. Dulles refused Mr. Lloyd 's earlier request on the ground that since the users ' association was going to be set up very soon , anyway , it was not worthwhile to take interim action . Now that the United Nations discussions have been concluded , the British believe it is even more essential to obtain immediate United States participation . They would also like to have the United States induce United States-owned vessels under foreign registry  --  which together with those registered in the United States account for 30 per cent of the canal traffic ? to pay tolls only to the association . The entire membership of the users ' association will meet in London Wednesday to hear a report from its executive group on the search for an administrator . If none has been found by that time , Britain will recommend the appointment of a British subject . But whether or not this is done , the British want @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the payment of tolls to the association , not to Egypt . Mr. Lloyd , it was understood , informed Christian Pineau , French Foreign Minister , of his talk with Mr. Dulles at a meeting today before M. Pineau left for Paris . Mr. - Lloyd will call on Dag Hammarskjold ; United Nations Secretary General , tomorrow before leaving for London in the afternoon . Dr. Fawzi Stays On Mr. Dulles and Paul-Henri Spaak , Belgian Foreign Minister , returned to their capitals today but Dr. Mahmoud Fawzi , Egyptian Foreign Minister , will stay on a couple of days . No announcement was made concerning the Communist Foreign Ministers , Dmitri T. Shepilov of the Soviet Union and Koca Popovic of Yugoslavia . British sources confirmed that another face-to-face meeting between the British , French and Egyptian Foreign Ministers would be held in Europe in the next two or three weeks , or even earlier , if Egypt provided a basis for negotiation in the meanwhile . Mr. Harmtarskjoid , who participated in- " the talks here and formulated the six principles , will act as a " letter-box @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . These sources added that before agreeing to another meeting Mr. Lloyd would insist on having Egyptian assurances about specific means of keeping the canal " insulated " from political control . Mr. Lloyd told newsmen , that " we have done . our best , " and that only the Soviet veto was responsible for the defeat of the British-French proposals . He expressed satisfaction that nine of the eleven members of the Council  --  Britain , France . the United States , Australia , Belgium , Nationalist China , Cuba , Iran , and Peru , voted for them . Yugoslavia joined the Soviet Union in voting against the proposals . Optimism Voiced in Cairo Special to The New York Times . CAIRO , Oct. ** quarters here expressed cautious optimistn today that the six-principles resolution adopted by the United Nations Security Council " could be the first acceptable basis for a peaceful solution of the Suez Canal crisis . " This sentiment was echoed by the secretary general of the ninenation Arab League , Abdel Khalek Hassouna , whose headquarteos is in Cairo . Mr. Hassouna said Security @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ problem if Britain and France are really willing to find a peaceful solution . "                     