@@714869

txt Reports that one of two expeditions searching for the wreck of the Kit ty Reeves , a wood ' en frater which sank in Lake Huron off Tawas point with a cargo of cop per in 1870 , has located the sunken hulk caused a flurry of excitement here today . The Kitty Reeves was carrying 500 tons of bar copper valued at $250,000 at today 's prices when it foundered in a December blow . Scores of persons went to Tawas point to watch a lake drama 2,000 feet offshore where the Bercliff , a 60 foot schooner , was at anchor above the supposed find , and the Gary B , flagship of a rival group I of treasure seekers , cut angry cir ' cles around the a chored vessel . Four from C lenge Area The Bercliff has been chartered by an expedition headed by Wilford G. Shannon , an oil lease broker , of Saginaw , Mich . Its members include four men from the Chicago area , Dan Keller and Harry Bernberg , Chicago metal dealers , and Claude Grady and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ B is Julius F. Roth , 82 , a retired grocer of Danbury , 0. , who has been trying to locate the Kitty Reeves for 10 years . Roth has led two earlier expeditions . His last previous attempt was in 1950 when the Fort Meigs , a sandsucker he had acquired and brought here , sank at anchor in a storm a day after he said he had found the wreck and was ready to begin salvage operations , Roth this year has been operating with the backing of the Zack Metal company of Detroit and has had the assistance of G. S. Bennett and C. D. Haase , electronic experts of East Lansing . He chartered several vessels , including the Gary B from the J. L. Brown Fish company of Alabaster , Mich . Use Electronic Equipment Both expeditions are equipped with electronic metal divining equipment , similar in principle to mine detecting devices used in World War II . The Shannon group has a professional diver , Bruce Arneson . Coast guard officials here said both expeditions have permits form the army corps of engineers to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the resort area around Tawas bay have watched the maneuvers of the two expeditions for several weeks . Last week it became apparent from unusual activity aboard the vessels that both crews believed one or the other had made or was close to a find . Keller came ashore yesterday and confirmed this impression . Probing in the sand under 20 feet of water at a place where instruments indicated presence of a mass of metal , men aboard the Bercliff encountered what they believe to be the planking of a sunken ship , he said . Roth Charges Interference . " We are preparing to sink a casing and make core tests for copper , " he said . " The ship is apparently buried under 12 feet of sand . " Roth came ashore to complain that the Shannon expedition has been hampering his own operations .                     