@@715282

txt Federal prosecutors are on the trail of hundreds of thousands of dollars allegedly paid by policy operators to politicians and policemen for protection , it was learned yesterday . Evidence of huge payments to buy immunity from the law is being prepared for presentation to the federal grand jury now investigating the policy racket . Five of the reputed bosses of the numbers racket were called in and warned that they would have to tell who received the money or face income tax evasion charges . Four Manno brothers  --  Sam , Fred , Tom , and Pat  --  and Peter C. Tremont , whose names have been identified with policy wheels on the south and west sides , were interviewed in the United States attorney 's office . Report Blunt Warning It is reported that Edward J. Ryan , first assistant United States attorney , and Irwin Cohen , another government prosecutor , warned the men they would have to talk to protect themselves when they are taken before the grand jury next Tuesday and Wednesday . Atty . William B. Crawford , who was present @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ men to refuse to testify on the ground they might incriminate themselves . Ryan is reported to have told the Mannos and Tremont that the government has evidence showing huge sums were diverted to thew and not accounted for in the book : of the policy wheels . " Know You Got Money " " We know you got the . money , ' Ryan is reported to have said " We do n't know what you dic with it , but we have a good idea where it went . Think it over . Whet you go before the grand jury next week you had better be prepared to tell who got that money. ? Undercover agents of the treasury and justice departments have assembled evidence to support the government theory that enormous sums for protection money were siphoned out of the policy wheels by bogus winners . The big winners were . shills , accordine to this theory . who held Patrick ( left and Sam Manno tickets that had been fixed to win . The dummy winners then turned over the protection money , which was parceled out @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Commissioner O'Connor paid a surprise visit to the office of United States Atty . Otto Kerner Jr. , where he conferred with Kerner and Ryan late yesterday . Neither the commissioner nor Kerner would disclose the reason for the visit . However , reports were that O'Connor wanted to know more about certain " protection money " allegedly paid in order that the policy wheels might operate on the south and west sides . Four alleged employes of a policy wheel and an employe of a paper company that sells paper for policy slips testified before the grand jury . A certified public accountant , who has prepared income tax returns for policy operators , has been called to testify today .                     