@@715405

txt President Eisenhower , in deciding to send his brother Dr. Milton Eisenhower as a special envoy to study United States relations with Latin America , has demonstrated his awareness of a situation that has worried some United States diplomats for many months . During those months , the United States has been losing ground in the South American phase of the cold war by losing the goodwill and friendliness of Latin neighbors who officially are working with the United States to build up the Western Hemisphere 's power of defense . This statement undoubtedly will be challenged by-some , but it is shared by many qualified observers who feel there has been a dangerous lack of attention to the phenomenon . North Americans talk of solidarity in the hemisphere , of union of views among the Americas , of technical aid to their Latin neighbors , and of general cooperation in the hemisphere . All too often , South Americans see the same activities in terms of American efforts to dominate weaker nations in the Americas , and of general war-mongering . The old hostility and suspicion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are bacl- again . Some United States diplomats show an ostrich tendency when this situation is mentioned . They hope that if they ignore it , it will go away . Others frankly admit the situation ; but when they try to explain it , they flounder . Its causes are complex and difficult to analyze , but they go far deeper than Communist propaganda . LatinAmerican Governments , in gener- al , remain friendly , but there are strong currents of hostility and suspicion toward the United , States . In a whole series of recent elections , resistance to " Yankee im-1 perialism " has been among the ' promises of the winning party ? not its basic plank , but part of the platform . There has been long delay in ratification by some South American congresses of treaties for military cooperation with the United States already signed by their governments ' executive branches . There has been strong sentiment in some countries for nationalization of mineral resources held by foreigners , as an anti-imperialist measure . South Americans have repeatedly accused the United States of baying allowed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ death . When Nelson A. Rockefeller , former Assistant Secretary of State for Inter-American Affairs , said in a speech last April that the Truman Administration had ignored its obligations and had underestimated the importance of other ? American republics , his words were picked up eagerly all over South America and quoted against the United States Government The other side of the picture was given by Edward G. Miller , Jr. , then Assistant Secretary of State for Inter-American Affairs , when he defended the administra -- tion 's policy in a speech at Louisville , Ky. , on October 14 , saying " International cooperation is reciprocal , and like human friendship , there are two parties to it . " Goodwill Seen Tied to Dollar South Americans who criticize the United States show no signs of recognizing that cooperation implies obligations for both sides . To supply United States needs in strategic materials , they demand prices higher than those that would have to be paid in the open world market . The question is whether goodwill must he bought With cash . Hemisphere organization for defense has been held @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Latin-American countries . Responsibility lies with a mixture of forces , some of them mutually hostile but all working toward that end , even if for different ' reasons . It would be too easy and entirely erroneous to say that the Communists were the only such force , or that they had originated the feelings of suspicion and hostility . Certainly it is their policy to do what they can to foster such feelings , and they take full advantage of any situation created by others along those lines , but they depend primarily on existing sentiments that they can stimulate . Working with them are others who might conveniently be called Peronistas , not because they have any direct connection with President Juan Peron of Argentina but because they think along the same lines as he does and follow policies that are best known because of the use President Perrin has made of them . Their principal points in common with him are their strong nationalism , their dependence on a demagogic appeal to the masses and their hostility toward the United States . The backers of Gen. Carlos @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that governs Bolivia , and the Government of Jose Maria Velasco Ibarra in Ecuador all have ' elements in them with strong Peronist tendencies . Working beside them are other misguided nationalists without their radical tendencies , but driven by the old feeling that " The Colossus of the North " never can be up to any good ? in ltd dealings with them . Argentina still is the least friendly of South American countries toward the United States . In that attitude there are various factors , but the outstanding one is Argentine ambition . The Argentines believe that they are the greatest nation in Latin America and should be recognized as . such by their neighbors , and they bittesty resent the predominance of the non-Latin United States in hemisphere affairs . The Peronistas revile the United States as imperialistic and oppressive . The Peronista attitude has made the work of Communist agents in South America easy . There is no real hostility to Communists in Argentina , and the Government is following their line so faithfully in international matters that there is no need-for the Communists to exert @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thinking  --  with the important exception of allegiance to Moscow  --  that they know it could be handed over as a package , in the right circumstances . In Brazil , the situation is radically different . President Getulio Vargas and his Government are thoroughly friendly to the United States , and they are ready to cooperate fully . Brazil always has been among the friendliest of Latin-American states toward the North Americans , partly because she is the lone non-Spanish country in her continent , with an ambitious and powerful neighborArgentina ? to the south . Brazil Strongest U. S. Ally Brazil is probably the most important of Latin-American countries to the defense of the Western hemisphere for two reasons : She has colossal natural wealth ( most of it still undeveloped ) that could feed strategic materials into ' a common defense effort , and her huge territory reaches out into the Atlantic toward Africa and Europe as far as the longitude of Iceland . On the other hand , her industry is underdeveloped ; her rapidly expanding economy needs more capital than she has , and United States @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ capacity . The cooperation that is so obviously important in defense of the Americas has been systematically impeded in Brazil partly by the Communists but also by a number of unthinking " nationalists . " At least nine retired generals , none of them well known to the public before , have lent their names to moves openly sponsored by the Communist newspaper Imprensa Popular , to the point where there has been talk of disciplinary action against them if they continue to use their military titles in that connection . The line of the nationalists  --  including Communists  --  has been to fight tooth and nail against participation of foreign capital in developing Brazil 's natural wealth , notably her petroleum and manganese . Their theory has been that foreign " trusts " would inevitably get all the benefit and leave Brazil worse off than before . The practical result has been to slow up Brazil 's development and to reduce over a period of some years the output of those two important strategic materials in the Western hemisphere . The Communists in Brazil ( as everywhere in Scout ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and- many-persona- who sincerely believe they ; are good patriots play into Communist hands . Chile Is Unknown Quantity Chile , fcir the moment , is an unknown quantity in the defense equation . Her President , General Ibanez , was swept back to power last year on a huge popular vote from the same people who had ousted his dictatorship twenty , one sears before . While some of his most powerful backers were promising the public , during the campaign , that his first act in office would be to denounce the United States Military Assistance Agreement , others of his supporters were privately assuring the United States Embassy that it was all campaign talk and not to be taken seriously . General Ibanez has made it clear that he does not intend to denounce the agreement , but what is yet to be seen is the amount of real cooperation that the Chilean Congress will allow him to give . Bolivia 's National Revolutionary Government seems a little confused about its politics and the extent of its allegiance to communism , but the main prop of its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ future of the tin that has been Bolivia 's chief contribution to the hemisphere 's strategic needs is still problematical . Bolivia is not important for her territory in any war that might concern the United States , but . as Vice President Hernan SileaZiazo has remarked ; she is the only important source of tin that could not be ' interfered with by Soviet submarines in case of war . The problem there is whether production and shipment could be assured . In sharp contrast to Bolivia , her neighbor , Peru , is among the most cooperative of all Latin-American ' countries in the defense problem . Peru has a dictatorship , but one that is probably as benevolent as a dictatorship can be and that does at least have the virtue of being practical . Under President Manuel Odria , Peru is making the most of the facilities offered for defense cooperation by the United States . Military missions are working there in full harmony , and the vast mineral wealth of Peru , exceeded in variety only by Bolivia 's , and far more accessible than the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to both parties  --  when it is needed . Northward along the west coast , Ecuador is a negligible quantity as to manpower and minerals in defense but important in the past tradition of friendliness . That tradition may be compromised by the current ' Administration of Presis dent Velasco Ibarra , who took office last September , but the tradition is there . Though Senor Velasco Ibarra has denied any connection with General Perlin , the Argentine Ambassador was withdrawn on demand of the Ecuadorean Government for participating in the election campaign in his favor just after he had returned from exile in Buenos Aires . Communist feeling seems ? to have little importance either in Peru or in Ecuador , and both countries , though critical of United States aid ( or the lack of it ) shows less of the anti-Yankee spirit than some of their neigh1 hors . Continuing around the perimeter of the continent , ' Colombia is so entangled In her min domestic quarrels that anti ; Americanism seems to have been overlooked . It is not likely that Colombia is free of Communists , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ either of the ruling ' Conservatives or the opposition Liberals . The country can not be a sound element in a defense coalition as long as it is so split internally , and the Lib- ' erals complain bitterly that friendly United . States relations with . Colombia imply ' approval of ' an Administration they hate , but there is no evidence on either side of any effective anti-Yankee sentiment . Venezuela is another of ' the strongest South American links in a defense chain . Oil-rich and now branching out in iron ore , Venezuela has found it profitable to let the foreignerd do the work and pay her rich royalties and , though there is said to be much concealed Communist sentiment , the present iron-fisted Government does not allow it to appear , All qualified observers there seem to agree that as long as the present regime remains in power , whether the United States approves its principles or not , ? Venezuela will be an enthusiastic and effective member of the defense coalition in the Americas .. Indecision Is General Uruguay , wedged between Brazil and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ frontage on the Atlantic , and though there has been long wrangling over ratification of the . military ? assistance agreement with the United States , Uruguay ranks among the cooperative countries . Nearby Paraguay leads an uneasy life under pressure from General Perlin , whose government has made economic difficulties because Paraguay insisted on accepting Point Four aid from the United States , but the country , though friendly , hardly enters into the defense picture . . Viewed as a whole , South America today gives a picture of indecision , of governments in all the major countries that are afraid to be out-and-out anti-Communist until they see which way the cat jumps . Communism probably is stronger in Brazil than anywhere else , though ostensibly outlawed ; but the Argentine regime is such that it could hardly ally itself with communism ( as Nazi Germany did ) without turning a hair . With the exception of Argentina Latin-American governments do lip service to cooperation with the United States , but in nearly all countries there is a strong undercurrent of hostility that is carefully nurtured by the Communists @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @            