@@713210

txt Letters to The Times R. VENKATAVAMAN.FLORENCE BUNGER.BENJAMIN WEST.EVA WILLIAMS.GEORGE J. BROWN . Letters to The Times India 's Views on Kashmir Confidence Expressed in Outcome of Plebiscite . in Territory Housing in Crowded Manhattan To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TINIER : Louis Fischer 's letter published a few days ago in your newspaper has had remarkable reception throughout India ? both among the press and the public . In his expressed views over the Kashmir dispute , he evinces far more understanding in the stand taken by India over that question than anybody else in the Western sphere . The Western nations have been particularly cold toward the Indian attitude and they are prone to criticize India , alleging deliberate postponement of the settlement of the question . The Indians , on the other hand , have been bitterly disappointed that the United Nations should be a misfit in such a clear case . In his expoEition of the issue , Mr. Fischer points out that the Indians fear that the holding of a plebiscite would turn the scales in favor of Pakistan . But @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be the presence of the aggressor in the territory . Simply because Moslems constitute 80 per cent of the population of Kashmir , it does not necessarily mean they would join Pakistan . As is very well known , large sections of the Moslem population in Kashmir have been agitating and clamoring for linking up their destiny with that of India , whose millions of Moslems are enjoying peace and unstinted freedom guaranteed by our Charter , Hence a plebiscite in that territory occupied by the aggressor would be like a plebiscite being held in Communist China  --  no more and no less . Indians , as Mr. Fischer has stated , feel that they have been treated with partiality , whereas aggression in Korea has been treated with alacrity . TheY would certainly welcome better understanding on the part of Americans . Incidentally , the U. N. 's lukewarm attitude toward . Kashmir has been exploited by the Communists of Moscow . They spread the false propaganda that India treats the United Nations as an institution dominated by the AngloAmerican bloc . On the other hand , as reiterated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ United Nations in spite of its shortcomings and fervently does she hope that justice is meted out to her . A word about Indians and commu nism . , To Indians the very idea of a Communist state is extremely distasteful because , of the primary fact that such a state would be robbing the , individual liberty which has been coveted for a long time , and for which they fought bitterly and attained . Recently Communists have begun an orgy of murder , plunder and arson , but they are being effectively put down by the Government with the cooperation of the public . In many states the Communist party has been banned , R. VEN KATAVAMAN . Madras , India , Sept. 2 , 1950 . To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : The ordinary wage-earner sees advertisements in your paper day by day for apartments that are prohibitively priced . Neither location nor type of housing enters into the rental . The President 's order limiting material necessary for building will put still further out of reach living quarters for the middle-income group . Subcellar @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ apartments are classified as " professional " if and when an erstwhile tenant is made sufficiently uncomfortable to vacate . Superintendents take charge of not one but several houses , to the detriment of the tenants . State or federal rent control hardly covers the situation . There is no sifting of conditions . The law is enforced only on complaint , and there are so many ways of eluding the law that the individual , even when he knows he has been a party to fraud , makes no issue of it . There are a few ways in which the situation could be improved . First , permit anyone to make known a questionable deal even before he becomes a victim and permit the legitimate rent to be open to inspection to anyone contemplating tenancy . Second , investigate the conditions that now have turned so many apartments to professional use and make some rule governing them for the benefit of the tenant while shortages persist . Furnished apartments should come under control and he examined as to extra rental if and when applied to some few pieces of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Third , new apartments should go back under control , with a normal income allowed based on location , facilities and value and not the need of home-hungry people who skimp on food and other necessities to get living quarters . FLORENCE BUNGER . New York , Sept. 3 , 1950 . In Support of a Health Museum To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : May I add . my small voice to the strong plea of THE TIMES editorial and Dr. Rusk 's article in behalf of a permanent Museum of Health in New York ? I know from direct personal experience that this medium of ethical health education is powerful and effective . Early in 1936 I was charged with the responsibility for the first presentation of the Camp Transparent Woman , created by the Deutsches Hygiene Museum , Dresden , Germany , at Rockefeller Center . Dr. Roy Chapman Andrews and the late Dr. Dean DeWitt Lewis presided at the dedication . Since that time some 20,000,000 people , including 50,000 physicians , have seen the figure under the auspices of academies of medicine and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ permanent exhibit in the medical section of the Museum of Science and Industry , Chicago , where it is seen by approximately a million , visitors each year . New York City needs better health ; health education will-help ; a museum of health will make a heavy contribution . FRANK H. KAUFMAN . New York , Sept. 6 , 1950 . Teaching History Use of Television Advocated to Supplement Classroom Work To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : As a teacher of social studies in our New York City high school system I was greatly interested in your editorial of Sept. 4 , " On Teaching History . " It is , indeed , vital for the preservation of our democracy that our citizens have an understanding of American and world history . I should like to point out , however , that both of your suggestions for making such an understanding more effective have been practiced for many years by the teach ? ers of New York City . Every effort is made in the classroom to examine the social and economic background leading to a given @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ study is in accordance with the requirements of our state and city history syllabi . Dramatization of subject-matter is also a widely accepted technique in our city system ; and audio-visual aids , such as film strips and moving pictures , are used whenever they are applicable and available . ( Unfortunately , schools do not always have enough equipment of this sort to meet their needs . ) I would like to make one suggestion , however , whereby the work of the history classroom might be enriched and made more interesting : With the increasing importance of television in the homes of many of our students , I think it might be a good idea for the New York City Board of Education to sponsor a series of programs which would dramatize ( and correlate with ) our units in American and world history . Such programs might have as their central theme " development of democracy through the ages " and might be presented , at least in part , by the students themselves . The material could be made entertaining and enlightening at the same time and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to pupils but to adults as well . With the conflict between democracy and totalitarianism growing more tense each day , certainly television should not be overlooked as an educational medium . JULIET B. FURMAN . New York , Sept. 5 , 1950 . Driving Distance Law Favored To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Why has no one , in the interest of safety on the highways , suggested a law which would insist that vehicles traveling over twenty miles per hour be properly spaced in relation to speed ? We realize that taxicabs in city traffic may move bumper to bumper in the interest of space-saving . But why cars traveling at the highway limits of thirty-five to fifty-five miles an hour are permitted to follow each other at less than six car-lengths is a mystery . Any state patrolman will admit that such conditions cause more traffic tangles than any other , yet there is no fixed law to prevent the practice . If the left-hand passer can be curbed as efficiently as the Connecticut State Police has proved that he can , then a distance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all . BENJAMIN WEST . New Canaan , Conn. , Sept. 6 , 1950 . Talk of War Protested To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : There has been too much saber-rattling by the military who are letting their power go to their heads . It 's time they took a back seat and left the making of foreign policy where it rightfully belongs . It would be well for the people of the world to hear us talk of peace rather than the warmongers threaten war , which no one in his right senses wants in this atomic age . EVA WILLIAMS . New York , Sept. 5 , 1950 . No Comnromise of Tradition To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK Talcs : William S. Reisman 's defense of expediency is unanswerable so far as it applies to war . " Necessity knows no law . " ? But expediency as a peacetime policy is entirely foreign to American ideals . If we can not survive maintaining our best traditions we never will do so by compromising them . GEORGE J. BROWN . New York , Sept. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @              