@@713309

txt The . intcrnwl varitritts 1217J which congress enacted Sept. 23 over President Truman 's veto has been invoked by the immigration and naturalization service to detain 127 aliens on Ellis island , it was learned today . Several hundred additional aliens are slated to be detained tomorrow when the liners Vulcania and Italia arrive from Italy with 820 passengers who are not citizens of the United States , immigration officials said . Assailed by Sen. Ferguson The immigration service 's action , based on a provision of the security law barring members and former members of the Nazi Fascist , and Communist parties from entering the United States , brought a blast from Sen. Ferguson R. , Mich. accusing the administration of trying to undermine the law . Ferguson , who is in Michigan , authorized his Washington office to release a statement asserting " It is evident that the administration is undertaking to pervert the administration of the law so as to create the impression that the law would work undue hardship in extreme cases . " The Ferguson statement was apparently inspired by yesterday 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ scheduled to give a concert Wednesday night in Carnegie hall here , was being detained on the ground he was a member of the Hitler Youth organization 10 years ago . Gulda Freed Till Saturday Gulda was treed today on orders of Atty . Gen. , who announced the Austrian musician will be permitted to remain in the United States only until Saturday . Unless Gulda is given an extension , he will be unable to accept invitations to perform later this month in Boston and Chicago . Public : ttention created by the Gulda case brought on disclosure of the wholesale detention policy and led to a widely circulated rumor that Arturo Toscanini , noted Italian conductor , will be refused entrance when he arrives tomorrow on the Vulcania . This rumor provoked such a storm of protest that the justice department expressly denied it , asserting Toscanini " will be admitted without question . " Toscanini 's association with Mussolini before the late dictator 's rise to power in Italy was given as the reason for his rumored detention . Toscanini later broke with Mussolini and refused to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ J. Shaughnessy , district commissioner of the immigration service , said detentions began Wednesday under a justice department ruling requiring his inspectors to refuse admittance to any alien who " holds or has held membership or has been affiliated with any totalitarian or communist organization . " A spokesman for the state department said in Washington the detentions are on a " stop gap " order pending formulation of definite regulations covering admission of foreigners under the new law . Ferguson , one of the chief sponsors of the internal security law , said in his statement the act expressly provides any alien may be temporarily admitted in the discretion of the attorney general " unless it is found that such alien 's admission would endanger the public safety . "                     