@@719175

txt Nationalist China said today that the Chinese Communist regime was faced with widespread revolt and might collapse . Dr. Hil Shih , the Nationalist spokesman , told the General Assembly ? that the Communists had been deserted by the intellectuals , the students and " hundreds of millions " of farmers and workers . He said : " If such a regime be worthy of membership in the United Nations , then the United Nations is not worthy of its Charter and its Universal Declaration of Human Rights . " ' Dr. Hu , an occasional critic of the Nationalists , made his speech without having referred it to Generalissimo Chiang Kaishek or his Administration , Chinese sources said . The address was presented during the General Assembly 's general debate , in which member nations outline their national policies . ? In other policy statements , Evangeles Averoff - Tossizza , Greek Foreign Minister , expressed the " bitterness and astonishment " of Greece over Britain 's continued exercise of what he called a " colonial yoke " over the Mediterranean island of Cyprus . Ion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Assembly to prohibit foreign broadcasts " inciting to the overthrow of the internal order of sovereign states . " M. Maurer probably alluded to such progranis as ' those of // the Voice of America and Radio Free Europe . The Rumanian Foreign Minister also sought Assembly approval of the proposed Balkan pact among the Communist states of Albania , Bulgaria , Yugoslavia and Rumania , and the North Atlantic Treaty members , Greece and Turkey . Greece has replied that she could not participate in such an agreement now . Turkey has not reacted . Dr. Hu 's attack on the Communist Chinese regime came after the Assembly had adopted a United States resolution postponing a issue of admission of Comfflunist China for ann other year . Chinese Ferment Seen The Nationalist spokesman , who is a well-known philosopher , told the Assembly that Soviet suppression of the Hungarian revolt had given rise , within the last few months , to an outspoken anti-Communist movement among the intelligentsia in China . " The students in China are almost unanimously in opposition to the Communist party and Government , " he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the Chinese intellectuals have been compelled to speak insincerely or untruthfully . " When the Communist regime . ordered a nation-wide purge of the poisonous effects ' of the thoughts of Hu Shih , every friend or student of mine had to speak his piece in refutation and condemnation of me , knowing very well that I would surely understand that he had no freedom of silence . " Under the Communist administration , Dr. Hu asserted , " millions are dying for lack of food " and the " man-made famine " has caused the regime to be " hated and detested by the vast majority . " Mao Policy Recalled It was because of the expression of such feelings , he said , that the temporary free-speech policy announced by Mao Tsetung , Chinese Communist leader , earlier this year was " abruptly terminated " in June and China reverted to a " slavish imitation of the Soviet Union . " Disarmament again played a considerable part in the Assembly debate . J. M. A. H. Luns , Foreign Minister of the Netherlands , warned members to look @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ might " upset the present balance of armaments and collective defense organizations to the disadvantage of the free world . " The Netherlands , he said , supports Western proposals for a " first-stage disarmament plan . " He cautioned those who " may be tempted by Soviet proposals " to approach the issue by an uncontrolled ban on atomic-bomb tests that " if we should single out for acceptance only one particular detail , however spectacular or attractive it may seem , without proper guarantee for continued security , we would do harm to the cause of disarmament . " Penn Nouth , head of the Cambodian delegation , said his nation sought a " climate of understanding " among member states . Yacoub Osman , delegate of the Sudan , told the Assembly the world must " abandon once and for all the assumed right of the strong to govern the weak , " and drop all ideas of colonialism .                     