@@713345

txt In a rare display of unanimity , the General Assembly of the United Nations , acting as a committee , has adopted another resolution urging the Big Powers to meet and discuss all problems threatening international peace with a view to resolving their fundamental differences and reaching agreement on peace , security and justice among nations . This resolution , which parallels one adopted by the Assembly with equal unanimity in November , 1948 , is a joint product of recent Soviet overtures for such discussions , in which Mr. Vishinsky promised to go halfway toward agreement and of Western willingness , voiced by Mr. Bevin , to explore the possibilities of new negotiations . As a result there will be at least informal soundings among the Big Powers to ascertain whether any ' basis can be found for more formal negotiations that would hold out any promise of success . Perhaps the most significant aspect of this resolution can be found in the fact that it gives new expression to mankind 's universal longing for peace , which no nation , not even Soviet Russia , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a new manifestation of a world conscience which no longer tolerates a glorification of war for war 's sake or its espousal as an instrument of national policy. , and even the imperialistic Soviets must pay at least lip-service to it . For that much the world can be thankful . This remains true even if there is but little chance that the full purposes of the resolution will be carried out , nr that peace , security and international justice could spring from any Big Power talks now conceivable . For it seems impossible for the Western Powers to negotiate final peace settlements on the basis of the present status quo , which is based on continuous Soviet faits acco ; nplis in violation of all wartime agreements , and which has drawn an Iron Curtain across half of Europe and Asia and behind which nations we promised to liberate live in slavery . To endorse that situation would involve a superYalta , before which the much-criticized original Yalta would pale into insignificance . The Soviets , on the other hand , have shown every determination not only to defend @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and there is no indication , much less proof , that they have changed their policy . And until they do so , and provide the proofs called for by President Truman , theie is no way now in sight to bridge the gulf between the two worlds . Despite this , however , the prospective soundings need not be wholly negative . The United States has hitherto opposed direct negotiations with the Soviets on the ground that these would be useless until we have created " situations of strength " and can meet Soviet might on more equal terms . The meager results following the previous Assembly resolution have demonstrated the soundness of that stand . But the world situation has changed considerably since that time , due to the United Nations victory in Korea , the Western rearmament program , and the Assembly resolution assuring prompt United Nations action in case . of new aggression . These developments may well have made the Soviets pause . They will scarcely change the fundamental Soviet policy aiming 3t ultimate Communist world domination , but they may . induce the Soviets to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not ready . And this may open up a chance for at least a temporary truce which might even permit some local settlements or adjustments . But the latest Soviet actions make the chances of even local successes look slim indeed . The Soviets have just issued a pronunciamento regarding Germany , disguised as joint action with their European satellites , which is an obvious attempt to detach both France and Germany from the Atlantic program that would include German resources and manpower in the defense of the West , and to further their own scheme for a Soviet Germany . They have likewise expressed willingness to join in talks of a peace settlement for Japan but make it plain that they will do so only in company with Communist China , which some of the Big Powers do not recognize . They may have second thoughts on Austria , whose peace settlement they have sabotaged for years , but even that is still an open question . And neither they nor Communist China have given any indication that they are willing to cooperate with the rest of the world in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , until there is conclusive proof to the contrary , the latest Soviet " peace offensive " must still be regarded at best as a maneuver to save face because of the Communist defeat in Korea , and at worst as a trap against which the West must remain on guard .                     