@@712581

txt Former President Herbert Hoover and Senator Robert A. Taft a Ohio called on the United States today to protect Formosa , present haven of the Chinese Nationalist Government . by naval force if necessary . The two Republican leaders spoke out independently ? Mr. Hoover in a letter to Senator William F. Knowland , Republican , of California , and Mr. Taft at a news conference . The ex-President , responding to a request by Senator Knowland for his views on the China situation , asserted that the United States should continue to recognize and support the Chinese Nationalist , Government and " if necessary , give it naval protection to the possessions of Formosa , the Pescadores and possibly Hainan Islands . " His and Senator Taft 's position was in direct conflict with the reported policy of the Truman Administration . which is understood to have ruled out any military action in defense of Formosa . That large island off the south-central coast of China was a chief defensive naval base of Japan during the last war . k The Pescadores are small islands between @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ island off the South ' China coast . Recognition to Be Withheld A new study of giving limited financial and technical aid to the Chinese Nationalists on Formosa and Hainan is in prospect , however , and recognition of the Chinese Communists is to be withheld for the present . Mr. Hoover , in urging continued support of the Chinese Nationalists and protection of Formosa and the other islands , listed seven points : " 1 . A wall against communism in the Pacific . " 2 . The defense of Japan and the Philippines . " 3 . The prevention of Chinese legations and consulates in the United States ( and such other countries as agree with us ) becoming nests of Communist conspiracies . " 4 . The prevention of another Communist permanent member of the United Nations Security Council , with its dangerous implications to that body . " 5 . The dangers of Chinese Communist participation in formulating peace with Japan . " 6 . By maintaining at least a symbol of resistance , we would have a better basis for salvation of southeastern Asia . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of some time turning China in the paths of freedom again . " Mr. Hoover wrote under the date of Dec. 31 from his residence at the Waldorf-Astoria Towers , New York City . " There is merit , " he ? said , " in the contention that the continuous pressures upon the anti-Communist Nationalist government ? of China beginning in 1943 , to take the Communists into the government , contributed to the breakdown of prestige and strength of Chiang Kai-shek , and the encouragement of Mao Tze-tung . Despite all this , your question still remains . What to do next ? " He then proceeded to express his views on recognition of the Chinese Nationalist Government and protection of its present seat . Mr. Taft , chairman of the Senate Republican Policy Committee , told reporters that he favored protecting Formosa as a means of preventing-. further Communist expansion . " I have said , " he asserted , " that I thought we should take steps to see that the Communists do not cross over into Formosa , and I would use the Navy to keep @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I would do this to support the Nationalist Government there or to sustain an independent government for Formosa . " He agreed to a suggestion that the United States might establish a Naval base on Formosa by some sort of long-term lease arrange. - ment and thereby extend the PhilipOne-Japanese defense line . With the Nationalist Government 's approval , there would be no difficulty about the legality of defending Formosa , he said . Action should be taken under the United Nations , but if the TInited  --  Nations does not approve , " then we should act on our own , " he asserted . Mr. Taft expressed doubt that enunciation . of a Monroe Doctrine for Asia  --  serving notice that further aggression by the Communists would mean war with the United States  --  would be effective . " We have got to do it by action , " he said . Observing that he had previously favored military and financial aid to prevent Communist infiltration of Formosa , Mr. Taft said there was no use of providing assistance unless it was effective assistance . " I 'm @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he said . " Whether we should aid the Nationalists I do n't know . " Senator Knowland , in releasing former President Hoover 's letter , asserted that the need for action on China and Formosa was " urgent now . " " The Administration seems determined to wait until the dust settles , " he said , " but it has settled The New York Times Jan , 3 , 1950 United States protection of Formosa ( 1 ) , by naval force if necessary , was proposed by former President Hoover and Senator Taft . Mr. Hoover also suggested the protection of the Pescadores , west of Formosa , and possibly Hainan ( 2 ) . sufficiently for Congress and the people to see the debacle which has taken place in Asia . It jeopardizes the future peace of the world . " He said that the Nationalist Government had officially requested United States military aid and advice in defending Formosa . He thus challenged a statement by Michael J. , State Department press officer , that he knew of no formal request for this country to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Knowland asserted , has failed to give the press and the public all the facts about the Formosa situation . TAIPEI , Formosa , Jan. 2 ( UP ) ? The Chinese . Nationalist Government is highly optimistic over chances of getting American financial and diplomatic assistance to help hold Formosa against Communist attacks , Foreign Minister George Yeh said today . Mr. Yeh said that Ambassador V. K. Wellington Koo still lacked oficial communications from the State Department but that his Washington reports to the Foreign Office " warrant optimism . " He said that there was still hope that the State Department would reverse its policy of . " writing off " China to the Communists . Mr. Yeh indicated the Nationalists believed that the United States would go as far as possible in stopping the Communists without actually sending American armed forces to fight the Communists .                     