@@715769

txt Fire described as " definitely of incendiary origin " caused damage estimated at $300,0GC early yesterday to the First Methodist church of Aurora Fox st. and S. Lincoln ay. , Aurora , Kane county . Fire Chief Walter J. Hannon , who blamed the fire on an anonist , said the blaze , which was discovered at 1 a. in. , apparently was set in three places on the first floor of the three-story , 82 year old stone church which recently had been completely renovated . Police Hunt Arsonist At least one suspect was being sought for questioning by Aurora police . Today , representatives of the state fire marshal and the National Underwriters headquarters in Chicago will go to Aurora to aid police in the investigation . Hannon said firemen found one wax candle burning next to the leg of a piano in one of the Sunday school rooms on the first floor . The candle had scorched the mahogany wood surface but had failed to ignite the piano . He said a second fire had apparently been started with a paper under a curtain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ floor . It burned a yard square hole in the floor and attacked the wall and ceiling . A third fire , he said , was set in the choir robe room off the first floor chapel , consumed a piano , ate thru the ceiling to the second floor and consumed the pulpit , choir loft , and a $40,000 pipe organ . The robes fed the flames . Appliances Disconnected The Rev. Wilbur M. Childress , pastor of the church for six years , said he opened the church at 7:30 p. m . Saturday and assisted Mrs. J. W. Barbee , 73 S. Lincoln ay. , Aurora , communion stewardess , and another parishioner in preparing for Sunday services . He said he closed the church at 9:35 p. m. , walked next door to his rectory to watch television , and returned at 10:10 p. m. to set up a movie projector for use in the Sunday school . He said he turned off the lights and locked the church at 10:30 p. m . He said he disconnected all electrical appliances , including the projector , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , 64 S. Lincoln ay. , located near the church , told police one of her guests noticed a glow in the second floor of the church , told her about it and she called firemen and then the Rev. Mr. Childress . " Someone must have stolen into the church while we were busy arranging the Main sanctuary on the second floor , " the Rev. Mr. Childress said . " I do n't know whether the person was anti-Methodist , anti-Christian , anti-churches , or just in favor of fires , " he added . lie said he had been told that some persons resented the installation a year ago of a $7,600 set of chimes but that none discussed the subject with hifn . He said the church had a seating capacity of 1,200 in the main chapel and 250 in the basement chapel . Water and smoke damage were innlinind in tho unn one actimata                     