@@720649

txt Premier Nikita S. Khrushchev has declared that the Soviet Union would " accept the most solemn obligation " not to be the first nation to resume tests of nuclear weapons . He set forth his position in a letter to Canon L. John Collins , precentor of St. Paul 's Cathedral and leader of the British Campaign for Nuclear Disarmament . The letter was made public today . Mr. Khrushchev added that he saw no reason to believe that the Western powers would " show more readiness to put an end to nuclear tests " than they had when the Soviet Union halted its program on March 31 , 1958 . The United States , although not committed to , an indefinite suspension , announced last Aug. 22 that it was prepared to forgo weapons tests for a year from Oct. 31 , when negotiations for an outright ban began with the Soviet Union in Geneva . U. S. Weighs a Resumption Although it has not carried out a test since then , Washington has made it clear that it will return to its program unless the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bear fruit by the end of October . With Hans Werner Richter , West German president of they European Federation Against Nuclear Arms , Canon Collins addressed similar letters to Mr. Khrushchev , President Eisenhower and Prime Minister Harold Macmillan last June 29 The three heads of government were asked if they would be willing to make a public and binding assurance that their nations would not be the first to resume the testing of nuclear weapons . A spokesman for the Prime Minister had no knowledge of the ? letter . He added , however , that Mr. Macmillan " had in the past dealt at great length " with similar communications from the Campaign for Nuclear Disarmament . The Government 's answer to questions of this sort has been that nuclear disarmament can be effected only in the broader context of general disarmament and that pledges not to conduct tests must be supported by an adequate system of inspection . Mr. Krushchev 's reply , the first to arrive , said : " The Soviet Union , on its part , is ready to accept the most solemn obligation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of nuclear weapons ? ? ? " I wish to assure you that in advocating the immediate and permanent cessation of nuclear tests , the Soviet Union considers this only as a first step on the road to the final goal  --  the complete prohibition of atomic and hydrogen weapons , the withdrawal of these weapons from national armaments and the destruction of all existing stocks . " Contending that the United States and Britain did not follow the example of the Soviet Union , Mr. Khrushchev contin-ued : " Unfortunately , I do not see any reason to believe that this time the Western powers will show more readiness to put an end to nuclear tests . " Our misgivings are intensified by the fact that , although negotiations for the cessation of tests have been proceeding in Geneva for about a year , their successful conclusion is still doubtful , owing to the negative attitude of the United States and Great Britain . " The Atomic Energy . Commission is said to be making preparations to resume tests both in Nevada and at Eniwetok , in the Pacific , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ without progress . The negotiations . now in their tenth month , are considered in both Congressional and Administration quarters to be deadlocked on key issues of inspection and control of the ban on weapons tests . Premier Khrushchev 's statement was the sort to please the British group , which " seeks to persuade people that atomic ands similar armaments are totally wrong and should be abolished . " 11 The Soviet declarations of will-1 ingness to abandon nuclear , weapons have always been more welcome to the group than the West 's insistence that there must be safeguards to guarantee their abandonment . The possibility that the Soviet Premier 's reply . had been composed since the arrangement of , the Eisenhower-Khrushchev ex change of visits stirred speculation that the issue might have ' a role in the forthcoming talks . Mr. Khrushchev is due in the , United States Sept. 15 and ' President Eisenhower is to visit the Soviet Union thereafter .                     