@@718348

txt With the distortions of the presidential campaign behind , the'people of the United States can now pay more careful attention to the important test in which their government is now engaged : the test of its poWers to promote sound economic growth and curb inflation . This test may not make the headlines of a hydrogen bomb test . Economics just does n't seem that dramatic . But it is dramatic just the same . When a great nation by the deliberate use of economic power attempts to control or minimize economic boom or economic bust , it 's a test worth noting . What are the ingredients of the test ? 1 . Taxation : the general rule in time of boom is not to cut taxes but to keep them high and even raise them . Cut them in recession . Credit Restraint Key . 2 . Budget : the general rule in time of boom is to run a substantial budget surplus . In time of recession , deficit financing is acceptable . 3 . Government spending : the general rule in time of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it is inflationary . Expand it in recession . 4 . Credit : the general rule in time of boom is to restrain credit . Ease it in recession . 5 . Debt management : the general rule in time of boom is to cut down on debt , lengthen it over a number of years , and reduce short-term debt , the kind that has to be paid off quickly . 6 . ' Public works : the general rule in time of boom is to cut down on federal works , to keep the government out of the competition for men and materials . Expand public works in recession . How well is the federal government keeping house ? What are the prospects for a better job of economic management ? The most advertised part of the test is the Federal Reserve System 's . policy of credit restraint  --  the tight rein it is holding on the discount rate it charges member banks . Other facets of government behavior are not as vigorously objective . Spending Touches Peak Government spending is at an all-time , peacetime high . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ administration 's budget did not urge restraint . Spending authorized by the last Congress was sufficiently large to counteract much of the Federal Reserve 's efforts at restraint . This spending program affects taxation and budget balancing . In fiscal 1956 ( just ended June 30 ) , the government produced a cash budget surplus of 4.5 billions of dollars , a bookkeeping surplus of 1.8 billion dollars . But the prospects for 1957 are not good . A bookkeeping surplus of only 700 million dollars has been forecast . But government projections are casting shadows on this early figure . So far in fiscal 1957 the government has run a substantial deficit , largely due to the seasonal lag in tax collection . It becomes the government 's first order of business in January either to slow expenditures in 1957 or else so rely on a huge advance in the business boom and the new tax money it will bring in to keep the government out of the red . Business has assured a prosperous 1957 . It has not projected a boom on top of a boom . If @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of federal deficit financing exists . To avoid it , tax increases will be necessary . The Treasury is now . engaged in a long-range search for more tax money which now slips through its hands in unintended benefits . But there is another point to the taxation problem . Business is engaged in unprecedented expansion . Yet to get the money for the expansion it must dig it out of investors ' pockets or borrow it . Tax relief at this time would do two things : it would release money for investment in the capital expansion of business and ease pressure on an otherwise tight money market . It would support the Federal Reserve program of credit restraint in that it would relieve pressure on the already scarce credit money available . The federal authorities must , however , decide between the inflationary aspect of a tax cut and the obvious need of business for equity capital for its expansion needs . Debt Record Examined The government 's record on the debt is not convincing . The federal debt ranged from 259.3 billion dollars in 1952 as follows : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1954 , 274.4 billion dollars in 1955 , and 278.6 billion dollars in fiscal 1956 . The Treasury is having difficulty in stretching out the new debts it incurs , and debt-lengthening , most authorities agree , is what it should strive for . It is currently in the market for a new borrowing of 1.7 billion ' dollars in bills which will mature in only 91 days . In October it borrowed 1.6 billion dollars in new cash in the same way . Since July 1 it has borrowed a total of 6.5 billion dollars . It objects to paying the higher interest rate it must now pay and prefers short-term bills for that reason . Also it is easier to raise money this way . On the other hand , the Treasury 's frequent entry into the monetary market is not a stabilizing factor on the economy . For instance , it will be in the market to refinance 9 billion dollars of one-year certificates which come due Trend of the Economy In December . Until the Treasury moves hard to get the debt spread out over long-range periods @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ debt will continue to be an unstabilizing influence in the economy , draining off money at the very times when business seriously needs it . December is always a period when business needs large amounts of money . Meanwhile , the government faces the highly controversial problem of its tight money policy . Should industries  --  especially the automobile industry  --  get into trouble in 1957 because of the high cost of credit-payment plans , pressure will be brought for an easing of Federal Reserve policy . But other industries which are not so large , or resilient or powerful  --  for example , the food processing industry  --  are in a costcredit-tax squeeze which is pressing them to the wall . Genuine hardship cases may compel the government to re-examine its policies . December Hearings Set A full airing of Reserve policy looms when hearings Start in December before the subcommittee of the Joint Economic Committee under the vice-chairmanship of Representative Wright Patman ( D ) of Texas . Proposals to undercut the power of the Federal Reserve may be made . In this connection , various recent proposals for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ President are not related and were not advanced for this purpose . Thoughtful persons have suggested that a national economic strategy board of an advisory nature would enable the President and various agencies ? of  --  the government to coordinate the vast economic powers and actions of the federal government , especially if it drew on the business community ( both small and large businesses ) for counsel . Such a board could not undercut the Federal , Reserve which is solely responsible to the Congress . The Federal Reserve could be the heart of such a council . If the public will remember that the main purpose of Federal Reserve policy is to preserve and extend prosperity ? it can follow the tests of economic powers with interest and support . Controversy may exist over steps which the government takes , but on one point all agencies of the government agree : the United States ' economic growth must be maintained and strengthened .                     