@@713968

txt Men of many nations fought all along the 100-mile front in Korea yesterday as the negotiations to arrange a cease-fire conference continued . Contact was " moderate , " Eighth Army headquarters said last night . United Nations patrols were stabbing at the strong entrenched line that the enemy had built across the peninsula since the allied advance halted a fortnight ago after the break into the Communists ' central defense triangle . They met opponents in strength of up to two battalions northeast of Chorwon , one of the sectors where the Communists were reported to be building up , and smaller groups in other areas . Headquarters of the United Nations Command , reporting activities up to 6 o'clock this morning , said that patrols had thrust far forward from the line , engaging " numerous " bands of the enemy . In the west-central sector United Nations forces beat back one attack . The guns of Navy task forces in the Sea of Japan lashed at the enemy 's rear , drawing return fire off Wonsan , where Gen. Matthew B. Ridgway , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a Danish hospital ship . Planes dropped bombs , came down low in strafing runs with their machine guns and scorched the front with flaming jellied gasoline . At least two planes , operating from . Navy carriers , were shot down , but Naval headquarters announced the rescue of both pilots from behind the enemy lines by helicopters . Behind the front far-ranging bombers continued to pound the communications lines over which the Communists pumped men and supplies to the battle areas . Assessing the situation along the front , observers said it was " business as usual " for the men in the foxholes . Neither side made strongly aggressive moves but neither did the United Nations or Communist forces relax their efforts . . Hwangju Airfield Is Hit Behind the enemy lines twentyfour Thunderjet fighter-bombers smashed at Hwangju Airfield  --  one of the strips that the enemy might use should any armistice talks break down and the Chinese Air Force from Manchuria be thrown in to give support to a new offensive . At least twelve direct hits with 500-pound bombs scored on the southern end of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ completely out of commission . " The airstrip at Haeju , a large supply dump at Samdung , east of the Communist capital at Pyongyang , and a railroad bridge at Songchon also were hit . The biggest concentration of the enemy yesterday was reported northeast of Chorwon , in the former " iron triangle , " where two battalions offered " moderate " resistance to a United Nations task force . West to east , along the front , Eighth Army patrols were fired on with automatic weapons by an undetermined number of the enemy north of Korangpo , on the Thirtyeighth Parallel . Korangpo is about ten miles east of the ancient Korean capital at Kaesong , in the area where the Chinese and North Koreans in their counter-proposal to General Ridgway 's message had proposed the truce talks be held . Kaesong a No Man 's Land Kaesong itself , which United Nations patrols entered recently but did not occupy , apparently remained a No Man 's Land . West of Yonchon , where the Communists dug into the hills overlooking the Imjin River valley , resistance was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the enemy were encountered by roving United Nations patrols . They did draw fire , however , from Chinese mortars . Inside the triangle , two enemy companies engaged United Nations troops northeast of Kumhwa , and fighting was still continuing up to dusk yei3terday . There was slight contact farther east , where the Communists fought to hold their advance base at Kumsong . The enemy fired heavy artillery barrages north of Yanggu , in the abrupt hills at  --  the eastern end of the Hwachon Reservoir . In this area pilots of the First Marine Air Wing played the unusual role of giving what they called close-support fire to fifty of the enemy who seemed to be trying to surrender , The North Korean soldiers , apparently attempting to come into the United Nations lines to give themselves up , were under fire from their own side , the Marines reported , and planes came down to strafe the non-surrendering enemy with 20-mm. cannon . They did not know if the fifty North Koreans had succeeded in deserting . No fighting was reported on the east coast , where @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ highway and the secondary roads farther inland . Corsairs from the carriers Boxer and Bon Homme Richard worked over the area as far west : as Chorwon , leaving six sppply dumps burning . In the air , planes of the Fifth Air Force flew 376 missions up to 6 P. M. yesterday . ** of the Far East Air Forces Bomber Command flew over the communists ' east coast supply line down from . Manchuria . They dropped thirty tons of high explosives on supply and distribution points at Hungnam.                     