@@720841

txt Carefully using the French Staff College as his sounding board , President de Gaulle has declared that an " integrated " Atlantic Pact " has had its day " and that from now on France will only " associate " itself with its allies and will fight only what are clearly and exclusively " its wars , using its men and its material , on its soil . " This means no less than France 's withdrawal from the jointly decided and executed operations of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization . It means that NATO will have to be redesigned into either a group of independent states , merely cooperating with one another when necessary , or that the remaining 14 member countries will have to close ranks and try to carry on without France . Observers here feel that General de Gaulle 's statement was not a tactical operation on a secondary issue , capable of being negotiated . It is rather regarded as a fundamental stand , the kind from which he is incapable of withdrawing , as indicated in the latest volume of his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is to make great " the nation " as something even above the French people , something which they must serve rather than the state serving them . By tying the " greatness " motive to the antiintegration concept of the Army . General de Gaulle 's position on NATO is widely accepted as final . Going back to classical historical concepts ? he was a teacher of history at St. Cyr for two years  --  General de Gaulle points out that the governing agencies which most other nations consider aimed primarily at serving civilian ends are in France primarily set up for the defense of France . Therefore the defense of France can only be a French affair , he says . " If , your country is forced to make war , " he said , " it must be its war . It must defend itself , by itself and in its fashion . The conception of defense in which France will no longer be itself is clearly unthinkable . The system of integration which prevailed during a certain epoch has had its day . Certainly . things @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ defense . We can stand at the sides of our allies , but with each one playing his own role . " This , of course , is a complete reversal of the great advance which the NATO alliance had made beyond former military alliances , with their history of basic weakness which too often let them fall apart in moments of crisis and which made of them mere marriages of convenience . Clock Set Back It sets back the clock to World War I and the unhappy breakdowns of Anglo-French defenses at the beginning of World War II . In a West which has sought to make the Atlantic alliance something far better than the old types , to make it serve as an instrument for building a genuine " Atlantic community , " Genera ! de Gaulle 's decision is an icy shower . As far as Western community thinking is concerned , this full step backward from - integration " to " association " is an act of isolation by France . General de Gaulle 's comment on the atomic bomb indicates the same prevailing spirit . He said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the world , we must also be able to attack any point in the world . We must know we can have this striking force . Today this striking force is the atomic arm . The atomic arm must belong to us whether we build it or buy it . " A-Plans Proclaimed General de Gaulle thereby announced that he is going to have intercontinental missiles with atomic warheads which can " attack any point in the world . " Since the Soviet Union and the United States are spending fortunes to develop these weapons  --  amounts which France could never afford for such a purpose  --  General de Gaulle 's mention of - buying " atomic arms suggests that he expects the United States not merely to share atomic knowledge so for withheld but also to sell him atomic missiles able to hit any nation on the globe . If this is a sneak preview of General de Gaulle 's program for the forthcoming Western summit meeting , it is not reassuring . Turn to Reds Possible Although admittedly an extreme possibility , it can not be ruled out completely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for atomic weapons if he could not obtain them from the United States or Britain . The upset this would cause on the international scene does not need elaboration . In a sense , such a move would be in keeping with the general 's philosophy of history , rooted to concepts of a past era in which kings and princes used to buy arms wherever they could get them  --  from potential enemies as well as from friends . African issues occupy UN : Page 7.                     