@@713898

txt President Truman signed today an " urgently needed " deficiency appropriations bill but only after strongly objecting to a " seriously defective " section barring United States economic aid to any Government shipping strategic materials to Communist countries . The bill provides $365,000,000 for various Federal agencies for the rest of the fiscal year . The President , returning from his Chesapeake Bay holiday to sign the measure at the White House , explained his approval with a 2,500-word statement pointing out that the funds provided by the bill were essential to important , Government activities . He criticized the aid " rider " for making " broad and sweeping changes in our procedures for restricting trade between the free world and the Soviet Union and its satellites . " Calling for its prompt repeal , Mr. Truman said the " rider " would weaken our security . He asked separate legislation if Congress decided some restrictions were necessary . " * " If we cut off our aid to a friendly country , we might hurt ourselves more than we hurt the Soviet Union , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ off this aid could strike a death blow at the tremendous defense effort in which the free nations are now engaged . " Agrees With Aims Mr. Damian said he was sure that Congress had intended to strengthen the security of both the United States and the free world . " With that purpose , " the President added , " everyone agrees . The United States and other free nations have been pursuing this objective for a long time , and much greater progress has been made than has generally been realized . " Unless exceptions are broadly made , as provided in the bill , the rider will result , however , in weakening rather than in strengthening the collective security of the free world , the President concluded . Mr. Truman also observed that the restriction was a " major piece of legislation affecting our foreign policy " that never had been con. - sidered by the foreign policy committees of either the Senate or House of Representatives . Opposes " Blind Cut " Expressing his confidence that both Congress and the Executive Branch had the same general @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ security interests of- the United States , " the President set fortl these three principles for an " imprioved " measure : 1 . Its purpose should not be " blindly to cut off as much trade as possible , but to cut off trade only when such action will add to the security of the United States and the rest of the world . " 2 . It should compare the value of the goods received from the Soviet bloc to those that are sent to those countries , distinguish between commodities of various types , and consider the value of of the increased strength for freedom provided by United States economic assistance . 3 . It should provide for " simple , effective and straightforward administration . " The deficiency appropriations bill was passed by both houses of Congress and sent to the White House on May 21 , Senator James P. Kern , Republican of Missouri , proposed the original amendment out of which the rider was eventually fashioned by a conference committee . Senator Kern made it plain in a statement that he was not satisfied with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is unconvincing , " he said . " It will not persuade.the American people that they should send aid to Marshall Plan countries to be used to shoot down our sons in Korea . I shall have more to . say in the Senate . " In the statement accompanying his signature , the President noted that the shipment of arms , ammunition , . implements of . war , and atomic-energy materials had been prohibited since long before the Korean war by the United States , the Western European countries and most of the other free nations . The difficulties with the rider are the result of its application to " ordinary items of trade and corn merce , " ' said Mr. Truman . He asserted that the restriction fails to see that trade is " a two-way street , " with the free . nations - receiving from the Soviet countries substantial amounts of coal , grain , timber , manganese , chrome , asbestos , and iron and steel products which are " of major importance to the common defense of the free world . " For these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ textiles , fibers , machinery and equipment , foods and raw materials . While some of these goods may have some value in the manufacture of war material , the President acknowledged , that is not sufficient reason for prohibiting their shipment to the Soviet bloc " if the free world receives in return goods of greater value . "                     