@@712770

txt March winds , ? which attained a velocity of sixty-three miles an hour , buffeted craft in the harbor here and at sea yesterday , and caused a short circuit in an automatic signal system that stranded Long Island and Pennsylvania Railroad trains . The train tie-up delayed thous .. -. nds of passengers bound in anc out of the Pennsylvania Station from fifteen minutes to two hours . The short-circuit occurred at 8:12 A. M. at the tower on the east side of the Hackensack River ink the New Jersey Meadows and ended normal operation when all signals changed to indicate stop . A railroad spokesman said the winds had blown loose a hanger ? wire in the catenary system of the Pennsylvania Railroad 's main line , causing an 11,000-volt high tension line to strike a 6,600-volt line of the signal circuit . This blew fuses and put switch - Lnd signal systems out of operation in tunnels ' under the East and Hudson Rivers . Some Trains Rerouted Sixteen Long Island trains bound Into the station were delayed for varying periods . Four others were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ City where passengers used the subway into the city , one was terminated at Woodside , and seven eastbound trains were delayed from nine to forty-four minutes . Three eastbound trains , scheduled to start , from Pennsylvania Station , began ' their runs from Jamaica instead . At least three trains were stalled in the tunnel under the East River for forty minutes . A Pennsylvania spokesman said twenty eastbound and ten westbound trains were delayed from fifteen minutes to two hours . The Inbound Cincinnati Limited , due at 8:20 A. M. , reached the station at 10:23 A. M. Other fast passenger trains affected were the Red Arrow from Detroit , one hour late ; the Broadway Limited from Chicago , thirtyfive minutes late ; and the Spirit of St. Louis , almost two hours late . The Cavalier from Cape Charles and Norfolk , Va. , due at 7:30 A. M. , arrived at 10:53 A. M. , but this train , the spokesman said , was an hour and a half behind schedule before it reached the main line between Washington and New York . Long @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stop at each signal until the signal was reset by hand before proceeding to the next signal . The Long Island schedule was normal at 10 A. M. The Pennsylvania schedule returned to normal shortly after 11 A. M. Power was shut off while emergency crews removed the wire and replaced fuses all along the line . The trouble was cleared up at 9:47 A. M. Two Storms Heading to Sea The Weather Bureau 's explanation for the high winds was that two coastwise storms were moving out to sea . One storm was moving out from the Maine coast , hitting ships 500 to 600 miles off shore . Another , going northeastward from Newfoundland , was expected to be about 1,500 miles at sea today , meeting shipping head-on . Today , according to the forecast , the winds will diminish to moderate northerly blasts , but tomorrow they will be blowing hard again . It will be mostly sunny and cold today , with the highest temperature near 35 degrees , but snow is " likely " late tonight or early tomorrow . A barge tender on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Coast Guard to have probably drowned when the vessel capsized while in the tow of the Moran Towing and Transportation Company 's tug Pauline off Ambrose lightship . He was identified by the barge owners , the O'Brien Bros . Construction Company , as Henry Pedersen , 50 years old , of 39 Bergen Street , Brooklyn . Two other barges in the tow were brought through safely . All hands were saved when the Sandy Hook pilot launch Gedney sprang a leak and sank Friday night east-northeast of Buoy 2A near Ambrose Lightship . The Coast Guard reported that the crew was picked up by the pilot boat New Jersey , which took the men to Pier 18 , Staten Island . An empty sixty-foot barge tore loose from its moorings yesterday morning at the Earl Naval Ammunition . Depot pier at Leonardo , N. J. , and drifted in Lhe bay with one crewman aboard . Later the craft beached on Sandy Hook with the man unhurt . A Coast Guard picket boat was standing by to tow the barge off when the tide came in . Heavy weather @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had been expected two days ago when the storm first made itself troublesome to sea commerce . The Cunard liner Queen Mary changed her estimated time of arrival here from tomorrow to Tuesday morning . The transport Gen. Maurice Rose of the Military Sea Transportation Service , originally scheduled for docking tomorrow , will arrive on Wednesday . The American Export Lines reported that the liner Exeter would arrive on Thursday instead of Wednesday . According to the weather station at La Guardia Airport , gale winds did not affect air transportation , although they reached a sustained velocity of fifty-two miles an ' hour The high wind resulted in fiftyone calls to the Emergency Service Division at Police Headquarters for aid between midnight Friday and 6:30 P. M. yesterday . Elizabeth 36 Hours Late SOUTHAMPTON , England , March 18 ( ' ) ? The liner Queen Elizabeth arrived this morning from New York , thirty-six hours late after encountering the worst weather of the winter in the North Atlantic . No one was injured . ' The skipper , Commodore C. M. Ford , said the wind reached hurricane @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for three days . A day was lost at Cherbourg when Channel gales prevented debarkation of passengers . One of them , Lewis Douglas , the United States Ambassador , flew from Cherbourg to London . 11 Lost in Trawler Sinking HALIFAX , N. S. , March 18 ( A ) ? A Nova Scotia trawler was rammed and sunk in the early morning darkness off ** Harbor today , carrying eleven of her seventeen crew members to their death . Only six escaped from the 115-foot Gertrude De Costa , out of Yarmouth , N. S. , after a collision with the Connector , a vessel of the Interisland Steamship Company , Ltd . Sitting in. the engine room of the Connector , the shivering survivors told of a frantic scramble for safety during the few minutes before their craft took her last plunge , All were taken to a hospital after . the 1,386-ton Connector brought them into port . Some suffered injuries and shock . In . the companionway lay the bodies of two of their shipmates . All the survivors  --  one - was carried under with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Nova Scotia . All the ' dead , except one from Grand Bank , Newfoundland , also were Nova Scotians . Among the dead were Capt . Haslen Knickle of Lunenburg and his father , Otto . George Schrader and his son , Dave , also were lost . ? On the Banks a few days ago a dory of the Gertrude upset and one crew member was lost . His dory-mate , MortoirTarmer of Blue Rocks , was . saved . Today , Tanner was one ' of those lost .                     