@@714678

txt The New United Nations commander , Gen. Mark W. Clark , today promised an early conclusion of the investigation into the incident on Koje Island where Communist prisoners kidnapped the camp commander , Brig . Gen. Francis T. Dodd , and held him captive for seventy-eight hours while bargaining for concessions from headquarters . General Clark announced that General Dodd and his successor , Brig . Gen. Charles F. Colson , had been returned to Korea after coming here yesterday to make personal reports on what the . United Nations commander had termed , the " blackmail " of the CommuInists . General Clark denied as " totally " without foundation " speculative press reports " that Generals Dodd and Colson had been orally reprimanded . " The purpose of the conference was to provide me with additional . factual information in connection with the Koje incident , " General ' Clark said in a release through the Public Information Office here . " The investigation of circumstances surrounding the seizure of ' General Dodd by Communist prisoners of war and negotiations leading to his subsequent release @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Until conclusion of the investigation it is inappropriate for me to make public statements concerning it . " Promises to Prisoners Among other things , General Colson had been forced to admit that there had been bloodshed on Koje and to promise that " in the future prisoners of war can expect humane treatment "  --  a statement that seemed to imply that the United Nations had not lived up to the terms of the Geneva Prisonerof-War Convention , and which , it was stated here , gave an " erroneous " impression . General Colson also told the prisoners there would be no further " screening " of prisoners ? a process to which Communists have violently objected because it gave more than half the prisoners an opportunity to make plain they would forcibly resist a return to Communist territory after an armistice in Korea . In Thursday 's Panmunjom truce negotiation session , the Communists added a charge that the United Nations was using atomic bombs in Korea . Admiral Joy for the Allies said the foe 's accusations had become " ridiculous . " A board of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to an announcement by Gen. James A. Van Fleet , commander of the Eighth Army , and presumably after both Korea and Tokyo ended their fact-finding it would be de . termined whether a formal court martial , reprimand or other process would be resorted to in case of the two generals . Duties Undisclosed It was not disclosed what , if any , duties now would be performed in Korea by the two generals , both of whom were relieved as commanders on Koje . General Colson previously had been chief of staff of the First Corps and General Dodd , until he was appointed to Koje last February , served on the staff of the Eighth Army . The duties at Koje were taken over today by the new commander , Brig . Gen. Haydon L. Boatner , a former Marine Corps private who was called " Bull " by his friends and who has a reputation as a tough disciplinarian . Whether the . oval of Gen ral Dodd and Colson and the appointIment of General Boatner meant a new " get tough " policy with the Communist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The Communists on two occasions prior to General Dodd 's kidnapping have been able to instigate bloody riots on Koje and the previous United Nations commander , Gen. tathew B. Ridgway , made known that " serious consideration " had been given to the possibility that the ! prisoners received their instructions through underground channels from the North Korean Command . General Clark , ointed out , however , that the camps are administered under the terms of the Geneva Convention , which strictly regulates the treatment of prisoners  --  even permitting them to elect ' their own representatives in an ' organization similar to that which I the Communists demanded General Colson grant them .                     