@@719887

txt Assistant Overseas News Editor of The Christian Science Monitor In a strange way Israel at the moment is helping President Nasser in the latter 's effort to squeeze the Jordanian throne of King Hussein to extinction . By forbidding American and British planes to fly over Israeli territory ? in an official warning Aug. ** has halted the petroleum and supply airlift which Jordan needs urgently to keep its economy going . The hardship for Jordan is compounded by the fact that Syria has just sealed off its frontier with Jordan , thus closing Jordan 's normal land supply route from Lebanbn and Syria . Jordan 's eastern border with Iraq has been closed since the Iraqi Army rebellion of July 14 . This leaves open only Jordan 's awkward and inadequate southern port of Aqaba , at the head of the narrow Gulf of Aqaba . Oil and other supplies now are being unloaded from American and British ships at Aqaba , but these goods then must be transported hundreds of miles across the desert by truck to reach Jordanian cities . Unless the Israelis lift @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from Lebanon and Cyprus respectively , must travel south to Libya , across the Sudan , and up the Red Sea and the Gulf of Aqaba in order to enter Jordan without crossing either Israel or hostile Arab territory . All this presents the strange spectacle of Israeli Premier David Ben-Gurion apparently aiding the plans of Syria and Egypt , his arch Arab foes . A prime aim of President Nag .. ser 's United Arab Republic is to topple King Hussein 's government and replace it with a Jordanian regime subservient to Cairo . Action Before Permission Mr. Ben-Gurion 's drastic action  --  which the United States and British Governments are urging Israel to countermand  --  stems partly from internal political pressures , partly from disappointment at Western policy toward Iraq , and partly , apparently , from a kind of pique . To take the last point first , Mr. Ben-Gurion is believed to feel that Israel 's acquiescence in American and British use of its air space had been taken for granted . Indeed , the first British planes carrying paratroops to Jordan last month flew over Israel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an estimated 3,500 soldiers in Jordan , guarding King Hussein and also protecting 150 British and 200 American civilians in the country . The United States , for its part , is underwriting the economy of Jordan . Pressure Indicated On Aug. 3 Britain reportedly asked to increase the size of its airlift across Israel . Instead , both Britain and the United States were informed they would have to cease all flights . In taking this decision , Mr. Ben-Gurion apparently was serving notice on the Western powers that Israel must be fully consulted in any moves directly affecting Israeli security . The Israeli leader also bowed to the pressure of important left-wing elements in Israel which had strongly criticized Mr. BenGurion for associating Israel with the Anglo-American military intervention in the Middle East . The Israeli Embassy in Washington , in a statement Aug. 5 , denied that a Soviet note of Aug. 1 had had any effect on the Israeli decision . The Soviet note charged Israel with aggravating tension in the Middle East through Western use of its air space . The embassy also said Israeli Ambassador @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ find an alternative arrangement , satisfactory to both sides . Solitary Path Ahead ? ' Also affecting Mr. BenGurion 's decision may have been Israeli disappointment at American and British recognition of the new regime in Iraq . Earlier many Israelis privately had welcomed the strong Anglo-American stand in Lebanon and Jordan , and had hoped that tho Iraqi insurgents might be crushed by Western action . Western recognition of the Iraqi Government dispels this hope , and also hints that the present Western intervention in Jordan is merely a temporary holding action . This may have led Mr. BenGurion to the conclusion that Israel soon would be surrounded by Nasser - dominated Arab states , and that Israel , facing this possibility , must cut itself away from Western policy and strike out on its own . It is known Israeli representatives in the United States and Europe are actively seeking new arms for Israel 's armed forces . Given the critical nature of their task in maintaining the integrity of Jordan , Washington and London are bound to deplore the Israeli action . Ironically enough , the Israeli Government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , now is greatly increasing the cost of United States help to Jordan . Neutral Position Seen In Lebanon , meanwhile , American troop strength was built up to 14,000 men Aug. 5 by the arrival of 1,000 newcomers aboard the transpoft General Geiger . An American spokesman said this completed the movement of troops to Lebanon . The final build-up came one day after Gen. Fuad Chehab , President-elect of Lebanon , declared in a radio address that the withdrawal of American forces was " foremost among our national aims . " The tenor of General Chehab 's remarks indicated he will pursue a more neutral Arab policy than President Chamoun , whose open espousal of the Eisenhower Doctrine was a major factor in causing the current Lebanese revolt .                     