@@718134

txt IU . S. Seeks Priority Regardless of what Orville E. Hodge does in Springfield , or whether he is sentenced , he will appear in federal District court here Monday , before Judge John P. Barnes for arraignment on federal charges involving 53 counts of misapplying bank funds and one count of conspiracy . Frank J. ? , Tirst assistant to United States Atty . Tieken , who prepared the case against Hodge and his associates , said that if Hodge is sentenced in ' Springfield he will ask the federal court to issue a writ to remove Hodge to federal custody . BY ROBERT IVIEDRICH Chicago Tribune Press Service Springfield ; 111 . , Aug. 9 ? Orville E. Hodge , resigned state auditor , in a ) ! plead guilty in Sangamon county Circuit court here tomorrow to charges arising out of a million dollar bogus state check swindle . Announcement of the possible change in plea was made by State 's Atty . George P. Coutrakon at a press conference here late today . Hodge 's attorney , Arthur M. Fitzgerald , told @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Fitzgerald said that if Hodge pleaded guilty , he would ask that sentence be passed immediately  --  and wanted to know what was the least sentence Coutrakon would recommend to the court . Told Him No Deals " I repeated to Mr. Fitzgerald what I have said time and time again , that there will be no deals made of any kind at any time , " Coutrakon said in a prepared statement . " I also stated that if Hodge pleads guilty tomorrow , I felt it would be my duty to object strenuously to the court 's passing sentence at that time . " Coutrakon explained he wanted the court to be fully informed on the evidence involved in 46 indictments against Hpdge charging embezzlement , forgery , and confidence game . Fitzgerald said Hodge 's offer to plead guilty was against his advice . He declined to com-1 ment on Coutrakon 's adamant stand against recommending al lenient sentence . If the plea is made , it will be entered before Circuit Judge L. E. Wilhite . Coutrakon said he would ask the court to put off @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it would take that much time to prepare his case for presentation in court . At least a week of court sessions would be required to hear the " 10 or 15 " witnesses he would produce , he said . Coutrakon gave three reasons he believes dictated Fitzgerald 's offer . Free on $100,000 Bend " Hodge wants to escape sentencing by the federal court , " Coutrakon said . . " He also is apparently in hopes of getting a light sentence and wants to get it over and go to jail right quick . " But , again I want to repeat , there will be no deal . I told Fitzgerald he could plead his client and take his chances . " Hodge is free on $100,000 bond after previously pleading not guilty when arraigned here on the state charges . He is scheduled to be arraigned on federal charges growing out of the scandal in federal District court in Chicago Monday . Hodge has been in lonely seclusion at his expensive Lake Springfield home near here since the scandal became hot . There have been repeated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and wanted to plead guilty to get his ordeal over . Fitzgerald had told ME TRIBUNE yesterday ' that he was having trouble restraining his client from rejecting his advice , and that Hodge was anxious to end the matter . Authorities , are trying to learn whether Mrs. Hodge actively took part in any of her husband 's manipulations of state funds , it was disclosed here today . Coutrakon said Mrs. Hodge may appear voluntarily tomorrow for questioning by a Sangamon county grand jury probing her husband 's fraudulent state check swindle . May Be Immune If it can be proved that Mrs. Hodge took an active part in the scheme , Coutrakon said , she could be charged as a principal in the case . If , however , she merely had knowledge of her husband 's activities , the prosecutor said , she could not be charged because of her legal rights not to testify against her husband . Mrs. Hodge , thru her attorney , has offered to cooperate in attempts to restore at least part of the looted funds to the state treasury .. Coutrakon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ money found its way into Mrs. Hodge 's holdings such as the Esquire hotel , Fort Lauderdale , Fla. , a fancy vacation spot for some of Hodge 's political and hoodlum friends . At a press conference today , Lloyd Morey , appointed auditor after Hodge 's resignation , announced at least six other employes have left the auditor 's payroll . Among them was William Mehl , a voucher clerk who once worked in Hodge 's home town offices in Granite City , Morey said Mehl was given the " opportunity " to resign . Altho the resignation was effective July 31 , Mehl will stay on the payroll until Aug. 15 , because of vacation time due him . Records kept by Mehl in Hodge 's Granite City of f ices were seized by state investigators over a week ago and were found to contain information linking the fallen politician to southern Illinois hoodlums . Morey would not name the other employes severed from his payroll . $700,000 In Trust Fund The new auditor also announced a check has shown that about $700,000 remains in the auditor 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in closed financial institutions . It is the looting of this fund which led to indictment of Hodge ' by a federal grand jury in Chicago for misapplication of federally insured funds . Morey said an audit would have to determine the exact amount that was ill egally Itaken from the trust account . It was also announced that Morey has hired a $100 a day special consultant to study internal organization of the auditor 's general office . He is Eric L. Kohler , a Chicago accountant and former Northwestern university commerce school accounting professor . Meanwhile , the prosecutor 's ' office was rushing to complete drawing of additional indictments against Hodge for presentation to the grand jury . tomorrow . Others expected - .0 be indicted are Edward ' A. Hintz , resigned president , of the Southmoor Bank &; Trust comz patty , Chicago , where phony state checks were cashed , and Edward A. Epping , Hedge 's former office manager .                     