@@718120

txt Letters to The Times H.C . ALLEN , FRED W. GUILD , TEODORO ALVARADO GARAICOA , RALPH E. FLANDERS , L.M. GOO ... Letters to The Times Cooperation in Suez Crisis Importance of Maintaining AngloAmerican Unity Stressed To THE EDITOR OF TAE New YORK TIMES : At no time perhaps since the war has there been a greater potential threat to the Anglo-American cooperation on which the future of civilization as we know it depends , than the Suez crisis . Hitherto the paramount cause , of stress upon AngloAmerican relations has been the actions of Russia and China , and these produced an automatic reaction in both the American and British peoples . It would be ironical indeed if a serious rift between them occurred as a result of the actions of a power . such as Egypt . The Anglo-American agreement on the calling of the i London conference must be main-1 tained at all costs by the reconciliation of any differences of opinion as to what ought to be done should the conference fail to achieve its object . This will require great care @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mean exercising ' firm restraint on her very , natural alarm and indignation at the action of a power with whom she has made every effort in recent years to reach a solid friendship . There is no residual taint of colonialism in our attitude to Egypt : our forces have left that country and the canal zone altogether . There is , indeed , a small minority in. this country who opposed this withdrawal at the time and who tend to blame American pressure for what they claim to have clearly demonstated now as a distastrons mistake . Restraint under these circumstances will not be easy for us in our need to insure stable conditions for international use of the canal . But the role of the United States may be even more difficult for her to play and will require all the political maturity of which she has shown herself capable in modern times , for the Middle East , even with its oil , ? does not appear so immediately to affect her vital interests . To every Briton , as to every Australian and New Zealander , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ waterway is a stab at the heart : it is an emotional shock as powerful as would be any similar threat against Panama to all Americans ( and recent American reaction even over Guatemala was pretty sharp ) . British Concern Economically the Suez Canal is more important to the British Commonwealth than is the Panama Canal ' to the United States ; nearly a quarter of all the ships using the canal are British , and of the imports upon which Great Britain , to an extent unique among nations , depends for her life a remarkably large proportion pass through Suez . Nor does British public opinion feel that America would be justified in standing aloof from the ultimate consequences of a crisis in the precipitation of which she was greatly concerned , though Britain would certainly be prepared to bear the major burden  --  if not the ? whole of it  --  in any localized conflict which I might ensue . What is of supreme importance in this crisis is that American public opinion should grasp how desperate and fundamental must be Britain 's concern in the matter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ feel that the American people are . with them all along the line in their aim of insuring beyond a peradventure reasonable conditions for the traffic of all nations through the canal . If this is , so , differences as to means can , I am confident , be resolved . Let neither country forget that beyond the dubious figure of Colonel Nasser there lies the enigmatic Soviet Union . Nothing could be ( more fatal to the free world as a whole than a breach ( even if only an insidious breach in mutual sympathy , with all the damage that subsequent and bitter recrimination could do ) between the United States and her most powerful and stanchest ally . We must never allow ourselves to be maneuvered into a position where the Communist powers could force this division upon us . It still remains , in respect of the Middle East , as true as it has ever been since 1941 that the future of both America and Britain depends Primarily upon Anglo - American unity . H. C. ALLEN , Commonwealth Professor or American History , University @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Work of the Y. M. C. A. TO THE EDITOK OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : This letter is an invitation to yoU ? readers to visit and to become acquainted with the community work being done by the Uptown Branch of the Young Men 's Christian Association , 131 West 104th Street . The uptown branch works chiefly with teen-agers . Wholesome surroundings , recreational facilities , resourceful leadership and interest in the individual problems of these young people have helped immeasurably in keeping many of these boys and girls from succumbing to waywardness . The uptown " Y " is currently giving leadership to the Cathedral Summer Recreation Group . This endeavor consists of morning and afternoon sessions for children 7 to 11 years of age on the grounds of the Cathedral of St. John the Divine . The services feature baseball , swimming , volleyball , arts and crafts , boat rides and overnight camping trips . Volunteer leaders and funds to Maintain uptown " Y " servicee ? . are always needed , but an even greater need is an awareness and knowledge on the part of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ becomes acquainted with the far-reaching influences of this program , we feel confident leadership and financial assistance will increase . FRED W. GUILD , Chairman , Board of Managers , Uptown Branch , Young Men 's Christian Association . New York , Aug. 8 , 1956 . Ecuador 's Stand Given Peru 's Statement of Defensive Action Denied , Aggression Charged To THE EDITOR OF THE NSW YORK TIMES ! ' ? You published on Aug. 7 a letter front the Ambassador of Peru with respect to the commentaries gathered by the distinguished newspaper man Tad Szulc in relation to the motives that led to the Peruvian military sction in the years 1941-42 against Ecuador . Without referring to this last point let me state the following : The military action perpetrated by the Government of Peru in 1941 was not a " defensive action , " as affirmed by the Peruvian Ambassador . On the contrary , it was an undeniable and suppressive aggression consummated after a detailed and carefully prepared war planning , utilizing all the military resources at the disposition of Peru and which had been acquired in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ subscribed in 1942 was the result of such an aggression . Ecuador was compelled herself to sign it , while two undisputed Ecuadorian provinces were militarily occupied by Peruvian forces , as it was acknowledged in the protocol itself by providing that Peru shall evacuate such , Ecuadorian territories and shall move back to the line as established in Article VIII of the instrument . The above - mentioned protocol , subscribed under the referred circumstances and under the threat of a continued and further extended aggression , did not take into account the historical and legal rights of Ecuador . Besides , with the purpose of resolving that factual situation , ' geographical realities were not duly considered , so much so that , due to that inaccurate procedure , the legal and material app3ication of the protocol is not feasible in ' the Santiago-Zamora zone because of the lack of a geographical accident supposed to exist but that a later American Aerophotogrametrical Survey of the region demonstrated its non-existence ; The protocol of 1942 did not confirm any Peruvian rights , as asserted by the Ambassador of Peru , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ consequence of which Peru acquired over 200,000 square kilometers of Ecuadorian territory , including ' areas which never were under her possession . As to the latter , it was ratified by official and public declarations , of the Governs ment of Peru , then headed by President Dr. Manuel Prado , now in office again . The concurrence of the Governments of Argentina , Brazil , Chile and the United States of America , as guarantors and mediators . of the 1942 protocol , was necessary precisely to avoid further Peruvian attempts at aggression . TEODORO ALVARADO GARAICOA , Ambassador of Ecuador . Washington , Aug. 7 , 1956 . To Ban Bomb Tests ro THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : " As nearly as I could make out from my car radio in the Canadian woods , Marshal Zhukov in answering Hanson Baldwin . has again asserted Soviet willingness to estab ? lish ground observation posts in his country and ours . On the assumption that such posts in each country could be strategically located and be provided with modern radar equipment , it would seem possible @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ intercontinental range . These missiles are no mere popguns . They more nearly approach the tremendous propulsive requirements for launching an artificial satellite . It would seem reasonable to take the position that any military activity which can be monitored is a fit subject for negotiated control . If so , active negotiations for monitoring the intercontinental ballistic missile and banning its firing would seem to be in order . Making the further assumption that an H-bomb leaves traces in the upper air which can be . detected , why not negotiate an end to such explosions ? Let us seek to establish the principle that anything which can be monitored is ripe for negotiated control . A considerable step toward armament reduction would be represented by the effective banning of the hydrogen bomb and the intercontinental ballistic missile . RALPH E. FLANDERS , ' United States Senator . St. Alexis des Month , Que. , Aug , 11 , 1956 . Bowles for Vice-Presidency TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK Thiess Why ? has n't anyone suggested Chester Bowles for Vice President ? He has political know-how , having @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Asia well . and is respected there , and would be an ambassador par excellence of goodwill for the United States anywhere in the world . With his personality he should be a definite asset to the Democrats . L. M. GoODWIN , North Tarrytown , N. Y. , Aug . La8 "                     