@@712878

txt With the deadline for the apartnent house strike by 18,000 members of Local 32B , Puilding Service Employes Union , A. F. L. , already past , it appeared late yesterday that the walkout would be fully under way by the morning rush hour today . Union officials refused to reveal the exact hour of the stoppage " for strategic reasons . " Previously they had set the time as " any time after 5:45 P. M. Wednesday . " First to be affected by the strike will be large buildings on the east and west ' sides of Central Park . The walkout is then scheduled to spread through the city until possibly 2,000 buildings on union lists will be without elevator operators or other employes who man essential operations . At the San Remo Apartments , a twenty-seven-story building at 145 Central Park West , tenants were being informed last night that the strike would start at 6 A. M. The night superintendent , who would not give his name , said he had been told by a shop steward that the 6 A. M. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ report of similar action at the Beresford Apartments , 211 Central Park West , where 200 families live in the twenty-two-story building , was not confirmed at the superintendent 's office . Tenants to Man Elevators Meanwhile , reports reaching police precincts said that tenants in at least one Fifth Avenue building were preparing to man elevators . It is estimated that between 70,000 and 100,000 families will be affected by the strike . City and union officials met yesterday in the office of Joseph E. O'Grady , director of the city 's Labor Relations Division , and drew up a list of six measures to take care of emergencies that might arise from the stoppage . The union has agreed to grant visiting doctors , dentists and other medical aides assistance in reaching ill tenants . Aid also will be given other tenants who are sick or " whose physical condition requires emergency service . " Doctors who are merely tenants in a building , however , will receive no special consideration , it was said . " Accredited " members of city departments entering buildings to fulfill duties , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ doctors in " some " buildings and families where there is a death will receive emergency service by special union squads . These roving groups will wear arm lbands and will be led by union stewards and other officials . Neither the union nor officials of the Realty Advisory Board on Labor Relations , Inc. , against whose members the strike is directed , met yesterday either for a renewal of negotiations or with Arthur S. Meyer , chairman of the State Labor Board , who has been seeking to avert the walkout . Some Separate Parleys Seen Union spokesmen declared they had received at least seven notices from members of the realty board announcing that they were quitting the board and were ready to negotiate separately with the union . Willard Doyle , executive secretary of the realty board , said , however , that only two such resignations lad been received and characterized this as " amazingly low , iniicating the unanimity of board nembers " on the issues involved . Meanwhile , the Police Departalent alerted its precinct coinnanders to report to headquarters , immediately after a walkout @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ involved . The strike ; hreat brought top police officials : o a closed conference in the office ) f Chief Inspector August W. ? lath at headquarters . In all likelihood the walkout will effect immediately only the 1,000 mildings affiliated with the realty ) oard . Independent owners who ollow the board 's refusal to arbirate the dispute as proposed by he union , will be the next to have heir buildings struck . Where any if the 1,000 independent owners gree to arbitrate or negotiate un.er other than the board 's terms , the union will not pull its members off the jobs . The estimate of union members who will walk out ranges from 10,000 to 18,000 , according to realty board and union figures . In instances where union members who fire boilers or collect refuse go out on strike , the buildings where they work will be without hot water or heat if tempera-1 tures drop , and garbage will not be collected , it was said . Intensive picketing is planned by the union at the beginning of the walkout on the East and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unnamed strike headquarters will be centers for carrying out emergency aid . Prepared for Emergencies Dr. Samuel Frant , Deputy Commissioner of Health in charge of the department 's emergency committee , reported that the union has a " thorough grasp of the situation and realizes fully that emergencies which involve health will arise if and when a strike is called . " " They ( union officials ) joined in declaring that they will give Mayor O'Dwyer and the Health Department the fullest cooperation in handling any emergency situations which affects the health of the tenants in the struck buildings , " he declared . At City Hall , Mayor O'Dwyer said that nothing new had developed concerning the strike threat . The city Labor Relations Department reported that it " was in close touch with the situation " but had not yet entered mediation of the dispute , which still was in the hands of Mr. Meyer . Mr. Meyer in turn said that he had no comment on the situation . Dr. Frant , in explaining the union 's agreement to handle emergency situations , added : " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and treatment for medical or other services will ask the emergency worker of his building to furnish him such emergency service , explaining the reasons for the request . " The emergency worker , acting under direction of the union and in accordance with union policy , will have authority to decide if the request should be granted . " If the emergency worker refuses the request , the tenant may appeal to the nearest union headquarters where the union officer will be authorized to review the emergency worker 's decision . If the union officer decides that the tenant should get the special service requested the union will direct the emergency worker to furnish the tenant with that service . " If the emergency worker and the union representative at headquarters both reject the request then , provided medical or health problem is involved , the tenant may appeal to the Department of Health for this help in getting the service . The Health Department is setting up machinery for handling such appeals and will see that in cases where health is involved service is furnished . " The basis @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's refusal to arbitrate wage-and-hour demands of the union . The board charges that laws fixing rent ceilings make arbitration a " one-way " risk it can not afford . The union demands that its members receive a $2.75 weekly increase , such as was won recently by commercial building service employes . It also asks a reduction in the work-week from forty-eight to forty hours . It has refused to agree to negotiating a contract that would go into effect when the rent freeze ends . This has been offered by the realty board . General strike headquarters of the union , 1 East Thirty-fifth Street , was closed down last night , as David Sullivan , president of Local 32B , left for an unnamed hotel . Other union officials also left the building and were reported to be continuing conferences on strategy for conducting the walkout.                     