@@720807

txt A massive , statistical study of life and death has produced new figures on what the average human being should weigh and what his brood pressure should be . This means the weight-forheight charts on penny scales avd in doctors ' offices are ohs9let.e . More important , the study throws authoritative 1 ? , : f , ht on the relation of body weight and blood pressure to long life . The study shows that persons who live longest are those whose body weights a d blood pressures are below average . It also shows that chances of premature death becomes increasingly greater as body weights and blood pressures rise above the averages . 5 Million Studied The statistical analysis represents the life and death ' experiences of 26 life insurance companies with almost 5 million policy holders over a period of almost 20 years . A committee of the Society of Actuaries took almost three years in sorting them , relating them , and analyzing them . The society , which has headquarters at 208 S. La Salle st. , Chicago , published the.study Monday @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ charts and tec hnic al summaries entitled " Build and Blood Pressure Study1959 . " Its new standards for body weights according to sex , height , and age r d c e standards established by a similar .. tho smaller scale study of almost 30 years ago . Average men are now up to 5 pounds heavier than men were then , and women are up to 5 pounds lighter . Deviation 's Evaluated The actuaries established average weights ' and blood pressures according to sex , heights , and ages , and then compared the death ? rates of persons fitting the averages with the rates for persons who were above and below those averages . Men w h o weighed 20 pounds ? more than the average for their height and age had . a 10 per cent higher death rate . Those who were 25 pounds above the average had a 25 per cent higher death rate . At 50 pounds excess weight death rate increased 50 to 75 per cent . This was true of women , too , but to a lesser extent . Physicians @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rates were among persons whose weight was 15 to 20 pounds below the average for their height and age . None of this will surprise practicing physicians w h o universally urge the overweight to reduce and who take the ' sharpest interest in the blood pressures of patients . In the matter of blood pressures , the study narrows the range of " acceptable " pressures by sex and age . Even a small rise above the averages was related to a higher-than-average death rate , and the higher the pressures were above average , the higher the death rate from the average . Women to o k excessive blood pressure better than men .                     