@@719814

txt What the Communists have just done in Hungary standS out in stark contrast to what the Western powers are seeking to do today in Cyprus , Algeria , and Lebanon . In all four cases , the basic problem has been tnat of emergirig nationalism  --  the desire for independence from the rule of others . The Communists have their way of dealing with that problem  --  and the world once more has been given a vivid demonstration that their way is the ruthless liquidation of leaders . The West approaches the problem from a more humanitarian basis  --  and consequently finds it immensely harder to deal with , at least on a short-range basis . For the West must seek to negotiate with , conciliate , and control rampant nationalism . Three Spots Flare That , essentially , is what it is attempting to do at the three current flare points around the rim of the Mediterranean basin ? Cyprus , Algeria , and Lebanon . From the West 's viewpoint , the leaders of the Greek and Turkish Cypriotes , the Algerian rebels , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ liquidated  --  although if the leaders of the West adopted the views of the Kremlin , that doubtless would seem the most efficient means of ensuring the peacefulness and status quo of those areas . Since this is neither moral nor desirable , the task for the Western powers , as some see it , is somehow - to convince Cypriotes that they are not primarily Greeks or Turks , but indeed Cypriotes ; to convince Algerians that they are not only Algerians and Moslems but also French ; to convince Lebanese they are not only Arabs but Lebanese . Deception Suspected The Soviet method of controlling , in the case of Hungary , the surging desire for freedom from enforced Communist domination by executing troublesome national leaders can indeed be described as a new departure for the Khrushchev regime . But not everyone sees it that way , Some suspect that  --  Premier Nikita S. Khrushchev has been capable of such callous action all along  --  but deliberately has assumed a role void of open violence in an effort to convince the West that his humanitarian instincts exceeded those of Stalin @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ high Communist officials may have been a deception . Moreover , there may have been cruel treatment of innumerable minor persons whose                     