@@717635

txt While Florida vacationers shivered again yesterday , Chicagoans enjoyed another day of abnormally warm weather which found thousands playing golf , horse back riding , cleaning windows and washing the family car . The ' temperature reached a high of 44 degrees at 1 p. m . Normal for the date is 33 . The weather bureau explained that Canadian air masses temporarily have been unable to push into the midwest . Air masses in the area are somewhat stagnant and warm up during the day . Miami , Fla. , Jan. 14 0 ? Vacationing northerners shivered thru the eighth day - of south Florida 's cold wave today , but the flow of sun seekers continued at a record-breaking rate . In Miami , the mercury ' , dipped to 39 degrees , lowest in history for this date . It reached a high of 62 . There was no ' prospect of warm weather for several days . Inbound air line traffic was more than 20 per cent greater than last year at the same time . The Florida East Coast railroad reported an " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? Longest in 16 Years A spokesman for the Miami Beach Hotel association said most of the ocean front hotels were filled to capacity , altho the biggest rush wo n't start until next week , when the opening of Hialeah race course marks the height of the winter season . There was no increase in outbound traffic , in spite of the longest cold spell in 16 years . Temperatures have climbed into the 60s most days during the cold wave and a few hardy visitors can be found sunning or . the beaches or taking a quick dip in the surf . Miami natives stayed indoors and were burning so much bottled gas in an effort to keep warm that some supply companies could n't keep up with the demand and a black market was reported developing . Freezing in South Again , A trend toward warmer weather in the south is expected early next week , but subfreezing temperatures were ' due again tonight in a belt extending from the Carolinas thru Kentucky and Tennessee and southward into Florida . Florida 's winter vegetable crops have suffered losses @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ r t e d in good shape because there has been overproduction and the cold has shoved prices up . Citrus fruit has not been damaged . In the Tampa area , on the west coast , the mercury dipped to 32 and early rising motorists scraped ice off their windshields . New Cold Reads on Mexico MEXICO CITY , Jan. 14 tifl -- The weather moderated today after a long spell rivaling the coldest of the century in Mexico . But forecasters said a new cold wave is moving in from the north . More than 60 deaths are blamed on the freezing temperatures . A low of 8.6 degrees above zero was recorded yesterday .                     