@@713429

txt Letters to The Times HENRI PEYRE.MIKLOS N. RAJK.O . PARKER McCOMAS , JURAJ KRNJEVIC , H. M. CROSBY. pg . 24 Letters to The Times TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : ? Your educational correspondent reported in THE NEW YORK TIMES of Nov. 25 the proposal made by Detlev W. Bronk , president of Johns Hopkins University and former chairman of the National Research Council , that time spent in college and graduate school be reduced in the case of able students and that barriers between undergraduate and graduate work be abolished as being in many cases " artificial and arbitrary . " One , at least , of your readers wishes to express ? strong dissent . Premature specialization , not preceded by a solid general and humanistic culture , is one of the faults of American education , and little would be gained by sending gifted freshmen to a graduate course in physics , for example . Speeding up education and providing industry with manpower one year earlier than has been the case may be justified in a grave national emergency . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the most gifted part of our youth . The atmosphere in American graduate and technical schools is much too tense if anything . The result is a much larger incidence of nervous collapses and of psychiatric failures than in corresponding institutions abroad . And another result of this lack of leisure and of time " wasted " on thinking and on imagining , free from pressure and from urgency , is , as one of the leading scientists of the nation , Dr. E. Sinnott , has remarked , that many of the important discoveries are made not in America but in England or in countries there the accelerated training of scientists is avoided . Is it wise , moreover , even if it is demagogic , to talk of speeding up the process of specialized education ? A century or half a century ago , when accumulated knowledge to be mastered by the young was far less considerable than it is today and when life expectancy was 40 , college education occupied four years  --  that is , one-tenth of one 's normal life . Life expectancy day is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ college , plus a thorough training in professional schools , should not be excessive . Mankind has not showed in the last thirty years that it was too mature . And if the college years are the best in our lives , as many alumni will testify , why cut them short to provide industry with half-baked products ? HENRI PEYRE . New Haven , Conn. , Dec. 4 , 1950 . Measures to Halt Inflation Consideration Urged of Means to Curb Consumer Purchasing Power gency beds means a corresponding preparation of reserve equipment ? food , drugs , instruments , plasma , ete . The mere drawing up of these plans is an enormous undertaking ; putting them into effect will take a very large outlay of money . The United Hospital Fund 1950 Campaign now being conducted on behalf of these eighty hospitals is geared to help them do their defense job . So far this year less than 1 per cent of the population of New York has contributed to the United Hospital . Fund , which every year is of direct benefit to all the'popu-. lation . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ long as we live under the threat of atomic attack . If our democracy is to flourish we must each take our part , instead of waiting for " the other fellow " or the Government to care for us . This campaign is not just another charity appeal but something of direct and vital concern to every individual living or working in New York City . It is to be hoped that a very large number of the 99 per cent who have not so far joined in will send contributions , according to their means , to United Hospital Fund , 8 East Forty-first Street , New York City . 0 . PARKER MCCOMAS , 1950 Campaign Chairman . New York , Dec. 6 , 1950 . Appraising Tito 's Army Acceptance Criticized of Figures on Divisions Available To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : In his dispatches your Belgrade correspondent has repeatedly stated that " the Yugoslav Army is the strongest army in Europe except the Soviet Army . " It seems that the same opinion has been shared by some other American observers in Europe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that Tito 's army has " thirty or thirty-two divisions of hardbitten fighters . " Moreover , some official American documents recently published show that the above opinions have been accepted by the American authorities as statements of fact . May I warn against precipitate and hasty acceptance of such opinions ? The superficiality of Western and especially American opinions regarding the real strength of the Yugoslav Army between the wars sounds a warning against hasty opinions . In the years when the Nazi menace was growing on the European Continent Western observers considered and publicly praised the royal Yugoslav Army of those days as " the strongest army in Europe . " Even the shrewd observer John Gunther wrote in " Inside Europe " in 1936 that the royal Yugoslav Army was " probably the most formidable army in Europe . " When , however , this army was put to the test it proved worthless and was unable to offer any serious resistance . The enormous discrepancy between the opinion of Western observers and the realities was due principally to the uncritical acceptance of the information supplied by an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the feelings and opinion of the masses which form the vital component of a modern army but have no possibility of expressing freely their sentiments in peacetime . May I quote in addition three points which call for cautiousness in conclusions : How little Western observers on the spot know of Tito 's army is illustrated by the fact that they were able to get Tito 's military publications only recently ; I wonder whether they are aware that Tito 's army officers , owing to their overbearing and haughty behavior and to their privileged position , are the most hated and despised group of the present ruling class of Yugoslavia ; The problems arising from the formation of only one up-to-date division should indicate the value of statements regarding Tito 's " thirty or thirty-two divisions of hard-bitten fighters . " JURAS KRNJEVIC , Former Vice Premier of Yugoslavia , Secretary General , Croatian Peasant Party . London , Dec. 4 , 1950 . Term Aggressor Queried To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Regarding your excellent editorial " The Biggest Lie of All , " I should @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ back to China all the money paid to her as indemnity after the Boxer Rebellion and which China used to build schools and colleges could be called an aggressor . ? Mr. Wu may not know his country 's history but he should study it before he makes such statements as were in his speech delivered before the U. N. this week . H. M. Mom . Boston , Nov. 30 , 1950 . To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Your editorial of Dec. 2 , " Built-In Inflation , " is very timely . The vicious circle you describe was the main cause in some countries of Europe of inflation after the First World War . Four years of war effort and reckless spending by the Governments , though driving prices high , did not bring a catastrophic inflation . But when some time after the war a sliding scale for wages and salaries was introduced the value of the currencies shrank . The only effective method to prevent the circle of ever-rising prices and wages is to deny the public purchasing power as expressed in dollars @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , as expressed in dollars , must not exceed in value the totality of consumer goods available . In the beginning there would be a rise in prices , as goods became scarcer and dollar earnings remained constant . But this process would stop , if dollar earnings did not rise . This is the simple law of supply and demand . A large percentage of labgrers have by now a written contract that whatever happens their standard of living will not be affected . All scarcity of the market will have to be borne by the rest of the population . This is certainly not what organized labor wants . If contracts conceding adjustment of wages to rising prices can not be touched , there are still ways of reducing purchasing power . One of them is increased taxes . Unfortunately , to increase taxes on really high incomes would not be sufficient , because such incomes are spent in a small percentage only for goods needed by the masses . It will become necessary to impose taxes on the income of the wage-earning population . The other means would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ original wages . It is a measure which would not be readily accepted by the representatives of labor . They would fear that the savings on blocked accounts could never be utilized , that the possibility to release the sums accumulated would never occur . In this respect reassurances should and could be given . Once the war effort is over , the production power of the country would switch to consumer goods . Forced savings could be released in proportion to civilian production . MIKLOS N. RAJK . New York , Dec. 3 , 1950 . Hospitals in Civilian Defense To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : The news from Korea and from all over the world points up the fact that we are in a time of crisis and should be preparing ourselves more rapidly than we are . The hospitals in the City of New York are the basic element of our civilian defense against atom bomb attack . The eighty voluntary hospitals making up the United Hospital Fund must prepare a capacity of 60,000 beds for such an emergency , , as against their norrha1 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Proposal Opposed for Shortening ? Time Spent on Studies                     