@@718690

txt Letters to The Times Mr. Gilroy said . LOUIS BERGMAN , out the world ALICE D. GATES , ALLAN H. CRISP.JO ... Letters to The Times Housing Inspection Urged Failure by City Charged in Multiple Dwelling Law Enforcement To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Anyone familiar with conditions in our city 's poorer neighborhoods ? and many . middle-income areas as well  --  has seen apartments - where needed repairs have not been made . Yet the city 's Department of Buildings is charged with the enforcement of ; the Multiple Dwelling Law , a statute which provides that every part of every multiple dwelling shall be kept in good repair . Recently Governor Harriman and Rent Commissioner Weaver made " tours " of some remodeled buildings where bad housing conditions exist . They advocated bringing these structures under rent control and reducing their rents . ( See Rent Commissioner Weaver 's letter in . The Times of Feb. 28 . ) The Legislature has just passed a bill providing for rent control and reductions in such cases , but only until the repairs have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , because tenants will be afraid to complain lest they be evicted when the building is again decontrolled after completion of repairs . Also Mr. Weaver said that the penalties for Multiple Dwelling Law violations are too small to be deterrent . Complaints Not Registered Actually missing plaster , nonfunctioning plumbing fixtures , overcrowding , etc. , exist in rent-controlled as well as decontrolled buildings . Because they are unaware of their rights , are afraid of the delays of the law or of extralegal pressures , or because previous complaints did not bring relief , tenants frequently fail to report their landlords . Mr. Weaver 's claim that penalties for housing violations are inadequate to motivate landlords is not convincing to one who knows that they include jail sentences of thirty days to six months . The state promised decontrol as an inducement to those who would create more housing through remodeling ( or new construction ) . If it were to go back on its word , to cover up failure of the city to enforce the Multiple Dwelling Law , it would be a serious breach of faith @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more rental housing . What a price to pay merely to by-pass a negligent city administration . In 1953 Dewey 's Housing Commissioner , Herman Stichman , made a similar tour to demonstrate the need for block-by-block housing inspection , a system which would eliminate reliance on complaints and also pinpoint violations improperly tolerated . Bernard Gilroy , now Commissioner of Buildings , ridiculed him as a " publicity hound . " In January , 1957 , Mr. Gilroy ( with City Administrator Preusse ) announced a ' plan for " cycle inspection , " under which-all multiple dwellings would be inspected once- every year or two . The joker was a provision that no individual apartments would be checked , unless public - parts of a building could fulfill its responsibilities with 274 inspectors , instead of the 282 currently budgeted and 267 actually employed , Mr. Gilroy said . LOUIS BERGMAN , President , Bronx Young Republican Club . New York , April 8 , 1957 . Tribute to Sophie Theis To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : We of the State Charities Aid Association were moved by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Sophie van Senden Theis . Miss Theis was truly an American pioneer  --  brave , adventuresome and with boundless courage . All who came in touch with her  --  and there were thousands  --  sensed immediately her unusual qualities . I think we all sensed , too , her profound belief in the tremendous capacities of children to become useful , happy citizens if the opportunity were made available to them . At the same time she knew long before the public at large recognized ) it that hundreds upon hundreds of families stood ready to take these children into their homes and love them . For many years Miss Theis had been recognized as one of the great leaders in the child-welfare field , yet all of us who knew her were constantly impressed with her innate modesty and her complete lack of interest in any personal glory . She always looked upon herself as ? ' merely an instrument whereby unfortunate children might , through the opportunities she and her colleagues provided , become part of a family and develop their own innate good qualities . We area proud @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not only for the benefit of children in New York State but also for children throughout the world . ALICE D. GATES , ( Mrs. Artemus L. Gates . ) Chairman , Child Adoption Service State Charities Aid Association . New York , April 10 , 1957 . Value of Forty Plus Club To THE EDITOR OF THE New York TIMES : For the benefit of " S. G. " and all other " displaced " executives who are having difficulty finding another position because of age discrimination I am glad to report that the Forty Plus Club , 220 Broadway , N. Y. ( BEekman 3-6086 ) , offers guidance and assistance in obtaining employment . Having been in this unenviable , frustrating predicament , I know what it did for my- morale to assoelate with this wonderful group Of battle-tested executives who are linked together by a common problem and are fighting , with eutstande ing success , for a chance to make connection commensurate With their ability and capable of maintaining ' the standard of living to which they , have been accustomed . There is a terrific @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to job seeking , but many fine friendships are formed during this critical time in the life of any family man . ALLAN H. CRISP . Belleville , N. J. , April 4 , 1957 . To Study Asian . Cultures Greater Stress on Area in Our Educational System Advocated To THE EDITOR OF THE New YORK Maas r C. L. Sulzberger ended his column of April 1 with the question " How do we intend to . offset this highly potent propaganda ? " ( i. e. , the personal ' charm of Chou En-lai and his effort ' - to make friends for Chiaa in Asia ) . While we are not always able to control such intangible assets as personal charm , we can . certainly give more attention to the place of Asian studies ' in our educational system , and in particular to the role of religion in Asiatic history . , Knowledge may not win us friends , but ignorance - Can make for us enemies . Yet I dare say that a large number of college graduates have no idea of the history or religious traditions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ feeling that they are quaintly heathen Countries held back for centuries by the superstitions of idolatry . Chou En-lat would make no such error . There are few secondary schools in which a course in the history of Asia is offered , and those on a college level are frequently and necessarily elementary innature , chiefly survey courses . The prevailing opinion of American educators Seems to be that there are twos areas of history , the United States and Europe , a point of view which May have been valid sixty years ago , but is certainly so no longer . For the past five years the secondary school in which I teach , St. Albans , has offered the history of Asia as a full-credit survey course in the field of social studies . In that time around ten students yearly , the normal class size , have been exposed to elementary contact with the history - and traditions of civilizations far removed from ours ? most of them as important to us as the civilization of Europe . These students have gone on to college courses in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a foundation as any ' college history major would have in , for example , English or French history . Perhaps this is our answer to Chou En-lai and to Mr. Sulzberger 's question .  --  - JOHN CLAIBORNE DOTS . Washington , April 4:1957 . To Keep Libraries Open . To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : For a city so concerned with adult education , New - York seems strangely neglectful of its libraries . - Most of the branches are . closed on Saturdays and holidays , the , very times when readers have the leisure to get the greatest benefit from them . The Saturday closing is particularly hard on employed - people , since they have to stock up for the weekend on Friday evenings , with little time to go over the books and make careful choices or to look up needed information . It was bad enough when the Saturday closing was confined to the summer months , but now it is all the year round . Apparently this is due to shortage of personnel , owing to lack of funds . It does seem @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enable . the libraries to keep open all . day on Saturdays and on minor holidays . MARY L. INMAN . New York , April 2 , 1957 . Middle East Policy Criticized To THE EDITOR OF THE New York TIMES : I am strongly of the opinion that the United States has let down , very badly , her European allies . Her policy through President Eisen- , hower and Secretary of State Dulles ( the somersault expert ) has been disastrous  --  why , I can not fathom , unless the oil interests have dominated . The whole situation , is dangerous . : DAM . London , March 31 , 1957.                     