@@720345

txt President Eisenhower told the North Atlantic Council today that the members of the Western alliance must prepare to live in a state of daily tension and bickering with the Soviet Union . The President spoke in the blue-domed , gilt-splashed hall where the North Atlantic Treaty was signed ten years ago and where the Council 's foreign ministers met again to take from past experiences new resolution for the trials ahead . The President , who was the first Supreme Allied Commander , Europe , summed up the achievements of the allianoill in these word " Since NAT ? was formett there has been no further got ta Imunist advance in Europe. , either by political or military ' means . " Bickerings With Soviet Seen As for the trials ahead , President Eisenhower said that the alliance must be prepared " to live in a world in which tension and bickering between free nations and the Soviets will be daily experiences . " To meet these trials , members lof the alliance must maintain the unity , which is " the very lifeblood " of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ road toward the eventual goal of " lasting peace and universal justice , " three qualities will be required  --  courage to stand fast in the face of threats , sacrifice to improve collective strength , and perseverance in exploring every avenue offering reasonable hope of justly solving East-West issues , the President said . Task of Magnitude Faced " Those who respect the dignity of man will not flinch before the magnitude of the task , " the President said . " Rather they will prove once again that " greatness of spirit and love of ( liberty will overcome the forces of atheistic materialism and co " ercion and give to all nations , under God , the blessings of security , along with a just and durable peace . " President Eisenhower was the last of four speakers to address the specially invited audience , which included permanent representatives to the North Atlantic Council in Paris , diplomats and their wives , high-ranking government officials and members of Congress . The other speakers were Christian A. Herter , Acting Secretary of State , who delivered the address of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Foreign Minister , who is president of the council of ministers , and Paul-Henri Spaak , Secretary General of the alliance . Council Receives Report The morning commemorative ceremony was the only public session of the council of ministers . The four other sessions will be secret . In the afternoon the council met to receive and discuss a short report on the three meetings Tuesday and Wednesday of the foreign ministers of the United States , Britain , France and West Germany . The report embodied the agreed principles that will serve as guides in preparing the Western position on the interlocked problem of Berlin , Germany and European security . This position must be concerted before the foreign ministers ' meeting with the Soviet Union May 11 . The circumstances in which the foreign ministers met during the day were both strikingly similar and dissimilar to ' those that formed the backdrop to the treaty signing in the interdepartmental auditorium on Constitution Avenue ten years ago . Two Communist actions in 1948 were chiefly responsible for the formation of the Atlantic ' alliance , it was recalled . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ M. Spaak said , " dissipated the last illusions and forced us to look facts in the face : the Soviet Union was out to conquer the ' remainder of Europe . " The second was the Berlin blockade , which was in its ninth month when the North Atlantic Treaty was signed . Now the Soviet Union is again demanding that the Western occupying power withdraw their troops from West Berlin . " Ten years ago the threat of aggression was naked and blunt , " Mr. Herter said . " Today the threat of aggression is at times more subtle , varied and devious , but is no less dangerous . " Both M. Spaak and Dr. Luns made plain their deep concern lest the West make concessions that would weaken its position.1 M. Spaak said : " By again raising the issue of the status of Berlin and by handling the German question as it has , Moscow is playing a game in which the ultimate stake is the very existence of our European political institutions and defense system . " We must , therefore , even more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ strengthen our political solidarity and extend our cooperation to all fields in which our common interests are involved . " Dr. Luns warned against " disengagement plans , " most of which , he said , " are essentially Communist creations , designed to neutralize Germany , to make Western Europe defenseless , and to force the withdrawal of allied troops from the Continent . " Gains By West Stressed But if the Communist threat has not altered over the decade , the strength of the West to resist has vastly changed , the speakers emphasized . This increased strength , M. Speak and Dr. Luns said , has been made possible by two unprecedented actions by the United States  --  first , the joining of a European military alliance contrary to all its traditions , and second , the underpinning of that alliance by massive economic aid under the Marshall Plan . Dr. Luns expressed regret that Secretary of State Dulles , who is in Florida convalescing from cancer treatments , could not be present . M. Spaak asked for permission to send a message to Mr. Dulles , expressing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ opening the day 's meetings , Mr. Herter extended a special welcome to six of the original signers of the North Atlantic Treaty who were present ? Secretary General Spaak , Dr. Halyard M. Lange , Foreign Minister of Norway , Baron Robert Silvercruys of Belgium , Ambassador Dirk U. Stikker of the Netherlands , Ambassador Wilhelm Munthe de Morgenstierne , former Ambassador of Norway , Thor Thors , Ambassador of Iceland , and Dean Acheson , former Secretary of State . President Cites Early Days The most notable absentee of those who had played a leading role in the establishment of the alliance was former President Harry S. Truman . Some weeks ago President Eisenhower had written to Mr. Truman inviting him to the ceremonies . In his reply Mr. Truman expressed disappointment that he had accepted an invitation to be in California on the day of the ceremony . Before delivering his prepared text , President Eisenhower spoke extemporaneously for several minutes . He reminisced about his experiences as Atlantic pact commander , recalling how at the outset , of his duties he journeyed to one capital after another @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ under a joint command . He said that he had used the five fingers of his hand to carry his message of strength in unity  --  each finger by itself was not much of an offensive weapon , but clenched into a fist , they become a " formidable instrument of defense . " The President said that he had also reinforced his message by a quotation from St. Luke ? " When a strong man , armed , keepeth his palace , his goods are in peace . " 