@@718871

txt George F. Kennan left the State Department in Washington soon after John Foster Dulles took over . The two men could not work together . But the Kennan theories about how to approach the liberation of Central and Eastern Europe became the last resort of Washington when it reached its decision to negotiate with the Soviets for an end to the arms race . These negotiations will certainly go on for a long time , and they may never result in a formal agreement , but whether they succeed formally or not , the very decision to negotiate recognizes that there is no available method to achieve " liberation " except the Kennan method . How good is it ? A A A The essence of the Kennan theory is that within an overall policy of containment and deterrent strength Moscow is more likely to relax its grip on the captive peoples when the pressure from Washington is relaxed than when the pressure is maintained and intensified . Pressure was relaxed somewhat after the Geneva summit conference in the summer of 1955 , but the race in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ succeeded during 1956 in improving its military lead . The pressure is further relaxed by the mere decision to negotiate over the arms race . It would be still further relaxed if those negotiations should reach even that small " first slice " which Mr. Dulles has set as the immediate goal for the Stassen negotiations in London . The relaxation after Geneva was followed by a weakening of Moscow 's authority over the satellite countries . No one knows , of course , to what degree there was a cause-and-effect relationship here . But Moscow 's dogmatic ideas about commu nism have ceased to dominate and tyrannize all political thought in the other Communist countries . The secret police in Moscow no longer exercise direct control over the police systems of the other states . Peking has curbed Moscow inclinations toward Poland . Wladyslaw Gomulka in Poland has stabilized a twilight system which combines very considerable internal freedom with for- eign-policy loyalty to Moscow . There have been changes inside the Soviet bloc . These changes have not brought about " liberation , " but they have been enough to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hope that given more time and more relaxation the process of change would continue in a desirable direction . Whether it would ever go far enough to produce a Soviet withdrawal from East Germany is the big question . There is little present reason for thinking that it would . There is much reason to think that Moscow holds as firmly as ever to its purpose of controlling all Germany . No one can really foresee all that would happen if there were to be an end to the great arms race between the Soviet Union and the United States . The most we can do is estimate some probabilities and possibilities . This is unex plored ground we are moving into . The one major calculable result would be the elimination of weight of nuclear weapons from the continuing contest for political purposes . The contest would go on . We of the West want to see Germany reunited and the satellites set free . Moscow wants to see the satellites and all of Germany tied into its political system . This contest will go on being waged . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the stronger political weapons ? The moment there is even a tiny slice of an agreement on arms limitations both Moscow and Washington will lose something . Moscow will lose the discipline it has maintained by the alleged threat of " capitalist " encirclement . Washington will lose appropriations in Congress and some measure of its control over the policies of its allies . What we are really debating is whether the Western or the Communist system has the greater inherent vitality . A A An end to the arms race would mean a real experiment in highly competitive coexistence . The ideas of the two competing sides would flow into the middle ground between their main positions . Need we of the West be afraid of the outcome of this competition ? We certainly should shun negotiation , and call Harold E. Stassen back from London promptly , if we must assume that Western civilization has less vitality than Soviet civilization . But if we , have confidence in our own protestations about the superiority of our system , then we can afford to accept the risk of the kind @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the way to an end to the arms race .                     