@@717851

txt Experts said yesterday that medical dissection of the human body for teaching purposes apparently was performed nearly . a thousand years earlier than had been believed heretofore . This interpretation was made of a picture of an early fourth century fresco , or plaster painting . The fresco was found by Vatican archaeologists exploring a recently discovered catacomb in Rome . The cavern , 158 by 89 feet , is reported to be remarkable for the number and beauty of the paintings that adorn it . These frescoes depict a wide variety of subjects from the Old and the New Testaments . Others are pagan , according to experts of the Pontifical Commission of Sacred Archaeology . Some are scenes from life in ancient Rome , including par- traits of famous medical men adorning the tomb of a surgeon . Pictures of two of the frescoes were published yesterday . One was described as showing Christ and the Samaritan Woman at the well . The caption said that in the other " a Roman surgeon is shown during an operation as colleagues look on . " Caption @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as that of a medical class of the fourth century . Dr. Curt Proskauer , curator of the Charles H. Land Museum of Dental and Oral Surgery at the Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center , declared the second fresco showed a dissection for the purpose of teaching anatomy . and not a surgical operation . Dr. John F , Fulton , Sterling Professor of the History of Medicine at the Yale University Medical School , said in New Haven last night that he agreed in general with Dr. Proskauer 's interpretation of the scene . According to Dr. Proskauer , it had been accepted that the first known dissection of a human body for teaching was performed in Italy in 1281 . There may have been secret human dissections earlier , he said . But 1281 is accepted as the time of the " first official human dissection , " in Dr. Proskauer 's words . He added that the date was ascertained from the archives of the University of Bologna . The name of the man who did it is not known , Dr. Proskauer said . " The great importance of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fact that it is the first pictorial representation of such a dissection and of a way of teaching anatomy at that time . " Dr. Proskauer said . " It is , furthermore , a very important evidence that dissections were performed in the early part of the fourth century , while it has been believed , until the discovery of this painting , that the first dissection of a human body was performed approximately 1,000 years later , in 1281 in Bologna . " The ancient Egyptians and the Greeks , as well as the Romans , did surgery . But they did not dissect the human body for teaching demonstrations . The Egyptians were skilled embalmers , Dr. Proskauer said . They learned much about the body in the course of preparing it for burial , but they did not dissect . The Greeks dissected animals , he said . Claudius Galen edited the notes of Hippocrates , the " father " of medicine , and made his own observations during dissection of swine , Dr. Proskauer said . It is apparent , the curator reported , that one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the students while the lecturer reads the words of Galen or quotes them from memory . Probably the one who did the dissection is present , but this is not indicated in the fresco , he said . Dissection for teaching was a common practice in Europe in the fourteenth , fifteenth and sixteenth centuries , Dr. Proskauer said . There were many famous physicians who dissected to teach during the Renaissance . Woodcuts show many such scenes . Leonardo da Vinci had a friend who was a dissector who opened the human body for his anatomic studies . Dr. Proskauer Is a consultant to the library of the New York Academy of Medicine as well as curator at Columbia University . He received his medical degree in Berlin and has studied at the Vatican library . Since 1910 he has specialized in the history of medicine and dentistry . Dr. Proskauer became a citizen of the United States in 1946 , The Charles H. Land Museum at the Medical Center that Dr. Proskauer heads was named for the dentist who introduced the use of porcelain in filling teeth . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Matisse . It shows a group of students or surgeons gathered around a larger dark central figure who appears to be lecturing . The opened cadaver lies in front of the group . A demonstrator is pointing with a baton . As evidence that the scene is a dissection and not a surgical operation , Dr. Proskauer pointed out that : In ancient Rome it was not possible to open the chest and abdomen to the extent that the body in the fresco had been opened without killing the patient . The opened body lies with no one caring for it ; this is hardly possible if such an opening were made in surgery . Dr. Fulton said Dr. Proskauer was probably right in his identification of the . scene as a dissection . " It almost certainly is a dissection , " he said .                     