@@716652

txt President Eisenhower submitted the Southeast Asian defense treaty to the Senate today and pressed for its " early and favorable consideration " and ratificaLion . The treaty , signed in Manila Sept. 8 , created an alliance of eight Western and Asian countries designed to check Communist expansion in Southeast Asia and the Pacific . The White House announced last week that the President would send both the Manila treaty and the Paris agreements for West German armament to the special session of the Senate that opened Monday . A dispute between France and West Germany over control of the rich Saar basin apparently has delayed the submission of the Paris agreements . With the Manila pact went a copy of the Pacific Charter , signed at the same time . The President pointed out , however , that the charter , committing the eight Governments to " the ideals of self-determination , self-government and independence , " was only a statement of principles and did not require the advice and consent of the Senate . But he said in his letter of transmittal that the treaty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Southeast Asia and the Southwestern Pacific by deterring Communist and other aggression in that area . " " It is a treaty for defense against both open armed attack and internal subversion , " said the , President . He noted at the same time that the treaty included a proviso stipulating that " the only armed attack in the treaty area which the United States would regard as necessarily dangerous to our peace and security would be a Communist armed attack . " ' Other nations signing the treaty were Australia , Britain , France , New Zealand , Pakistan , the Philippines and Thailand . Text of Letter Following is the text of President Eisenhower 's letter to the ' Senate : With a view to receiving the advice and consent of the Senate to ratification , I transmit herewith a copy of the Southeast Asia Collective Defense Treaty and the Protocol thereto , both signed at Manila on Sept. 8 , 1954 , I transmit also for the information of the Senate a copy of a declaration known as the Pacific Charter which was drawn up at Manila @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the . dedication of the signatory governments to the ideals of self-determination , self-government , and independence . It is a declaration of principles and does not require the advice and consent of the Senate . The texts of the Treaty and the Charter were published in ' The New York Times on Sept . ' There is further transmitted for the information of the Senate the Feport made to me by the Secretary of State regarding the Southeast Asia Collective Defense Treaty and the ' Protocol thereto . I. concur in the recommendation . of the Secretary that the " unanimousagreement " required by Article IV , Paragraph 1 , for the designation of states or territories , .. by Article VII for the invitation to states to ' accede to the Treaty , and by Article VIII for a . change in the treaty area is to be understood in each instance as requiring the ' advice and consent of the ' Senate. , A Treaty . for Defense The Treaty is designed to promote security and peace in Southeast Asia and the Southwestern Pacific by deterring Communist and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for defense against both open armed attack and internal subversion , Included in the Treaty is an Understanding on behalf of . the United States that the only armed attack in the Treaty area which the United States would regard as necessarily dangerous to our peace and security would be a Communist armed attack , The Treaty calls for economic cooperation to enable the free countries of this area to gain strength and vigor , not only militarily , but also socially and economically , The Southeast Asia Collective Defense Treaty complements our other security treaties in the Pacific and constitutes an important link in the collective security of the free nations of Southeast Asia and the Pacific . I recommend that the Senate give early and favorable consideration to the Treaty and Protocol submitted herewith , and advise and consent to the ratification thereof subject to the understanding ' of the United States contained in the Treaty .                     