@@719957

txt UNITED NATIONS , N. Y. , Sept. ** United States said today that the critical situation in Taiwan Strait was one of the most vital issues facing the forthcoming thirlteenth session of the General ' Assembly . Secretary of State Dulles , arriving this evening for the opening of the session Tuesday , said : " There will be vital problems of consolidating peace which Proposed agenda for General Assembly session , Page 4. are brought to the fore by the Soviet backing of Chinese Communist aggression . " Mr. Dulles said the General Assembly " will be perhaps the most important that ? has been held for several years . " Although military activity in Taiwan Strait is nit listed in the Assembly 's provisional agenda of seventy-two items , it was a principal item of conversation among delegates arriving over the week-end . India to Propose Change It is virtually certain to be debated when the Assembly takes up a proposal by Arthur S. Lall of India that the Chinese Nationalist delegation here be replaced by representatives of the Peiping regime . Mr. Dulles did @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the United States " legislative program " was outlined earlier by Francis 0 . Wilcox , Assistant Secretary of State for International Organization Affairs . Mr. Wilcox spoke at a reception at the Waldorf-Astoria Hotel for members of the United States delegation . Besides the volatile situation off the China coast , he said , the Assembly will have to give urgent attention to the unrest in the Middle East , the establishment of a small but mobile United Nations police force , disarmament , the situation in Hungary and an agreement on the peaceful use of outer space . As United Nations staff members laid the groundwork // would be elected to succed Sit Leslie Munro of New Zealand as President of the Assembly . The leading contenders are Mohammed Ahmed Mahgoub of the Sudan and Dr. Charles Malik of Lebanon . both foreign ministers . Among today 's arrivals for the session was Andrei A. Gromyko , Soviet Foreign Minister . Ile declined to give his views on the prospects for the session when he arrived at New York International Airport , Idlewild , Queens . Others who arrived @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I. Gudmundsson , Iceland 's Foreign Minister , and Prince Norodom Sihanouk , Cambodian Premier . Secreta , 7 General Dag Hammarskjold , who had originally planned a week-end rest at his summer home in Brewster , N. Y. , came to his office this evening to clear up advance details for the session . Entry in U. N. Opposed The roster of delegates to the thirteenth session will include an imposing array of four prime ministers , forty-five foreign ministers and five other representatives of cabinet rank . On the Far Eastern situation , Mr. Wilcox reiterated the determination of the United States to keep the doors of the United Nations closed to Chinese , Communist representatives . " Recognition of Red China would materially assist the Chinese Communists ' efforts to extend their hegemony throughout Asia , " he declared . As for the ambassadorial talks opening in Warsaw tomorrow between the United States and Communist China , he said : " The past record of the Chinese cornmunistq , around the conference table gives no cause for optimism . " On the Middle East he expressed cautious optimism @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ emergency special session of the Assembly . However , to meet future eruptions of that sort , he said , the United Nations should establish a " stand-by peace +orce " ready to move quickly in a wide range of situations . A Beginning Is Sought " We hope that the coming General Assembly session will achieve at least a modest begin ning in this direction , " he said . On disarmament , Mr. Wilcox expressed hope for " concrete results " at the meeting between Soviet and Iited States representatives inneneva next month on the possibilities for suspending nuclear weapons tests . The General Assembly , he said , should " help to carry forward the momentum . " " As a minimum , " he added , " the Assembly ought to give its moral support to the upcoming talks and urge the achievement of a meaningful agreement . " Space Accord Sought He said the United States would seek immediate steps toward international agreement on the peaceful use of outer space . Specifically , Mr. Wilcox urged that the Assembly establish an expert committee to make recommendations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ focus attention on conditions in Hungary . He did not annpunce specific proposals on the issue , but declared : " The tragedy of Hungary has not been forgotten . " He said the United States would press for expansion of the United Nations technical assistance program and would assist trusteeship territories in their development toward selfgovernment . Among major items suggested by various members for the Assembly agenda are : cConsideration of the BritishGreek-Turkish dispute over the future of the Mediterranean island of Cyprus . qThe continuing Moslem rel bullion against the French in Algeria . 4/Renewed debate on the racial policies of the South African Government and its claim to jurisdiction over South-West Africa . gThe welfare of Arab refugees who formerly lived in Palestine . qConsideration of the report of the fifteen-nations committee of scientists on the effects of atomic radiation .                     