@@714649

txt Damage estimated at from $50,000 to , $100 , - 000 was caused by fire and vandalism in the Bordeaux jail here today when 550 convicts engaged in a riot in which they expelled all guards and held control of the institution for more than two hours . The prisoners demanded better food and a new prison governor . The riot exploded at the late afternoon meal . The prisoners did n't like the head cheese , corn arid potatoes they were given . They rushed their guards and began screaming . Nearly all of the jail 's population took part . All the prisoners are shorttermers , with sentences of less than two years . They wore civilian clothes and some had bed blankets draped around them as they ran about the yard . No Prisoner Escapes Order was restored by 200 provincial and 60 city police who entered the jail yard armed with clubs and tear gas . No shots were fired and three were hospitalized for injuries . Jail officials said the prisoners set three separate fires in the chapel and in two of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of control in the chapel for nearly an hour . Fires in the cell blocks were extinguished with slight damage . Fire fighting equipment was rushed to the jail from all sections of Montreal and its suburbs . Forty fire companies were on the ijob when the flames were reported under control . Windows Are Smashed Several cell blocks were rendered temporarily uninhabitable by prisoner vandalism . Hundreds of windows were smashed , furniture was broken up and plumbing fixtures were damaged . Only 11 guards , the usual Sunday afternoon shift , were on duty when the riot got under way . Nine guards were in the mess hall and two were in other parts of the jail rounding up inmates who had not reported at the mess hall . Prisoners began throwing crockery and shouting complaints over the quality of food . Cries of " worms in the bologna " and " we want fruit " echoed thru the mess hall . The guards , all unarmed , left the mess hall as the prisoners hurled missiles . All n guards subsequently left the jail , some of them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the prisoners to take hostages . Set Free 200 Pigs Before police arrived prisoners raided the jail commissary , stuffing their clothes with cigarets and candy bars . They also released about 200 pigs from pens in an I adjoining jail farm . The animals scurried into the jail yard , where many were still squealing tonight . Police were unable immediately to return the men to cells because of damage in the cell blocks . The prisoners gathered in an orderly group in the yard under police guard while cleanup work was begun . Police described the riot as apparently both spontaneous and leaderless.                     