@@718696

txt The chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff has recommended to President Eisenhower that United Nations forces in Korea be equipped with new weapons , particularly jet aircraft . The proposal by Admiral Arthur W. Radford was made at a recent meeting of the National Security Council at the White House . It was prompted by intelligence reports that there had been a powerful build-up of Communist forces in North Korea in violation of the 1953 armistice . The State Department is understood to have opposed the recommendation . However , a comment by Secretary of State Dillies at his news conference today indicated that this attitude might be altered . In the meantime , President Eisenhower is reported to have called for a detailed report from the Defense Department on the extent of the Communist buildup , the danger it entails and the measures that could be employed to counteract it . Intelligence Reports Studied A committee of representatives of the military services is engaged in bringing the latest available intelligence reports together . In bringing the problem of the Communist build-up before the Security Council @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a matter-of utmost seriousness , The United States has the main operational responsibility on behalf of the United Nations , which prosecuted the war against the Communists . Gen. Lyman L. Lemnitzer , United States commander in the Far East , is also United Nations commander . Two United States divisions , the Twenty-fourth and Seventh Infantry , man the demarcation line at the Thirty-eighth Parallel , along with a large South Korean force . Under the terms of the armistice , neither side was to improve its military capability or increase its military power in any way . Old equipment was to be replaced only by equipment of the same type . New Red Jets Reported According to informed sources , the North Koreans , who had no military planes at the close of hostilities , have established a substantial air force with jet planes as well as conventional aircraft . The same sources said military airfields had been improved , new airfields had been built and the large , uniformed North Korean forces had been given additional arms and training . There has been no indication so far , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ equipped with guided missiles . It has been noted that Chinese Communist military and political officers have supplanted Russian advisers with the.North Korean Army . However , many Soviet technical aides are reported to be still working with the North Koreans , One report emphasized evidence of a steady . Chinese emigration to North Korea . This appeared to follow a pattern noticed in Outer Mongolia by a visitor there . last summer . Dulles Notes Violations Mr. Dulles was asked to comment on testimony before Congress urging voiding of the Korean armistice . He replied : " It is quite true that we are convinced of rather serious violations of the armistice by the other side and it may be that those violations give us greater freedom of action in the respects in which it has been violated . " This appeared to some quarters to indicate that the State Department . would agree to reinforcement of the United Nations forces ? on an item-for-item basis to counterbalance the Communists ' violations . Mr. Dulles added , however : " But as far as relates to treating the entire armistice @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ belligerence , that is not something we favor . " He referred to the testimony of Dr. John A. Hannah , president of Michigan State University , before the Senate Foreign Relations Committee . Dr. Hannah , a former Assistant Secretary of Defense , has just completed a first-hand survey of the foreign-aid program in the Far East . Officials at the Pentagon cited particularly Dr. Hannah 's statement that the United Nations forces had an assortment of largely obsolete . weapons , whereas the North Koreans had even fortified some positions in the neutral zone . Army officials were said to be troubled by the increasing threat to the military security of their forces . One official , who called attention to the Army 's streamlining of its infantry divisions into pentomic divisions , said Army officials were " hamstrung . " The pentomic division is part of an Army-wide program to reorganize each division into a force of five combat groups with nuclear weapons . According to the armistice terms , however , the divisions in Korea would be ineligible for this improvement .      @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @      