@@712964

txt LONDON , May ** arrangement with two United States oil companies to supply extra gasoline for sterling enabled the British Government to announce the end of gasoline rationing today . The announcement that motorists are now free to buy all the fuel they can afford for their cars , after more than ten years of severe limitation , was made by Philip J. Noel-Baker , Minister of Fuel and Power , on the eve of Whitsuntide , Britain 's long spring week-end , and just in time for tomorrow 's Derby . The decision to free gasoline for private motoring came as something of a surprise . When Winston Churchill , Opposition leader , suggested some time ago that it might be possible , a Labor spokesman charged him with irresponsibility and even as recently as last week Mr. Noel-Baker held out little hope that it could be done in view of Britain 's dollar shortage . Its accomplishment today was // the result of a proposal by the Standard Oil Company of New Jersey which offered to supply the additional gasoline needed to end rationing against @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ buying British tankers and other goods and equipment here . The California Texas ( Caltex ) Oil Company , which is tie second American company at present supplying Britain , agreed to a similar arrangement . After several weeks of negotiation the agreement was concluded this morning . Negotiations are being carried on in Washington concerning the regular gasoline imports from American companies , which at present amount to 35 per cent of Britain 's total imports . Estimates vary as to the additional amount of gasoline that the two American companies will be required to supply to Britain under the agreement . According to the oil company representatives this will amount to 350,000 tons a year but Mr. Noel-Baker put the figure somewhat higher . If , as is expected , the other parts of the sterling area that have not done so , also end rationing gasoline consumption may be increased by 1,000,000 tons a year . About two-thirds of this ' Would come from the two American companies and the remainder from British oil companies , which are now able to supply more gasoline with a low dollar @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more dollars as a result of the lifting of gasoline rationing , the total is not appreciable Mr. Noel-Baker said , and it is likely to be outweighed by dollar gains from tourists , now that motoring is unrestricted . Mr. Noel-Baker 's announcement in the House of Commons naturally prompted ' some speculation about its political implications . Was this the first fruit of the Labor party conference at Dorking last week-end where Labor 's next election program had been planned ? someone asked in the House . Price Rationing Seen Gasoline rationing , which restricted the private motorist to ninety miles a month , has always been extremely unpopular , and its ending may help toward reviving the waning popularity of the Labor Government . However , it may not altogether offset the motorists ' displeasure at the recent increase in the price of gasoline as a result of Sir Stafford Cripps ' tax measures . Gasoline at 3 shillings a gallon is the highest it has ever been in Britain and most motorists will , in fact , continue to be rationed by the price . It is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ suggestion of rationing by price when made by the Opposition , has allowed just that to happen with a growing number of goods . In fact , it might almost be said that the Labor party is now doing many of the things that the Conservatives said it should do in the last election campaign . The Laborites have lifted a good many restrictions on food , they have removed many price controls , they have agreed to intensify the building of houses and they have now freed gasoline . It is unlikely that rationing will ever be imposed on gasoline again in peacetime . The new agreement with the American oil companies will last until the completion of the huge new Esso refinery at Southampton in 1952 , This will refine 5,500,000 tons of petroleum products a year from Near Eastern socalled sterling oil , which will still have some dollar content . Many Proposals in Past Standard Oil Company ( N. J. ) , whose British affiliate , AngloAmerican Oil Company , Ltd. , supplies more than a quarter of Britain 's gasoline requirements , has made numerous proposals @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ supplies . This latest plan is intended to cover the period between now and completion of the new Esso refinery under construction at Fawley , near Southampton . While the new arrangement is not a solution to the over-all dollar problem , it is a step in that direction , according to the California Texas Company , the second American oil company involved in the transaction . This company is equally owned by Standard Oil of California and the Texas Company .                     