@@718413

txt Law and order supporters in the integration battered mill town , 18 miles north of Knoxville , finally are getting some help , although too late to prevent closing of the Clinton High School . And the White Citizens ' Council , organized by John Kasper after he drove down from Washington on the eve of integration Aug. 27 , took a licking at the polls in the town election Dec. 4 . Clinton voters , turned out to tell the world just how they stood on questions unexpectedly injected into the campaign by segregationist groups four days before the ? election . Decisive Victor Judge T. Lawrence Seeber , a former county judge and former mayor , defeated grocer James B. Meredith , 1,344 to 353 , including the count of absentee ballots . ? 111r . Meredith was supported by the White Citizens ' Council . Aldermen George Anderion and Mack Seivers were reelected and W. H. Ghormley was elected an alderman , all by about the same ratio . The opponents had the backing of segregationist groups . Meanwhile , in Washington , United @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Federal Bureau of Investigation is investigating willful violation of the federal order under which the school was integrated . He said , though , that primary responsibility for keeping order remains with state and local authorities . He wired the school Clinton candidates by the segregation grups was : " If elected , will you work to maintain the separation of the races and racial segregation in all public institutions and facilities in Clinton ? " ' Loaded ' Questions Hit Judge Seeber and several other candidates refused to answer what they considered " loaded " questions . Mr. Meredith , according to the circulars , answered " yes " to the segregation question , with the statement , " But remember I will comply with all federal and state laws now in force . " One independent candidate for alderman , Clyde F. Brewer , was given support in the segregationists ' circulars , but had refused to answer the questions . Mr. Brewer withdrew as a candidate because he said he was " not obligated to any group , nor do I want to be supported by any group @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , including the ganging up on a prominent white Tennessee preacher who had just escorted six Negro boys and girls wanting to return to Clinton High School after leaving a week ago because of abuses by some students . The violence included , too , the invasion of the school by two white youths , one with a long-bladed knife , seeking to attack a Negro student . That spurred forces wanting law and order , regardless of any personal views they may have had on integration . Attack on pastor stirs Dixie town ; Page 4. 