@@720694

txt My first encounter in Moscow was with a businessman  --  a free enterpriser . I had flown in a Soviet jet from Copenhagen , proceeded briefly through the customs and passport offices , been interviewed  --  as president of the Chamber of Commerce of the United States  --  by the reporter of an economic-affairs newspaper . and been driven into Moscow . There , in the dusk . before going to a hotel we stopped in Red Square . I strolled across the pavement toward the Kremlin 's crenelated turrets . Almost at once the businessman spotted me . He was a most attractive young fellow  --  open-faced , cheerful , engaging . A good salesman . Ile spoke to me in French , perhaps because he was sharp enough to identify a French decoration I wore in my buttonhole . Anyway , after a few sentences about Moscow . he said : " Are you interested in buying some antique Russian ikons ? " And if I had indicated interest , he would soon have offered me rubles at a black-market rate . He and his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ call this kind of operation free enterprise . But in a way it illustrates the irrepressible drive of human beings to earn more kopecks and rubles , especially when the system is closed and bureaucratic . Difficulties Enemintered I met very different businessmen in the Soviet Union . For instance , I called formally at the all-Soviet Chamber of Commerce and conferred with its president , Mr. Nesterov : its vice-president . Mr. Borisenko. and several heads of important industries and export organizations . The Soviet Chamber of : Commerce is the organization charged with representing the U.S.S.R. in setting up the American Exposition in Moscow . ? Messrs . Nesterov and Borisenko have extended great cooperation to Harold C. McClellan , the California businessman and former Assistant Secretary of Commerce who was charged with the stupendous task of setting up the exposition in a few short months . There were innumerable difficulties . sometimes stemming from plain misunderstanding as a result of the very different ways of operating of the American and Soviet systems . The fault for misunderstandings and mishaps was not all on one side . The American @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not always full agreement between the governmental and private business representatives in the American group . The Soviet position was naturally dominated by its own bureaucratic purposes . by the aims of the Marxist state . Many practices were difficult for the Western viewpoint to . accept . It was genuinely an achievement that these difficulties were ! all surmounted . The mere fact of the exposition was itself ; almost miraculous . And with every day of its operation came new crises . I watched in the exposition offices while these ! difficulties were patiently unscrambled by Mr. McClellan and his associates . Their . Soviet counterparts worked hard and patiently , too . It was quite obvious they wanted the show to ' succeed . for they have high hopes of Soviet-American trade. ; Repeatedly , the Soviet trade officials urged upon me their : desire of Soviet-American commerce in an atmosphere of friendship and mutual gain . Technical Device Locked Up Obviously , there are many American products they badly want . Many of these are machine tools and highly complicated technical devices which might enable not only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ forward . Their plastics and petrochemical industries are avid to buy whale American factories as prototypes . Some articles shown at the fair are of this nature and the best illustration is the Ampex tape recorder . The " heads " of this highly sensitive and advanced device were brought into the American Embassy and locked up every night . Such devices are now being bought in great numbers by television stations all over the United States and some are exported . Information about . them is widely published in technical journals . Yet it is a long step from this published information . which the Soviets undoubtedly know , to actual possession of the physical machine and its manuals of operation . Whether or not to sell the machine to the Soviets when the fair is closed is one of many difficult problems which must be worked out by Mr. McClellan and the American Government . The Ampex device is not just a handy way to record TV programs . It can also record information from satellites . Realism and theory must be balanced as these tough dilemmas are decided @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ very acute . It may well be that a large part . of the present thaw , the exchange of visits , the cooperation in arranging the expositions . is a Soviet trade push . It is trade not simply for trade 's sake . not commerce just to earn badly needed foreign exchanges for the U.S.S.R. , but definitely a desire to push the Soviet economy and hence its military capacity a long step forward . Inefficiencies Stand Out It is as possible to overestimate as it is to underestimate the Soviet economic and technological achievement . In sputniks. and probably in missiles , the Soviets made gi eat and early advances . Where they have concentrated money and talent they may be presumed to have achieved impressive results . But in general , as illustrated by their vast  --  and vastly needed  --  housing program , they have appalling inefficiencies . Many of those parts of their economy and technology that the visitor can see are lumbering . ponderous , ungainly . Their new apartment . buildings show glaring construction defects very quickly . Their motorcars and consumers ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ models in many cases , and pretty ugly by Western standards . By Soviet standards they are vastly ahead of what the masses ever had before . They do a job , but it is often a shoddy job by any standard . They have much to learn , and they know it . So what will the West do ? Will it permit the Soviets to buy what they seek except in the explicitly military field , on the theory that an advance in the Soviet standard of living is a good thing for human values and world peace ? Will the West do this even Though it means selling hard-won experience to Moscow ? And even though patent rights may not be protected ? Presumably Britain and some other Western countries are leaning in this direction . The Uniteci States must choose how cold it wishes to keep the economic war . The thesis that steady improvement in Soviet living standards is a factor fur peace is an appealing one . The argument runs that if the Soviet people become infected with consumers ' goods they will ' demand @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their gains through the threats of war . and will cut down on their heavy military expenditures . Is all this likely ? But it is also evident that such trade would strengthen Soviet power , military as well as economic . and certainly in the U.S.S.R. 's own aggressive trade offensive in selected parts of the world . ' rough Questions Use Would East-West trade make the Soviet . Union more " dependent " on the West , and hence a more orderly citizen ? Will it be genuine trade , which means a continuing flow , or will it be little more than the Soviet purchase of prototypes and scarce materials ? These extremely tough questions must be faced . They may be a major explanation of the Soviet thaw . Furthermore , whatever happens to U.S.-U.S.S.R. trade , there will remain the Sino-Soviet trade offensive throughout the world , It is obviously a time when American business , and American governmental policy affecting world trade , must give sober and careful thought to their responsibilities to the national interest . The long-range view is called for . Any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be rejected as unworthy . Second of Six Articles                     