@@720563

txt Thailand  --  the little Asiatic land many people think was once ruled by a king called Yul Brynner  --  has swept off the welcome mat for investors from the West . The Thais , our Mr. Oganesoff tells us , offer some interesting lures for investment  --  exemptions from taxes for from two to five years . no tariff on machinery brought into the country and the right to remove both earnings and principal at any time . And Americans are availing themselves of the opportunities . In 13angkok , there are both big and little American businesses , ranging from the Bank of America and StandardVacuum Oil to a baker , a maker of sarongs and a water bottler . These people are bringing to the Thais something they need or want and in the process they are doing rather well for themselves . They are also doing well for the Thais , for they have created jobs , made friends and brought both opportunity and ideas to Thailand . These private enterprisers , busy and adventurous , however , number only 300 of the total @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of diplomatic , military and economic aid officials sent to Thailand to keep it friendly to America . Thus U.S. government officials one way or another outnumber U.S. private enterprisers three to one . Now we are n't suggesting that our ambassador come home , or that if Thailand wants some advice about soldiers we should refuse it , or that every last one of the I C.A , U S.I A. or whatever officials we have there should leave the place tomorrow . But one may well question why it takes 900 people to man the embassy , help march the Thais and hand out foreign aid . There is n't much question , though , which of the two groups  --  the private enterprisers or the Government enterprisers  --  are better for Thailand in the long run . All the people in business there will stay in business as long as it is beneficial both to them and to the Thais . That 's the way private enterprise works . But the way government works is a different matter , for there can be no guarantee that what government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will be of lasting value to the recipient countries . It 's well that Americans are crossing Thailand 's welcome mat . But it would be far better for both the Thais and the Americans if the ratio of U.S. officials to U.S. businessmen were at least the exact reverse .                     