@@714116

txt Sullen skies and drizzling rain coupled with a sudden drop in temperature reduced Labor Day holiday traffic far below expectations yesterday on highways , railroads and airlines . On the second day of the last long week-end of summer the temperature dropped from Friday 's 86-degree high to a chilly 58.7 at 6:50 A. M. The day 's high of 65 degrees was reached at 1 P. M. The average for Sept. 2 is about 77 degrees , though 92 was recorded in 1929 and a low of 52.4 in 1892 . Automobile traffic , light throughout the day , began to pick up last night . Aside from a few minor traffic jams , road conditions were good throughout the metropolitan area . Major railroads reported " lighter-than-usual " traffic . Airlines that had scheduled extra flights over the week-end said some airplanes were leaving with some seats unoccupied . Partly because of poor weather , the nation 's death toll increased from 130 at Friday midnight to 389 last night , The Associated Press reported . Of the total , 283 lives were lost in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ perished in miscellaneous accidents . The drowning total was swelled by the thirty-eight presumed dead in the Montauk fishing boat disaster , the worst week-end tragedy . The National Safety Council had predicted that 390 persons would die in traffic accidents during the period from 6 P. M. Friday to midnight Monday . In 1950 there were 383 traffic deaths , eighty drownings , and ninety-six miscellaneous deaths , a record high total of 559 for the three-day Labor Day holiday . The council said a comparison of this week-end 's death toll with any other week-end this month would be impractical . An Associated Press survey in June , 1950 , showed 571 persons died during the four-day Memorial Day weekend . A survey covering the fourday period the following week-end showed 455 persons died . The council statistics show fatalities increase 30 per cent on a holiday week-end as compared with a normal week-end , but the figures include deaths from injuries or complications occurring several days or weeks earlier . This year , both the Fourth of July and Memorial Day fell in mid-week , reducing the normal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ last year 724 fatalities occurred , including 545 traffic deaths . Yesterday 's bad weather kept many visitors away from public lbeaches , parks and amusement resorts . Jones Beach on Long Island drew only 12,000 , against its nor , mal average of 100,000 for the day . 1Coney Island had only 400,000 visitors , with few on the beach and fewer in the water . The Bronx Park Zoo had fewer visitors than 1 it draws on an ordinary Sunday . 1Rail travel at Grand Central Terminal was reported normal for a Sunday , but Pennsylvania Station had a " very light " day . Bad weather in New England forced cancellation of a dozen flights from La Guardia Airport . Traffic Rise Expected Today Automobile travel in the metropolitan area was dull throughout the day , but inbound traffic began to pick up last night . Major arteries from Long Island , New England and the West showed heavier evening traffic , with few jams . Automobile traffic is expected to increase sharply today as vacationing families head for home to get their children back into school next @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Automobile Association asked motorists with disabled cars to get them off the road as quickly as possible . The association reported inbound traffic flowing smoothly last night , after temporary jams on the West Side Highway and at the Manhattan end of Holland Tunnel had been cleared . Atlantic City had an estimated 400,000 visitors over the-week-end , with a beach crowd of 206,000 reported by Richard Hughes , captain of the city 's beach patrol . Bright sunlight , temperatures in the 80 's and a water temperature of 79 brought many to the beach , offi-. dials said . By contrast , Bear Mountain State Park reported the smallest crowd in the memory of its oldest policemen . There the thermometer read 60 degrees and Routes 9W and 17 were virtually deserted . After dark , more cars appeared on Route 17 and New Jersey 's Route 4 . Long Island traffic was heavy on Grand Central Parkwqry , but it moved rapidly . Major arteries leading from Westchester to the city were reported as having light traffic . Cool Air Comes From Canada The sudden drop in local @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ being caused by the arrival of a cool moist air mass from eastern Canada . As the mass spread southward into New England it brought drizzling rain and thunderstorms . By last evening the southerly boundary of this cool front had reached Maryland and was spreading west into West Virginia and northern Mississippi . Holiday visitors poured into the city to replace the estimated 2 , - 700,000 New Yorkers who went out of town . Times Square restaurants were crowded for meals and the sidewalks were jammed with strollers who , unmindful of the rain , took their time over ' the sights of Broadway . Sightseeing buses did a brisk business , although major long distance and suburban bus lines reported their operations below normal . On the side streets , out-ofstate licence plates outnumbered New York 's by a considerable margin . Many night club proprietors reported " snowstorms , " their expression for a large number of white tablecloths without customers . The visitors just were n't a night club crowd . Movie theatres got those in search of entertainment , but most of the crowd was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Federal officials and labor spokesmen joined in Labor Day celebrations . Travelers returning to New York today will find the weather " mostly cloudy but not quite so cool , " the Weather Bureau predicted last night . Temperatures today were expected to range between 70 and 75 degrees , with gentle-to-moderate easterly winds .                     