@@719383

txt The Transit Authority threatened wholesale dismissals yesterday for striking subway motormen . The walkout continued for the second day with heightened effect , knocking out more than half the city 's subway service . Warning telegrams went out to 300 motormen telling them they would be dismissed if they failed to report on afternoon and evening shifts . The men remained defiant , however . A Supreme Court , action was set for 10 A , M. today , looking toward the possible jailing of Frank Zelano , strike leader , for violating an anti-strike injunction : Four other Motormen 's Benevolent Association officials were imprisoned for ten days on Monday morning . The authority offered bonuses and overtime to non-striking operating and maintenance employes on both the subways and municipal bus lines . The bonuses and overtime were estimated to total $150,000 a day by Joseph E. O'Grady , labor relations member of the authority . Emergency Service in Queens Emergency service to carry ; 25,000 Queens subway riders an hour was arranged last night . Starting at 6 A. M. , the Transit Authority will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Plaza and Thirty-fourth Street and Broadway . Four bus lines in Queens agreed to establish additional runs to feed the subway . Earlier , Mayor Wagner and Governor Harriman had urged the strikers to return to their jobs . " In view of the illegality of the strikers ' action , " the Mayor added . " this ' Administration has no recourse but to support fully the position of the Transit Authority . " Mr. Zelano vowed that , the motormen 's strike would go on . He contended that Six other craft unions  --  representing towermen , signalmen , conductors , maintenance workers , shop personnel and even a bus maintenance group  --  had joined the strike . Quill Issues Challenge Last night Michael J. Quill , president of the Transport Workers Union , challenged the striking unions to form a joint council to run against his industrial union , which represents all sorts of crafts in the transit system . A representation election has been scheduled for next Monday . The seven groups are demanding separate craft bargaining rights , instead of having to contest with the T. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ employes except Queens and Richmond bus workers . The T. W. U. now holds the representation rights . The splinter unions ' membership claims add up to 16,560 of the authority 's 31,917 hourly rated employes , whereas about 18,000 have dues checked off as T. W. U. members . 500 Reported on Strike The authority 's reports put the number of strikers only in the hundreds . Commissioner O'Grady , in mid-afternoon , said there were 500 motormen on ' strike ; the authority has 3,167 regular motormen . Only eighteen of 700 signalmen failed to report , along with seventeen towermen , he said . All these offered sickness or other excuses . An authority spokesman said that 300 to 500 bus maintainers had refused to cross picket lines at five Brooklyn depots , but insisted this caused no effect o4 bus operations . The motormen disclaimed any picketing but said they believed other unions might have picketed . The city appeared to be faring a bit worse than Monday . Mammoth traffic jams oc // curred during rush hours . Business absenteeism was estimated by the Commerce and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's 5 per cent . Other employes were late for work and dismissed early . In the midst of th. - ! Christmas ( shopping season , sales at one ' major department store were estimated yesterday to be off more than 30 per cent . Schools whose pupils depend on subways were curtailing hours . Dr. Jacob Greenberg , Deputy Superintendent of Schools , said the subway disruption was " interrupting or affecting in some way the education of nearly 1,000,000 children . " In the morning rush hour only 43 per cent of the regularly scheduled total of subway trains ran-313 out of 722 between 7 A. M. and 9 A. M. This compared with 45 per cent Monday morning and 41 per cent Monday night . IND Worse Off . The IND , on which Queens residents in particular depend , was much worse off than the morning before ? twenty-one trains operated out of 203 scheduled , or ? 10 per cent instead of 19 per cent . The BMT improved from 49 per cent to 57 per cent  --  fiftyeight trains out of 102 . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ trains out of 417 . During the evening rush hour , three IND lines were out of service , according to the authority 's 6 P. M. report . These were the AA from 168th Street to Hudson Terminal , BB from 168th Street to Thirty-fourth Street and Sixth Avenue and CC from Bedford Boulevard to Hudson Terminal . Headways on other lines ? the intervals between trains ? were from fifteen to forty=five minutes . On the BMT , the West End and Brighton expresses , Myrtle Avenue line to Bridge Street , the Broadway short line from Canal Street to Atlantic Avenue or Rockaway Park and the Franklin Avenue shuttle were out of service , while other routes operated on headways of five to thirty minutes . All IRT lines were operating , with headways of five to fifteen minutes . The IRT lines have fared better because for years they have been the Quill union 's strongholds . At 10 P. M. , the authority said last night 's rush-hour operation , compared with Monday night 's , had been slightly better on the IRT , about the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The companies agreeing to the Mayor 's request to help ease the situation in Queens were the Fifth Avenue Coach Lines , Inc. ; the Green Bus Lines , Inc. ; the Queens Transit ( Corporation and the Steinway Omnibus Corporation . Dismissal Notice The Transit Authority 's warnings to the motormen were based on . the authority 's own rules , although the men could also be dismissed under the state Condon-Wadlin law , which bans strikes by Civil Service employes . They read : " This . notifies you that if you do not report and take out your run this afternoon , Tuesday , Dec. 10 , it will mean that you have terminated your employment , and you will be replaced . " At 7 P. M , the authority said action against non-complying motormen would have to await verification of the time of delivery of the messages and study of each individual case . The authority was ready to draw replacements ' ' , from 300 motormen awaiting appointment on a Civil Service list . It was already drawing on a pool of 162 former @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of trains , and forty-nine motormen-supervisors and assistants . In a statement at 9 A. M. , Charles L. - Patterson , chairman of the authority , announced these further measures in the effort to break the strike : " In order to provide service because of the situation and the inconvenience to the public caused during the past twentyeight. hours and in order to do everything within our power to get our loyal employes to work , we are going to put cots in the terminals of the three divisions for those employes who wish to remain on the property so as to be able to take out trains . Plan on Extra Pay " Such employes will be paid for all time on the property , whether working , eating , or sleeping ; for we have made provisions to feed them at Transit Authority expense . " They will be paid time and a half for all time over eight hours . Straight time for the first eight hours . Surface workers will also have the same benefits . " All operating and maintenance employes who have worked during @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of their earnings during the strike period . This bonus is being paid to compensate them for the trying circumstances under which they have worked . " The authority ordered 800 cots from civil defense authorities and arranged to set up 600 at thirty locations for subway personnel . Two hundred were held for bus workers . The court action aimed at Mr. Zelano , executive secretary of the motormen 's union , was an order obtained by the authority requiring him to show why he should not be punished for contempt of the anti-strike injunction . The , injunction was signed by Supreme Court Justice Vincent A. Lupiano July 27 , 1956 , after a nine-hour motormen 's strike that shut down the subways June 14 , 1956 . The show-cause order is returnable in Part 2 , Supreme Court , at 10 A. M. today , With it was an affidavit in which Commissioner O'Grady described Mr. Zelano as leading the present strike " in flagrant and deliberate violation " of the injunction . " This strike , " Mr. O'Grady added in the affidavit , has resuited and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only to the plaintiff ( the Transit Authority ) but to the entire business community of the City of New York . " This strike is a public disaster , since , as it was pointed out in the opinion of Mr. Justice Lupiano granting the injunction , the city is dependent ' for its very life and daily functioning ' on its rapid-transit facilities . " Mr. Zelano said the court move was " rash coercion " and " an act of desperate men . " He said " we ca n't be intimidated . " If he were jailed , he added , he had an alternate  --  Joseph Caren , a motorman who has been working with him . Mr. Zelano himself is technically on vacation from his Transit Authority job , from last Sunday until Dec. 28 . Mayor Wagner 's appeal to the strikers to return to work was endorsed by Governor Harriman in Albany , after Mr. Harriman had talked by telephone with the Mayor . Both are Democrats . " I join the Mayor , " Mr. Harriman declared , " in urging the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interest and in fulfilment of their obligations to the people of New York City . " The state 's top Republican official , Attorney General Louis J. Lefkowitz , issued an appeal for " an immediate cooling-off period . " Regardless of " the rights and the wrongs , " he said , the strike involved safety hazards as well as inconvenience . " All responsible agencies , as well as the unions involved , " Mr. Lefkowitz said , " must cooperate in an all-out program of mediation , conciliation and persuasion to restore fulltransportation service immediately . "                     