@@719646

txt It is still too early to assume that the major changes just announced in Saudi Arabia mean that everything in that desert kingdom now is going Egyptian President Nasser'sway . But most of the Arab world will interpret King Saud 's transfer to his brother , Crgwn Prince Feisal , of executive power in the all-important fields of Saudi Arabian external and internal policy as a victory for the Egyptian leader . For the propaganda machine of the United Arab Republic ( Egypt-Syria ) has kept King Saud under bitter and unbridled attack ever since the allegation was first made in Damascus three weeks ago that he had attempted to bribe influential Syrian Col. Abdel Harrad Serraj with a gift of more than 51/2 million dollars to prevent implementation of the Egyptian-Syrian union and to secure assassination of Colonel Nasser . Throughout this campaign Prince Feisal has been represented as more friendly to the union and as disapproving his brother 's alleged actions . Those who believe the allegations against King Saud to be true will argue now that Kutg , Saud 's latest move confirms the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have vested in his brother powers which have hitherto been his if he had not felt that internal and external pressures had made his personal position insecure , The royal decree granting Prince Feisal " full responsibilities " to lay down and supervise me implementation of the country 's internal , external . and financial policies gives as one of the reasons for the decision " our desire strengthen the state administration . " everything in that country go Colonel Nasser 's way . Prince Feisal probably will try to lessen the antagonism which recently has flared up between his country and Egypt , but he almost certainly understands that his position as much as King Saud 's depends upon the future of the patriarchal monarchical system in Saudi Arabia , which has nothing in common with the social revolutionary content of Colonel Nasser 's brand of Arab nationalism . Prince Feisal is generally considered more astute and skillful than his brother , the King , in dealings with the outside world . Their father , the late King Abdel Aziz ibn Saud , allowed Prince Feisal to travel abroad as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at home and trained him to be a ruler of the Bedouin tribes , upon whose loyalty the Saudi throne still depends in some measure . Setback Remembered Prince Feisal was an Arab spokesman in the United Nations debates which attended the emergence of Israel as a state , and the bitter personal , humiliation which lie feels he then suffered at the hands of the West has left its mark on him . Parallel with this he is believed to harbor more pronounced hostility than King Saud toward their dynastic rivals on the thrones of Iraq and Jordan . Prince Feisal 's assumption of full powers in Saudi Arabia consequently makes it even less likely that that country will enter the recently proclaimed Arab Federation between Iraq and Jordan  --  or adopt an openly benevolent attitude toward it . This , of course , is another gain for Colonel Nasser , since the Iraqi and Jordanian Governments had clearly honed they might succeed in getting King Saud to join their camp . Iraqis Look to Kuwait This in turn could lead to increased Iraqi pressure on the West to bring @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are aware that there is little popular enthusiasm in either Iraq or Jordan for the federation and they believe that the only remedy is to find some way to prove to the populace that the federation holds promise of considerable material benefits . In this light , Kuwait 's **25;766;TOOLONG oil revenues would seem very tempting . Saudi Arabia 's oil ? income also approaches that figure , but there never has been any effective budget control of the country 's finances , with the result that they are in a none too sound condition . Oil Revenue Vital Hitherto King Saud has disposed of his oil income as he pleased , and it is believed he has usually be. : , , n spending it rather faster than his royalties from the Arabian American Oil Company  --  the producing company in Saudi Arabia  --  could pour it in . There are reports that differences between Prince Feisal and King Saud over handling of the country 's finances were a contributory factor to the changes in responsibility which have just been announced . It will be noted that the royal decree @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ external policies . It will be interesting to see whether Prince Feisal can institute reforms in this field without alienating the Bedouin tribes and the vast number of princes of the royal house , whose support and loyalty to the throne have ? hitherto depended upon handsome subventions from the King 's purse ,                     