@@715006

txt While Gen. Dwight D. Eisenhower spent yesterday in seclusion working on the speeches he hoped would clinch the election for him , the Republican candidate 's campaign manager declared that the Democrats , led 15y President Truman , intended in wind up their drive for votes with a barrage of " below-the-belt " charges . Gov . Sherman Adams of New Hampshire said in a statement that General Eisenhower 's political opponents planned to " stop at nOthing , lhis week. , " He ? declared the Democrats . woutd " step up their smear campaign " would " issue their typical ' week-beforeelection ' innuendos . " " I know that the voters of the country will recognize these lastminute desperation tactics for what they are and will reject them , " Governor Adams asserted . He forecast an " overwhelming victory " for the Republican ticket , both in popular and electoral votes , and predicted that General Eisenhower would carry at least three or four southern states . The Republican candidate did not attend church services in the morning , as has been his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Morningside Drive all day . Among his visitors were Harold E. Stassen , president of the University of Pennsylvania , and Herbert Brownell , who was manager of Governor Dewey 's 1944 and 1948 ' campaigns for the Presidency . Last night General Eisenhower boarded a train at Pennsylvania , Station fo , r Philadelphia , where this morning he will start a one , day whistle-stop tour in Pennsyl // vania . With him were Mrs. Eisenhower and their daughter-in-law , Mrs. John Eisenhower . General Eisenhower will return to New York tomorrow morning and spend three days here and in the metropolitan area , during which he will deliver at least a dozen speeches . One Manhattan speech will be the EisenhowerNixon United Republican rally at Madison Square Garden Thursday night . Governor Dewey will introduce General Eisenhower at the rally . The tentative schedule of arrangements , given out yesterday by Secretary of State Thomas J. Curran , New York Republican County Committee chairman , called for the Republican candidate to speak from 10 to 10:30 P. M. Among the other speakers scheduled are Senator Irving M. Ives @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the party 's closing drive for Neiv York State 's forty-five electoral - votes General Eisenhower will tour the city and suburbs with Governor Dewey , Mr. Pfeiffer , Mahn ' 14 Goldstein , State Attorney General ; J. Raymond , State Controller , and J. Russel Sprague , Republican National Committeeman . The Eisenhower schedule calls for three speeches in Brooklyn , three in Manhattan , two in Queens , two in Westchester County and one leach in the Bronx , Nassau County and Staten Island , plus a nationwide television address . The two Manhattan speeches in addition to . the Garden address also will be made on Thursday ? at 11:15 A. M. at Fourteenth Street and First Avenue , and at 12:30 P. M. at Thirty-eighth Street and Seventh Avenue . The Brooklyn speeches , also on Thursday , will be at 3:25 P. in Fulton Park , at Lewis Avenue ; at 3:45 P. M. at Zion Park , and at 5:15 P. M. at Borough Hall Plaza . In Queens , the candidate will make a speech at 9:15 A. M. tomorrow at Borough @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ M. on Wednesday at Lost Battalion Hall , Queens Boulevard , Elmhurst . General Eisenhower will make his trip to Westchester County on Wednesday , with stops and speech , es in Larkin Plaza , Yonkers , at 112:40 P. M. , and the Westchester County Center in White plains at 1:30 P. M. On his returning to the city , General Eisenhower will cross the Westchester-Bronx line at 241st Street and White Plains Road at 2:55 P. M. and head for the intersection of Fordharn Road and the Grand Concourse . He will speak from the overpass there at 3:20 P. M. The Nassau County speech is scheduled for 11:15 A. M. tomorrow at the Old Court House in Mineola . The Staten Island address . will be given at 9:15 A. M. on Thursday in the plaza of Borough Hall . The candidate will make his television address on a national program with the Governors of states from all parts of the country at 10 P. M. Wednesday over CBS-TV . General Eisenhower is expected to make a major speech in Chicago on Friday night . His Saturday schedule @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that he plans to end his campaign on Monday night in Boston , returning here on Election Day . His visit to Pennsylvania today will include stops at Philadelphia , Lancaster , Harrisburg , Altoona , Johnstown and Pittsburgh . In another development yesterday , Walter Williams , national chairman of the Citizens for Eisenhower-Nixon , predicted on the basis of , a state-by-state survey that General Eisenhower Would win the election with " between 310 and 395 " electoral votes . " This prediction is not based , on wishful thinking , " Mr. Williams declared . " We polled every source open to us ? our state - chairman , some of the chairmen of our more than 3,000 local clubs , ? elected state officials and top political , writers and newspaper editors . " Mr. Williams explained that the survey showed General Eisenhower would carry at least twenty-nine states , including the four Southern states of . Virginia , Florida , South Carolina and Louisiana .                     