@@713356

txt Acting with what was described as a , " sense of urgency , " the military chiefs of the North Atlantic Treaty nations late today recommended that a supreme commander for the collective force to defend Western Europe be appointed at once . This action coincided with the military committee 's putting its stamp of approval on the actual plan for the number of troops , ships and aircraft to put at the disposal of the commander . The figures were such a closely guarded secret that a member of the United States delegation , discussing certain matters with the press , shut off all such questions at the outset of an informal " briefing " in the Pentagon . It appeared likely that the supreme commander of the combined force would be named in a matter of days or weeks . Nothing that developed during the day changed the predominant view that the Supreme Commander would be an American . Gen. Dwight D. Eisenhower , now president of Columbia University , continued to be foremost in the speculation . The Military Committee , acting within its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The recommendation will go before the Defense Committee of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization on Saturday , thence to the Council of Foreign Ministers . There will be no announcement of either the name or nationality of the commander , it was said , until the head of the government that is providing the commander issues the word . So speedily is the pooling of an " integrated force " taking shape that a setting up of a Supreme Command in Europe by the first of 1951 is considered a distinct possibility . The Military Committee completed its highly secret deliberations in a heavily guarded down // town Washington auditorium late in the afternoon . Soon afterward it issued a communique , stating it had approved plans for what forces were to be committed to meeting an emergency in Western Europe . Points of Decisions The military chiefs also announced they had decided on the following : 1 . What the " missions " of the Supreme Commander should be . 2 . A reorganization of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization structure . This was interpreted to mean the merging @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that would deal with the problems of continental Europe and another that would be concerned primarily with the Atlantic area . 3 . The setting up of a " military standardization agency " of the Standing Group . The Standing Group is the continually functioning body of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization consisting of high-ranking representatives of the United States , Britain and France . Standardization refers to the immense problem of making weapons and military techniques interchangeable and common to all nations in the organization . Another significant development disclosed in the carefully worded communiqu ? was a recommendation that the representatives of the " national chiefs of staff , " who are in Washington at all times should receive greater authority and become more closely associated with the Standing- Group . This recommendation apparently was based on the imminent consolidation of the overlapping regional groups overseas and as a measure to give the nine smaller nations not represented on the Standing Group more voice azd better access to the policy-making of the Standing Group . In all ways , observers noted , the Military Committee 's work seemed to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into a real working group that ' could function with a minimum of waste in time and effort should a blow fall anywhere in Western Europe . It was brought out by an American spokesman that establishment of a Supreme Command would not immediately abolish the Western European Union , consisting of Britain , France , Belgium , the Netherlands and Luxembourg . This alliance , headed militarily by Field Marshal Viscount Montgomery with headquarters at Fontainbleu , France , it was explained , operated under treaties in force . But it was said that the ultimate absorption of Western Union into the new over-all scheme was certainly indicated . Action After Chief Is Named It was disclosed that the Military Committee in reaching its conclusions had not discussed the location of the headquarters of the Supreme Command . That presumably is a matter for , the Defense Committee , the Council of Foreign Ministers and very likely , to a great degree , the Supreme Commander himself , once he is named . At one point , avoiding direct questions from reporters on the commander matter and others designed to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ When the commander is named we 'll go into business . " The members of the Military Committee are : Belgium , Lieut . Gen. Etienne Baele ; Canada , Lieut . Gen. Charles Foulkes ; Denmark , Lieut . Gen. F. Goertz ; France , Gen. Charles Lecheres ' ; Italy , Lieut . Gen. Effisio Marras ; Luxembourg , Col. Aloyse Jacoby ; the Netherlands , Gen. Dr. H. G. Kruls ; Norway , Lieut . Gen. Bjarne Oen ; Portugal , Gen. Anibal Valdes Passos Sousa ; the United Kingdom , Field Marshal Sir William Slim ; and United States , Gen. Omar N. Bradley .                     