@@716935

txt An Administration official took issue today with the President and his Attorney General and called for a thorough overhaul of the Government 's employe security program . Harry P. Cain , a member of the Subversive Activities Control Board , charged that both Republican and Democratic Administrations had mixed partisan politics with security . The former Republican Senator from Washington called for the creation of a bipartisan Presidential commission to review the program . He said that . the announcement of such action " would signify that the marriage between security and politics had been annulled . " Point by point , Mr. Cain criticized the present program and what he called indecisive meassures to correct shortcomings . He also attacked Senator Joseph R. McCarthy , Republican of Wisconsin , with whom he had been associated closely in the Senate . Upholds Fifth Amendment Mr. Cain spoke before the National Civil Liberties Clearing House . He defended the Fifth Amendment to the Constitution . He chastised Senator McCarthy for referring to some witnesses before his investigating committee as " Fifth Amendment Communists " because they would not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ protects witnesses in criminal action against self-incrimination . The courts have upheld its application to Congressional inquiries . ' " Those who use ' Fifth Amendment ' as an adjective of disapprobation modifying the noun ' Communist ' are as guilty of disrespect for the Constitution as any Communist could be , " Mr. Cain declared . " Centuries of inquisitional tortures , mental and physical , and misgivings over man 's inhumanity to man forged and tempered the bulwark of freedom that the individual shall not I be required to convict himself . " We should be less concerned by the few . who hide behind the privilege without and much more concerned by those who trifle with and prostitute its significance . " . Before his defeat for re-election in 1952 , Senator Cain had classified himself as a rightwing Republican . He proposed that the Government give a clean bill on security to any employe who had belonged to an alleged pro-Com // munist organization other than the Communist party itself but had resigned before 1947 , and who since had engaged in no activities that would cause @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the Senate by Senator Hubert H. Humphrey . The Minnesota Democrat has been conducting hearings on a resolution for a bipartisan commission to review the program . Raps Civil Service Head Mr. Humphrey criticized Philip Young , Chairman of the Civil Service Commission , for failure to grant a request by a Senate Government Operations subcommittee for detailed information about the security program 's operations . He warned that he would insist that Mr. Young comply with Senatorial requests . The President and the Attorney General , Herbert Brownell Jr. , have rejected the idea of a bipartisan commission to study the security program . They have formed a unit of the Justice Department to make minor changes . " I think it possible that the Justice Department could do the job but 1 feel most strongly that a commission would have a better chance of being more effective . persuasive and helpful to the nation , " Mr , Cain asserted . He criticized the practice of ! suspending Government employes before a hearing . He said the hearing should come first and that the Government should notify the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Cain decried the administration of the Attorney General 's list of proscribed pro-Communist nd pro-Fascist organizations . He asserted that many had been denied employment because of membership in such organizations years before they were listed . Mr. Cain cited the Attorney General 's effort to blacklist the National Lawyers Guild . Mr. Cain said that he , himself , might have joined that organization if he had been an enterprising law school undergraduate or a Negro lawyer when it was formed . Mr. Cain recalled that when the guild was formed , the American Bar Association refused membership to Negroes or to undergraduate law students . " A. person may have been a dupe in joining a listed organization which is thought now to have been subversive , but it does not follow that he necessarily was disloyal , " Mr. Cain continued . He said a " citizens ' informer " system was being organized in defense plants . Such a system , Mr. Cain added , is " not in our nation 's best interest . " The Government , he said , ought to furnish legal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                    