@@715722

txt The American people shortly will be receiving more substantial and more realistic information on atomic developments . This will be all to the good . It has been a long time corning . It was long overdue . The decision is now firm . It has been made by the National Security Council , supported by the new civilian advisers who have been working lately with the NSC , and endorsed by the military , the Atomic Energy Commission . and the Joint Congressional Committee on Atomic Energy . President Eisenhower will himself be the first to speak out under the new information policy , and it will take the form of either a television or radio report to the country . The only decision which remains to be made by President Eisenhower after he returns to Washington from his Colorado vacation is : 1 . Whether to confine his first statement to a more factual . franker , and fuller exposition of the implications of the world atomic-hydrogen arms race . 2 . Or whether to accompany his statement of the facts with an outline of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ public opinion if they are to be carried out . A A A The case for fuller information on atomic matters was candidly expounded by Gordon Dean on the occasion of his recent farewell press conference when he retired as chairman of the Atomic Energy Commission . He is only one of numerous officials who have been urging the release of fuller information , but as the government prepares to implement this policy it is useful to bear Mr. Dean 's wovis in mind . He put it this way : " In the recent past there have occurred developments in the field of atomic weapons which , in my view , should change our entire concept of what war is . In this situation , I think it is vital that the policy makers of our government , including our diplomats , congressmen , and heads of agencies as well as every citizen , should have as clear a picture as possible of our defense capability vis-a-vis the Russians . " We have said many times that we are ahead of the Russians , but that is not enough . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would be able to wipe out an enemy 20 times over if he reaches the point where he can wipe us out just once . " Something else needs to be added . The question is : What is it ? What else should we be doing in addition to our normal efforts to bring peace- to the world . The need for an answer is becoming increas- Langley . Staff Artist inglrurgent , and the need for information upon which to base an answer is becoming increasingly more obvious . " Various Washington correspondents have , of course , been writing at least on the fringes of this problem for some time . Some officials have argued that fuller atomic information is not needed because there are very few , if any , solid facts which the President himself can bring out which have n't been touched on and which are not already in the public domain . But there is a great deal of difference . in the nourishing and shaping of public opinion by what a few reporters may be writing , and by authoritative disclosure of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ President . The need is for clear , broad-visioned , brave political leadership and that needs to come from our highest and most respected political leaders . A A A It remains for President Eisenhower to deal with such questions as these : When , how , and to what extent can private enterprise be brought in to speed and expand development of atomic energy for peaceful purpoes ? What is the realistic appraisal of the devastation an undeclared enemy atomic-hydrogen attack could wreak upon the United States and what more should be done to avert it ? Is the Pentagon right relying so heavily upon our military ability to counterattack atomically as a deterrent to aggression ? Are these - considerably effective defenses against atomic aggression and how much would it cost the American people to build a better continental defense than we now possess or have planned ? Is n't defense against atomic aggression itself a good deterrent ? If the choice is between balancing the budget and strengthening our atomic defenses. what does the President consider the facts which a wise national decision can be made ? Will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ natural dispersion of American industry as to constitute in itself an important added defense against atomic aggression ? The fact is that atomic benefits and atomic perils are bursting out all over and these are some of the questions which the country needs to hear the President discuss .                     