@@713313

txt Four weeks from today Massachusetts voters will troop to the polls in a state election which could establish the Democratic Party as the obviously dominant political force in the commonwealth . On the other hand , a Republican victory could mean the resurgence of the GOP , with a real opportunity to strengthen and rebuild . However , whichever party holds the gubernatorial reins during the next two years must solve major problems of state finance . So tremendous are these problems that only the best bipartisan action can bring about a proper solution . Bitter Tone Set Whether the needed bipartisan approach can be attained is problematical in view of the tone of the gubernatorial campaign already set . Former Lt. Gov . Arthur W. Coolidge , Republican nominee for governor , officially opened his drive last night . Governor Dever preceded him last week . The Coolidge opening was staged at his home town , Reading . The Dever springboard speech was delivered in Provincetown on Oct. 3 . Governor Dever is tagged by Mr. Coolidge as a " political faker " who has " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other hand , Governor Dever in speeches and in advertisement characterizes past Republican administrations as guilty of " wreckonomy . " Party Finances Meanwhile , it is becoming increasingly obvious that the Democratic Party is well financed for the four-week drive to election day . But the Republican Party , being on the outside looking in , is having difficulty in obtaining sufficient finances to mount a winning campaign . On both sides the party leadership is solidly behind the respective gubernatorial candidates . On the Republican side , Mr. Coolidge has the firing-line services of all five of his primary opponents . Maj. Gen. Daniel Needham already has delivered a sharp attack on Governor Dever as part of the Coolidge campaign . Others are ready to work all-out for him . Governor Dever , likewise , is well fixed for leadership support . Unlike other gubernatorial nominees in some other Democrati ? campaigns , he has such Democratic chieftains as Secretary of Labor Maurice J. Tobin , former Governor and former Mayor James M. Curley , and many other party leaders actively working with and for him . Of course @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ party . How widespread they are will not be known until election day . independents Hold Key If they are of major proportions and are coupled with a slacking of independents ' support , Governor Dever will be turned Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner . out . If not , Republicans will lose the first off-presidential-year state election since 1934 . Meanwhile , the Coolidge speech is being discussed widely in Bay ' State political circles . The former lieutenant governor 's campaign opening at Community Hall of the Reading Unitarian Church was staged withoutt fanfare and was typical of his campaign approach . ' Unhappy Choice ? Today Governor Dever used the locale of the Coolidge speech as basis for a sharp attack . The governor said : " Candidate Coolidge owes an apology to every God-fearing churchgoer for using his local Unitarian church as a forum for an intemperate and untruthful political attack . " It was a most unhappy choice because churches I have always assumed were temples of good will and prayer dedicated to brotherly love under the fatherhood of God . . . . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the only hall available , that it is used regularli , for a community gatherings , and asserted that Mr. Dever himself spoke there as attorney general . Dever Assailed , " Healthy government , healthy politics , in this or any other state , " Mr. Coolidge said in his Reading talk , " must be based on a responsible two-party system with the standard bearers of both parties openly and honestly contesting for victory and presenting their party philosophy and programs for the public choice . " That is not the situation in Massachusetts today , and it has not been since 1948 , when Dever first campaigned for the governorship . I say Dever is neither fish nor fowl , because he has not truly represented the Democratic Party . He has left the true Democratic philosophy of Al Smith and embraced a self-serving type of - soCialism . He has been called a Democrat , and the record shows that he really has represented Dever and the Dever gang , and not the Democratic Party . " Large segments of the Democratic Party are showing a vast impatience @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Highway Programs Mr. Coolidge attacked the Dever record in office , charging he promised NITA fares would not ? be raised only later to boost them , that Mr. Dever had " developed a socialistic state , featured by waste and extravagance . " The present state highway program , of which Mr. Dever is so proud , was born , initiated , and planned by the preceding governor , and Mr. Dever is merely carrying out what was handed him on a platter , with the exception , of course , of the artistic highway signs which now dot the landscape . Those expensive toys were not provided for in the initial planning ; they are Dever 's little contribution to the highway program . More Dever fakery ! " The school building program likewise was initiated , planned , passed , and put into effect by the previous governor and Legislature . "                     