@@717906

txt The International Longshoremen 's Association acted yesterday to curb Anthony Anastasia 's rapidly growing power over Brooklyn dock workers . Capt . William V. Bradley , president of the unaffiliated union , notified the Brooklyn pier boss that he would not recognize the absorption of 2,000-member Local 1816 by the sprawling 8,000-man Local 1814 until a secret ballot referendum was held to determine the wishes of the men involved . Captain Bradley named the union 's general counsel , William B. Mischo , to serve as administrator of Local 1816 pending the results of the voting . It will be conducted under the supervision of the Honest Ballot Association . At the same time the parent union suspended the charter of Local 1827 , which is known as the General Plants and Factory Workers of Kings County . The catch-all industrial local . described as being " in Anastasia 's pocket , " was charged with raiding the jurisdiction of the port 's four checker locals . Anastasia Defends Move Anastasia , who is an international vice president of the I. L. A. , defended his efforts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . He said he had been " just following the wishes of Captain Bradley " when he acted to amalgamate all the Brooklyn pier organizations . The Brooklyn official noted that when Captain Bradley assumed the presidency of the union two-and-a-half years ago lie had observed that many of the ills of the I. L. A. stemmed from the fact that it had too many small locals and announced that one of his tasks would be to reduce the number , Anastasia declared : " Now I do n't know v:hat all this means . It 's all new to me . We tried to make an organization he could be proud of , and then this happens . " The Brooklyn pier leader denied that men of Local 1827 had been sent to the docks as checkers . " Every checker working in Brooklyn has a checker 's union book , " he said . " Brooklyn checkers have been checkers for five , ten , fifteen years . " Anastasia indicated that Mr. Mischo would have his difficulties in administering Local 1816 . " That local is dead and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ exist any more . " Bradley Explains Action In his telegram to the Brookly vice president , Captain Bradley said he deemed necessary the appointment of an administrator because " the officials of Local 1816 are now working as delegates for Local 1814 . " The union president said he had decided to call a referendum on the amalgamation after he had received " several complaints from members of Local 1816 stating they did not have an opportunity to vote on a secret ballot , which has been the custom of their local union . " The amalgamation of . Local 1816 into 1814 took place on Monday morning following what had been described as a unanimous vote for the move by the men of 1816 . The action to suspend Local 1827 was recommended at a meeting Tuesday night by the union 's New York District Council . Although Anastasia usually attends such meetings , he was not present at that one . The actual decision to suspend the local was taken yesterday morning by the union 's executive officers . Besides Captain Bradley , they include Harry Hasselgren , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vice president , and Thomas ( Teddy ) Gleason , general organizer . Captain Bradley sent a telegram to the local 's officials notifying them of the suspension . The men  --  Frank Dapolito , president ; Anthony Parisi , vice president , and John Scotto , financial treasurer  --  were not available yesterday for comment . The union headquarters said that the Local 1827 officers had ignored two previous telegrams that ordered them to appear and " straighten out the grievances " charged against their unit by the port 's four checker locals . Waterfront observers speculated yesterday that the union 's " crackdown " on Anastasia might be a " calculated risk : - - ? At worst , it was suggested all that it does is to bring out in the open a long-simmering ' end between the union 's top leadership and the powerful Brooklyn viceroy . At its best , from the union 's ' point of view , the decision to hold up recognition of the amalgamation pending a secret election may serve as another valuable counter if the I. L. A. should decide to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Industrial Organizations . The I. L. A. was expelled from the American Federation of Labor in 1953 for failure to clean house of criminal and racketeer domination . Last week the union announced its withdrawal from a pact with the International Brotherhood of Teamsters , A. F. L.-C . I. 0 : , that had drawn the ire of top labor leaders . It cited its unwillingness to cause a labor rift as the cause of the ; withdrawal . The action yesterday was said by some in shipping circles to be another " arrow " in the union 's admittance " quiver . " The I. L. A. leadership would not comment on these speculations .                     