@@716694

txt Paul M. Butler , South Bend attorney was electe d chairman of the Democratic national committee today to succeed Stephen A. Mitchell on Jan. 1 , when Ballet Mitchell r e - turns to private law practice . Tile election of Butler by the committee , in session here , cli ? maxed a party controversy in which Rep. Sam Rayburn of Texas , incoming speaker , urged postponement of a vote until next year , while Adlai E. Stevenson opposed delay . An Original Adlai Man Butler 's choice represented a victory for the Stevenson . Mitchell wing of the party , al . the Stevenson had said two other leading candidates were just as acceptable to him . They were Michael V. Di Salle , for mer Toledo mayor and Nev Deal price administrator , anc James Finnegan , president of the Philadelphia city council . The 49 year old Butler , wi : never held elective office , was one of the orginal Stevenson for President men . But he said that as chairman he intends to be " just a Democrat working for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , was the Democratic Presidential nominee in 1952 . Approves Killing Oath Aside from making the expected prediction of a " glorious " Democratic victory in 1956 , Butler said he approved yesterday 's action of the advisory committee of 69 in tossng out the so-called party " loyalty oath " which kept the national ticket off the ballot in four southern states in 1943 and threatened to split the 1952 Democratic convention before a compromise was reached . Seventy Votes on First Call Butler was the first member of the national committee to be promoted from the rank ! to the chairmanship in a dec ade , and the first to be choser in a contested election in about four decades . Unofficially , he received 7 ( votes of the 105 cast on first roll call . Only 53 were needed for election . Di Salle receiver 18 votes , and Finnegan 16 Joseph F. Donahue of the Dis , trict of Columbia got one . No official vote was an , nounced . After the vote , the election was made unanimous by acclamation . Butler is a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Butler , in South Bend . He attended high school in that city and took a law de . gree from the University of Notre Dame in 1927 . Worked for F. D. R. Election He became president of South Bend 's Young Democrats , worked for Franklin D. Roosevelt 's election in 1932 , and later was closely associated with former Gov . Henry Schricker . He rose to the national committee in 1952 thru a succession ? of party posts , but never was state chairman . In 1953 he became one of the 11 members of the ' national committee 's executive committee . Butler is married and has three sons and two daughters . The family attends St. Joseph 's Roman Catholic church . Butler said that while his pay as national chairman has n't been discussed , he intends to take a salary . Mitchell received $20,000 a year and expenses .                     