@@713217

txt DEMOCRATIC RACE AGAIN IS WIDE OPEN // The only difference of opinion in ruling out the persons suggested by Mr. Hollander was on Mr. Ewing , a resident of the Bronx . Daniel P. O'Connell , the powerful Albany county leader , is reported to favor the nomination of Mr. Ewing and to have obtained for him considerable up-state support . Development of a boom for the nomination of James A. Farley , former National Chairman and Postmaster General , with Mr. Farley 's knowledge but without his consent , is likely to cause some embarrassment to Paul E. Fitzpatrick , Democratic State Chairman , and Edward J. Flynn , Bronx leader and National Committeeman , who had been in complete control of the party organization until the Conway fiasco and still appear to be . Mr. Farley 's strength will be largely among the up-state delegates , with a strong possibility of support in Queens and Richmond , if he should decide to let his name go before the convention . James A. Roe , Queens leader , who went along with tilt other city leaders @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is reported to be much dissatisfied with the situation caused by the withdrawal of Judge Conway . Mr. Roe 's original choice far Governor was Court of Appeals Judge Charles W. Froessel . Sinnott Promises New Name Mr. Sinnott said that he had a ' candidate for Governor but would not disclose his name until he conferred with the other city leaders in Rochester on Tuesday . Leaders of the Liberal party , who continue ready to endorse all the Democratic state candidates , expressed hope that Mr. Sinnott 's candidate would be Miles F. , District Attorney of Kings county , and let it be known that they were prepared to endorse him . Should Mr. Sinnott be unable to produce a candidate acceptable to the convention , Democratic leaders expressed belief that the choice for the Democratic nomination for Governor might lie among Charles S. Desmond of Buffalo , Associate Judge of the Court of Appeals , Representative Walter A. Lynch of the Bronx , and Mr. Fitzpatrick , also of Buffalo . Judge Desmond and Mr. Lynch were under consideration as possible candidates before the city leaders @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had the nomination for Governor without opposition , refused to be a. candidate . The situation caused by Judge Conway 's withdrawal might cause him to reconsider . It is believed that he could be nominated by the convention without much difficulty . Impellitteri Hopes Revived The entanglement in which the city Democratic leaders have become involved has revived the hope of Vincent R. Impellitteri , who be came Acting Mayor on William O'Dwyer 's resignation , that he may become the Democratic nominee for Mayor . On assuming the office of Mayor , Mr. Impellitteri said that he hoped and expected that the five county leaders would be for his nomination . Mr. Impellitteri 's hope of the Mayoralty nomination seemed based in part on support of the United Labor Committee , of which i he co-chairman are Michael J. Quill , president of the New York City C. I. 0 . Council , and Martin T. Lacey , president of the Central Trades and Labor Council . His chance of obtaining the Democratic mayoralty nomination has one particularly high hurdle to overcome in the position taken by leaders of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ known that they were committed to the support of Supreme Court Justice Ferdinand Pecora , who on Thursday had the support of all five county leaders , and would not support any other Democratic candidate for Mayor . Liberals Might Back Javits Nomination of M. Impellitteri by the Democrats would free the Liberal party of any commitment on the Mayoralty nomination , and they would be free to endorse the Republican candidate and undoubtedly would do so , if Representative Jacob K. Javits , who has had Liberal party support , should be the Republican nominee for Mayor . Justice Pecora also has the support of Carmine G. DeSapio , leader of Tammany . The whole Democratic plan of campaign has been based on the theory that , with Justice Pecora running for Mayor and Senator Herbert H. Lehman running for re-election , the Democratic majority in the city would be so large that the vote here would carry the entire Democratic state ticket to victory . Notices of the meeting of the Democratic county committees of the five counties to nominate the candidate for Mayor were sent out yesterday . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ next Saturday night and the notices were signed by the five county chairmen . There are about 38,000 members of the five county committees and an attendance of at least 15,000 is expected .                     