@@713455

txt Weary United Nations troops dug in on a fifteen-mile perimeter around the industrial city of Hamhung and the seaport of Hungnam on the Korean east coast today after United States Marines and infantry of the United States Seventh Division had fought their way out of a Chinese Red trap in a thirteen-day running battle from the Changjin Reservoir . An armada of Allied warships and transports stood by in the Sea of Japan prepared to evacuate them if required . The United Nations High Command faced the decision of whether it was militarily possible or politically desirable to keep an American-South Korean force far north of the Thirtyeighth Parallel . United States Marines , the Army 's Third and Seventh lions and elements of South Korean troops faced an estimated 90,000 Chinese in the northeast . The Marines ' morale was good after the long retreat in which they had brought hack their wounded and saved their equipment . Men on the scene believed that with naval gunfire and land and carrier-based air support the position could be held if necessary . Casualties Not Revealed What the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ here . The Marines and Seventh Division  --  units of the United States Tenth Corps  --  had been under almost constant fire for almost a fortnight since they pulled out of their northernmost positions at Yudam on the west bank of the Changjin Reservoir . The Associated Press reported that a medical officer with the Marines had compared their losses in the retreat with those the corps had suffered on Tarawa , in the Pacific , in World War II . The Tarawa losses , more than 3,100 , apparently were exceeded in the Korea operation , in which more than 4,000 wounded were evacuated by air . In the West , the United States Eighth Army moved back to defensive positions and there were indications that the Chinese Communists had rolled down to the old boundary between North and South Korea . Gen. Douglas 's communique reported yesterday afternoon that a column of 2,000 to 3,000 mysterious enemy " wearing black and grey uniforms " had been sighted and attacked from the air moving east Of Haeju , west coast city just above the Thirty-eighth Parallel , on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Seoul . 20,000 " Persons " Spotted An Eighth Army spokesman said this morning that air reconnaissance had spotted 20,000 " persons " at Haeju , but would not further identify them as troops or refugees or both intermixed , and there was no further word of the apparently Chinese " black and gray " uniforms . Korean refugees were pouring south from Seoul . The mass movement in all Korea was estimated to involve 300,000 to 400,000 men , women and children . The only contact with the enemy in the west was a flurry of small engagements north and south of the Thirty-eighth Parallel in which North Koreans were involved with United States , Filipino and South Korean troops . These contacts were at Chunchon , south of the Parallel ; south of Sibyon where Filipinos had a minor brush with North Korean irregulars , near Yonchon and on the Hantanchan River . The Eighth Army spokesman said the guerrillas , who had a clear line of communications last week with the Chinese to the north , now had had those lines severed and were " on their own @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " The main forces " of Chinese were only five to seven miles south of Pyongyang , the spokesman asserted . At the First Corps , however , it was stated an undisclosed number of Chinese had been sighted in the Sinrnak area , half way between Pyongyang and Seoul . There has been no contact in this area , but Allied planes concentrating attacks on reportedly large bodies of troops at Sohung , a few miles from Sinmak , reported killing close to 1,000 of the enemy . In the east , however , the Chinese appeared to be massing for a blow against the new perimeter into which the Marines and G. I. 's had escaped after their epic breakthrough down the single mountain road from Koto . Official ' accounts said there was " significant enemy activity " in the Koto-MajonSamhung area , on the road leading down from the north over which the Marines had made their breakout , and at Sinhung , on the second highway from the Pujon Reservoir . " A substantial concentration " of Chinese Communist forces was in the Samhung area , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ join up with the enemy farther north somewhere along the Changjin Toad . Enemy troops were digging in at Sudong , occupying the high ground . Maj. Gen. Edward M. Almond , commanding the Tenth Corps , said the first link-up of United States troops breaking out of the Chinese encirclement occurred Saturday at 4:30 P. M. when advance guards of Marines and the Seventh Division met leading forces of the relief column of other Marines and infantry of the Third Division . The main bodies joined yesterday morning and tanks , trucks and jeeps began pouring down the road to Hamhung . The first of the weary Marines reached the city yesterday afternoon . End of Column Now in Hamhung The last of the column , probably numbering more than 20,000 men , had now entered Hamhung , the latest reports said . Everyone from General Almond down to private soldiers praised . the massive air support given by the Marine Air Force and Navy fighters and bombers . Air support " played a major role in the successful operations , " General Almond 's communiqu ? said . There @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , official accounts said . One was a strong drive on the retreating column from hill positions southwest of Koto and the other was at Sudong , just an hour before the two United States columns joined . Air strikes broke up three other enemy thrusts against combat engineers making emergency repairs to keep the escape road operative I northwest of Sudong . Two other enemy concentrations in the same area , one of 500 to 600 troops , were scattered as Marine planes came down with napalm - and machine- I gun fire . Headquarter 's estimates were that the enemy had made " intense efforts " to prevent the escape of the Marines from the trap . The Tenth Corps official communiqu ? did not call it a retreat . The Marines broke out by " attacking south " the official version said . In other parts of the northeast United Nations forces gave up positions they had won in advances last summer against the shattered North Korean army . Evacuation of the big east coast port at Wonsan was officially confirmed yesterday . United Nations troops pulled out under @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ town for five days . Iwon also reportedly was evacuated as , Americans and South Koreans moved back to the east coast perimeter . Refugee reports said Communists -- whether Chinese or returned North Koreans was not clear  --  had taken over the town again and were taking reprisals against inhabitants who had worked with the United Nations . With a partial news blackout imposed by Genera/ 's headquarters , official accounts , however , pinpointed few positions in the east and none along the western front . Since Friday headquarters briefings for correspondents have been suspended without official explanation . Unofficially it was understood that the suspension resulted because newspaper men had askedytoo many and too irritating questions . Thus far there has been no statement when or whether the briefings will be resumed . Reports of air activities , however , gave some clue to the measure of the Chinese advance . Fifth Air Force fighters , which flew 200 missions yesterday , reported inflicting 1,100 casualties on enemy troops concentrated above Sohung , fifty miles southeast of Pyongyang and thirty miles above the Parallel . Also attacked , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Kyomipo , where troops  --  either North Korean or Chinese  --  were reported , as well as supply warehouses and convoys . One air engagement was reported near Sinuiju , on the Manchurian border at the Yalu River . Four Russian-designed MIG-15 jets jumped four propeller-driven Mustang fighters . The enemy planes turned back across the border to safety after an exchange of machine-gun bursts . None of the Mustangs was damaged and no claims were made of hits on the enemy planes . B-29 Superforts operating In small formations bombed two airstrips at Pyongyang with 500-pound demolition bombs , cratering runways and destroying administration buildings . Huichon , already heavily hit communications center , again was plastered . Twenty-two Superforts hit Kanggye , one of the " ports of entry " for reinforcements and supplies from Manchuria . Seven hundred bombs wrecked the runways of Kanggye Airfield , and damaged the railroad yards and railway line to the south . Another formation attacked Kunu , on the Chongchon River north of Pyongyang , where railyards and highway intersections bombed several days ago had been repaired and were reportedly again @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the railroad system and storage areas for supplies .                     