@@719065

txt The House overwhelmingly approved the Administration 's request for a postal rate increase that would eventually bring in an estimated $5t7 million of extra revenue annually . The House action came the same day Senate Democratic leaders narrowed to a dozen or so measures the docket of bills on which Congress will likely complete action this year before it adjourns . The postal rate increase was not on the priority list , and key Democrats indicated they would delay until next year Senate hearings on the measure . There 's a slight chance , however . Senate Republicans will try to tack a postal rate increase onto a House-passed bill boosting salaries for postal workers in a parliamentary maneuver to scuttle the $317 million pay boost legislation this session . The idea behind this possible G.O.P. tactic would be to tie up postal legislation among House-Senate conferees , who would not be likely to come out with any compromise in the dying days of the session . That way , it 's figured , President Eisenhower could avoid the political embarrassment of having to veto a pay @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ final Senate vote if time permits along with other bills that would provide pay raises for civil service workers , federal indemnity for major nuclear reactor accidents , legislation switching jurisdiction over meat packers ' trade practices to the Federal Trade Commission from the Agricultural Department and necessary appropriation and authorization measures . Senate Majority Leader Johnson ( D. , Texas ) said these bills were picked up by the Senate Democratic policy committee for action If there 's time before Cong  --  es adjourns . Committee chairmen , he said , have been notified that any other important measures still before their groups must be approved swiftly for there to be any chance of the Senate taking them up this year . , Democrats Provide Opposition ? The postal rate boost cleared the House by a 256 to 129 vote with most of the opposition coming from Democrats . Under the ' measure , first-class or regular letter rates would be increased to four cents an ounce from three cents . Other one-cent boosts would bring postcards to three cents , airmail letters to seven cents , and airmail postcards @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be Increased in steps over the next four fiscal years , with the final boost July 1 , 1961 . Before passing the bill , the House changed in several major respects the version reported by the Post Office Committee . The lawmakers voted to make the higher rates effective this October 1 , generally , instead of July 1 as provided by the committee bill . The House approved a much stiffer rate increase on bulk mailings of circulars . Merchandise and other third-class mail -- the per-piece minimum would go to 2 ) . cents an ounce October 1 . And it voted to put a $100,000 limit on the mail " subsidy " the Post Office could provide any individual newspaper or magazine . In other pending business acted on yester-day : The Senate last night approved by voice vote a compromise $3,367.000,000 foreign aid authorization bill for the current fiscal year amid signs President Eisenhower was staging an all-out effort to prevent any frther cuts in the program . The compromise bill , which now goes to the House . merely authorizes foreign aid spending . Congress will nave @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ aid . The President asked Congressional leaders to fight for appropriations equaling the full authorization figure . This amount is already SI billion less than the President proposed to Congress in January and $500 million under his later revised request . The House and Senate approved and sent to the White House an $858 million compromise appropriation bill for public works construction by the Army Engineer Crops and Reclamation Bureau . This was $18 million below the budget request  --  the smallest percentage cut in any major appropriation bill this term . Home Loan Program Extended The lower chamber also agreed to extend the G.I. home loan program for one year beyond the current mid-1958 expiration date , but insisted on authorizing $200 million for the direct loan operation rather than $50 million as approved by the Senate . ? ? The civil rights fight seemed to hold the key to when lawmakers can leave town . House Speaker Rayburn ID. , Texas ) indicated strongly he would oppose adjournent before the matter was settled . If the issue is resolved soon , Congress could probably wind up business a week @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of course , both houses would have a chance to act on more measures . The civil rights snag stems from the Republicans ' firm stand for a House-Senate conference to knock out or tone down the controversial " jury trial " provision of the Senatepassed bill . This provides for jury trials in criminal contempt cases arising from any refusal to obey a Federal judge 's injunction . House Democrats are split among Southerners who still want no bill at all , Northerners who want the original far reaching House bill and others willing to accept the Senate bill without a conference . The latter group believes a conference might tie up the measure indefinitely and that House approval of the Senate version is the only way to get legislation this year . Rayburn Seeking .. Agreement The problem is getting a House vote on the issue , with Republicans and Southern Democrats opposing immediate acceptance of the Senate version , although for different reasons . Mr. Ralburn still has n't figured out how to get House agreement on the Senate bill . The pending money bills awaiting final Congressional @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , which have cleared neither chamber . And the Senate has before it a major A.E.C. authorization bill for construction and research operations that directs the Government to build seven new nuclear reactors . The House-passed measure eliminated these proposed atomic power plants . The " subsidy limitation amendment carried by a 171 to 147 vote despite warnings from some House members it would be unworkable . Under its terms , the Post Office would have to keep almost daily cost ascertainment figures on each magazine and newspaper any time during a particular fiscal year that the department 's figures indicate the cost of carrying a particular periodical was $100,000 more than the postage paid by the periodical . The Postmaster General would have to bOost rates for that magazine or newspaper to make it pay its way for the rest of the year .                     