@@716389

txt WASHINGTON , July 10 ? Two Army divisions  --  one infantry , the other armored  --  are to be torn down and rebuilt next autumn in the hope of perfecting a new battlefield organization for atomic warfare . The program is experimental and Army planners have no fixed I ideas about what they may learn from it . But they are convinced that the conventional division structure must be radically changed and strengthened to win the kind of battles that may lie ahead . Army staff officers , after several years of study , have reached certain tentative conclusions that will be tested by the two " guinea pig " divisions . They believe , for example , that an atomic age division must have vastly more mobility , flexibility and selfsufficiency in combat than ever before . To minimize the shattering effect of nuclear weapons , it must be able to disperse at a. moment 's notice over a wide area . The dispersal must be swift and controlled . Each segment of the scattered division must be under the firm control of the division com @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the whole division , able to stand and fight out of its own resources . This kind ' of self-sufficiency , the staff planners believe , will mean some duplication of support forces artillery , signals , armor and so forth . There will have to be a number of scattered supply dumps and depots , rather than large concentrations in any one place . How large such a division would have to be is one of the questions that the tests should answer . The standard infantry division now calls for 17,509 men , and the trend in recent years has been downward as increased firepower made up for-the reduction in manpower . The trend may continue , though premiminary studies indicate that a truly flexible division , one that could split into several self-sufficient combat units , may require more men . Changes Already Started Senior officers who have studied the problem for Maj. Gen. James M. Gavin , Assistant Chief of Staff for operations , are skeptical of the current theory ' that " pocket " divisions of about 5,000 men can do the job . Simply cutting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would not solve and " of the problems . Nor would such a plan meet the need for greater depth , with . sizable reserves available to take the places of men knocked out in the first phase of attack or defense . Whatever new ideas may come out of the tests would be incorporated gradually into Army training , according to present plans . This evolutionary change already is under way- in certain respects For example , all Army . recruits now receive eight weeks oT basic combat training even if they are to serve as cooks , .. clerks ,  --  or bakers . All newly commissioned lieutenants. whatever their ultimate jobs , must undergo a course of airborne or ranger training ; because the Army believes they will have to be tougher and more resourceful than their predecessors . All units are required to conduct one-third of their training et night . The importance of knowing how to fight effectively in the dark was emphasized by the success of the Chinese Communists in night attacks- during the Korean war . In addition , the Anny is constantly training @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ weapons as the 280 mm. atomic cannon , as well as Honest John and the Corporal , rockets that can mount atomic warheads . Greater mobility , both tactical and strategic , is an obvious need . This calls for increased reliance on helicopters and cargo planes , and for combat equipment light enough to be rushed into action by air . One reason for the Army 's careful deliberation in reshaping its division structure has been a suspicion that nuclear weapons would not necessarily be used in a future war . Although they have been instructed to make their plans on the assumption ' that atomic weapons would come into play , many staff officers feel this is by no means certain . The two divisions earmarked for reorganization have not yet been identified . They are to be ' trained through the winter along wholly new lines and will be put through a series of tests next spring .                     