@@719149

txt The Atomic Energy Commission is expected this fall to reduce by one-third the permissible levels of radiation exposure for atomic workers and populations around atomic installations . The revision in safety standards will be made because of increasing scientific evidence pointing to the harmful effects of radiation on present and future generations . There is divided opinion about the economic impact of stricter standards on the infant atomic industry . The proposed new restrictions could drive up costs by requiring greater safety measures , as well as creating difficult administrative - and legal problems . This is the latest in a series of actions in the last twentyfive years to reduce the permissible exposure to radiation . As scientists have learned more about the ' effects of radiation on the human body , the permissible levels have been successively lowered . In the new standards , radiation , experts feel that the " rock bottom " in levels has been reached . They can not be lowered much further , experts feel , and still permit the use of radioactive material and the growth of an industry @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ closely recent recommendations of the National Committee on Radiation Protection and Measurement , the top advisory group on radiation . For the first time , the recommendations established maximums on radiation exposure that atomic workers could accumulate over several years . Moral Reasons Also Cited They were based on moral as well as scientific reasons . There is no concrete evidence that previous standards would have resulted in physical damage to persons . However , there is accumulating evidence indicating that sustained low levels of exposure can damage hereditary cells and perhaps shorten the life span . Whether there are effects on heredity and the age span probably will not be known definitely for decades . In the absence of conclusive evidence , the committee felt that exposure levels should be reduced as far as possible and still nqrmit the utilization of atomic energy . ? The recommendations are designed primarily to limit exposure during ' the workers ' principal reproductive years , from 18 to 30 . For this reason , the accumulated dose in the twelve-year span is set at sixty Rems . Rem , standing for Roentgen Equivalent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to humans caused by radiation . It is equivalent to the Roentgen , which is a unit to measure X-ray or gamma radiation . The Rem , for instance , is the dose of radiation that will produce the same biological effects as one Roentgen of high voltage X-ray radiation . In contrast , under present A. E. C. standards based on previous recommendations , atomic workers can be exposed to a total of 180 Rems in this period . Reductions Are Listed The new standards provide that workers in atomic installations will be subjected to not more than an average of five Rems a year , with a maximum of fifteen in any one year . The present standards permit an exposure of up to fifteen every year . Populaces outside atomic installations will be permitted to receive only one-tenth the exposure permitted atomic workers . This means an average of one-half Rem a year , which is only a few dam more than the natural level of radiation . Under the present standards , these populaces can receive one-tenth the radiation permitted atomic workers , or 1.5 Rems a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the commission in January at the same time the national committee was recommending lower radiation levels . Since then the commission staff has been engaged in bringing its standards up to date with the latest scientific opinion on the dangers of radiation . Private atomic facilities have had only limited experience with radiation exposure . In its own installations , the A. E. C. has been within the restrictions of the new standards . From 1947 through 1955 , for instance , 95 per cent of the 200,000 workers under the commission had an annual exposure of one Rem or less , and 99.4 per cent were exposed to lest than five a year . On the basis of this experience , commission officials question that the stricter standards will have a widespread impact on atomic developments . In the new nuclear technology , it has been accepted engineering practice to overdesign the side of safety . One inevitable result has been to drive up the cost of facilities . As nuclear technology entered the economic phase of development , there had been hope that some safety features might prove @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ raise a question whether economies in design can be made .                     