@@717897

txt The Government smoothed the way today for a greater volume of exports to the Soviet Union and to her European satellites . It marked the first major easing of trade restrictions since the beginning of the " cold war . " In a new general license export order , Sinclair Weeks , Secretary of Commerce , made public a list of more than 700 nonstrategic items that exporters now might ship to the Soviet and other Communist countries in Europe without obtaining an export license for each shipment . Hereafter , exporters sending listed items to Soviet bloc destinations will be able to handle the transactions as they would similar shipments to friendly countries in Europe . Secretary Weeks emphasized that all the goods included on the new roster were of the type that would be approved for export under existing licensing policy . The new general license procedure , he added , in no way reflects a change in the policy of banning strategic goods to the Soviet bloc . Nor , he said , does it in any way indicate a relaxation of the strict @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and other proscribed areas in the Far East . " Today 's simplification in licensing procedures in respect to the European Soviet bloc , " Mr. Weeks said , " is designed to carry out the Government 's objective , first announced by President Eisenhower at Geneva last July , ' to create conditions which will encourage nations to increase the exchange of peaceful goods throughout the world . ' " At the foreign ministers ' meetings in Geneva last October , Secretary Weeks announced that his department would issue a list of goods that could be sent freely to the Soviet bloc in Europe . It was planned to issue the list early in January , but difficulties in compiling a satisfactory list have delayed the matter until today . Pressure from Exporters Exporters have been urging the department for action since the middle of January . A strong and growing interest in trade with the Soviet and her European satellites has been evident ' in the large volume of applications for export licenses filed with Commerce officials in the first quarter of the year . Licenses granted by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ covered mer , sameIchandise valued at $8,788,543. destinations during all of By comparison , shipments to the last year amounted to only ' I $7,248,000 . In 1954 shipments amounted to $6,120,000 , and in 1953 they totaled only $1,776,000 , The 1955 and 1954 totals included $4,743,000 of relief goods shipped under the President 's flood relief program for the Danube basin . In 1947 and 1948 , United States exports to the bloc were Ivalued respectively at $339,857 , - 000 and $123,241,000 . " The new arrangement , " Secretary Weeks explained , " will broaden opportunities for increased trade by providing United States exporters with a roster of peaceful goods which will not require the granting by the Commerce Department of individual , specific licenses for shipment to the Soviet bloc . " The list was not so complete as many foreign traders had expected . For instance , it failed to include passenger cars , tobacco leaf , hybrid corn , farm machinery and several other items . Officials said that individual applications would still be required for shipment of such commodities . The Commerce officials @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to constant revision . Items may be added or subtracted from the roster as trade developments indicate , they said . No Major Increases Seen Export traders here said yesterday they doubted that the new policy on nonstrategic exports to the Soviet bloc would lead to a substantial or lasting increase of business . The previous special license procedure , they noted , was no major obstacle to trade . For more than a year , traders said , the goods now being put under general license were readily available for bloc purchase under special license . But there has been no special demand from the Soviet bloc , and the recent increase of exports is relatively small by trade standards , they added . Traders commented that the change seemed designed to cut the ground from under Communist propaganda charges that the United States was restricting trade .                     