@@715536

txt The Government decided to continue its controls ' over exports of iron and steel scrap for the rest of this year . Assistant Secretary of Commerce Samuel Anderson announced that controls will be necessary to " maintain steel production " and to meet " national mobilization requirements . In a companion move , the Commerce Department 's Maritime Administration announced it has been authorized to deny applications for the sale of vessels located in the United States for scrapping abroad . Mr. Anderson said the decision to continue controls over exports of scrap from the Continental U. S. was made after a twomonth survey by the Government and consultations with industry officials . He noted that steel production in the U. S. this year may reach 118 tons , compared with the previous high of 105 million tons in 1951 . " Maintenance of this record level of steel production will require at least 3.5 million tons more purchased scrap than has ever before been consumed in the U. S. , " Mr. Anderson said . Rome Shipments Allowed At the same time , he announced that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ scrap will be permitted to friendly countries . This " offshore scrap " is produced in U. S. territories and possessions outside the Continental U. S. Mr. Anderson said the scrap located in offshore regions can be considered " marginal " to the basic domestic supply of scrap in the Continental U. S. He went on to say that its geographic location may sometimes make it " economically unfeasible to require its return to domestic steel mills . " It would be unsound , he added , to keep such scrap immobilized wan some exports to friendly countries may " produce important and desirable economic benefits . " The Commerce Department deputy said it was unlikely that " offshore " exports for the third and fourth quarters of this year will be of sufficient volume to have any " significant adverse effects " on U. S. supplies or requirements . Exports Carefully Screened Under present security export policy , ferrous scrap is classified as an item of primary strategic Ognificance and exports are denied to the Soviet bloc . In addition , exports to friendly countries are carefully screened in order @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ announced today provides for the continuance of exports to Canada . without requirement of licenses and for continuance of exports to Mexico on the basis of its " minimum essential requirements " from the U. S.                     