@@713980

txt President Truman said tonight that peace in Korea still is uncertain and that the threat of soviet aggression elsewhere hangs heavy over the United Stlitpc The President made this warning in an Independence day speech delivered against a steady barrage of exploding firecrackers before a crowd of 200,000 people on the Washington monument grounds . The throng had gathered to see and hear the President and watch a $3,500 fireworks display . The speech was broadcast over the four major radio networks and also was televised . " Our constant aim in Korea has been peace , under the principles of the United Nations . Time and again , since the aggression started , we have proposed that the fighting be stopped and that peace be re. - stored in accordance with those principles , " Mr. Truman said . " Can not Be Sure , " He Says " Now , at last , the communist leaders have offered to c on f e r about an armistice . It may be that they have decided to give up their aggression in Korea . If that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Korean conflict is open . " But we can not yet be sure that the communist rulers have any such intention . It is still too early to say what they have in mind . I do not wish to speculate on the outcome of any meetings Gen. Ridgway may have with the commanders on the other side . " I hope these meetings will be successful . If they are not , it will be because the Communists do not really want peace . Meanwhile , let us keep our heads and be vigilant ! and ready for whatever may come . " Asserts Russia Perils U. S. The President repeated his demands that the mobilization program continue without abatement , even tho peace comes in Korea . " We can not ignore the danger of military outbreaks in other parts of the world , " he said . " The greatest threat to world peace , the tremendous armed power of the soviet union , will stil remain , even if the Korean fighting stops . ' " The threat of soviet aggression still hangs heavy over many @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , therefore , to build up our military forces at a rapid rate . And we must continue to help build up the defenses of other free nations . " Chief Justice Vinson , in a radio speech from the Supreme court building , upsgt precedent by throwing Itis support behind the President 's mobilization program , which is now under debate by congress . It is unusual for Supreme court justices to take sides on congressional issues . " The relaxing of our preparedness program  --  a little , or more than a little  --  could have dire eonI sequences , " Vinson said . " Our spiritual , physical , and economic strength is of paramount importance in facing up to our problems today . We can attain that strength only by high purposed , individual , and unified determination . " Vows Fight Anywhere in World Mr. Truman said that in addition to being prepared to outfight Russia anywhere in the world , the United States " must continue the struggle to overcome the constant efforts of the soviet rulers to dominate the world by lies and threats @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ employ " all the weapons that a dictatorship can command : subversion , threats , violence , torture , imprisonment , lies and deceit , to destroy the very idea of freedom in , every part of the world . Mr. Truman said the Russians seek to persuade other nations that the United States does not stand for freedom ; that it intends to " exploit " them and " to fasten new chains " on the people of Asia . The President said the rest of the world looks to us because it is here that real freedom exists . It proves , he said , that men can be free . Thus , he added , it is important that now , more than ever before : we ' continue to " make progress " in expanding freedoms and improving the opportunities of citizens . Truth Called U. S. Weapon " They are trying to make the rest of the world believe that we want . to control them for our own profit  --  that the ideas of the Declaration of Independence are a sham and a fraud , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not be overcome with a bayonet or blasted with machine gun fire , he said . " The only weapons against such enemies are truth and fair dealing . The way to meet this attack is to show that it is. false  --  to live up to our ideals  --  to prove that we mean them . " The President said many believe that Americans under a democratic form of government " can not stick to a hard , tough policy of self-denial and self-control " long enough to outwit the Russians . " They say we will either lose our heads and rush into a world war or that we Avill relax and give up our efforts to maintain peace , " he said .                     