@@720604

txt Organized industry is embarked on a militant campaign designed to persuade the Democratic-controlled Massachusetts Legislature to hold up on , workmen 's compensation liberalization until the other industrial states catch up to the Bay State level . Workmen 's compensation is one of the key controversial issues on which organized ' industry and business and organized labor are waging a no-holdsbarred political battle . Organized labor is demanding liberalization of both workmen 's compensation and unemployment compensation benefits as the price for continued support of the Democratic Party at the polls . It has flatly insisted it will not back down on its goals . Organized business and industry are fighting back , arguing that further liberalization will injure the state 's competitive position with the other industrial states , Campaign Urged The Associated Industries of Massachusetts is calling on its employer members for an opposition campaign carried down through their plant organizations to their employees . In view of the long alliance between organized labor and the Democratic Party , the AIM faces an uphill battle , because the House and Senate both are Democratic by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Boston , President of the Senate , plans to call labor and management into a conference after the state budget clears the Senate in an effort to reach an acceptable middle ground on the liberalization legislation . The AIM , in its call for employer action against the workmen 's compensation liberalization bills , argued that " as an employer in the 9th-ranking industrial state , you are supporting the most costly and liberal workmen 's compensation program in the entire country . " Bills Add Millions The organization said that a package of four bills already passed by the House and now in the Senate Committee on Ways and Means would add 7 million dollars to the annual 74-million-dollar cost of workmen 's compensation to Massachusetts employers . Urging action to defeat the liberalization legislation , the AIM called for passage of AIM-sponsored legislation to tighten up the present law . Workmen 's compensation benefits , the AIM pointed out , are set by the Legislature as in other states " therefore , this is one significant cost of production which is determined primarily by political forces . And @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ line with the rest of the country makes itmore difficult to produce without a loss in this state . " Stressing that the proposed 10 per cent increase in annual costs would come on the heels of a 13.4 per cent increase resulting from measures passed by the 1958 Legislature , the AIM as-serted : " The Legislature has not passed a single employer-sponsored measure to check or balance this upward spiraling trend in the last IO years . Instead , it has passed more than 50 measures which have raised the costs 51 per cent in the same decade , placing us at the notorious No. 1 spot in the country . " Bills Opposed A key bill the AIM is opposing is one to boost maximum weekly benefits from $40 to S45. increase dependency benefits from S4 to S6 a week per de ; A ' ? ncient , and hike the maximuin total benefit in partial compensation from 5122,000 to S15,000 . Another of the AIM-opposed bilis increases weekly payments in fatal cases by $5 , thus proviciing 530 a week to a widow or widower without dependents @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bill provides for general increases in specific scheduled awards which are , in Massachusetts . in addition to other regular payments , the AIM said . The fourth bill would require the employer or insurer to pay the counsel fees of claimants when the employer or insurer is unsuccessful in a proceeding for discontinuance of benefits . Battling against the measures , the AIM stated : " 1 . Workmen 's compensation costs are a negative factor influencing the selection of new plant locations and the investment in new plant equipment . " 2 . The Massachusetts program works against economic conditions which would stimulate needed employment opportunities for the state 's growing population . "                     