@@717901

txt Letters to The Times GRAYSON KIRK.just experienced JOHN S. ATLEEGUY D'AULBY.PAVEL KORBEL.MOSES L .... Letters to The Times TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : In its expression of concern over the tragic and baffling disappearance from our midst of Jesus de Galindez , lecturer ? in Spanish and Government at Columbia University , your editorial of April 28 has earned the deep appreciation of our university ' community . well ? Mr. Galindez is a scholar respected by his teaching colleagues and held in warm affection and regard as well by his students . That such a mysterious and distressing incident could ? occur in a wellordered and enlightened community in the second half of the twentieth century seems almost incredible . At the university we have placed every possible facility at the disposal of ? the appropriate law ? enforcement officers , Who are , we ' are convinced , Pressing the search for Mr. Galindez vigorously and intelligently . University officials have conferred almost daily with those conducting the search . Specialists of the New York City Police Department attended a meeting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ toward the doctorate had reached its late stages just before his disappearance . These officials have since continued to be in frequent contact with us . Because of complete lack- of evidence the university has declined to prejudge the case . Unwilling to risk hampering the search technique by introducing extraneous and unsubstantiated theories , ' our academfc officers have refrained from public statements . This silence indicates no lack of interest on the part ' of the university in the fate of our colleague . The solving of such a case is not accomplished by the issuance of public statements . If in such an incident there can be aivhopeful note , it may be found in the warm concern of Mr. Galindez ' students and the obvious regard and loyalty which this promising teacher earned from those who sat daily in his classes and seminars . That our university  --  or any university worthy of the name  --  remains a place in which the human values are paramount and in which there flows from teacher to student values even beyond those found in textbooks and laboratory manuals has been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ University in the City of New York . New York , May 9 , 1956 . An editorial on this subject appea  --  s elsewhere on this page . To Restrict Credit To THE EDITOP . OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : The sentiments expressed by Stephen Rousseas ? in The Times of May 7 meet with my hearty approval . However , I believe that he failed to emphasize sufficiently an aspect of the problem which is of basic . importance . Traditional Federal Reserve policies for combating inflation ? the raising of discount rates and open market sales of Government securities  --  Are simply not appropriate tools for situations such as the present . They are like reducing a man 's income to prevent his spending too much on horse-racing . Higher interest rates tend chiefly to postpone plans for long-term investments for business plant and equipment ( particularly by small business ) , for housing , for roads and schools . On the other hand , an in7 crease of even several per cent has little effect on short-term speculative uses for inventory accumulation and margin purchases in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of funds which have recently been chief causes of the trouble . The current situation would have been greatly helped if the Federal Reserve had restricted the excessive expansion of consumer credit last year . It could have gone much further than it did in restricting the use of borrowed funds for stock market speculation . But those horses have already been stolen . What has been needed recently is some new and more selective tool for restricting the use of credit for particularly unstabilizing factors such as speculative inventory accumulation and the excessive expansion of trade credit . It would seem highly desirable to formula , k some such tool now so that it would be available for other situations in the future similar to the one we have just experienced . JOHN S. ATLEE . New York , May 8 , 1956 . Finding Key to Etruscan Idiom To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : I wish to commend the enterprise of The Times , which reported in its news columns of May 2 that excavations are now in progress at the site of Vulci , an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ correspondent stated : " What is being sought here is a second ' Rosetta Stone ' capable of supplying to Etruscan the same kind of key as the first supplied to Egyptian . " If such a key were found it might open the gate through which scholars of the Etruscan language would like to pass in order to unlock its mysterious meaning , aside from the small vocabulary of already known words . No less an authority than Massimo Pallottino , the eminent Etruscologist , is of the opinion that " at the present stage of Etruscan studies one single new source may be sufficient to lead scholars to a final and successful solution of the problem . " At the ' Metropolitan Museum one can see a collection of Etruscan artifacts , especially fibulae , whose exquisite workmanship denotes that they were used by cultured and polished people ; they also patronized Greek and native painters creating a school of painting . Those examples that have come down to us are almost our only means of knowledge of this form of representational art in the history of the Western @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ C. Surely the mother of Roman civilization deserves to be better appreciated . Therefore it is hoped , that the archaeologists excavating at Vulci will eventually . unearth the longed-for key to the idiom . GUY D'AULBY . New York , May 3 , 1956 , Aid for Captive Nations Restoration of Freedom , Guarantees by Western Powers Said to Be Goal TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : ? Most students of the internationalpolitical situation will probably wholeheartedly agree with Josef Korbel 's brief analytical comment , published May 1 , on Cyrus L ; Sulzberger 's recommendation that . the United States should foster the spread of Titoism in the enslaved Central - and Eastern European countries . However , what Mr. Korbel calls a new possible approach in Western policy is neither new nor is it a feasible alternative . Without elaborating on the details of the " neutralization of the whole central European and Balkan area " which he suggests he mentions a " special defense - system " of that area with " proper checks and balances . " This would indicate that he con. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ political clumges , particularly without elimination of their present satellite leaders Whom he credits with lack of courage and . desire of breaking away from their Soviet masters . ? Such a ? military neutralization might lead to a reduction of the strength of the armies of the captive nations , whose military value to the Soviet Union is , however , rather doubtful . It might also entail the withdrawal of the Soviet forces from the territories of those countries where they are still stationed . Removal of Forces The Soviets , it prepared to discuss such a solution , would certainly demand that the American and British forces leave the German Federal Republic . This would for all practical purposes mean their departure from the European Continent to Great Britain and the United States . On the other hand the Soviet armies would remain on the borders of Poland , Czechoslovakia , Hungary , R ; - - mania and Bulgaria as a powerful shield of the satellite Communist regimes .. In the light of the Soviet Union 's record of ? broken international treaties a violation of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Communist puppet government can certainly not be discounted . ? The repercussions ? of the suggested neutralization on the psychological and military situation in Western Europe and on NATO would be most serious if not catastrophic . This is sufficiently indicated by recent trends and developments within the NATO area at a time when American and British troops still form the backbone of its defense and the strengthening of NATO by West German troops is in process . The West 's bonds with the German Federal ' Republic can not be renounced on such conditions , Neither Titoism nor neutralization is an acceptable solution . Restoration of freedom to the enslaved nations which will enable them to choose their representative Governments and iron-clad guarantees of the unhampered operations . of such Governments by the major Western powers remain the only desirable goal if peace and a true coexistence are to be secured . Any attempt to find a short cut to this arrangement on the lines recommended by Messrs : Sulzberger and Josef Korbel would only weaken the free world 's moral and political and military position and make it still @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ New York , May 2 , .1956 . Appreciation of Galindez Concern Voiced for Scholar ; Regard and Loyalty of Students Noted Junior High Activities To THE EDITOR OF TliE NEW YORK TIMES : The High School Teachers Association , ' through Max Weinstein 's letter published May 3 , would give the public the impression that only high school teachers devote afte ? - school hours to extracurricular activi tie ? . This is not in accord with the facts . To cite only the junior high school in which I serve : at least ten teachers are regularly supervising club , athletic and service activities after 3 P. M. Percentage-wise this ' compares most favorably. with many , and exceeds some , high school extracurricular programs as they existed before the boycott . MOSES L. LORENTZ . Brooklyn , May 4 , 1956 . Date of Uprising Revised ro THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK Tam : An error crept into my letter published May 5 . The Bar-Kochba uprising , marking the last flicker of Jewish resistance in ancient Palestine , was crushed in 135 A. D. ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hills , N. Y. , May 6 , 1956.                     