@@713347

txt Finally , there is the realization that the united army and command to be set up will require special legislation , and/or amendments , by several parliaments if the plan is to work smoothly and be participated in by all . The fact that the military chiefs had to adjourn for a day stems not from the appearance of important differences among them but from the important character of the decisions they are about to make , making it necessary for many of them to consult their home governments . For example , when the military chiefs of the 11 nations looked over the troop and equipment commitments the three-power standing committee ( Britain , France , and the United States ) was asking them to make to a common defense force , several of the representatives of the smaller powers expressed a willingness and ability to contribute more than they were down for . Startling Development This startling dev  --  lopment , in contrast to the hesitancy in the past of the pact members to offeractual forces and weapons to a European army , is explained @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Korea , and evidence that the United States fully intends to oppose ' aggression with force . The question of using German divisions in this European army did not  --  and will not  --  enter the discussions of the military chiefs . That is a question that the defense ministers , meeting here this week end , will thrash out . But whatever arrangement is approved for the use of German units in a common army , that I added manpower will be in ad ; dition to what the Atlantic Pact members are contributing . These members will not contribute less because of a German contribution ; rather , , the German contrition will be " extra " for a supreme commander and general staff to deploy as they wish . One of the few specific bits of information announced after the first day of military chiefs meetings was that the new supreme headquarters to be set up in Europe would be called " SHAPE " ? a variation of the wartime " SHAEF "  --  and would stand for " Supreme Headquarters , Allied Powers in Europe . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ how much power to give the supreme commander . There is general agreement he must have power , to train , control , and dispose of whatever forces are contributed to the common army . Wind-UP There also is general acceptance of the view that national units assigned to a supreme commander would retain their national identity ? would not be mixed up below division level . But there also is a desire to spell out rather exactly just what powers the supreme commander will have , for it is possible that the question of national sovereignty and law may be involved . Another matter that must be settled is that of area organization . Originally five defense areas were set up , with the defense responsibilities of those various areas falling on particular countries . Now it is recognized that any supreme commander and international general staff must have authority over the disposal and action of forces in any of these five areas . That means tightening , or rewriting , the original agreements . The military chiefs are meeting again Oct. 26 , when they are expected to wind @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ consideration by the defense ministers who meet here Oct 28 and 30 . It is the defense ministers who approve  --  or disapprove  --  the plans of the military chiefs . ' By Gordon Walker Chief-Far Eastern Correspondent of The Christian Science Monitor Tokyo It now seems clear that most American troops will be withdrawn from Korea by Christmas . There are one or two . further missions for American forces now engaged in mopping up north and south of the 38th parallel , but the bulk of offensive operations now has been shifted into the hands of the South Koreans . Organized North Korean resistance has virtually disappeared . I And it is expected that the first spearheads of South Korean assault columns will have reached Yalu River on the Manchurian border by the end of Oct. 26 , Biggest question still hanging in the balance here , meanwhile , is whether the American forces in Korea  --  seven divisions plus independent units  --  will be withdrawn from Korea to the United States , to Japan , or to some other zone such as southeast Asia or Europe . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ strategy question comprised the main topic of the talks between Gen. Douglas and President Truman on Wake Island . And it further is believed that General won over Mr. Truman to his own idea that the bulk of American air , sea , and ground forces now engaged in the Korean war should be maintained in the ' Far East area as a " deterrent " force . Japan Favored Whether these forces would be quartered in Japan or deployed along the **25;420;TOOLONG chain of islands is not yet clear . General himself , barring political aspects of the question , probably would wish to have the main forces stationed in Japan 's four main islands . His argument would be based upon frequent official Japanese Government indications that it would welcome post-treaty bases . And he could further point out that since the outbreak- of the Korean war , the United States has spent at least a moderate sum of dollars in expanding airfields and naval port ; facilities in Japan . But it is felt that General also would like to see some American ground @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Viet Nam ( Indo-China ) coast , which might serve the useful purpose of block . ing possible outright Chinese warm . intervention in that v ? Truman Approval Hinted The air forces would be deployed on airfields in Japan , Okinawa and at Clark Field , north of Manila . And naval forces would be based primarily at the Japanese ports of Yokohama and Sasebo and at Subic Bay , Manila , Whether Mr , Truman agreed with these proposals or not is unknown . But there is a strong undercurrent of - feeling here that he did  --  provided there is not too much opposition to United States bases in Japan from other Pacific nations . One sidelight of the Korean war , incidentally , which now can be told is in connection with reports circulated here in late August that the Korean war would be finished by Thanksgiving . These rumors were quickly squelched by officials on General 's staff who stated frankly that they felt such news stories , might result in a letdown of support in the United . States . SCAP Target Date Instead @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ until at least spring . And the United States Eighth Army commander , Lt. Gen. Walton Walker , told newsmen off the record that the Korean war would require at least nine divisions and would run until possibly July . What actually happened is that . General , attending a top-level staff meeting in late August , told the assembled . officers that his own target date for termination of organized enemy resistance Korea was Thanksgiving . Unlike many of his staff  --  including notably the naval and marine crops commanders ? he was positive that the Inchon landing would not only be an outstanding success but would break the backbone of the enemy army .                     