@@719127

txt Cotton-Cloth Mills Forced to Revise Guess of When Market Will Rally Pickup in Sales , Prices Was Hoped For by Labor Day ; FewAdvance Orders Given BY Geoitce J. CHURCH Staff Re .... ter of Tag WAI.I . STRILICT NEW YORK  --  Cotton-cloth mills are once more being forced to revise their guesses of when to expect an already long-delayed sales and price pickup . Mill executives and cloth traders for weeks had been predicting an August break in the year-long apathy that has gripped their market - or at least an improvement shortly after Labor Day . Nothing of the sort happened . and the textile men are still trying to figure out why not . Many are inclined to blame last month 's new hikes in interest rates , which have made it more difficult for cloth customers to finance inventories . Mill men are attempting  --  without much assurance ? to set new target dates by which some substantial future orders might be expected . Some are still hopeful for more business in a week or two , while others are guessing late September or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to fear the pickup may not arrive at all this year . Print Cloth Stays at Low Last week 's trading offered no clues as to which guess might be correct . Sales of unfinished apparel fabrics in this city 's big Worth Street market maintained their monthslong pattern of small orders for immediate or quick delivery . The price of 80-square print cloth , a cotton-market barometer because of its wide use in inexpensive house dresses . pajamas and underwear , stayed put at the eight-year low of l73 , cents a yard to which it sank as far back as last April . The persistence of this hand-to-mouth buying pattern while retail sales of clothing and other textile products remain high has worried mill men all year , and their puzzlement is deepening . Most still feel the impasse ca n't go on indefinitely , but some of their optimism has noticeably leaked away during the summer market stalemate . " About all I can say is that the expected August pickup just did n't ' materialize , and I really do n't know why , " confesses a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ companies . " We 're still hoping for a turn , but there 's somewhat less optimism in the industry than there was a few months ago . " . " All last month , " sighs another executive , ' our customers were saying ' let 's wait until Labor Day and see what develops . ' So Labor Day came , nothing developed , and last week they were saying ' let 's wait for the Agriculture Department report ' tan estimate of the size of the current cotton crop , due for release today Maybe after that 's out they 'll do something , and maybe they 'll just find something else to wait for . " Cloth Readily Available Why this hesitation ' Textile men are agreed that despite mill production cutbacks early this year there 's still no shortage of goods . " Customers can go on buying only on a week-toweek basis , and still get whatever cloth they need when they need it , so they 're not sticking their necks out on future orders , " states one selling agent . " The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cloth and ca n't get IL " A leading broker adds : " Some ' print cloth has been ordered in the last few weeks for Or. - tober-November delivery , but the buyers will need more goods . The question is , though , whether they 'll need enough more to start ordering far ahead . This week-to-week business could go on for the rest of the month , or even the rest of the year . I 'd hate to see it happen , because you ca n't raise prices in that kind of market , but I 'll have to admit It could . " Textile men willing to speculate on more basic reasons for the slowdown usually put the Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner . finger on the scarcity and high east of credit . The textile industry , they explain , is particularly sensitive to these " tight money " conditions , since most unfinished apparel fabrics are bought by small converters ( distributors who select colors and styles for cloth , have it finished and sell it to garment makers ) who operate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ keeping inventories to a bare minimum all year because of financing difficulties , and mill men fear last month 's hike in the interest rate on bank loans discouraged them from rebuilding stocks . Specialised Types Improving The situation is somewhat better on a few specialized types of cotton fabrics . Volume of high-styled colored-yarn cloth , sold by mills in a finished state to sport-shirt and dress makers , has been picking up since May , and Dan River Mills , Inc. , a leader in this field . now reports having taken orders as far ahead as next January . Mills concentrating on industrial cotton fabrics , such as West Point Manufacturing Co .. say volume has also been picking up in the last few weeks on " broken twill " cloth , which is covered with a plastic coating and used in automobile door panels . This auto buying has n't yet been heavy enough to stiffen fabric list prices , but mill men say it has stopped some of the quiet price concessions that were being offered last month , and hope it 's a forerunner of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ synthetic cloth was n't too active last week , but mills continue to state that they are well sold ahead at prices higher than prevailed a year ago . Some prices also are still moving up . One linen-like sptut rayon fabric used in women 's dresses , for instance , has ad ? vanced a penny a yard in the last few weeks to a current quote of 22 cents . The spun-rayon increase started in anticipation of a hike in prices of the rayon staple fibre from which the cloth is woven . This happened late last month when American Viscose Corp . and Courtaulds ( Alabama ) , Ltd. , raised rayon staple one to two cents a pound to a new level of 31 to 32 cents a. pound . This restored part of a two-to-three cents a pound slash made by the same companies in March . Effects of March " Price War " Textile men say the March cuts " were a price war , pure and simple , " and add that the fibre makers had only been  --  waiting for the fabric market @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mills complain , however , that increases in spun-rayon cloth prices sn far have recouped only about 30S to 75 , ' - ; - of the higher staple costs . " If the market were really strong we would have passed on the entire cost rise - so I 'd consider the market action a sign of weakness rather than strength , " grumbles one executive . Last week also saw the abandonment of a short-lived synthetic-mill move to shorten the credit terms on which they sell goods . Amerotron Corp. , textile subsidiary of Textron , Inc .. began this move in March by cutting credit terms to 30 days front the traditional 60 days , with the explanation that the longer terms had often tempted converters to overbuy and led to dumping of inventories . Several other mills followed . Late last month , however , the Klopman Mills subsidiary- of Burlington Industries , Inc. , led a move hack to the old 60-day terms . and Amerotron last week capitulated and followed suit . Klopman'e stated reason for going back to 60 days was to restore a uniform @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had joined the 30-day group . However , some mill men saw the retreat on credit terms as another sign of the effects of tight money . They say the mills had to grant easier terms to continue selling cloth in volume ? since the converters were unable . to finance their purchases satisfactorily elsewhere . " You certainly ca n't call it . a sign of strength , " one executive concedes . Further reproduction prohibited without permission .                     