@@720953

txt The Supreme Court , in a new constitutional interpretation , held today that a bookseller might not be convicted for selling an obscene book unless the prosecution produced some proof that the seller knew the book was obscene . In another action today , the court ruled unconstitutional Arkansas laws under which Gov . Orval E. Faubus had closed the Little Rock high schools for a year . Justice William J. Brennan Jr . wrote the court 's opinion in the bookseller 's case . It struck down a Los Angeles ordinance ' that made it a crime for any bookseller to have an obscene look in his shop , whether he Knew its contents or not . The decision reversed the , conviction and thirty-day jail sentence of Eleazar Smith , 72 years old , of Los Angeles . He was arrested in 1956 on the cnarge of having in his store ! " Sweeter Than Life , ' a novel by Mark Tryon . The book , published by the Vixen Press of New York , is the story of a ruthless lesbian business woman @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not read the book and had no reason to think it Contained on Page ** 1 // obscene . Under the Los Angeles ordinance  --  and those of many other cities  --  that was no defense . . A.11 nine members of the court agreed that Mr. Smith 's conviction should be reversed . But there were four opinions , in addition to Justice Brennan 's , expressing different reasons . Justice Hugo L. Black took the position that the Constitution 's protection of free speech bars any restrictions on obscenity . This has been his consistent view . Justice William 0 Douglas , in general agreement with Jtistice Black , said that no obscene speech or writing was proscribable unless tied closely to " illegal action . " Unlike Justice Black , however , he expressed qualified approval of what Justme Brennan had said for the majority . Justice Felix Frankfurter said that Justice Brennan 's opinion was too vague on the question of what kind of proof would be needed to show a bookseller 's knowledge of a book . He voted to reverse the conviction because literary and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the book violated contemporary community standards of decency . Justice John Marshall Harlan said he did not think the Constitution requires admission of oral expert testimony in all obscenity cases , as Justice Frankfurter suggested . But he voted to set aside the conviction because the trial court had re- ; jected every kind of evidence offered on current moral standards . Obscenity Not Decided No member of the court expressed any view of whether " Sweeter Than Life " was obscene . Justice Douglas , however , described it as " very repulsive to me . " Two years ago the court , in an opinion by Justice Brennan , held that obscenity was outside the Constitutional protections of free speech . But the court laid down a strict standard of what could be called obscene . It said that a book or picture to be so found must violate current adult standards of acceptability . Since then , the court has set aside a number of bans on magazines and films on the apparent ground that they were simply not within that test of obscenity . Thus today 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Federal power over allegedly obscene matter within fairly narrow limits . It sets a tougher standard of proof in criminal cases . Curb on Books Feared Justice Brennan reasoned that the Los Angeles statute would so frighten booksellers as to eliminate all kinds of books from the shops and thus seriously restrain freedom of expression . " If the bookseller is criminally liable without knowledge of the contents , " he said , " he will tend to restrict the books he sells to those he has inspected . " In that case , he said , book arid periodical shelves " might be depleted indeed . " He said the seller 's limited time and inevitable " timidity in the face of his absolute criminal liability " would tend to suppress books that the Government could not ban directly . Justice Brennan said the court would not pass at this time on exactly what proof of the bookseller 's knowledge would have to be produced . But he indicated that direct , eyewitness proof would not be needed and that inferences of the seller 's general awareness could be drawn @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the majority today would put ' little extra burden " on prosecutors of obscenity . " The fact is , of course , " he wrote , " that prison sentences for possession of ' obscene ' books will seriously burden freedom of the press whether punishment is imposed with or without knowledge of the obscenity . " Justice Douglas saw " no harm , and perhaps some good " in the rule requiring proof of knowledge . ' What the court does today , " he said , " may possibly provide some degree of safeguard to booksellers by making those who patrol bookstalls proceed less high-handedly than has been their custom . " The case was argued for Mr. Smith by Stanley Fleishman and Sam Rosenwein of Los Angeles , and for the city by Roger Arnebergh , city attorney .                     