@@716019

txt objects . Then Was to come the important problem of agenda It is generally accepted that the three western Foreign Ministers are united in their attitude on essential issues . Continued challenge of Soviet power takes precedence for them over any differences of approach . The United States enters the conference confidently , according to one of its spokesmen , since the western experts committee has carefully prepared for any ' contingency which the Soviets may insinuate into discussions . U.S. Aims Traced Further , if it turns out so , then it will be clear to the whole world where the responsibility for failure to reach agreement on . Germany and Austria lies . Even though the Soviets may seek to camouflage this fact by extraneous issues , it will be evident that they are unwilling to give these European peoples freedom , according to this spokesman . As already stated repeatedly . the United States wants for Germany free elections , then 3oint government , and finally a peace treaty . The Soviet Union , however , if it really wishes any solution of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ issues in reverse order . For this reason , with the errectal:ion of refection by Mr. i'olotov of such a western proposal , it is considered likely that on this issue all that will result will be another plan of much milder order sponsored by the British . This envisages continuing the existing division of Germany but aiming at an improvement in relations between the eastern and western zones and throughout Berlin . Bid Sought for Peking Mr. Molotov 's first statement on his arrival in Berlin Jan. 23 , as well as the East German propaganda , suggests that he will press for an invitation of Communist China to attend the con- 4.1 .. fascal. ference . But this will receive no support from western representatives . Mr. Molotov 's talk about China 's being there in the interests of international cooperation is not due to find favor with western diplomats . Nor will they see what China has to do with European problems . The fact that a Soviet expert on Asian affairs has come here must be seen in connection with the fact that early in February a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It is unnecessary to add that the United States ' interpretation of the European situation Is such that it will consider it a definite advance if this conference helps toward a solid understanding between France and West Germany ? starting with West Germany . Positions Awaited This does not mean , however , that the United States will accept the idea of neutralizing Germany in any way . This would be equivalent of another Versailles Treaty and would make German military aid for western security unavailable . United States spokesmen for a long time have made clear where they stand on this issue . Soon it will be apparent how solid the east and west fronts are in this conference . And there also will be ample opportunity to explore the Kremlin 's policy in both scope and purpose . United States Secretary of State John Foster Dulles will attend the conference of . American republics at Caracas , Venezuela , it is announced- here . Since that opens March 1 . this gives some indication of the time beyond which the present Berlin discussions will not go .  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @          