@@717129

txt Governor Herter 's announced desire for a 1956 progress report on prison reforms underscores his determination that the Legislature act at the current session on the reform measures just nronosed . If the requested reforms had been put before the lawmakers at a time when press and public interests were not at the present peak , the temptation for the legislators to delay action would be great . Political pressures to maintain the status quo and keep present appointees in their jobs have to be reckoned with . And not all legislators are " sold " on either the need for a change or the particular machinery that has been blueprinted for bringing it about . The possibility of counterproposals to the Wessell committee 's recommendations looms as a delaying factor that could keep the Legislature sitting well past the current mid-July target date for proroguing . But Governor Herter hinted he did not expect the Legislature to disband without action . Furthermore , the money outlay for the requested drastic shake-up of the entire Correction Department is not yet rprtain Demotions Hinted The Governor said in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ special nonpartisan committee headed by Dr. Nils Y. Wessell , president of Tufts University , had asked to be reconvened one year from now to report on progress made along lines suggested in the 100-page study . " This I shall do , " Governor Herter said . " Let us see at that time how far our joint efforts will have gone in bringing our correctional system back where it belongs . ' ' Earlier , at a press conference , the Governor indicated that the present Commissioner of Correction , E. Lawrence Spurr , and his first deputy , Martin P. Davis , would probably return to their former subordinate positions if the department is reorganized by the Legislature . Both men , he said , have leaves of absence from their respective positions as business agent in the Department of Correction and employee of the Parole Board . The Governor said Mr. Spurr and Mr. Davis were " very honorable career men swho have served the commonwealth well for a good many years . " Legislative machinery was set up without delay to study the proposed legislation the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ personally delivered at a joint session of the House and Senate . Governor Herter said the reform bill , while lengthy , is " not so imposing as the length would make it appear . " He said its volume was made necessary by repetitive wording running through the statutes and the intricacy of amendments . About 307 amendments would be made to the present law . They would reorganize the Department of Correction , give the courts greater voice in the hiring of probation personnel , and allocate responsibility for a continuing study of the prisons with a view to possible improvements . Specialized Deputies The Commissioner of Correction would have extensive hiring powers , with authority to appoint heads of all institutions and other officers not covered by civil service laws . He would serve a five-year term and be paid ** a year , The post now pays $8,000 , His appointments , including three deputy commissioners to be paid $10,000 a year , would be subject to approval by the Governor and Executive Council . One deputy would be in charge of institutional services , another in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ third would administer the personnel and training programs . Most other top officials would serve indefinite terms at the pleasure of the CoMmissioner or the Governor and Council . All institutional names would be changed to read " State Correctional Institution ? location , " eliminating present reference to the type of prison . Revamping of the parole and probation services to increase professionalization is another feature of the proposed legislation . A seven-man unpaid advisory commission to advise the Governor on penal matters would also be set up . Membership of the committee would consist of the Commissioners of Probation and Correction , the chairman of the Parole Board , and four citizens of the state , named by the Governor . Text of ' Wessell committee report : Page 4.                     