@@713991

txt The National Education Association has affirmed its deep conviction that " the American tradition of separation of church and state should be vigorously and zealously safeguarded . " Rounding out the week 's work of its representative assembly , bespeaking the views of teachers from every corner of the nation , NEA 's 89th annual meeting closed with a strong statement of sup-. port for using public funds only for public schools . " The association respects the rights of groups , including religious denominations , to maintain their own schools so long as such schools meet the educational , health , and safety standards defined by the states in which they are located , " its resolution reads . " The association therefore opposes all efforts to devote public funds to either the direct or the indirect support of these schools . " Fundamentals Cited What NEA wants most of all , a summary of its proceedings here shows , is an American system of free education geared to the child 's needs and to the demands of the society in which he lives . To @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ moral and spiritual values and for stressing the " tools of learning which are commonly known as the fundamentals . " It points out that the mid-century makes emphatic also the need for teaching certain new fundamentals  --  family living , life adjustment , of The Christian Science Monitor physical and mental health , safety , wholesome recreation . Of 17 resolutions presented , only one was amended by the assembly . This resolution concerned attacks on public education made by " front organizations and pressure groups . " Community Aid Urged To the resolution this sentence was added : " The association believes in and welcomes honest and constructive criticism but condemns general and irresponsible attacks on schools . " In this and in other stands indicative of feeling that education faces new challenges , NEA called on the teaching profession to work more closely with the responsible community . Bring parent-teacher associations , boards of education , school staffs , and other interested citizens together , it urged , to study the needs of children and support far-seeing programs for their welfare . Higher teachers ' salaries , better @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ adequate school housing  --  these were among the points urged by NEA 's 1951 convention . NEA commended the Federal Communications Commission for its recent ruling which sets aside TV channels for noncommercial educational use . It asked the commission to reserve these channels until educational authorities can arrange to use them and urged schools to apply for and use the channels " at the earliest practical time . "                     