@@718846

txt Generalissimo Chiang Kai-shek is holding this Chinese Nationalist capital under strict military rule in the wake of violent anti-American rioting which wrecked the United States Embassy and injured 13 Americans . Taipei 's half-million people were kept in tight check by 33,000 Nationalist troops swarming the streets , ready to put down any new eruption . Authorities sought mob leaders who turned a protest against an unpopular United States court-martial decision into an anti-United States rampage by 20,000 to 30,000 Chinese and Formosans . Some arrests already have been made . Tension eased gradually May 25 . The morning and most of the afternoon passed without disturbances . On the Chinese mainland , the Communists launched a propaganda campaign calling the disorders proof that the people of Formosa oppose General Chiang 's alliance with the By the Associated Press United States . The riots fitted in handily with Communist ' China 's line in recent months that the Nationalists should agree to peaceful annexation with the mainland . Communists Clamor In extra after extra , the Communist press in British Hong Kong proclaimed in big , red @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . . . Chinese brothers revenge long years of hate . " The Peking People 's Daily , official organ of the Communist Chinese Government , said the attack on the United States Embassy " shows that the people of Taiwan Formosa are in a tormented position because of the pressure of the United States and Chiang Kai-shek . " Peking radio urged Chinese in Formosa to " intensify their efforts to work for the liberation " of the island . After years of ranting against the United States Seventh Fleet for protecting Formosa from Communist invasion , Peking has been dropping hints lately t would welcome negotiations with Nationalist leaders for a " coalition government . " General Chiang 's government repeatedly denied stories that such negotiations were under way , still insisting it will launch an invasion " at the proper moment " to free Communist China . Some quarters here expressed belief that pro-Communist elements , operating in the guise of patriots , had agitated the crowds . This was a tactic often used on the mainland before the Communists drove the Nationalist Government to Formosa in 1949 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to ? the United States and indicated it will pay compensation for the damage to American property . In the long run , however , the United States apparently will end up paying at least indirectly for the damage . The fact is that Formosa has a deficit economy and United States aid makes up the deficit . The 9,000 Americans on the island include advisers to the Nationalist Army . The riots ? the first here against Americans  --  strained relations with the United States . But although congressmen and other Uunited States leaders took a serious view of the occurence , the general feeling in Washington was that it would not result in cutting off United States aid . A House foreign affairs subcommittee called a hearing for May 27 to try to determine " whether our troops abroad are under proper supervision and whether steps are being taken to prevent incidents . " A United States military court 's acquittal of a master sergeant of voluntary manslaughter charges touched off the rioting . M. Sgt. Robert R. Reynolds of Colora , Md. , had admitted fatally shooting a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of his home at his wife , but contended he shot the man in self-defense . Family Flown Out Feeling ran high against the court-martial decision . After Sergeant Reynolds and his family were flown to the Philippines May 24 en route home , a crowd of 3,000 Chinese stormed the two-story gray brick United States Embassy building . They hauled down a United States flag n " and tore it to shreds . They broke windows . Surging inside , they smashed furnishings and tore up piles of classified documents . Other rioters wrecked the United States information building some distance away . Still others besieged 100 Americans in a U. S. Army communications center , but were unable to get in . The Chinese stoned United States Ambassador Karl Rankin and Nationalist Foreign Minister George Yeh , who were attempting to survey the damage . Mr. Yeh was hit by a stone . The mob 's fury turned to the main Chinese police station in the afternoon . Rioters demanding the release of students arrested earlier stoned the three-story police building , and from time to time a bullet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a complete shambles . Ambassador Rankin established a temporary office at the headquarters of the United States Navy 's Taiwan Defense Command . The United States consulate moved to the old office of the United States refugee relief program on Chungshan Road , the city 's main thoroughfare . The United States commissary and post exchange were closed until further notice , and Americans were advised to keep off the streets .                     