@@720428

txt Senate wrangling over the confirmation of Lewis L. Strauss as Secretary of Commerce has been indignantly denounced by President Eisenhower . He has encouraged Mr. Strauss to stand firm against the personal attacks against him . With unusual intensity of feeling the President scolded Congress for giving vent to personal antagonisms . He says he feels the United States is coming to a sad state of affairs if such personal antagonisms have reached the point where highly qualified men can no longer be confirmed for federal office . He was prompted to make this curt observation when a questioner at his press conference drew a parallel between the case of Mrs. Clare Booth Luce and Mr. Strauss ? asking if the President felt Mr. Strauss ' usefulness also had been impaired by these attacks . Hearings Prolonged President Eisenhower says he sees no reason why Mr. Strauss should withdraw . This affirmation of presidential support came in an hour of need . Increasing personal attacks from first one direction and then another have beclouded Senate confirmation and prolonged the hearings . The furor revolves more around Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Strauss as the man for that particular job . It has to do with his personality , his conservative convictions , and past performance in other governmental roles . It has to do with the protest of Democratic liberals over administration leanings toward private power as against public power . It has to do with the long-held resentment against what is felt to be the excessive secrecy of this administration with respect to atomic energy matters ? about which Mr. Strauss had much to do as former chairman of the Atomic Energy Commission . New Barrage Leveled The Senate hearings over his appointment have been prolonged and marked by unusually sharp clashes . Mr. Strauss is a man not easily thrown off balance . He has made what appear to have been successful comebacks after each attack . But now he is under still another , and particularly sharp , barrage from Senator Clinton P. Anderson , chairman of the congressional Joint Committee on Atomic Energy . Senator Anderson has directly accused Mr. Strauss of " falsehoods " in dealing with Congress during his term as chairman of the Atomic Energy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has run strong on both sides . Senator Anderson made his charges with obvious indignation , and it has required obvious effort for Mr. Strauss to control himself . Testimony Read Senator Anderson launched into his charges by talking 30 minutes off the cuff . He then read 33 pages of prepared testimony to support his accusations , distributing another eight pages dealing with a separate charge . Senator Anderson 's " falsehood " charges dealt Nvith a shipment of radioactive isotopes to foreign countries . Mr. Strauss has denied having opposed the exportation of such isotopes for medical purposes . The point at issue seemed to involve the year in which this episode took place . Mr. Strauss claimed as " unqualified falsehood " the statement that he had opposed such exports in 1949 . Senator Anderson charged that the year was 1947 , and that by using the " phony year 1949 , " Mr. Strauss had attempted to " deceive this committee . " The fact , asserted Senator Anderson . was that Mr. Strauss was outvoted . 4 to 1 , on this question by his fellow @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Senator Anderson , while Mr. Strauss may have been telling the truth literally in saying he did not vote against the shipment . of isotopes in 1949 , this constituted a deception . Senator Anderson also challenged Mr. Strauss ' statement that history had proved his decision right because the 1949 shipment , requested by a Norwegian " Communist , " could have been used to test metals in jet engines . The New Mexico senator declared that in 1947 , when the vote was taken . there were no requests from Norway or any other country . And the only vote was on the plan to export isotopes  --  materials that can not be used for power or weapons . At no point , however , in his long series of attacks on the integrity of Mr. Strauss did Senator Anderson flatly come out agajnst his appointment as Secretary of Commerce .                     