@@714921

txt Theron Lamar Caudle told a House Judiciary subcommittee today that important cases had been taken out of his hands while he was an Assistant Attorney Gen'eral by the then Attorney General , Tom C. Clark , who is now a Supreme Court Justice , and by Peyton Ford , one of Mr. Clark 's principal assistants in the Justice Department . Such instances took place while he was in charge of the department 's Criminal Division , Mr. Caudle testified , - and- later when he-became head of the Tax Division . He will continue his testimony tomorrow . Mr. Caudle was dismissed from his Tax Division post last November by President Truman . The handling of tax cases in the Justice Department was then being investigated by a House Ways and Means subcommittee . The reason given for Mr. Caudle 's discharge was " outside activities " not consonant with his public duties . Mr. Caudle insisted before the Judiciary subcommittee , headed by Representative Frank L. Chelf , Democrat of Kentucky , . that his public conduct always had been exemplary ' and all of his duties @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ operations of the Justice Department . Like bis former chief , J. Howard , who testified yesterday , Mr. Caudle held his superiors responsible for things that were done in the cases about which he testified . Mr. , who was asked by President Truman in April to resign as Attorney General , told the subcommittee that the Justice Department had acted promptly and vigorously in the St. Louis tax fraud cases , and if there had been any delay or mishandling , the Bureau of Internal Revenue was responsible for it . Says 0 . P. A. Case Was Dropped The affairs of the bureau have been investigated by Congressional committees . Justice Clark and Mr. Ford have yet to testify . Mr. Ford is expected to be called later by the Chelf subcommittee , and Representative Kenneth B. Keating of New York , the group 's ranking Republican member , said that he believed the justice should receive an opportunity to testify if he so desired . Highlights of Mr. Caudle 's testimony today included : ClHe had been ordered , while he was a United States @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a grand jury a case involving alleged violation of Office of Price Administration regulations by T. C. Coxe , a lumberman . He then was directed to drop the case after Clyde R. Hoey had conferred with Mr. , Clark , who at that time was the Assistant Attorney General in charge of the Criminal Division . Mr. Hoey had recently been nominated as the Democratic candidate for United States Senator front North Carolina . He was elected and is now in the Senate . gA tax case against Mr. Coxe , who lived in Mr. Caudle 's home town of Wadesboro , was never prosecuted . Mr. Caudle disqualified himself in this case for personal reasons . When Mr. Clark was appointed Attorney General and brought Mr. Caudle to Washington to head the Criminal Division , Mr. Clark took with him four or five important cases from the Criminal Division and handled them himself . One was the notorious Amerasia case , which involved the discovery of secret Government documents in the office of the now defunct magazine Amerasia . Mr. Caudle did not recall what the others were or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a preliminary investigation of the Kansas City vote fraud case in 1946 , but had closed it without a fullscale inquiry by the Federal Bureau of Investigation . When the matter " got hot " and a Senate committee began an investigation , Mr. Clark refused to let Mr. Caudle testify before the committee , though he was the official most familiar with the case . Later Mr. Ford , who was then Deputy Attorney General , took over the case , called for all the files and Mr. Caudle never again had any part in it . qAfter Mr. Caudle had been transferred to the Tax Division , Mr. Ford again superseded him in the handling of a tax case against an Alabama tobacco company and had the lawyer Mr. Caudle had assigned to the case report directly to him . CDavid K. Niles , an assistant to President Truman , had referred to Mr. Caudle many cases of conscientious objectors to military service seeking to avoid prosecution . Mr. Caudle said that " when the heat was put on Niles he transferred it over to me . " Capital @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his quaint expressions and aroused sympathy as he told of the tribulations of a country lawyer transplanted to the high political and social life of Washington . He said that he came to Washington " on the tail of a hurricane " when Mr. Clark sent for him , but he did not know " how dangerous it was . " He added that most of the persons who paraded him at their parties as Assistant Attorney General subsequently showed up at his office wanting something . Mr. Caudle is back in Wadesboro now , practicing law in his quiet ' home town . Mr. Caudle testified that after Senator Hoey was retained in the Coxe case , involving alleged sale of poor grade lumber at high grade ceiling prices , he told Mr. Caudle that he was going to take up the case with Mr. Clark . The regional 0 . P. A. investigator insisted that it was a good case , but Mr. Caudle was doubtful . He had been instructed to give it to a grand jury , however , by the Justice Department , Mr. Caudle testified @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hoey saw Mr. Clark in Washington , he was told not to present the case to the grand jury because the facts were not sufficient to warrant prosecution . The tax case against Mr. Coxe arose in 1948 and involved deficiencies of about $300,000 . By that time Mr. Caudle was in charge of the Justice Department 's Crimlinal Division and the Internal Revenue Bureau had referred the case to him for prosecution . He disqualified himself for personal reasons and the case was never prosecuted . Mr. Caudle did not know why . Vote Fraud Case Raised Representative Claude I. Bakewell , Republican of Missouri , questioned Mr. Caudle about the Kansas City vote case . This matter concerned charges that fraud had been committed at the polls in the Democratic primary of 1946 , in which Enos Axtell , with the support of Mr. Truman , defeated then Representative Roger C. Slaughter . Mr. Axtell was beaten in the November election , Mr. Caudle had ordered the F. B. I. to make a preliminary investigation but had decided against a full-scale inquiry that " would have cost a lot @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the Justice Department concurred in that decision . Senator James P. Kern , Republican of Missouri , according to Mr. Caudle , " became pretty loud " in demanding a full inquiry , and a Senate committee , headed by Senator Homer Ferguson , Republican of Michigan , was appointed to investigate . Mr. Caudle asserted that although he knew most about the case , Mr. Clark would not permit him to go to Capitol Hill or to supplant the Attorney General on the witness stand . While Mr. Clark was testifying , the safe containing the impounded primary ballots was blown open in the Kansas City Courthouse and the votes were stolen . As a result of the theft and other developments , a full scale investigation was ordered , indictments were obtained against many persons . There was one conviction and the remaining indictments were dismissed . Mr. Bakewell asked whether any political pressure had been put on Mr. Caudle while he was in charge of the Kansas City case . The wit , ness said that there had been none , but that Mr. Clark had been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Caudle added , was that he had not ordered a full-scale investigation in the first place , for " if I had known then what I know now about Missouri , I would investigate anything out there . "                     