@@720575

txt The Citizens Housing andl Planning Council wrote to Mayor Wagner yesterday that it would support him " thoroughly " if he decided to handle the Title I program without the present leadership of the Committee on Slum Clearance . Roger Starr , executive director of the nonpartisan organization , said he meant Robert Moses , chairman of the Slum Clearance Committee , and Thomas J. Shanahan , vice.chairman . Both have said the Title I program is largely " a dead duck "  --  a statement vigorously disputed by Mayor Wagner . Mr. Starr criticized " inadequate procedures " in the administration of the billion-dollar slum-redevelopment program . He charged that such inadequacies reflected what he called Mr. Moses ' ' ' familiar posture of indifference to the opinions and counsel of his fellow citizens . " The housing council sent to City Hall a 3,000-word study of some aspects of the Title I controversy . Recommendations Listed It included the following major recommendations : CIThe immediate adoption by the Slum Clearance Committee of " more responsible procedures " in assembling and making public information on proposed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ independent citizens ' committee to make , with the city 's cooperation , a study of " the goals , tools and proper administrative organization for all the redevelopment activities " of the city . Mr. Starr indicated some foundation funds would be available for a small professional staff . He said the Citizens Housing Council was willing " to give direction " Ito such a study committee , which should be representative ' of other groups , too . ClImmediate promulgation by the Mayor of a " code of practice " governing Title I relations between the city and private ' industry . This would be separate from the proposed code of ethics for all city employes that ' is awaiting action in the City Council , although many of its conditions might coincide with the Council code . Wagner Could Act The Mayor , who appoints members of the Slum Clearance Committee and may remove them at will , could put an executive code into force I without waiting for legislation . I The analysis and recommendation did not directly ask the ' dismissal of Mr. Moses or Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ appoint " a small body " to help him draft a code of practice for Title I , the recommendation said : " We face frankly the possibility that the present leadership of the Committee on Slum // Clearance will not consent to the establishment of such a code . The recent dire predictions from this quarter lend weight to the possibility . We d not mean to disparage the vttst achievements of the Committee 's leadership when we say to the Mayor that we will support him thoroughly if he decides to handle Title I without it the Moses-Shanahan leadership . " The Citizens Housing and Planning Council was established in 1937 as a nonprofit , aorrpartisan organization . Its fist Is to stimulate private and public action for better housing and a better city . Its president is James H. Scheuer , who is building Title I projects in other cities . J. Clarence Davies Jr . was chairman of the board until his appointment a year ago as the city 's Director of Real Estate and member of the Committee on Slum Clearance . Mr. Starr 's predecessor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ member of the City Housing Authority . Moses Retirement Asked In another development yesterday Gabriel A. Wechsler , general secretary of the City Fusion party , called for the retirement of Mr. Moses , who is 70 years old , from , his public offices . ? City which brought Mr. Moses into public life , acknowledges with gratitude his many contributions to our city and state , " Mr. Wechsler said in a statement . " But we believe that ' when a man enters public life , he either grows or swells ' Mr. Moses has swollen himself into a minor deity . " It is time that Mayor Wagner and Mr. Moses ' other superiors summon enough courage to ask him to retire into ? the political Valhalla that awaits all who flout the ordinary democratic processes . " Mr. Wechsler 's reference to City Fusion 's having " brought Mr. Moses into public life " overlooked some public service prior to his appointment as Park Commissioner in the La Guardia administration . He had served the city briefly in 1913 as an investigator and had held a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ before Fiorello H. La Guardia became Mayor in 1933 . " It is evident , " Mr. Wechsler 's statement continued , " that Mr. Moses considers himself above the ken of ordinary people and does not think that general rules apply to him . He can raze a historical building , build a road through a person 's home , declare slum clearance ' dead ' , or roast a taxpayer , with all the power of a potentate and none of the responsibility of a public official in a democracy . " Soundview Defended The Citizens Housing Council tempered its criticism of some of Mr. Moses ' actions and attitudes with a defense of his position on the Soundview project in the . Bronx . It urged the , city to reactivate that cooperative housing project It said Mr. Moses appeared to have " a better case " than the project 's chief The allusion was to Representative Paul A. Fino , Bronx Republican . He had disclosed dummy ownership of a large part of the site and had charged that the true owners would make an inordinate profit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Fino had noted that ownership had been recorded in the name of a clerk in the office of Monroe Coldwater , former law partner of the late Edward J. Flynn , Bronx Democratic chairman . The true owners were later identified as seven clients of Mr. Goldwater . In the midst of charges that the owners stood to make a profit of $800,000 on a realty investment of $500,000 , the Federal Government halted further planning grants for the project and Mayor Wagner said the Board of Estimate would not approve the redevelopment . The plan had called- for 1,800 cooperative apartments to be sponsored by the Building and Construction Trades Council and five building unions , There has been no criticism of the sponsoring groups . " It seems clear , " the Citizens Housing Council said , " that the Soundview project has been shelved not for lack of intrinsic merit but because , in an atmosphere charged with suspicion and innuendo , a Congressman with a record of opposition to new housing on vacant or nearvacant sites in his district alleged publicly that a dummy for a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ implied that the project was being pushed by the Slum Clearance Committee primarily to give this owner a ' windfall ' profit on land purchased in 1953 . The political 5. gure has denied all interest in the site and its true owners have all been named . ' Windfall ' Is Denied " We have compared the original purchase price paid by the present owners for the land with the committee 's current apraisal , which includes both land and buildings . At Soundview , the bungalow owners pay a ground rent to the land owners . We find that purchase of the whole at the appraised value shown in the committee - brochure would produce no ' windfall ' for anyone . " While the critic Mr. Fino alleged  --  falsely , it appears ? that the project had been proposed to profit one politician , we believe that it has been stopped to appease another , the critic himself . " Reserving our natural rights to comment on details of the 1Voject as they appear , we rage the city to reinstate it . Favor- ! able Federal action @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ added : " Thus , the one clear result of the- recent criticism of the Title I program has been a civic debt , not an achievement . One must in fairness add that much of the other criticism has been distorted , fragmented , land misleading . - Yet , having said so much in criticism of the Slum Clearance Committee 's critics , we find our own mind and conscience still unappeased . " Something is indeed wrong with the program in New York City ; and the somewhat synthetic nature of the present crisis , coinciding all too neatly with the passage by Congress of a new housing bill under the threat of a Presidential veto merely emphasizes the readiness of press and public to believe thcworst of it . " Bank Role Questioned Then , getting down to its own criticisms of the Title I procedures here , the council asked : " If Title I is to be administered by a part-time co ittee , and if Thomas Shane an must be its vice chairman , why must Mr. Shanahan 's . bank be used by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The council asked also why Mr. Moses ' brochures on all new projects asserted that all families on the site were interviewed in relocation surveys , when in fact only some were interviewed , In a. covering letter to the Mayor , Mr. Starr wrote : " It is my feeling that solving these basic questions of policy is far more important than shuffling faces or changing the names of individuals . " Mayor Wagner is to return to his desk Thursday . He is attending the United States Conference of Mayors in California . Mr. Moses is in San Juan , P. R. , as consultant to the Commonwealth on housing sites and procedures . Cesar Cordero Davila , Urban Renewal Administrator for Puerto Rico , said in San Juan that " Mr. Moses is not making any money on the deal , only expenses , and please make that clear . "                     