@@720971

txt This luminous city has long been accustomed to act as host to diplomatic gatherings . Nevertheless , for years the main reason for this role has been that everyone enjoys corning to lovely Paris . France itself played a secondary part in influencing world decisions . The statesmen who met here so often during the Fourth Republic gave scant heed to - French policy desires . Such is no longer the case . The intricate negotiations that have just ended  --  NATO talks , bilateral talks , four power talks , economic talks and military talks  --  have all been heavily influenced by the will of resurgent France as expressed by Charles de Gaulle . Despite the grumblings of American generals , British diplomats and many of his own officials , de Gaulle has implacably insisted on his views . And his is a singular triumph . Consider the results . Paris has been selected as the site for next spring 's summit . De Gaulle had first vetoed previous suggestions that the meeting be held away from this Continent . When he obtained accord on Geneva , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a symbolic victory . The Anglo-American idea is that there will be a series of summits - in several cities . De Gaulle knows there will be one  --  here . The broad agenda does n't matter too much because each participant can raise almost any topic . But de Gaulle has argued we should start by reviewing with Khrushchev generalized matters : disarmament , aid to poor nations and the problem of all Germany , not just Berlin . His views have been endorsed . This means , in effect , scrapping last summer 's Geneva foreign ministers ' record . We have accepted a French proposal simply to tell Khrushchev that since nothing was agreed in Geneva we will withdraw all tentative concessions and start again from sa.a.tch . The United States , which had shifted from the " hard " French-West German approach on Berlin in July to the " soft " and more conciliatory British approach , is back in the FrancoGerman corner . Reasons for Delay De Gaulle always insisted the grand negotiation between East and West should be delayed . Publicly he said he first wanted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ further meetings between himself and other Allied statesmen , and prior consultation with Khrushchev . Privately he wished France initially to explode a nuclear weapon and to secure international backing on Algeria . He is achieving both public and private aims . The apparent detente with Russia has not been interrupted . The outline of a Western position according with , French desires was accepted . De Gaulle just met Eisenhower and Macmillan and he will see them again before the summit . He will also receive Khrushchev , making himself the key man , the leader who conferred last with all the others . France 's atomic tests will be held early next year . Finally , de Gaulle has been given new assurances that we support his approach on Algerian self-determination . The Russians have expressed similar hints that they do not intend to stir further dust storms in that political desert . One can not yet discern just what de Gaulle conceded or appeared to concede in exchange for acceptance of his views . London and Washington are pleased Paris accedes to several summits . We are glad @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ war  --  although so far with no French concessions . And we welcome a tentative accord to study compromise on NATO 's aerial defense . This last problem was , from our viewpoint , most urgent . Yet de Gaulle merely assented to a committee of NATO and French officers which will examine new French proposals . This is far from being a formula for integration of Conti nental air commands . All it does is stave off disintegration . This is the balance sheet and de Gaulle 's massive personality has stamped it . His good friend , Adenauer , is delighted ; and , as far as Berlin is concerned , so are many of our highest officials . But our military is scarcely overwhelmed with joy at the fragmentary accord on air defenses . These Paris conferences have been most interesting in their reflection of . France 's renaissance . The cards dealt in advance around the diplomatic table scarcely favored de Gaulle : virtually rio army in Europe , continuing Algerian war , no nuclear arms . But the General has shown himself a player of remarkable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                