@@716546

txt Rival party drives to add thousands of unenrolled voters to the Massachusetts registration lists are being speeded up , with only five more registration days remaining in which to qualify for voting in the Nov . Z election . Oct. 1 at 10 p.m. is the registration deadline . Republicans and Democrats realize the importance of voter registration . particularly in an election which may be decided by narrow margins . Massachusetts is regarded as a close state , with control depending on which way independent voters swing Likewise , with a governorship . a United States Senate seat , and 14 representative in Congress seats at stake . Massachusetts is looked upon as a pivotal state . particularly since at least four congressional seats  --  two Republican and two Democratic  --  are considered doubtful . Narrow i ? rarn Because of the narrow margin . of GOP control in the present House , each contested seat is highly important in the overall picture . Likewise the Senate seat now held by Senator Leverett Saltonstall ( R ) . seeking reelection , is highly important since State @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fighting chance to defeat him . Representative Robert F. Murphy CD ) of Malden . Democratic nominee for Governor , is counting heavily on a Democratic registration drive to help him in his efforts to defeat Governor Herter for reelection . Thus he is leading a united party effort to add as many voters to the rolls as possible between now and next Friday .. But the Republicans are not napping . Throughout the state . Republican groups are ringing doorbells and telephoning unenrolled voters , urging them to register , and offenng all possible assistance . Headquarter ! , Aid This is being duplicated on the Democratic side . Representative Murphy told a gathering of Suffolk County elected officials , Boston City Councilors. and School Committee members that the Democratic campaign headquarters is mailing out hundreds of thousands of cards to potential voters throughout the state , calling their attention to registration time . The GOP registration effort is largely in the hands of local teams appointed to contact voters on all phases of party activity , including registration . preliminary discussion of issues , . and , getting . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . chairman of the Republican State Committee . Both Mr. Nelson and John.C . Carr . chairman of the Democratic State Committee , are aiming for a big vote on Nov. 2 . Mr. Nelson says that a big voter turnout is a must for a Republican victory , pointing out that the big vote in 1952 brought about election Or President Eisenhower , Governor Herter , and others . Whereas in other off-presidential years . the Republicans have tended to fare better-with a smaller voter turnout , Mr. Nelson holds that the party must do everything possible this year to get its supporters to the polls . In all Bay State communities voters can register with their local city or town . cleric or election commission , during regular business hours from now until next Friday . Hour . Listed In some communities . such as Boston . special district offices are also open in addition to these in the town or city hall for the convenience of the voters , In Boston , voters may register at City Hall Annex from 9 a.m. to 10 p.m daily or at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ p.m. to . 10 pm .. daily through Friday , Oct. 1 . However , only those voters who were police listed . in January . 1954. can register at the ward registration . points . Those persons not police listed must go to City Hall to have their names placed on the voting lists . Furthermore , naturalized citizens desiring to register at the district offices must bring their naturalization papers . All registration . offices in the state will be open . on the final day until 10 p. zn. , under state law .                     