@@715788

txt The Eisenhower administration sees no reason for a business recession and will take every step necessary to stop one , even to the extent of postponing the cherished goal of a balanced budget . This is the word coming from informed administration sources which declare that the signs of official determination to head off any economic slowdown have alread begun to appear . Cited for indicating this change of emphasis are the following : . 1 . The Treasury has changed its so-called " hard money " policy to a flexible policy . The bond market is getting back to normal . 2 . Restrictions on credit have been relaxed . In other words , after feeling out the antiinflation brakes , the administration now is lifting them sightly . Tax Cuts Repromised 3 . Cited as specially significant is the flat and categorical promise of Gebrge M. Humphrey , Secretary of the Treasury , to the bankers convention here that big tax cuts would go through as scheduled early next year with full government approval . Hitherto this issue had been in some doubt . Tax @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . President Eisenhower repeatedly avoided declarations for a quickly balanced budget at his press conference Oct. 8 , indicat ing to some observers the prospect of a prolonged deficit . Manipulation of the government balance by pumping out or contracting credit is a conventional way of stimulating or retarding business . 5 . Further massive cuts in defense spending also seem to be out . Paradox Cited The present economic situation of the United States is paradoxical . There are full employment and high prosperity , but they are accompanied by forebodings of the future . This doubt and uncertainty is a psychological factor which could , under some circumstances , produce the conditions which it fears . It can be said with authority that President Eisenhower is conversant with this situation and is not waiting for it to develop unchecked . The attitude of the economic advisers of the President in the Treasury Department , the Federal Reserve System , the Council of Economic Advisers , the Commerce Department , and various other agencies is that any business recession ? if it comes  --  will be slight . But the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it unnecessary and avoidable . It is pointet out that a relatively mild slowdown at home has a cumulative and pyramidal effect on economies abroad . Three million unemployed in the United States would be uncomfortable , but the correlative effects in Europe might be devastating . There are economic warning signs which have started the administration to make short-term and also long-range plans to meet anything that comes . Amidst present booming employment are these unfavorable symptoms : Falling farm income , slowing investment in new plant and equipment by industry and in new homes by private citizens , increase in business inventories and consumer indebtedness , and prospective diminution in government spending . Many favorable signs counterbalance these developments which are interpreted as adverse in many quarters . Pledged to Bar Recession At present , employment and consumer income are at a peak . But the shining sun does not deny the fact that the barometer shows evidences of dropping . Mr. Eisenhower has familiarized himself with the situation . The orders are to meet any recession before it appears . As a presidential candidate , Mr. Eisenhower made @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ago in New England promising to block a recession . " This crusade stands pledged , " he told a Providence , R. I. , audience Oct. 20 , 1952 , " at the first sign of any approaching thing that could he called economic collapse or depression , to mobilize every power of government , of private economy , of the local governments , and the state governments to prevent it . And we know that to make certain those signs do not come , we must maintain a country of high wages , high industry , high productivity , and great consumption . " At present the administration is more anxious over deflation than inflation . Political Issue A balanced budget fits into the matter , because one of the most effective means of stimulating business to halt a deflation is to cut taxes and pump out credit into the nation . The converse of this is that higher taxes and a Treasury surplus put brakes on an inflation . Democrats obviously will seek to make political capital out of a failure to fulfill campaign pledges to balance the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 3,000,000 unemployed , in a recession , much more of a political burden in next fall 's congressional election than temporary postponement of a balanced budget .                     