@@716973

txt The Chinese Communist Party has undergone its first major purge since coming to power , and official Peking Radio has indicated that others may follow . An official communiqu ? also disclosed that the Peking regime for more than 12 months has kept secret the fact that the party 's central authority was openly challenged during 1953 for the first time . The principal purge victims were Kao Kang , who until his sudden disappearance over a year ago was counted among the top three or four Chinese Communist leaders , and Jao Shushih , until his downfall a powerful figure in high party councils . They were charged with having conspired to seize power of the party and state . The communiqu ? announcing expulsion of the two leaders stated that Mr. Kao refused to admit his guilt and took his own life " as a complete expression of his betrayal of the party . " The fact that Mr. Kao was not made to confess is most unusual , and if indeed he did take his own life on a question of policy or principle @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was quite a serious matter . Messrs . Kao and Jao , the communiqu ? stated , planned to " seize the supreme power of the party . " Mr. Kao refused to admit his guilt , the official announcement said , and took his own life , though when this occurred is not stated . Mr. Jao 's downfall , it seems , came several months later . Purge Kept Secret Peking kept the facts of the purge secret for so long , it is believed , in order to allow time for stringent measures to be taken to prevent the spread of disaffection . The time lapse certainly suggests strongly that the leadership was seriously concerned , A rigorous campaign aimed at tightening discipline , combating disunity , and exacting unquestioning obedience at all levels was set in motion by party theoretician Liu Shaochi in February of last year , and the reason for this now is apparent . This campaign lasted through most of 1954 and it is interesting that during this time all party members were required to study Chapters 10 and 11 of a Short History @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with events in the Soviet Union that led to great purges of 1937 and later . Charges Outlined The report on the Chinese-Communist purge was delivered to the fifth plenary session of the party on April 4 . The report stated that Kao Kang , who was both political and military administrator of Manchuria , regarded his region as his own independent kingdom . Mr. Kao was transferred to Peking in 1953 following his appointment as chairman of the state planning commission and at this time the report stated his " anti-party activities became even more rampant , " adding that he attempted to enlist Army leaders on his side . He also advocated that the party should be divided with one section controlling the center and the other the Army and regional areas . Mr. Kao sought authority over the second section the report charged . Charges against Jao Shu-shih went back to 1943 in spite of the high position he had maintained since then . His indictment stated he had " resorted to ignominious frauds within the party on numerous occasions in order to seize power and followed a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ peasants . " Mr. Jao is said to have formed an alliance with Kao Kang after he was transferred to Peking from Shanghai in 1953 . The purge was cited as a " decisive victory " for the party . Discipline Tightened Similar cases may occur in the future , however , it was stated , and it was announced that a central disciplinary inspection committee has been formed to guard against " corrupt degeneracy and violations of discipline . " Mr. Kao at one time was regarded as a contender for eventual leadership of the party . In addition to his importan  --  post as Communist regional boss in Manchuria , he was a member of the Politburo and Vice-Chairman of the Central People 's Government . Mr. Jan has recently been chairman of the East China Administrative Area ? and political council head of the powerful Organization Bureau of the party and a member of its Central Committee . The report on Messrs . Kao and Jao was passed on to the fifth plenum by a national conference of the party which was held in Peking from March 21 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The plenary session also approved changes in Communist China 's first five-year plan  --  details of which were not given  --  and measures to ensure tighter party discipline . Peking radio also disclosed that two new members have been admitted to the Politburo . They : are Teng Hsiao-ping , Secretary General of the Central Committee  --  who delivered the report on Messrs . Kao and Jao ; and Gen. Lin Piao who has been inactive for the past five years  --  presumably because of illness .                     