@@712598

txt Steadily spreading miners ' walkouts are enveloping the coal industry in what may be the long-awaited showdown between John L. Lewis and the operators . Jones &; Laughlin Steel Corporation reports that its three ' big mines in western Pennsylvania are closed . The mines employ more than 4,500 . Republic Steel mines also began closing , However , a hit-and-miss character of the walkouts continued . More than 66,000 members of the United Mine Workers have quit their jobs , slashing coal production by more than 50 per cent . Dwindling coal stockpiles , hard hit by the short week and recent severe cold weather , shrunk even faster , Union officials continue to disclaim calling the strike , but the massing of pickets at the entrances to mines lend an air of official UMW support . Heat Put on Lewis The walkouts are being intensified just when a group of mid-westerners in Congress has begun to turn the heat on Mr. Lewis , The congressmen are trying to persuade President Truman that the Lewis-decreed three-day work week in the soft coal mines has brought on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , President Truman 's chief labor adviser , thinks the situation is only " spotty " and not serious or general enough to require presidential action . Under the Taft-Hartley Law , the White House-is empowered to declare a national emergency if a strike is endangering the public health or safety and to ask the courts for an injunction against the strike or lockout , as the case may be . Mr. Lewis contends his arbitrary three-day work week is not a strike , but only a means of stabilizing employment in an industry plagued by lack of markets , or too much competition , whichever way you look at it . Industry has been trying to break Mr. Lewis ' single-handed control over soft coal production by first one legal means and then another . First it tried to convince the administration that coal was so scarce as a result of the three-day work week as to constitute . a national emergency . It obviously hoped the President could be persuaded to invoke the crisis provision of the Taft-Hartley Act . 1White House Declines The White House has failed to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been ordered curtailed for lack of coal . Next the industry got together in appealing formally to the National Labor Relations Board to make Mr. Lewis call off his strike on the grOund that his reported refusal to bargain with them was an unfair labor practice . Robert Denham , general counsel of the NLRB , . is expected to come up with his ruling on this industry request soon . Meanwhile , a congressional bloc from the coal states of Illinois , Indiana , Ohio , Kentucky , Pennsylvania , . and West Virginia are joining in ' a move to push a resolution through Congress declaring that the 40 per cent strike has resulted . in a national emergency which the President should recognize and deal with under the Taft-Hartley Act . Some antiunion sources are urging . Congress to pass legislation dealing with what . they term . Mr. Lewis ' " monopoly " ' in the coal industry . But the feeling voiced by the congressional bloc from the coal states is that there are laws enough on the books now to settle the matter , if @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ roused Mr. Lewis into one of his more flamboyant moods . He has fired both barrels at Senator Robert A. Taft ( R ) of Ohio and the NLRB 's general counsel , Mr. Denham , simul- taneonsly.                     