@@720788

txt Errol Flynn , veteran Hollywood swashbuckler , col. lapsed and died , apparently of a heart attack , in a Vancouver apartment Wednesday night where he had dropped in for a drink . Mrs. George Caldough , Flynn 's hostess during his visit h e r e , said , " He died laughing . " Flynn , 50 , paunchy and graying in contrast to the dashing roles he once played , was en route to the airport with Mr. ' and Mrs. Caldough and his blonde , 17 year old protege , Beverly Aadland . " We just dropped in to see some friends for a cocktail , " Mrs. Caldough said . Shortly after , Flynn complained of pain . Earlier , police had said the movie star died in an ambulance en route to a hospital . On Business Trip Flynn and Miss Aadland arrived here five days ago to see Caldough about ' selling him the actor 's yacht Zaca . . Flynn , who had been reported under doctor 's care since his arrival , told reporters when he landed : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ like young women Errol Flynn because they give me a feeling of youth . " Women have had top billing in most of Flynn 's life . Almost from the time he arrived in Hollywood in 1935 , he was in the newspapers and women usually had ' a leading role . He was divorced from Lili Damita in 1942 . A year later he met Nora Eddington while Flynn was on trial on a charge of statutory rape involving two teen-age girls . He was acquitted after a sensational trial . He married and divorced Miss Eddington aid , at the time of his death , was estranged f r o m his third wife , Patrice Wymore . Wife Grief Stricken Miss Wymore , now appearing at a Washington , D. C. , night club , told of Flynn 's death , burst into tears and at first was unable to say more than , " Please , I 'm sorry , I ca n't talk . . . " Later , when she had recovered somewhat , she talked at length with friends who telephoned her from the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " They killed him . They killed him . Those vultures p rey e d on him out there . " She did not explain her remark and refused to talk to newsmen further . In 1951 he was cleared of a rape charge at Monte Carlo . This charge involved a 15 year old girl . When his attention turned from women , Flynn occupied himself with adventure , the I ingredient of his most famous films . Early in 1959 , Flynn returned from Cuba and told of campaigning with the rebel leader , Fidel Castro :  - -  A real life episode similar to his swashbuckling movie roles . He reported he was wounded in the Castro revolution . The Castro forces pooh-poohed the gravity of Flynn 's wounds and the extent of his participation in the revolution , but Flynn played it to the hilt and even wrote a series of articles on his Cuban adventures . Even a few weeks ago , the actor was back in his old haunts while in Hollywood to make a television show . He tossed a party to introdpee Miss Aadland @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ because of some hard words between Miss Aadland and Flynn 's exwife , Nora Eddington . Flynn remained a noncombatant . Newspaper f iles reveal scrape after scrape in which Flynn figured . He had knockdowns over such contenders as Director John Huston and polo player Aiden Roark , a slapping match with columnist Jimmy Fidler , a scrape with playboy Dan Topping and numerous others . Talent for Spendidg Aside from his fisticuffs , scandals and marital adventures , Flynn also managed to make news with his finances . A few years ago , he found himself deeply in debt to the income tax collectors . " I actually earned 7 million dollars for brandishing a sword , riding a horse and screaming ' charge ! ' " he remarked later . " Now 7 million dollars is an awful lot of money and I did n't deserve it , but I certainly , did n't mind spending it . I have a great talent for spending . " Flynn was born June 20 , 1909 , in Tasmania , the island state of Australia , where his dore Thomson @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was a marine biologist who taught at Queens university in pelfast . The Flynns traveled widely and Frrol was educated in such cities as Dublin , London , Paris and Sydney . The actor told many fanciful tales of his early years , but it seems certain that he ran away from schools three times between 8 and 12 . He did the same at 17 in Sydney , shipping out to ports thruout the south seas . Legend in Pacific The legends concerning Flynn were encountered by Americans who fought in the South Pacific during World War II . He was reported as having been forcibly enlisted to put down a native revolt during a New Guinea gold rush and was remembered elsewhere as an oyster pirate . It was in the south seas that Flynn first acted . He hired out his boat to two Americans making a movie , of jungle head hunters . Flynn figured in the footage and the producers were impressed with his performance . He was offered the role of Fletcher Christian in a quickie called " In the Wake of the Bounty . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to try his hand on the London stage , where he was seen by a Warner Brothers t al ent scout . After a few minor Beverly Aadland , 17 , protege of Errol Flynn , who was with actor in Vancouver . roles , he burst forth as a star in " Captain Blood . " Among his other notable films were " Green Light , " " The Prince and The Pauper , " " Charge of the Light Brigade , " " The Private Lives of Elizabeth and Essex , " and " Against All Flags . " In later years , Flynn prohessed to take more pride in is acting career . He was happy with the good reviews he got for playing an aging rake in " The Sun Also Rises . "                     