@@716142

txt Gambling is " running wide open " in Cook county and Sherif Babb , state police , and Gov . Stratton have failed to act on pleas to stop it , VirgiL4'eterson , operating director of the Chicago crime commission , said yesterday . Peterson said one of the most conspicuous examples of gamblers operating " boldy without the least bit of repression " by police is the operation of handbooks and poker games at two locations in Norwood Park township , both exposed by a Tribune reporter . On March 6 the reporter found that full scale gambling had been resumed in the notorious Wagon Wheel , 6412 Montrose ay . Two days later Sherif 's Police Chief Patrick C. Tuohy said a guard would be placed on the building . Move to New Spot That night the gambling operators opened up a new establishment at 6444 Gunnison st. , three blocks away . Altho a sherif 's policeman sat in his parked car outside the Montrose ay . building , patrons parked their autos near the building and were driven to the new building in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ counted 273 patrons leaving the new building Saturday afternoon when two of the owners , Nick D'Amico and James Davie , ordered the place closed . They did so after the reporter insisted on being allowed to enter the new building and the photografer started to take pictures . The two owners admitted constructing the $50,000 build- ? mg and operating a gambling casino there . Peterson Alarmed " The Wagon Wheel has been one of the places we complained about most , " Peterson said , " but it seems our investigators and newspaper men are the only ones who are able to find gambling there . " Peterson stated he is " alarmed " because of the failure to suppress gambling . " Slot machines and handbooks are going all over the county , " he added and said that in January , after he failed to obtain action from Babb , he wrote to Gov . Stratton , asking action to stop gambling in the county . A reply came from an assistant to the governor , Peterson said , relating that Stratton was " out of town @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attention when he returned . Unable to Reach Babb In attempting to reach Babb , who entered St. Luke 's hospital Saturday for " observation of a chest ailment , " a reporter was informed by the hospital ' operator , " Mr. Babb is not receiving any incoming calls or visitors today . " Capt . Hugo Olsen , assistant chief of sherif 's police , said he had read the Tribune story and ordered a squad car to be stationed outside the two Wagon Wheel gambling halls " until further notice " from noon to 2 a. m. 