@@719604

txt Voters do not like to tax themselves . That is an easy explanation of Maine voter action this week rejecting a $1 increase in driver 's license and registration fees and a 7 per cent hike in smaller truck registration charges . But it does not adequately explain the 5-to-1 margin by which the voters turned down the **26;738;TOOLONG plan designed to help finance the state 's expanding highway program . The outcome is to the opposition staged by John T. Gould , Lisbon Falls author-humorist and former weekly newspaper editor . Employing a homespun wit and a " little people " approach , the farmer-humorist , assisted by Stanley Tupper , Augusta attorney , and George Petty , Monmouth . publicist , forced a statewide referendum on the 1957 Legislative act , to the astonishment of Maine political leaders and observers . It had been widely held that Maine 's stringent referendum law made it almost impossible to carry an issue to the ballot after legislative passage .. It requires certified signatures of 10 per cent of the voters . Mr. Gould and his Maine Car @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . They produced 46,000 signatures and forced the first statewide referendum under the law which is now nearly 10 years ' old . From then on , the Gould campaign gathered steam . Cleverly he built the issue as one featuring the little people versus big interests ; the small town weekly press against the Gannett daily papers in Maine ; the car owners versus the big truckers . Radio and pamphlets as well as political talks were the weapons employed . Favored by Muskie Although the odds were in favor of rejection of the higher fees from the start , the Gould forces faced a powerful set of adversaries . The higher fees were backed by Gov . Edmund S. Muskie , widely popular Democratic chief executive ; Senator Robert N. Haskell ( R ) of Bangor , president of the Maine Senate ; Davvid H. Stevens , State Highway Commissioner and a Republi- can , and Maine Truck Owners ' big associations , the Maine Good Roads Association , and the Maine Farm Bureau Association . Mr. Gould 's " Dispatch from the Farm " appears weekly in The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ owners , small truckers , and farmers with small trucks . An important factor also was the support of railroad union labor groups and the railroads themselves . A feature of the campaign was a charge by forces backing the increased fees that the railroads were helping to finance the Gould drive . Mr. Gould flatly denied the charge , insisting that not one cent was received from the railroads by his group , that contributions came from all over the state with none higher than $10 . Railroads Involved It became a battle over who should finance the Maine share of the federal interstate road program in Maine . That battle was over whether the car and small truck owners should pay more to finance the program or w1Tether the big truckers , particularly those coming into Maine from out-of-state should pay the freight through . a weight-distance tax . Railroad interests have been in favor of the later course . The Legislature passed the measure levying the higher or motorist and small truck owner fees after rejecting the weight-distance proposal . The measure added $1 to the present $2 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ranging from $10 to $16 . In addition , the small truck fees were boosted 7 per cent . The increase applied to trucks under 26,000 pounds . The larger trucks already pay the higher rate , it was pointed out . The Gould forces campaigned on the issue that the increases were unfair to car ' owners and small truckers and that the revenue was not needed now . Although the one-milliondollar annual revenue anticipated was for the purpose of financing a 26-million bond issue to meet Maine 's share of a federal road program in the state , Mr. Gould 's forces insisted the money is not needed now . They argued that the financing program should he considered fully by the 1959 Legislature after completion of a survey now being made by a special legislative commission . Rural Road Curb lie added that if that survey shows it would be : air to increase driver license and car and small truck registration fees that course can be adopted by the 1959 Legislature . Throughout the campaign the forces favoring the higher fees insisted defeat of the 1957-enacted increases @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ funds would have to be diverted to finance the federal road program . Since the success of the Gould referendum , the highway commissioner ' has reiterated this view . Today , Mr. Gould strongly disputed the contention . He said there is no need to cut the rural road program . Furthermore , he claimed such a course " may be illegal because the Legislature adopted the rural road program . " He added that the bond issue for the interstate highway program has not yet been floated and therefore financing funds are not needed now and will not he needed until after the 1959 Legislature meets . In his campaign against the higher fees Mr. Gould made one complete swing around the , state , visiting every weekly newspaper in Maine to enlist aid . He obtained the support . of many weeklies and ample coverage of his side of the case in all of them , he reported .                     