@@713167

txt Wildcat strikers curtailed the were in operation . At nightfall ' operation of nine Surface Transportation bus lines in Manhattan and the Bronx yesterday despite the order of their union president , Michael J. Quill , to go back to work , and threatened to continue their walkout today . Ostensibly the drivers-355 before the clay was over  --  were protesting against unwashed bus windows and generally " dirty " conditions in the vehicles . Actually the walkout appeared to be a small but effective revolt against the leadership of the Transport Workers Union , C. I. 0 . Victims of the dispute , which was unresolved at a late hour last night , were more than 100,000 riders , many of whom depend on the company 's feeder lines to get them to and from rapid-transit lines and across town . Beginning with the early morning shift , only twenty of 145 regular buses were running . By midafternoon nine there was none . Mr. Quill waited until midafternoon , then called a press conference at 3:30 P. M. at his office , 153 West Sixty-fourth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " called on the men to go back to work and promised speedy disciplinary action against the planners of the walkout . He promised to send three union officials to the Kingsbridge garage with his message and made it clear that the incident was a test of strength " to see if we are running the union or whether these antiunion elements axe . " Reporters stationed at the garage saw no union officials , and as the afternoon wore on the temper of the men loitering in front of the garage took on an anti-Quill quality . The company , which is bankrupt and ? being operated by trustees , called the strike the work of " irre- sponsible leaders in the Kingsbridge division , " said it was believed " there is an ulterior motive " behind it , termed the walkout a violation of the contract with the union , announced intention of bringing suit against the union and warned its employes that the strike might halt " retroactive pay and other employe benefits . " At 6:15 last night James O'Shea , chairman of the union @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ He said that the late evening and early morning shifts would report to the garage as usual but would not take out their buses on regular runs . Mr. Quill was more hopeful . " These misguided strikers will split up among themselves , " he said , " and everybody will be back at work by night . " Snag Follows Cleaning of Buses During a series of morning meetings with company officials , Mr. O'Shea demanded that the buses be cleaned . This was done but the negotiations struck a snag when , according to Mr. O'Shea in reporting to the strikers , management refused to pay the drivers for the time lost during the stoppage . Later in the day as tempers grew shorter and the lines of idle men in front of the garage grew longer , Mr. O'Shea set as a condition for a return to work a personal appearance by Mr. Quill or one of his representatives before a meeting of the men . The strikers kept asking each other : " Where 's Quill ? Why do n't he come up here ? " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can rot before I 'll go up there . Mr. O'Shea is going to find out that he 's stuck his neck out once too often . " This was not the first time that the Kingsbridge garage had been at odds with Mr. Quill and other union leaders . But it represented the first time that the union president had openly repudiated them and had promised to deal with his opposition . The executive committee of Local 100 will meet next Tuesday night at Transport Hall for that purpose . Mr. Quill 's full explanation of the details follows : " The strike was called as a result of an intra-company row . The issues given out by the strikers for calling it are completely phony . " On Monday the company announced that the Superintendent of Transportation , Tom Hackett , was retiring after thirty-five years service . We have information he is retiring on a pension of $5,000 a year and a retainer as a consultant of another $5,000 . " Hackett does n't want to retire so he summoned to his side all anti-union elements in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ complete violation of our by-laws and without a moment 's notice to the riding public , this clique stopped the first buses going out this morning . " They said they were doing so because there is n't proper maintenance of the buses . We have recognized this long ago and an agreement had been reached last Tuesday between the company and the union officers that more mechanics would be rehired and more drivers ' hired to take out the equipment , and the first of sixty new buses would be delivered next week . The group that pulled this wildcat knew all this . " Assails Opposition Leaders Mr. Quill said that five men in the striking division formed the nucleus of opposition and said they woule not be in the T. W. U. " except for the union shop . " Mr. O'Shea said he wanted it understood " that there 's nothing communistic about this action . These men are fighting as democratic Americans . " Theodore W. Kheel , impartial chairman of the private transit industry , was watching the situation closely . Under the agreement setting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ normally have been brought to his attention . James Hodes , company trustee , in his statement called attention to the unusual nature of the walkout in his reference to the possible " ulterior motive " behind the strike . He said the trustees were investigating the matter and expressed regret that " the riding public has been put to discomfort and denied service because of this uncalled-for walkout . " The lines affected by the strike were the following : 149th Street , Fordham Road , 163d Street , 180th Street , 207th Street and BronxVan Cortlandt Park . These are crosstown routes , each having one terminus in Manhattan . The Bronx routes are University , Webster and Ogden Avenues . Other divisions of the company were not affected .                     