@@715301

txt The exit of Prime Mini , ior Joseph Stalin from the world 's political stage will give the Chinese Communist leader Mao Tzelung a preeminent position among Malayan Communists if not also among many other native groups , it is believed here . Communist China 's leader , it is pointed out , would not accept role as junior paltrier to whoever succeeds Stalin as head of the Soviet Union . And Mao is expected to hold a strategic advantage over President Eisenhower and Prime Minister Winston Churchill in the global conflict with its ever-growing emphasis upon its Asian aspect . Pi hne Minister Jawaharlal Nein u of India is seen as destined to do much unsuccessful prompting of main actors from the wings if he manages to keep out of the action . Generalissimo Chiang Kai-shek appears to be a small-part player with an unsuccessful past and an unpromising future . The Stalinist brand of communism was the brand adopted and adapted by Mao himself and its elude textbooks ore standard reading not only for the urban Communist intellectual of the underground but also for political @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ However , In the unlikely event of a necessity to choose between the Kremlin and Peking , it is probable the Malayan Communist Party would choose Peking , according to a trusted informant in a position to know . ! Different Doctrine This would ' not present itself as Titoism because Mao always has appeared to Asians as a leader with a political doctrine of his own . His " new democracy " has an affinity close enough to Soviet communism to make them effective in double harness . Moscow flashed the original green light for violent action in this part of the world at the Calcutta conference of March , 1948 , but local Communists here found that the policy worked so much hardship On them that in time they amended the policy for themselves ? as did the Communists in India and Burma . In the local scene , deviation holt the party line is ruthlessly Premium on Patience Events in Koi ea have given a boost to communism throughout Southeast Asia to the extent that they are depicted as furnishing a display of western frustration brought about by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ something has nessed to this rather than exploiting it . Today 's question is what effect does the situation ill Russia increase the likelihood or otherwise that the Korean conflict may develop into World War Concern is expressed here meanwhile lest the transitional period in Russia may tempt the United Nations into an attempt to put on pressure . The British in Malaya have had to fit their strategy into the oriental mold , setting the top premium upon patience . Anti-Communist Asians are particularly anxious that American restraint shall not give out under the continuing strain of heavy commitments offering no visible prospect of a conclusive result . This is because they feel that World War III would serve the Communists ' ends better than it would serve those of anyone else . The Singapore Standard , a daily newspaper owned by a Chinese millionaire , says editorially : " If the war in Korea should be transformed into a world war , the position of the Chinese Communists will be strengthened rather than weakened . For one thing , the massive forces of Russia will be brought into the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the echmtries of Western Europe , the inevitable result would be a withdrawal  --  or at least a partial withdrawal ? of western military forces from Malaya and Inc10-China. "                     