@@713085

txt President Truman 's second bid to give departmental status to the Federal Security Agency was rejected , 249 to 71 , by the House today . The outcome of the vote was influenced by a belief , strongly expressed in debate , that the case for compulsory health insurance would be advanced if the agency , which operates the Public Health Service , received a voice in the Government at the Cabinet level . The drive against the reorganization plan was spearheaded by Republicans . However , 106 Democrats joined 143 Republicans to doom the proposal to create a Department of Health , Education and Security . Among the Democrats were a number of normally stanch Administration supporters as well as eleven committee chairmen . Seventy Democrats and one Republican , Representative Jacob K. Javits of New York , supported the plan . Ewing Heavily Attacked By its action , the House exercised the right of veto , reserved for either it or the Senate under the Reorganization Act of 1949 . The vote of a constitutional majority in either chamber is needed to kill a plan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the Senate . A year ago , the Senate killed a similar plan that would have transformed the Federal Security Agency into a Department of Welfare . The opposition at the time was on identical grounds , and then , - as today , Oscar R. Ewing , the Federal Security Administrator , was repeatedly attacked . He is an outspoken advocate of compulsory health insurance . Envisaging Mr. Ewing as the probable secretary of the new department , Representative Clare E. Hoffman , Republican of Michigan , said that medical doctors would fall " under the orders of a master politician . " " If we were so unfortunate as to get Dr. Ewing , " he asserted , " we might be getting medicine from a veterinarian . " Mr. Ewing is not a doctor , but the Michigan member , seeking to drive home the danger of political influence in the field of medicine , overstated a case that others had presented for the effect it would have . Mr. Hoffman sponsored the resolution of disapproval . G. 0 . P. ' Smokescreen ' Seen In vain , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and other Administration stalwarts argued that health insurance was not involved in the plan . They asserted that it was an extraneous issue and a " smokescreen " put out to " befog the situation . " Health insurance , they said , could not be put into effect without substantive legislation , acted on independently by Conrgess . The only purpose of the plan , they insisted , would be to give health , education and security , affecting all of the population , representation in the Cabinet . However , Republicans , who freely quoted the American Medical Association 's opposition arguments to the plan , derided these assertions . The Republican point of view was perhaps best expressed by Representative Charles A. Halleck of Indiana , who said : " Your vote on this plan will put you definitely on one side or the other of this great Issue of socialized medicine . " The Republicans also argued that the President 's plan did not conform to the recommendations of the Commission on Organization of the Executive Branch of the Government , an official nonpartisan agency headed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ two years . Representative Clarence J. Brown , Republican of Ohio , a member of that commission , recalled that while themohad been a recommendation that the Federal Security Agency be made a department , it was conditioned on another recommendation that the Public Health Service be transferred to a new United Medical Administration . Representative Chet Holifield , Democrat of California , replied that this separation would require legislation , and that adoption of the plan would , in no wise , prevent passage of such a bill . The possibility that Mr. Ewing might be selected as Democratic candidate for Governor in New York was brought into the debate by Representative A. L. Miller , Republican of Nebraska . He expressed hope that this might come to pass " to get him out of our hair . " " Do n't wish that on us , " Representative Kenneth B. Keating , Re-1 publican of New York , said . . The House vote today just about completed action on the twentyseven reorganization plans the President has submitted to Congress this year . The Security Department proposal was the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had occurred in the Senate . Only one plan remains to be cleared . It provides , for reorganization of the Treasury ' Department . An earlier plan to the same general . effect was defeated because it put the Controller of the Currency under direct rule of the Secretary of the Treasury . In resubmitting the plan , President Truman exempted this office , thereby removing the only basis of opposition . The reorganization , seemingly now assured , will become effective July 31 . But the Senate Expenditures Committee reported today by unanimous vote a bill instituting the bulk of budgetary and accounting reforms sought by the Hoover . Commission . This bill , on which hearings will start in the House tomorrow , is slated to be acted on at this session of the Congress . The Citizens Committee for the Hoover Report considers action in this field of major importance in effectuating Federal reorganization . " Performance Budget " Set The committee , meeting in the morning , also reported favorably by a 6-to-3 vote a resolution to disapprove elevating the Federal Security Agency to departmental rank @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will not need to consider the resolution . The reform bill approved by the committee proposes to introduce the " performance budget " into departmental fiscal operations . Under it , emphasis would be put on the work or service intended , rather than on individual items of personal or contractual service , supplies , materials and equipment . It is designed to show the relationship between the volume of work to be done and the money it will cost , something now difficult to ascertain . To a degree , the bill also fosters business-type budgets . for Gov. ernment-owned corporations which are , in effect , businesses . Accounting , now done by the Controller General 's office , would be assumed by the individual departments under standards set by the Controller General and maintained by the Secretary of the Treasury . Auditing , as now is the case , would be done by the Controller General . While substantially following Hoover Commission recommendations , the bill differs in one major aspect . The commission had recommended that standards for accounting in the departments be set by a new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Treasury . Enforcement of these standards also would have been under him . The Senate Committee and its staff that worked on the problem for a year switched this provision because of a belief that the Controller General must remain the Congressional watchdog on Federal spending . Unless he sets the methods of accounting , it was argued , he can not properly audit the accounts . Before the committee voted on the bill , it was approved in executive session by John W Snyder , Secretary of the Treasury ; Frederick J. Lawton , Director of the Budget ; Lindsay Warren , Controller General , and with some qualifications , by Robert L. McCormick , ' research director of the Citizens Committee for the Hoover Report .                     