@@714863

txt Tighe E. Woods , federal rent director , today was escorted from the city hall by a guard of three policemen after he had been given a rough time at an uproarious city council meeting on rent controls . Members of an angry crowd of about 350 landlords booed and shouted at the rent stabilizer who had flown to Detroit from Washington to appear at the meeting at the council 's request . Leaving the noisy meeting and his unwelcome reception after an appearance of only half an hour , Woods hurried to the airport and took a plane back to Washington . Crowd Disregards Pleas Three extra policemen were summoned to the council galleries to quiet the boisterous crowd when Councilman Del A. Smith , presiding , was unable to obtain order with pleadings and repeated blows of his gavel . " Get out of here , " spectators shouted at Woods . They demanded of councilmen , " Get him out of here . " Someone yelled : " He is here only as a lobbyist for rent control . " Even before Woods arrived @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attack on him with an implication concerning faked information . Councilman Smith read at the meeting a letter from Norman 0 . Stockmeyer , president of the board . . No Substantial Shortage " We understand that Mr. Woods was advised to give you whatever information he has been able to fabricate relative to housing conditions in Detroit , " Stockmeyer wrote . He said there is , " no substantial shortage of housing here , " and added that " we understand his visit is made with the one objective of conclusively proving that a shortage exists . " Councilman Smith insisted that Woods was not prevent as a " byist for rent control , " and asserted he was there only to " explain " the subject . But he was unable to prevent the crowd making repeated interruptions as Woods sought to reply to questions . The council , which . is considering the advisability of extending rent controls which will automatically expire Sept. 30 unless it acts , had scheduled a " landlords " meeting today and a similar session for renters next week . The councilmen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ defense housing area , " which would shift to federal authorities the responsibility for maintaining controls and relieve the council of that onus . But Woods said it was only a " vital " and not a " critical " . defense area , which leaves the matter up to the council . It was when Woods attempted to explain that the rent control law has " provisions to adjust inequities , " that the greatest wave of boos , hoots , and catcalls broke out . One elderly woman shook her linger at Woods and shouted : " I had a depression price on my fiat and it is still on it . "                     