@@715433

txt Nine new recommendations for strengthening law enforcement are contained in the State Crime Commission 's third report , made public here yesterday on the eve of a conference that Governor Dewey is holding with legislative leaders and others concerned with crime problems . Today 's meeting in Albany is-expected to give some clue to whether the Governor will include the Crime Commission 's latest proposals among the items he will call the Legislature to act upon at a special session next month . If not included in Mr. Dewey 's call the commission 's third report might be taken up at another special session later this year or else laid over until the 1954 regular session of the Legislature . Proposals Made in Report The report proposes that : IlLegislation be adopted giving the Governor power to remove the , i Mayor or other chief executive , and also the head of the Police Department of any municipality or other political subdivision of the state for misconduct or malversation in office after presentation of charges and an opportunity to be heard . ( The uniform jury system @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ since 1940 , be adopted for both trial juries and grand juries in the rest of the state . CGranting of immunity to witnesses be restricted to instances " where there is an overriding public interest in the compulsion of testimony " and all present provisions for immunity in civil actions or proceedings to which only private litigants are parties be repealed . ( Legislation be adopted prescribing a uniform procedure in all cases where a statute provides for immunity to a witness who is compelled to testify . ( Legislation be adopted permitting changes of venue in appropri- ' ate cases on application of the prosecuting attorney . 4The state police force , which , will soon be increased by 3001. appointments to an authorized i strength of 1,200 , be enlarged be- ; yond that , especially its bureau of criminal investigation . ( Minimum standards be set up for all candidates for local police comparable with those in large cities and the state police , and that such candidates be required to complete an approved basic training course . Plea to Governor Renewed 4IThere be an authoritative restatement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ state police will continue their traditional policy of not entering cities to initiate any investigations or to engage in any local law enforcement activity unless so requested by local authority or so directed by the Superintendent of State Police or the Governor . ( Legislation be adopted requiring that all proceedings in matters pending before an extraordinary // special or trial term be made returnable before such term . The Crime Commission renewed in the new report the recommendation made in its first report , in January , that the Legislature establish a permanent Commission of Investigation to expose and combat any links between government and crime . When tte proposal was first made , Governor Dewey said he would make no recommendation concerning it to the Legislature until he had received the Crime Commission 's subsequent reports . The commission 's second report , in March , recommended legislation to shift primary elections from mid-August to September , simplify the Election Law and other measures to improve the caliber of county and district political leaders and encourage wider citizen participation in party organizations . These proposals , which the Governor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ almost in their entirety , except for the measure that would have provided for direct election of all district leaders . Waterfront Report Last The commission 's fourth and final report , to be submitted later this month , will deal with the most spectacular part of its work ? crime , racketeering and political influence on the waterfront . The commission 's findings and recommendations in that field will get top priority in drafting of agenda for the June special session of the Legislature . The members and staff of the Crime Commission will attend the conference in Albany today , along with the District Attorneys of the five New York City counties , ranking members of the Senate and Assembly codes and judiciary committees , Attorney General Nathaniel Goldstein and other state officials and representatives of bar associations and other groups . The Crime Commission 's report has been submitted to the Governor , Attorney General Goldstein and the Legislature by Joseph M. Proskauer , chairman ; Ignatius M. Wilkinson , Edward P. Mulrooney , and Lithgow Osborne . It was preparad with the aid of John M.1 Harlan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ counsel . Recommendations Explained VI recommending that the Governor 's power to remove Mayors and certain other local officials be broadened , the commission reported that the charters of twentysix of the state 's sixty-two cities , ' including New York , permitted the Governor to remove a Mayor on charges sustained at hearings . Only six cities permitted removal of the Police Commissioner by the Governor . No state law confers such power on the Governor . The report declared that " thel mere existence of the power of the Governor to remove would be salutary , and uniformity throughout the state is desirable . " In urging uniform jury systems , the report said that jurors of high caliber could be procured , expenses of the jury system reduced and efficiency of clerical administration improved by enactment of the system recommended repeatedly by the State Judicial Council since 1942 . The commissions , however , proposed making the system apply to all counties instead of only to those having populations of 48,000 or more as was recommended by the Judicial Council . The report noted that present law provides @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ where it is necessary to insure a fair trial . Recommending that this he permitted , if warranted , on application of the prosecutor , the repert said : " Conditions also occur where , in order to secure a fair trial on behalf of the people , it is equally important that there be a china-2 in venue . " ' Urging further increases in the authorized strength of the state police . the report said that the latest increase of 300 men was made necessary by highway patrol needs . IL said enlargement of the bureau of criminal investigation was a pressine. need . The report said that in 1951 only five members of local police agencies over the state completed the basic training course offered by the state police .                     