@@717927

txt Holding that the Supreme court has n't outlawed , bus segregation , Circuit Judge Walter 13 . Jones today directed Montgomery City Lines to abandon its new jute , ration policy . The state court jurist ruled that nothing in the United States Constitution gives the federal government the right to prohibit the states from segregating bus passengers in intrastate transportation . He cited the 10th amendment , reserving to the states powers not delegated to the federal government . He held Montgomery city Upholds State Law and Alabama state segregation laws , constitutional and ordered the bus company to " comply and abide " with them . In Chicago , Benjamin W , Franklin , vice president al National City Lines , paretic firm of the Montgomery company , said , " We will obey the injunction , of course . " Jones ' decision granting an injunction against compliance with the bus company 's recent integration order came at the request of the city of Montgomery , whose officials and attorneys predicted rioting and other violence if the segregation laws are broken down . Warns @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and observed in his written Asitouradteior 1:1 of tension and unrest has been created in the city of Montgomery , whisli is likely to explode into violence at any time , if not restim'aionsetl . " Montgomery Negroes have boycotted city buses for nearly six months , despite the I company 's instructions to its drivers to refrain from enforcing the segregation laws . There have been no reports of actual integration aboard the buses . Negroes who have continued to patronize the service have remained in the federal court hearing on a suit lawJso.nes wrote in his decision ways sat decision came only c h a 1 lenging constitutionality of city and state segregation of passengers is solely intraquire the separation of the races on buses where carriage rear of buses where they al . two days ahead of a scheduled that " there is no straight-out decision of the Supreme court of the United States holding that a state or city may not reCe.0 " tsiruis Supreme court ' Ruling Unclear A stat April 23 was interpreted as ruling outlawing segregation on city buses , but some lawyers later @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dismissed an appeal from a ruling of the United Appeals , which 4th Circuit , in turn , has of held bus segregation in Colu ? his , S. C. , unconstitutional and had sent the case back to the original trial court to deter . mine the question of damages . Whether the Supreme court dismissed the appeal on the grounds that segregation is in ? valid or because the case was still pending in the lower courts was n't made clear .                     