@@719490

txt A special House investigatory subH committee , emerging from a stormy preparation period . begins public hearings tomorrow on how the big Federal administrative agencies operate . Its leaders reaffirmed today their determination for a " comprehensive " and " thorough " study . Some differences over the meaning of these terms , however , give rise to forebodings that the seas ahead may not all be calm . The Subcommittee on Legislative Oversight has agreed to hear in rapid succession the heads of six independent agencies on whether they are exercising their power and authority the way Congress intended . Durfee Is First Witness James R. Durfee , chairman of the Civil Aeronautics Board , will be the first witness . He will be followed over a threeday schedule by heads of the Interstate Commerce Commission , the Federal Trade Commission , the Federal Power Commission , the ? Federal Communications Commission and the Securities and Exchange Commission . The subcommittee plans to ask them broad questions about policy and practice . to " lay - the foundation , " as some members have put it , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Oren Harris , Democrat of Arkansas , chairman of the subcommittee 's parent Committee on Interstate and Foreign Commerce , found this pattern of procedure in complete accord with plans " from the very beginning to go to the heart of the matter . " This is to find out whether the independent agencies , as established by Congress are still independent or whether they have grown subservient either to the executive branch or to the industries they are supposed to regulate . This approach , however , is at sharp variance with plans developed by Bernard Schwartz the subcommittee 's chief counsel and staff director , who initially had the support of Represeatative ' Morgan M. Moulder . Democrat of Missouri , the subcommittee chairman . In a secret staff memorandum , the major part of which was . published ? last week in The New York Times , Dr. Schwartz proposed starting public hearings on specific allegations of unethical conduct by members of the F. C. C. He wanted the subcommittee to look immediately and directly into staff . evidence that some commissioners had accepted favors and gifts from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said , showed a tendency , too , to favor big , established business over small , independent companies . A decision to follow Mr. Harris ' lead , rather than Dr. Schwartz ' recommendation prelita new . because it carried the implication that the investigators , for some reason , wanted to shy from the F. C. C. Among other things it was noted that House Speaker Sam Rayburn , one of the prime movers of the investigation in the first place , had a nephew , Robert T. Bartley , on the commission . For another , Mr. Harris , it was pointed out , had a $5,000 investment in a hometown television station , KRBB of El Dorado , Ark . Mr. Harris said yesterday that he was selling his , interest in the station because he was " tired of being harassed . " Both Mr. Rayburn anZ Mr. Harris insist they want " all the facts " brought out . But they " deplore ' : the way the news has focused attention on the F.C.C. The speaker has let it be known he wants something @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " fly-specking . " Behind the feelings of the except the Interstate Commerce Commission . He has expressed a ' " low opinion " of many of the appointees to several commissions and boards during the Eisenhower Administration . Last ( winter he decided the time had come to find out whether the agencies and those at their helm were doing the job Congress have them to do . But he has insisted to friends that he " suspected no one " and would have been " delighted if everyone came out with a clean bill of health . " He was after ' " no witch hunt . " Mr.- Harris picked Mr. Moulder , a former district attorney and Missouri judge , to head the special subcommittee . ' Mr. Moulder , after long search and t consultation , chose Dr. Schwartz , a law professor at New York ' University , to - be chief counsel and staff director . While Mr. Rayburn and Mr. Harris approved Dr. Schwartz ' appointment , they have not always seen eye-to-eye with Mr. Moulder on the chief counsel 's advice and tactics @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ President Eisenhower , had called his personal friend , Dean Russell D. Niles of the New York University Law School , about Dr. Schwartz ' qualifications . Dean Niles recalls that Mr. Morgan asked whether Dr. Schwartz would go ? into the subcommittee job- With " political Motivations . " The Dean said he had replied : " No . He 's going in as a young man interested in the ' administrative process , not for ' politics . " Mr. Morgan told a reporter : " I really have forgotten why I called . No one on the committee asked me to . " Speaker is a long history . He regards the agencies involved here ? as pets . He boasts that during his career in the House , beginning in 1913 , he has been " at the borning " of every regulatory agency in Government                     