@@716348

txt The Democrats of the Senate subcommittee investigating the ArmyMcCarthy dispute unanimously demanded today a thorough " housecleaning " of the permanent subcommittee 's staff before Senator Joseph R. McCarthy starts any more investigations . The Democratic members also called on the Justice Department to consider the possibilities of criminal prosecutions for perjury , and on the Executive Branch of the Government for disciplinary action against Army principals in the controversy . The position of the Democrats laid the basis for a possible early showdown with Senator McCarthy on a committee clean-up . In the windup of the investigation yesterday a Republican , Senator Charles E. Potter of Michigan , proposed a similar course , but not in the sharp focus of the six points made by the Democratic spokesman , Senator John L. McClellan of Arkansas . Majority Probable If Senator Potter stands with the Democrats , they would constitute a majority of four of the permanent subcommittee and thus be able to force the issue . The other Democrats are Senators Stuart Symington of Missouri and Henry M. Jackson of Washington . The other three members @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ McCarthy , chairman ; Karl E. Mundt of South Dakota and Everett M. Dirksen of Illinois . Senator McCarthy denounced the Democratic plan of action , ' and counter - attacked with the declaration that he was investigating " very serious charges " against a Democratic Senator unconnected with his committee . In a television interview the Wisconsin Republican contended that the aim of the Democrats was to delay his investigations ' , of Communists as well as that of the unidentified Senator . He would not elaborate on his statement , but he conceded this : " I 've no way of knowing whether there is merit to the charges . " At this stage it was a matter of " checking charges . " Then , as he departed on a short vacation , he assailed the Democratic proposals as " dis // M'CARTHY 'S STAFF HIT BY DEMOCRATS honest , completely dangerous to the country . " " It is very clear now , " said Senator McCarthy , " the Democrats must take the blame for allowing Communists to freely roam through our defense plants where secret @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ plans for an early resumption of investigations of Communist infiltration on several fronts , including defense plants . Senator McCarthy stepped ) aside as a member and chairman of the Senate Permanent Investigations Subcommittee for the duration of the inquiry and was replaced temporarily by Senator Henry C. Dworshak , Republican of Idaho . Senator Mundt has acted as chairman . Only the permanent members of the regular subcommittee had jurisdiction to deal with the staff problem . Meanwhile , the special committee held a session today in which the members discussed the report or reports that would result from the inquiry . Senator Mundt , with Democrats indicating assent , said it appeared that there was a good possibility of unanimity at least in some aspects of a committee report on the long inquiry . McClellan 's Demands Only the absence of Senator Dirksen at today 's meeting kept Senator McClellan from pressing formal motions looking toward a showdown . Three of his demands for action were addressed to the permanent subcommittee and three to the Eisenhower Administration . Subcommittee action was de , manded : llOn the alleged failure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the Defense Department to handle confidential information . " 90n alleged threats by mem bers of the staff " in an attempt to intimidate Democratic members of this subcommittee . " qOn the question whether all of about twenty-two members of the staff were approved by majority vote under rules of the Senate and the subcommittee . The following points were made to the Administration : crThe Justice Department should determine if perjury was committed by witnesses and principals at the hearing and take prompt action . The Justice Department should investigate the " probability of a crime having been committed with respect to a ** document in Senator McCarthy 's possession . " During the inquiry the Senator said it was part of a confidential memorandum of the Federal Bureau of Investigation on Communist suspects and had been given to him by an Army " Intelligence officer . " Herbert Brownell Jr. , Attorney General , declared the delivery of the data to the Senator violated a Presidential directive against unauthorized disclosure of security information . C " The responsibility rests on the Executive Branch of the Government to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Executive Branch of the Government who were principals in this controversy , " the McClellan statement said . Among the staff members who are deemed to be the targets of the Democrats and some Republicans are Roy M. Cohn , chief counsel of the permanent subcommittee , who was a principal in the Army-McCarthy controversy ; Donald A. Surine and James Juliana . McCarthy Defends Staff Senator McCarthy defended all members of the staff . " As far as I am concerned , " he declared , " Roy is the most valuable man I have ever had working with me . All my staff members are able and efficient . I hope they will continue to work with me even though this is n't the last smear against them . " No staff members have been refused clearance . I have n't asked for clearance recently . " The question of two uncleared staff members was first raised yesterday by Senator McClellan . Today as the Democrats met reporters after the executive session Senator Symington said : " I want to confirm a statement by Senator McClellan yesterday about two @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Defense Department . One request was made in March , 1953 , and has not as yet been granted . " " Was it refused ? " he was asked , " If you do n't grant it you refuse it , " Senator Symington replied . " The other request was made in April , 1953 . All other requests were approved . " Neither Senator Symington nor Senator McClellan would say which staff members were still without clearance . Ray H. Jenkins , special counsel to the subcommittee for the hearings , had received a letter on this issue from the Pentagon but refused to reveal its contents . Senator McClellan said the Senate should have standards for individuals who handle defense information as high as those for the Executive Branch of the Government . Otherwise it could not complain with good grace . In the Executive Branch , failure to gain clearance under the terms of the President 's Executive Order on personnel security is cause for dismissal .. In the Legislative Branch there is no security system ; each committee makes its own personnel rules . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by staff members . He did confirm that he included an incident recently between Mr. Cohn and Robert F. Kennedy , counsel to the three Democrats . They almost came to blows , with Mr. Kennedy accusing Mr. Cohn of threatening to " get " Senator Jackson . Asked if he was one of those threatened , Senator McClellan indicated he was not , although he said he had heard something like a threat " that I did n't take seriously . " " But I sent back a message that I could n't repeat to you , " he added smiling . The Democrats made it plain they would drive for action without waiting for the report or reports from the subcommittee that investigated charges and counter-charges growing out of alleged efforts of Mr. Cohn and Senator McCarthy to get favored treatment for Pvt . G. David Schine . Mr. Schine , a close friend of Mr. Cohn , had been an unpaid consultant to the McCarthy subcommittee until he was drafted last November . Senator McCarthy accused the Army of " blackmail " and of making Mr. Schine a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out of the Army . " It is my view , " said Senator McClellan , " and I shall insist on it , that no further investigative hearings by the regular subcommittee should be held until these matters I referred to have full attention . " " I join in his statement , " Senator Jackson said . " I completely agree with everything that Senator McClellan has said , " Senator Symington added . Senator Dirksen absented himself to attend a hearing of the District of Columbia Appropriations Committee and requested that " no motions be made or discussed this morning . " Hence the Democrats did not press their program and the members confined themselves to an approach to report writing and a discussion of the staff problem .                     