@@718121

txt Letters to The Times i Screening ' Entertainers Committee Chairman Statement on Employment Ban Challenged Co THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : In his letter to The Times of Aug. 10 Chairman Francis E. Walter of the House Committee on Un-American Activities says that the committee 's hearings on my " Report on Blacklisting " established that only " hard-core members of the Communist conspiracy " have been deprived of employment in the entertainment industry . The hearings proved no such thing . Richard Arens , committee counsel , was highly selective in the cases he asked me about . The committee itself was extremely selective in its choice of witnesses . No one from die networks or the advertising agencies was called . The only two performers called had already proved to be " Fifth Amendment " witnesses and Mr. Walter had every reason to believe they would rely on the privilege if called again . The witnesses who were heard , other thAn these two performers , were representing the individuals and groups deeply involved in either " listing " or " clearing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that they " cleared " anyone , admitted that they had re-created a " climate of employment " for those unjustly accused ( by whom ? ) or duped into support of questionable activities . Re-creating a climate , of employment , they insisted , was not " clearance " but " rehabilitation . " The semantic fog was thick indeed , but even so I think the hearings established the basic accuracy of the report . Many outrageous and untrue things have been said and written about the report since it was first published , usually by persons who had not read it . At the time I was questioned by the committee Mr. Walter admitted he had not read it , nor had the majority of the committee . Mr. Walter 's latest letter leads me to believe that he has still not got around to it . During the months of our investigation my associates and I interviewed hundreds of persons in the entertainment industry . Even those who resented the fact that the study was being made were candid enough to admit that blacklisting ( or " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a problem for the industry and that many non-Communists had been deeply hurt . Dozens of writers and actors who were subsequently cleared ( or " rehabilitated " ) by the persons and groups which originally accused them told of months and even years of anguish-ridden unemployment . The situation has long been scandalous . Request for Anonymity In most cases those interviewed demanded anonymity . They said frankly that they were afraid to go on record about their experiences for fear that their trouble would start up again . I kept my word about not naming sources . I was prepared to go to jail if need be to keep the promises made . I hope I may be forgiven now , with a hostile investigation and a reputation-smashing smear behind me , if I wonder out loud about the theatrical union leaders , the actors and writers , the industry leaders , and even sponsors who complained so bitterly about " blacklisting " and " pressure groups . " Their present public and corporate silence is even more ominous than it was when blacklisting became an unwelcome institution on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ did not call anyone from the t'adio-TV industry ? whose testimony might have been embarrassink He did not call any of the " security officers " from the , networks or advertising agencies . He did not call any actors or writers who were cleared ( that is to say " rehabilitated " ) , nor did he call any performers or writers who had knowledge of their friends losing employment . But , I. should think , now that he has stated baldly that only Communist conspirators have ever been deprived of work , the most tongue-tied would find their voice . Until they dp I hope those who spoke so bitt4rly in private will have the decency to complain no more . They have chosen silence . JOHN COGLEY . Baldwin , N. Y. , Aug. 10 , 1956 . Prophecy on Cold Weather To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : The tree toads have just started to sing here . Last year you made a note on the editorial page of the old saying that it ' meant six weeks to frost . The next day @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that they started singing this time every year . Last year they started July 15 and cold weather came right on the dot of six weeks later . And those six weeks were hot . I have listened for them for years but have never known them to be so late as this . ' ROBERT 0 . BRAINARD . Albany , Aug. 8 , 1956 . Symington Candidacy Urged To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : It seems to me that common sense should be used to dispel the myth of the invincibility of Mr. Eisenhower . There is no reason that the Democratic party should not pick the strongest candidate at this time .. I think that by proper reasoning , the variov advantages and disadvantages of the candidates are very clear . Stuart Symington is the bed plan in the Democratic party , and would make an outstanding President . Here is a man who is thoroughly . familiar with business problems , has the very necessary qualities foe a President and political experience . He is well thought of by members of both parties in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time in the Senate . W. P. MITCHELL . 0 . D. Waynesville , Mo. , Aug. 9 , 1956 . South Africa 's Race Laws Denial of Freedom to Non-Whitt Population Is Charged To THE EDITOr OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : We have just seen a report of an address by Dr. J. E. Holloway , the South African Ambassador to the United States , to the Pan-Africa Society in New York . Dr. Holloway 's remarks ? if he has been cone rectly reported  --  can not be allowed to go unchallenged . It is not for us to refute Dr. Holloway 's suggestion that " large sections of American organs of information have unwittingly become the tools of Leftists . " The validity of this slur on the American press , radio and television can be assessed by Americans themselves . What does concern us , however , is Dr. Holloway 's attempt to whitewash his Government 's race policies . " They the Leftists say that we oppress the Africans , " says Dr. Holloway . We do not know whom Dr. Holloway means by " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Union does not need to be alleged by any one group ; it is set out for all to see in our statute books . We can not in a letter list all oppressive legislative enactments and their effects : we can draw attention briefly only to some . The Natives ( Urban Areas ) Consolidation Act 25 of 1945 and amendments radically restricts the right of " natives " to acquire land in urban areas and rural townships ; it radically restricts the right of Africans to enter or remain in an urban area for more than seventy-two hours without a permit ; it permits the Minister of Native Affairs to order the removal of any African whom he considers redundant ; it empowers an urban local authority to order an African to depart from its area if , in its opinion , the presence of that African is detrimental to the maintenance of peace and order in that area  --  this opinion not being required to be formed after the trial of the issue according to the procedures of the law , but in the exercise of a discretion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ latest amendment  --  and in terms of the Natives ( Prohibition of Interdicts ) 1 Act , 1956 , the African can no longer appeal to the courts for a stay of execution of such removal order , on the grounds of error , invalidity or any good reason at all . He must obey first and only thereafter may he bring the order in review before the courts . Dr. Holloway fears that " Leftists " are detaching from the United States a " stanch ally in the fight for freedom . " We challenge Dr. Holloway to say what confidence anyone fighting for freedom can have in an ally which assiduously denies freedom to all its non-white inhabitants and is now in the process of denying certain freedoms to some of its white inhabitants too . Recently , for example .. Mrs. Jessie , a well-known and respected member of the South African Labor party . has been refused a passport and is thus unable to leave the Union . ALAN PATON , National Chairman ; PETER BROWN , National Deputy Chairman ; The Liberal Party of South @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 28 , 1956 . Protection Against Bombs To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : In a letter to the editor published on Aug. 3 Alfred Ryer admonishes the people of New York City to rehearse air-raid drills with " greater zeal . " He bases this opinion on his own experiences during the blitz of London . There is one fundamental difference between those times and these which Mr. Ryer Seems ' to have overlooked . During the blitz of London the people were furnished with meaningful shelter ( i. e. , protection ) against the T. N. T. bombs being showered on them . No such shelter exists for the people of New York City , who face total destruction to life and property within a radius of three miles from each hydrogen-bomb explosion regardless of the " shelter " they seek . The hydrogen bomb represents a destructive power of over 100,000 times that of the " blockbuster " T. N. T. bomb , yet the shelter concept remains unchanged . No wonder the reaction of the public to the air-raid drill was " complete apathy " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . DAVID I. CAPLAN . New York , Aug. 3 , 1956 . Regulating Wages in Samoa TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : ' On Aug. 6 The Times published a letter from Richard H. Wels referring to S. 3956 as the " Guam Wage Bill . " S. 3956 , the " American Samoa Labot Standards Amendments of 1956 , " has no application to Guam ; It.relates solely to American Samqs , The bill , which was passed by both the Senate and House of Representatives during the closing weeks di the past legislative session , provides procedures for adjusting minimum wage and overtime pay standards in Samoa . STUART ROTHMAN* : Solicitor of Labor , United States Department of Labor . Washington , Aug. 8 , 19.4 , , if ,                     