@@714071

txt " Apparently convinced that the main parties to the Kaesong armistice conference can not solve the lengthy deadlock over where to draw a dividing line in Korea , the United Nations delegation has suggested that the thorny problem be turned over to a subcommittee . In making this proposal , Vice-Admiral C. Turner Joy , chief UN negotiator , obviously has taken an extreme step to break the current log jam . The parley has been stalemated over the dividing-line issue for 15 meetings . The spokesman of the Allied delegation also delivered some telling blows in his continuing argument that the present battle front and not the 38th parallel should be the demarcation line between the antagonists . A special press release supplementing the official communique provided the text of Admiral Joy 's remarks on both subjects . The UN delegate skillfully depicted the role of air and sea power n keeping the Allied forces from being ejected from Korea by what the Communists claim are their superior ground forces . If air and sea power are neutralized by an armistice Admiral Joy argued that only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the UN from being defeated if attacked suddenly during the truce . Advantage of Plan Meanwhile , although the plan to refer the question to a joint subcommittee of one member from each side is a clear indication that the conferees are unable to solve the problem at the delegation level , it at least may free the representatives to delve into other agenda items . The Communists did not indicate that they would accept the proposal , but did ask that it be submitted in writing . The UN briefing officer later refused to answer when questioned on whether it was scheduled for the main parties to consider another point while the subcommittee wrestles with the unsolved issue . The Aug. 16 meeting ( Korean time ) was scheduled to convene in the afternoon instead of in the morning . There was no explanation for this delay except that it was a Communist request . However , the time was agreed upon before Admiral Joy 's subcommittee proposal so that presumably was not the reason . Joy 's Proposal Introducing his proposal Admiral Joy said : " We have hung @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ many days . We show no prospect of progress along the present lines of procedure . I , therefore , recommend a new effort to break this deadlock . " In advocating that a subcommittee be set up Admiral Joy hinted that the necessary " formality " of the conference may have impeded an agreement . He suggested that the subcommittee " meet informally to exchange views " and make " recommendatiOns . as to ways and means of emerging from the present deadlock . " The subcommittee 's recommendations , Admiral Joy emphasized , would not be binding upon the main parties unless ratified by them . " It is our thought that this subcommittee meet around rather than across a table and seek obl jectively to work out a solution to our present problem , " he said . Admiral Joy -. requested an answer Aug. 16 and added " if you agree in principle but not in detail we will consider your alternative proposal . " Communists Stubborn Earlier in the day 's session the Communists reaffirmed their decision to stick to the 38th parallel despite frequent UN @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the expressed views of Admiral Joy and Gen. Nam II , chief Communist negotiator , on the effectiveness of sea and air operations in connection with the over-all military situation . Admiral Joy pointed out the advantages to the Communists of a cessation of Allied air and naval attacks on their rear areas in the event of an armistice. emphasizing that these , attacks " prohibit you from bringing full ground strength to . bear on the battle line " and from " utilizing your ground strength in the ground battle area . " In an effective and clever argument Admiral Joy charged that the armistice would provide the Communists time to build up striking power without interference . " Then , " he said , " you might be able to overrun quickly the UN command ground forces which you say are ' barely , temporarily , and unstably ' able to hold their present positions . " If such is'the case Admiral Joy argued that only air and naval forces enable the Allies to hold the battlefront . If the enemy attacked during the armistice ? " an eventuality @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and sea arms would come into action again but could not influence the battle decisively for some time . " Attacked by your increased ground strength is it not clear that the UN command ground forces would be in crucial danger ? You yourself have said so , " Admiral Joy continued . He then made his main point ? UN forces consequently must maintain strong ground positions during the armistice or face the threat of defeat if attacked . This , he concluded , makes it imperative that Allied ground positions be on the present battle front and not on poor terrain at the parallel . Dispute on Bombing " It is perfectly clear that one of the already agreed upon conditions of the armistice , cessation of operations by the UN command air and naval forces , provides you with a material military advantage , " Admiral Joy declared . " But you oppose conceding to the UN command the only equivalent advantage you can concede . That is an adequate defensive position for us on the ground . " Prior to the main conference liaison officers from both @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ iron out the dispute over alleged Allied air attacks on the Communist delegation 's supply vehicles . Here the point at issue is UN insistence on prior notification of the time and route of such vehicles . This the Communists declare , is " impractical . " Two letters of protest have been received from Gen. Nam II and Admiral Joy has rejected both on the grounds that they were unsubstantiated or that UN stipulations were not followed . Now Gen. Nam Il has termed the rejection unsatisfactory . Announced United States battle casualties in Korea have reached 80,750 , an increase of 320 since last week , the Associated Press reported in Washington . This is the lowest weekly increase since the first weekly summary was issued last Aug. 7.                     