@@719314

txt The Communist technical challenge demands positive new action by the ' United States to increase , the free world 's economic strength , but not on an emergency basis , according to C. Douglas Dillon . Mr. Dillon , who is Deputy Under Secretary of State for Economic Affairs , addressed the Opening session yesterday of the forty-fourth National Foreign Trade Convention . The three-day meeting , sponsored by the National Foreign Trade Council , is being held at the Waldorf-Astoria Hotel . Mr. Dillon reportedly is slated for a new assignment as over-all coordinator of United States foreign aid programs . He declared that sustained , longterm programs were needed in the present world economic situation . Two Measures Favored He advocated , as basic measures in a strengthened economic-policy program , a five-year extension of the Reciprocal Trade Agreements Act and additional appropriations for the Development Loan Fund . The latter is a new aid measure designed primarily to assist the economic development of areas having low living standards , notably the Afro-Asian nations that have been the main targets of Soviet economic penetration . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the President to make tariff-cutting agreements , expire June 30 . Mr. Dillon 's recommendation of a five-year extension in place of previous one , two and threeyear periods . was the same as that made last month by Vice President Richard M. Nixon . The speaker urged also that Congress approve United States imembership in the Organization for Trade Cooperation , an agency that would administer the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade . The general agreement is the instrument through which the United States coordinates its trade-agreements program with similar actions of thirty-six other countries . The 0 . T. C. , which Congress several times has passed over , would serve to make the agreement more effective , particularly in respect to concessions benefiting American exports . Much of the new Communist challenge , Mr. Dillon declared , is in the field of international economic relations . He cited long Soviet efforts to gain influence among less-developed nations by economic assistance . In the last three years , he said , the Soviet bloc has extended credits totaling $1,100,000,000 to underdeveloped countries in Asia , the Near East @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ together , succeed in building strong and healthy economies which answer the aspirations of their people , " Mr. Dillon said , " we may be sure that we will not stay the course of Soviet world domination , no matter what our military power may be . " Private Investment Mr. Dillon said stronger freeworld relationships should be furthered through vigorous pursuit of private investment efforts and activities of agencies such as the Export-Import Bank and other financial institutions . Last year , the Under Secretary noted , Congress appropriated $300,000,000 for the new Development Loan Fund for the current fiscal year . He urged that Congress now appropriate an additional $625,000,000 authorized for the fiscal year 1959 , thus bringing the fund 's resources to $925,000,000 . Benjamin F. Fairless , president of the American Iron and Steel Institute , opened the convention with an address in which he declared that trade was this country 's " secret weapon " for winning the " cold war . " Mr. Fairless , former chairman of the United States Steel Corporation , recently headed a special Government world mission to study @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , investment and technical aid to underdeveloped countries , Mr. Fairless said , the American system of capitalism and competitive enterprise could hold the answer to strengthening the free world . He urged that private enterprise be encouraged to assume a major role in needed development abroad , commenting that it would thereby ease the tax burden entailed in air programs . Another speaker was N. R. Crump , president of the Canadian Pacific Railway Company . He urged that the United States and Canada take new steps to marshall their resources for ef-j fective contributions to freeworld economies . Eduardo Prieto Lopez , president of the Mexican Federation of Industrial Associations , said increased investment in Latin America . was needed to make that area a more effective partner in the free world . About 2,500 executives of United States concerns active in all phases of foreign trade and business are participating in the convention .                     