@@717815

txt The Supreme Court upheld today the constitutionality of the Immunity , Act of 1954 . This law gives the Government the right to compel a wit . ness to testify in national se ? curity cases in exchange for immunity from prosecution . This was the first test of the law to reach the tribunal . Justice Felix Frankfurter wrote the 7-to-2 opinion that affirmed the contempt conviction of William Ludwig Ullmann , a former Treasury Department offcial . Justices William 0 . Douglas and Hugo L. Black dissented . Mr. Ullmann ' was sentenced to six months in prison after he had defied an order of Federal Judge Edward Weinfeld in New York to answer questions before a grand jury investigating espionage . Judge Weinfeld issued the order at the request of the United States Attorney General . The defendant claimed the protection of the Fifth Amendment to the Constitution against being compelled to give testimony that might incriminate him . He challenged the Immunity Law as violative of his Fifth Amendment rights . Ullmann-Argument Rejected A principal argument advanced by Mr. Ullmann was that even @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prosecution , there was still a very real possibility that he might be accused in state courts . He . questioned the power of Congress to pass a law that immunized a witness from state prosecutions . Justice Frankfurter rejected this argument . He held that Congress had such power in the interest of national security , saying : " The Immunity Act is concerned with national security . It reflects a Congressional policy to increase the possibility of more complete and open disclosure by removal of fear of state prosecution . We can not say that Congress ' paramount authority in safeguarding national security does not justify the restriction it has placed on the exercise of state power for the more effective exercise of conceded Federal power . " Justice Douglas strongly disagreed . In his dissenting opinion , discretion to deny an application for an order requiring the witness to answer relevant questions put by the grand jury , and if so , is the court thereby required to exercise a function that is not an exercise of ' judicial power ' ? Did Congress provide immunity from state @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ empowered to do so ? Does the Fifth Amendment prohibit compulsion df what would otherwise be self-incriminating testimony no matter what the scope of the immunity . statute ? " ? On the basis of Brown v. Walker , the court held - today that a statute that compelled testimony , but exempted the witness against a criminal prosecution did not violate the Fifth Amendment 's privilege against self-incrimination . The language of the Immunity Act , Justice Frankfurter ruled , makes it clear that the district judge does not have discretion to deny an application from the Atttocaey General ' for an order to compel , a witness. , to testify . As to th-4 tiower  --  of Congress to provide immunity from state prosectition , Justice Frankfurter said that " it can not be - 6ontested that . Congress - has power to provide for national - defense " and td ' make all laws necessary for ? the exercise of that power . The constitutional protection of the Fifth Amendment , he added , " must not be interpreted in a hostile or niggardly spirit . " Nothing new can be- @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Nothing old can be taken out without the sane process . " A " strict not lax observance " of the constitutional protection of the rights of the individual , Justice Frankfurter asserted , impelled the conclusion that the interdiction of the Fifth Amendment operated ' only where selfincriminatory testimony was involved . When " immunity displaces the danger , " he said , HIGH COURT BACKS LAW ON IMMUNITY // in which Justice . Black concurred , Justice Douglas said : " The critical point is that the Constitution places the right of silence beyond the reach of the Government . , The Fifth Amendment stands between the citizen and his Government . " In deciding the Ullmann case , the high court reaffirmed a decision of sixty years ago , when it sustained an immunity statute of 1893 . This is the case known as Brown v. Walker in which Brown , auditor of a railroad company , was held In contempt for ' refusing to testify before a grand jury investigating charges that officials of the company had violated the Interstate Commerce Act . " We reaffirm @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ added that the court could find " no distinction between the reach of Congressional power with respect to commerce and its power with respect to national security . " . Again Justice Douglas disagreed . He said that the case , " decided by a bare majority of the court and now sixty years old , has no greater claim to sanctity than the other venerable decisions which history showed had outlived their usefulness or were conceived in error . " Mr , Ullmann was - named by Elizabeth Bentley , a former Communist courier , as a member of a wartime espionage ring . The ring , she said , had . been headed by Nathan Gregory Silvermaster , a former Government official . Four Questions Raised Since his retirement from , the Treasury in 1947 , Mr , Ullmann has been operating a construction business in partnership with Mr. Silverinaster . He lives iii-Harney Cedars , N. J. One of the charges was that he had photographed secret documents , intended for transmission to Moscow , in Mr. Silvermaste ? ' s Washington home where he lived at the time @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Harry Dexter White , at that time director of the Monetary Research Division , as a senior economic analyst . Miss Bentley testified that Mr. White , who has since died , was a source of information for facts and material she transmitted to her Soviet spy chief . Mr. Ullmann refused to answer questions about these and other alleged activities and associations when taken before the Federal grand jury . Justice Frankfurter said that four major questions were raised by Mr. Ullmann 's appeal . They were : " Is the immunity provided by the act sufficiently broad to displace the protection afforded by the privilege against self-incrimination ? Assuming that the statutory requirements are met , does the act give the district judge constitutional rights are ' preserved . Justice Douglas , ' however , noted that the Immunity Act did not protect " disabilities created by - Federal law that attach to a person who is a Communist . " He named ineligibility for- Federal employment in defense facilities , disqualification . for . a ' passport and the risk of internment as a few penalties . " Any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at war with the Fifth Amendment , " Justice Douglas said , adding : " The - guarantee against selfincrimination combined in the Fifth Amendment is not only a protection against conviction and prosecution but a safeguard of . conscience and human dignity and freedom of expression as well . My view is that the framers of the Constitution put it beyond the power of Congress to compel anyone to confess his crimes . " The Fifth Amendment , Justice Douglas said , " was designed to protect the accused against infamy as well as against prosecution . " The " concept of infamy , " he asserted , was written into the amendment , " There is great infamy involved in the present case , " ' the justice said . " The disclosure that a person is a Communist- practically excommunicates him from society . " Mr. Ullmann has been at liberty in $5,000 bond since his conviction . His appeal was argued in the Supreme Court by Leonard B. Boudin of New ? York . Charles F. Barber , an Assistant Solicitor General , argued the case for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , former Government economist now under a six-month prison sentence for contempt for refusing to answer questions in ' an inquiry into wartime espionage. , declared yesterday that the Supreme Court decision in the Ullmann case had " cut the heart out of the Fifth Amendment . " He said that not all the arguments against the ' Compulsory Testimony Act . had been heard , and that , if necessary , he would take his own case to the Supreme Court .                     