@@714214

txt Defense proposals handed to Egypt by the United States and Britain include an offer by Britain to surrender the Suez canal to an international commission and an invitation to Egypt to accept " high authority " in a middle east defense network . The text of the proposals , submitted by the two nations yesterday along with France and Turkey , was released today as Cairo awaited the Egyptian government 's reaction . Another document submitted by Britain in a bid to iron out a dispute with Egypt over the Sudan offered an international watchdog grouping for the territory , with the United States as a partner . The Egyptian parliament w a s scheduled tomorrow night to junk the 1899 and 1936 treaties covering the British-Egyptian alliances . Sudan Will Resist On the eve of the Egyptian move , Robert Howe , British governor-general of the Sudan , said today that any attempt at outside interference with his administration would be resisted . " And I should take such steps as might be necessary to see that resistance was riliade effective , " he said In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ On hearing of Howe 's statement the Egyptian ? minister for Sudan affairs , Ibrahim Farag Pasha , said at Alexandria that Howe 's behavior amounted to insubordination . Farag said Howe 's statement " revealed he is working for British policy alone . " He added that Egypt " will take the necessary measures . " Predicts Egypts Rejection Ahmed Abul Fath , editor of the pro-government newspaper Al Alisri , said tonight the proposals on the Suez and the Sudan undoubtedly will be rejected . " These proposals , " he said , " are the strangest foundation proposed yet to establish imperialism in Egypt and the Sudan . " Egypt never will accept anything less than the immediate evacuation of British troops from the Suez bases and unity between Egypt and the Sudan . " Foreign ministry and Arab league officials also said they believed the proposals will be rejected . Britain made her offer to surrender her canal base on condition that it would " simultaneously become an allied base within the allied middle east command . " Britain also proposed international guarantee of the Nile waters @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Offer Egypt Authority The four nations told Egypt that her security " can only be secured by cooperation of all interested powers . " They offered facilities to train and equip her troops , to be given " by those participating members of the allied command in a position to do so . " The United States probably would bear this burden . " In keeping with the spirit of these arrangements , " the document added , " Egypt would be invited to accept a position of high authority and responsibility within the allied middle east command and to designate Egyptian officers for integration in the allied cora-1 lmand headquarters staff . " Egypt is invited to participate as a founder member- of the midI die east command on a basis of equality and partnership with other 1 ! ounder members . " Headquarters of the command would be situated in Egypt .                     