@@718282

txt ' Democrats Hold Slim Edge In Virginia , Survey Shows deleted 12 lines Democratic nominee for President , seems to ha , e a slight edge at this moment . " I 'm scared , " says a Republican committeewoman in Norfolk , Mrs. Cynthia Zimmerman , whose party won Virginia 's electoral votes in 1952 . " There has not been the interest and enthusiasm of four years ago . " But there is more here than the mere question of whether President Eisenhower will carry Virginia for the second . time or whether the state will return to its traditional Democratic alignment . At issue also is a test , perhaps a decisive test , of the ultimate power of the far right-wing third-party movement in the South . In Virginia that movement is represented by the Presidential candidacy of T. Coleman Andrews , a States ' Rights Democrat who served in the Eisenhower Administration . " There 's plenty of us here going to vote for Andrews , " said a farmer in a feed store in the " Southside " of Virginia the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " said a BYRD 'S SUPPORT MAY SWAY VOTE Andrews ' Candidacy Seen Hurting Eisenhower ? . Integration Is Issue // jeweler . " You walk down the street , you see those niggers crowding white people off the sidewalk and you 'll see what we 're up against . We got to teach those folks up North to let us alone . We can settle our own problems . " A Crisis for Byrd Involved in the Andrews candidacy is a crisis for Virginia 's powerful Democratic patriarch , ' United States Senator Harry Flood Byrd . Senator Byrd , one of the most influential and respected leaders of ultra-conservative thought in the United States , had much to eo with causing Virginia and three other Southern states to bolt the Stevenson ticket in 1952 . The other states were , Texas , Tennessee and Florida . Tennessee now seems clearly ready to return to the Democratic side . Virginia is suspended in delicate balance  --  a balance that Senato Byrd with a single sentence might well turn one way or another . Although he has taken a sharp thrust @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a stand more liberal than that of the Democrats  --  the Senator at the moment is preserving an enigmatic silence as to his intentions . If he comes out even mildly for the Stevenson ticket , after having rejected it four years ago . a Democratic victory in this state will be the odds-on probability . If he does not , he not only will greatly enhance President Eisenhower 's chances in Virginia but he also will undoubtedly endanger future Democratic control of even the Virginia statehouse . The state Democratic organization feels it can stand no further defections from the . top . Such defections would enfeeble the organization and perhaps open the way to Republican victory in the state itself . Not a ' Boss State ' All this has been rather well established by a New York Times survey of Virginia . Here , as elsewhere , Times reporters have talked to many people , but grass-roots opinion in Virginia is not so meaningful as elsewhere . This is not a " boss state " but it is a state of hierarchical powet . That power resides primarily @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ quarters . All has been made more complex by the fact that the race issue is so acute here . Virginia can be described without exaggeration as caught in an agonizing inner debate . The Legislature has enacted a " package " of legislation that amounts to a declaration of policy to close the public schools rather than permit the integration of white and Negro schools . Senator Byrd and an overwhelming , majority of the regular Democrats of the state have backed this course . Now , however , into this fertile field Mr. Andrews , the former Federal Commissioner of Internal Revenue , has brought his third party . His hope is that here and elsewhere he may gather enough votes to deny either President Eisenhower or Mr. Stevenson a majority . He would thus threw the election into : he ' United States House of Representatives for decision there . It is agreed on almost every hand that normally - elr . Andrews ' efforts would amount to little . Virginia , however , is not in a normal state of mind . All over the Deep South the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the intellectual center of the Androkes movement . If it seems to go here , it almost certainly will gain momentum elsewhere . Planning Convention The movement , among other things , demands local control of school problems and the adoption of constitutional limitations on the treaty-making power of the President ( embodied in the so-called Bricker amendment , opposed by President Eisenhower and defeated in Congress ) . Mr. Andrews ' forces are holding . a " national ' convention here Oct. 15 , and they expect to put his name on the ballot in fourteen states . In present circumstances inquiries by members of The New York Times team in every main section of Virginia have indicated that . on balance , the third party will injure President Eisenhower more than Mr. Stevenson . However , in one section ? : he " Southside , " with its heavy Negro population  --  some harm may be done to the Stevenson candidacy among white voters . Senator Byrd 's statement , when it comes , will advance or strongly retard the third party . In the meantime , the Senator @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his Democratic organization associates to return to the regular Democratic affiliation . These associates , for tee most part , are already in the field for the Stevenson ticket , not gladly in many cases , but stoically . They fear that unless the Democrats win Virginia from top to bottom , they may well lose the Governorship next year to the Republicans . A Republican candidate , State Senator Ted Dalton , ran uncomfortably well in 1953 , polling about 45 per cent of the vote . Senator Byrd , for his part , is in a dilemma . He is obviously troubled by what many conservative Virginians consider to be the increasingly liberal line of Mr. Stevenson on civil rights . On the , other hand , the Senator feels a responsibility to his Democratic associates and a deep anxiety not to see Virginia go Republiran at the-statehouse and below . The belief among his friends is that in the end he probably will take some step amounting to an acceptance of the Stevenson ticket . Senator Byrd is facing a personal crisis as well . Mrs. Byrd lies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Rosemont , near Berryville . Finally , Senator Byrd and nearly all those of his generation in Virginia are fighting to hold onto a personal and a political way of life  --  characterized by the separation of the races  --  that is dying before their eyes . And then , ironically , there is the fact that the most extreme leaciers on the race issue have aboat them more than a Touch of the outsider . Mr. Andrews , although a Virginian , is not of the aristocratic school . The chief journalistic spokesman of the far right-wing in general , J. J. Kilpatrick , a Richmond editor , is not a native at all but a transplanted Oklahoman . There is essentially little feeling of sympathy between the Byrd traditionalists and the third-party people . It is in all this maze of political and human values that the eventual strength of the thirdparty movement now lies hidden . If it captures less than a tenth . of Virginia 's total vote , it is widely reckoned that the outcome will be a Stevenson victory . If the movement should climb @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it could cut deeply into Stevenson as well as Eisenhower strength . As of now , the States ' Rights leaders are mainly those who voted for General Eisenhower four years ago . In 1948 Strom Thurmond , the " Dixiecrat " third-party candidate , probably saved Virginia for President Harry S. Truman by splitting the conservative anti-Truman vote . Mr. Truman won with 47.9 per cent of the total vote . One Great Issue This year any bitter racial incident in this state , in combination with any hardening of Mr. Stevenson 's civil rights position , might lead to an emotional stampede to the third party . Segregation and the race question in general constitut 3 the one great issue in this state . The farmers are not complaining nearly so much as ' in the Midwest , and there is no big unemployment problem , Significant defections back to the Democrats among the " Eisenhower Democrats " of four years ago are turning-up . There is within the Eisenhower forces far less of the crusading spirit than in 1952 . Vice President Richard M. Nixon is unpopular . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the Democratic Vice-Presidential candidate . The President 's health is being rather widely discussed . Said  --  a Portsmouth druggist who voted for General Eisenhower in 1952 : " I would n't vote for Ike with Nixon hanging on his tail . He may have had another heart attack while I 'm talking to you . " As to Mr. Andrews , random conversations in the Virginia " Southside " make it clear that he has a good deal of backing . A business man : " I 'm on the fence . I voted for Eisenhower before , but I do n't like Nixon . And I do n't like Stevenson . I want to hear more . What I hear , though ; I kind of like the way Andrews sounds . " 6. 0 . P. Allegiance In northern Virginia , where Alexandria , Arlington and Faxfax serve as a sort of bedroom for Washington , much as Queens serves Manhattan , people appear to be staying with the Republican allegiance they showed in 1952 . Switches either way are readily found , but the net seems @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Eisenhower again . There is in northern Virginia a good deal of criticism of Mr. Stevenson for his suggestions on ending the military draft and halting hydrogen bomb tests . Other comments offer a wide ' range of views . A housewife thinks the President " went overboard for the big boys . " A woman Government employe says the Democrats treat Federal workers better . A Republican woman declares Mr. Stevenson will be " another Lincoln " if elected and intends to vote this time for him . The owner of a new home in Fairfax puts it this way : " I voted for ? Stevenson last time , . but I 'm for Ike now . No real reason ; just personality , I guess. ! , I think we need a leader . " Interest is high in the state generally and the most interesting  --  and the most unreadable campaign personality is perhaps that of Mr. Andrews . Campaigning goes on largely by word of mouth , and in street corner discussions . Nevertheless , Virginia 's total vote is widely expected to be below the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a comparatively heavy Negro vote . Negroes are under no more legal restrictions than whites in voting in this poll-tax state . There is , however , no reliable way to estimate the relative or absolute size of this Negro vote . As of last spring there were 83,098 Negro voters registered , as compared with 792,329 whites . Some Negro intellectuals and other leaders suggest that President Eisenhower will benefit front the Supreme Court decision outlawing segregation and Negro resentment against the policies of the Democratic legislature and state administration . The Negro rank and file , however , speaks of voting Democratic for economic reasons . Victor J. Ashe , a Negro lawyer and member of the Democratic Central Committee of Norfolk , says he foresees a Negro shift to the Republicans for local reasons and because of " the Eastlands , Byrds and Olin Johnstons on the national scene . " Senators James 0 . Eastland of Mississippi and Olin D. Johnston of South Carolina have taken up more bitter pro-segregation positions than has Senator Byrd . They  --  and particularly Senator Eastland  --  are the focus @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ same , inquiries indicate that the following comments are probably more descriptive of what the Negroes are likely to do : A Negro cement worker : " The Democrats are more for the working man . " A Negro longshoreman : Better jobs under the Democrats . " The best available information indicates no strong likelihood of any net change in the state 's present partisan division of eight Democrats and two Republicans in the House of Representatives .                     