@@714959

txt Praising President Truman , and drawing a blueprint of p glorious future for this nation , if Democrats stay in office , Gov . Stevenson today swung his campaign planes southward into Missouri . The Democratic Presidential nominee visited St. Joseph , Kansas City , and St. Louis , and took a fast run thru the heavily industrial congressional district of Rep. Price D. , Ill. across the river from St. Louis . The Kiel auditorium was filled by 13,000 persons for Stevenson 's St. Louis speech tonight . A large downtown shopper throng cheered him as he entered the city this afternoon . An overflow crowd listened to the speech by loud speakers In the nearby Opera house . Happy Days Ahead , Ho Says His speech contained a 10 point statement of Democratic policies : It went farther . It told of happy days ahead under an expanding economy , which Stevenson promised will put an additional 10 million Americans to work and increase income by $2,400 a family by 1962 . " We can make America the land for all of us which we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Stevenson said . He predicted that government and daring men pursuing Democratic party policies can lift employment to 72 million and national production to 475 billion dollars annually within the next 10 years . The governor chose the Pendergast. stronghold of Kansas City , where he . - ecelved one of the greatest welcomes of his campaign , for a speech telling just how much he admire Presidenz Truman . 5Up on High Levels For St , Louis he ascended to a high level statement of principles , policies , issues , and promises . I In both speeches he stressed again tht contrast between prosperity , which he said she Democrats have produced , and depression , which he said the Republicans produce and threaten again . In the talk in St. Louis , Steven-son listed these 10 points which he said are the Democratic policies of this campaign , outlined in his first month of talks to the people : " I. To repeal and replace the Taft-Hartley law with a new law which promotes the private settlemeat of disputes , and to work in other ways for an orderly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Production postponed is production lost , and in our industrial society production losses an , coffin nails for workers and owners and consumers alike , he said . " 2 . Price supports for agriculture at 90 per cent of parity ; Continuing search for practicable methods of supportirg the prices of perishables ; continuation and improvement of such other programs as rural electrification and soil conservation . Wider Social Security " 3 . To widen ' the coverage and exercise the benefits available under our social security system and to honor our obligations to the veteran . " 4 . To continue our efforts thru private , local , state , and fed . eral action to eradicate discrimination based on race , religion , or national origin . " 5 . To move ahead on our wellestablished housing program . " f . To meet our most pressing educational needs . " IC To combat relentlessly the inflation which strikes so heavily at family budgets . " 8 . To review our tax policy with an eye to the effect of taxes on incentives to produce and invest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the economy , and on the need for a balanced budget . " 9 . To encourage small business and enforce our anti-monopoly laws . " 10 . To continue the progressive development and sound conservation of , the nation 's land and water resources . " Draws Big Crowd in Kansas City The pattern of a large welcoming crowd , set last night in Milwaukee after several days of thin turnouts , was expanded in Kansas City . Thousands were along the parade route  --  estimates ran up to 100,000 ? and confetti and shouts rained from windows . In his Kansas City speech he applied the description of " do nothing , care nothing , know nothing , " to what he said is the " old guard " Republican party to which Stevenson has charged Gen. Eisenhower mortgaged his principles . " You grow a lot of good Democrats around here , " he said . " And your blue ribbon winner comes from Independence . " A Man of Ind ? : ? . endenoe " Harry Truman is certainly a man of independence . I think @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In your Missouri language , he wo n't take anything off anybody . No one knows this better than Joe Stalin . The Illinois governor dubbed Eisenhower the " Honorary Republican candidate for President " and said that maybe Eisenhower , as a general , thinks he can speak in " generalities , " but he , Stevenson , as a civilian has " no intention of confining my remarks to civilities . " He Turns Taft Tiger Stevenson used a limerick to illustrate what he says happened when Eisenhower suet with Sen. Taft R. , 0.3 : " There was a young lady from Niger Who smiled as she rode on a Tiger . They came back from the ride With the lady inside And the smile on the face of the tiger . " " This gloomy recital , " Stevenson said , " explains , I think , the curious evolution of the Republican campaign . For a moment , back in August , the Republican leadership had a sheen of liberalism , of progressivism , of  --  if I may coin the word  --  forward-lookingness . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ again those old familiar features are visible  --  the Republican old guard . " " All this has imposed a burden on the general . In Michigan the other day he claimed to be a Vandenberg Republican ? a claim which would have been more impressive if he had not been backing for the senate in Michigar. a man who opposes those basic elements of our foreign policy which Sen. Vandenberg worked so hard to advance . " Then in Ohio the general of the army became a Bricker publican , in Illinois a Dirksen Republican , and in Wisconsin he barnstormed the state with , of all people , Sen. Joseph McCarthy , the defamer ? of his friend and benefactor , Gen. Marshall . " It is no wonder that Tun CHIcaco TRIBUNE , which a few weeks ago was disowning the general as a New Dealer in disguise , recently wrote an appreciative editorial entitled , with great enthusiasm , The New Eisenhower . '                     