@@714043

txt Letters to The Times E. EIN , V. MASENS , V. SIDZIKAUSKAS.NATHANIEL PHILLIPS.JOHN WHEATLEY.JOHN R. R ... pg . 128 Letters to The Times To THE EDITOR OH ' THE NEW YORK TIMES : We endorse with satisfaction your editorial of June 28 , " Realism About Russia , " regarding Secretary of State Dean Acheson 's recent judicious remarks on traditional Russian imperialism . The criticism of both  --  Secretary Acheson 's significant statement and your comments as contained in a letter signed by twelve Russian emigres ? can tend to mislead your readers and associates , and it therefore necessitates , in our view , the following observations from the exiled spokesmen of the three Baltic Republics  --  Estonia , Latvia and Lithuania  --  which in the past as at the present are victims of Russian imperialism . When the Russian ? migr ? s affirm that " in transforming itself through five centuries from a small duchy into a vast empire by ' encroachment and consolidation ' Russia is hardly unique , " it may be a historical truth . But it seems to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Russian aggression against her neighbors . The comparison with the rise of the British Empire , France , Germany and AustroHungary does not merit any serious criticism , The subjugation of foreign peoples by Russia , Czarist and Communist , has always been accomplished by brutal violence and treachery and has been followed by attempts of forced denationalization , Russification and spoliation of the enslaved population , by deportations to Siberia and by terror . Past Atrocities Who has forgotten the attempt of Czarist Russia to convert the Estonians and Latvians , who are mostly of Protestant faith ; into the Orthodox Russian faith ; or how the Czar Alexander III destroyed the autonomy of Estonia and Latvia , guaranteed by the international peace treaty of Nystadt , 1721 ; or executions carried out in 1905 by Russians to annihilate Latvian , Lithuanian and Estonian people ; the suppression , following the uprising of 1863 , of the printing of Lithuanian periodicals and books ( even prayer books ) in Latin characters ; the forcible transformation of the Roman Catholic churches into Russian Orthodox ; the mass hang. , s of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ deportations to Siberia by Muravyov the Hangman under the reign of Czar Alexander II ? After occupying the independent Baltic states in June , 1940 , after Moscow 's infamous deal with Hitlerite Germany , the rulers of the Kremlin are continuing the imperialistic policy of the Czars , only their methods are more ruthless and more refined and tend even to the physical and moral destruction of the enslaved Baltic peoples . Did not Molotov cynically confess to the Deputy Premier of the Lithuanian puppet government , Prof. Kreve-Mickevicius , June 30 , 1940 , " What is taking place in the Baltic states at the present time is but a continuation of the traditional Russian policy as practiced from the days of Ivan the Terrible " ? And Pravda , the official organ of the Russian Communist party , stated in the spring of 1941 : " Peter the Great made a very bad mistake in permitting the inhabitants of the Baltic region to remain in their respective countries . " Continued Expansion Can it be taken as a matter of fact that " the expansion of Russia was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as the authors of the aforesaid letter affirm ? We do not believe so . Take , for instance , the Russian conquests in Asia and the Caucasus during the nineteenth century , the adventure at the Yalu River early in this century and the Russian cry for Constantinople and the Straits at the outbreak of the First World War . The Russian emigres now offer to " the national minorities in Russia " quite paradisiacal prospects after their liberation from the Communist yoke . But are they sure that they will be called to preside over the destinies of future Russia ? Russia has never known , with the exception of a very brief interlude in 1917 , a democratic order . And did the democrats in 1917 adhere to the principle of self-determination of nations enslaved by Czarist Russia ? Did they give freedom to the Estonians , Latvians and Lithuanians ? Have they raised their voice of protest against the aggressions of the Kremlin ? against Poland in 1939 and against the Baltic states in 1940 ? ? Stand on Independence The Baltic nations made their choice as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ independent has been sealed-by the blood of their sons . They were happy and ' prosperous until the revived Russian imperialism , temporarily , we believe , interrupted their progress and suspended their freedom . We noted with satisfaction the repeated declaration of former Premier of democratic Russia , Alexander Kerensky , oxe of the signatories to the letter , that the modern Russian generation has no aspirations whatsoever regarding the Baltic states . Sincerely adopted and applied by ** democrats , this position of the prospective rulers of future Russia would certainly eliminate the mistrust still prevailing in - some Baltic circles and would facilitile the establishment of demopratic order in liberated central and eastern Europe . Being firmly and uncompromisingly determined to be free and independent To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : On July 4 , in Madison , Wis. , a petition was circulated made up of the Preamble to the Declaration of Independence and six of the first ten amendments to the Constitution  --  the Bill of Rights  --  and the Fifteenth Amendment to the Constitution , assuring the right of citizens to vote , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Of 112 people who were asked to read and sign the petition , 111 refused . In New York City , a week or two ago , a similar test was made among men and women in various sections of the city . Of 161 who were asked to read and sign the petition , 142 refused . And this after the reporters told them just where the contents had come from . In both cities the comments of the hoped-for prospects followed the same pattern : " No , we are not signing anything . " " You ca n't get me to sign that , I 'm trying to get loyalty clearance for a Government job , " etc . To explain the general indifference to public affairs , the phrase had long been current that " everybody 's business is nobody 's business . " The terror that has come over the land because of groups ' being condemned and placed on " subversive lists " without a hearing , the Congressional inquiries that resulted in the blasting of careers following charges found to be wholly baseless @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ calumnies against individuals have been headlined with no redress for the hapless victims : all this is sure to make public business nobody 's business . The Kremlin lost no time in seizing upon the Madison episode , deriding American democracy and the faith of Americans in democratic principles . Pravda gave it full coverage . We may jeer at the utter ludicrousness of enslaved Russia belittling American freedom , but that can not lessen for us the dread truth Made manifest by the Madison and New York City unsigned petitions ! As the American Civil Liberties Union said in its recent report , " There is a growing pervasive social atmosphere of fear and intolerance stifling the good old American habits of speaking one 's mind , joining the organizations one believes in , observing the principles of fair hearing and of holding a man innocent until he is proved guilty . Guilt by accusation or ? worse ? by innuendo , is abroad in the land . " It 's really about time that the American people stood up for their rights , supported other citizens in their exercise @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and enforce civil liberties for all . With more of that kind of American spirit , the fear of asserting their rights will disappear and people wo n't be afraid to say what they mean and to sign their names to , Drove it . NATHANIEL p New York , Aug. 6 , 1951 , To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES ; After reading J. Max Bond 's letter published in your paper July 1 I feel obliged to present some facts about Liberia , West Africa . I base my presentation upon my experience in the State Department fol. lowing a ten-month economic exploration and survey covering 1,920 miles on foot through the hinterlands of Liberia . I was not carried in a hammock by human labor , which is the custom of most visiting officials visiting the hinterland , but walked and cut new trails . Thus , I became acquainted with many tribes of Liberians in the " high bush " and witnessed the conditions under which they are forced to live . Mr. Bond refers to the " march of progress " under the Tubman @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1945 the so-called Presidential mansion did not boast sanitary facilities of any kind ? And an examination of the Point Four program as it was original . ly set up will show that the bulk of highway developments will benefit the ruling classes principally and Mr. Tubman 's rubber plantation in the Eastern Province notably . Government Monopoly ' On three occasions Mr. Tubman has frustrated the attempts of private United States capital to do a largescale timber operation on a tribal concession . Since gold is la Government monopoly and a highly organized racket , how are the tribal people going to benefit under this program ? Please note that Mr. Bond writes , " Here in Tubman 's Liberia great preparation is being made for the coming of the Point Four program . " I agree with him unreservedly that it is Mr. Tubman 's Liberia and anyone wha disagrees with Tubman or his dictatorial policy is pronounced seditious and forced to become a fugitive . Thl Hon. D. Twe is a typical example . Regarding discrimination , this is fll first year all of the people of Liberia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . And is n't it a fact that the Liberian Government had to concede the vote to all of its people before its delegation could be seated at ths San Francisco conference in 1944 ? Then , when voting time came , the people were given one candidate to vote for ? Mr. Tubman . The other candidate , D. Twe , who was drafted by the tribal people as their candidate , was denounced by the present incumbent as a traitor and his name was never printed on the ballot . Racial Discrimination While Mr. Bond 's lack of facts concerning United States history is na tribute to our school system , neither is his lack of facts concerning true conditions in Liberia a tribute to his powers of discernment  --  and vice versa . I make special reference to his comments on racial discrimination and human sup . pression in this country . Does n't he know that the Liberian Constitution provides that unless a man has Negro blood he can not own land or become a citizen of Liberia ? Mr. Bond 's criticism of John Collier 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ approval and not for the purpose of disseminating accurate information . The very nature of Mr. Bond 's position does not permit him to give an unbiased appraisal of the real situation now existing in Liberia . There is an impressive and ever-growing list of United States citizens who have been declared persona non grata by Mr. Tubman for making factual reports about his country to our Government in an official capacity . It would be interesting to see what position Mr. Bond would be in if he failed to support the Tubman policies . It gives rise to the question , " What do such people have to gain by climbing on the Tubman bandwagon and what do they stand to . lose if they do not support the Tubman administration ? " Mr. Bond also assures us of " Your world and my world being safe in his ( Tubman 's ) hands . " I am certain that there are more than one million people in Liberia and several hundred million people throughout the rest of the world who would not share this opinion . JOHN R. ROM @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIME : In reply to Senator Tom Connally regarding plans to send United States help to Asia , E. C. A. Administrator William C. Foster replied , " These countries are free . We want to help them to stay free and produce things we need . " This is correct . But we need these countries not only as suppliers , but also as customers . The Soviet Union , her satellites and all Communist countries are no longer our customers . There are customers in Africa and Asia . In order to enable them to buy our products , we have to help them . If we help them , we will sell them not only machinery and raw materials , but also consumer goods . Our industry writ profit and we will be able to pay higher taxes . Many countries of southeast Asia and Africa send inquiries for American goods . But they seldom are able to import these goods , as they do not have dollars . It Is necessary that we help them without delay . L. H. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Baltic States ' Status Russian Aggression Cited , Both Under Czars and Communists The writers ' of the following letter are , respectively , chairmen of the Estonian , Latvian and Lithuanian Consultative Panels , established to work in an advisory capacity with the National Committee for a Free Europe . and considering the future fate of the national minorities In Russia ( as the ? migr ? s called them ) , which fate the minorities will have to decide for themselves , we nevertheless consider it our duty to state that we are in sympathy with the political aspirations of the Ukrainians , the Byelorussians , Georgians , Armenians and other peoples enslaved by Russia in the course of imperialist Russian expansion and are confident that the general settlement of European and world affairs will bring them the fulfillment of their right to self-determination . InternatiOnal law and international morals do not know prescription . It is never too late to right the wrong done by the Great Russian minority to the nations they have subjugated during centuries of imperialistic aggression and which aspire to and deserve freedom . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ York , July 27 , 1951 . Exercising Our Rights Madison Incident Cited in Plea for Stand on Civil Liberties The writer of the following letter is chairman of the Committee on Civil Rights of the New York County Lawyers ' Association . Policies of Liberia Political , Economic Conditions of Nation Discussed The writer of the following letter was formerly Acting Chief of the Liberian Desk of the Department of state . PAGE IN THE DIARY OF A SOUL Come , Soul , let us write in our diary now , As the days ripen and fall . Time becomes dearer and we spend it more freely , Not caring at all . Long ago now it seems since that day on the hill of no meaning When we first saw descend The great sun of existence , the foam and the fire of our being , Beginning and end . Yet the time comes , though it is still far distant , So that we see but do not yet believe . Yet the /time comes , that one of us must tarry , And one must leave . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , There is no sort of memory in dust . There is no way to leave one word behind us , No way we trust . In seven lifetimes , seven soul 's adventures , The , ice may conquer , or a star may split , Some shadow fall across the universe , End all of it . Where will our words be then ? We labour , Soul , Nobody knows how much , how ardently , To sign our conjoint name upon the roll Of little men who saw eternity . JOHN WHEATLEY . Stratford-Upon-Avon , England .                     