@@712708

txt There is a growing belief here at United Nations headquarters that some time within the next few weeks the Soviet Union will come forward with a new proposal calling for a convention outlawing the use of atomic and hydrogen bombs . Such a convention obviously would provide no definite guarantee against the employment of these awesome weapons if a third world war should develop . The convention would have nothing more behind it than the good faith of its signatories . Nevertheless , the question arises as to whether the western powers can afford to ignore a Soviet demand for such a pact , as they have done on several occasions in the recent past . The question becomes especially timely in the light of strong agita tion in this country at the present time for a revaluation of American foreign policy vis- ? - vis Russia . More Desirable ? In other words , it is now being asked ' whether even a mere promise by Russia not to use the new superbombs would not be more desirable and contribute more.to international understanding than the present state @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ armaments race . This question is asked , incidentally , with the full knowledge that such a Soviet promise ultimately may not be worth the paper on which it is written . One of the strongest arguments advanced by those who favor western adherence to a pact such as the Soviet Union is expected to propose is the fact that in the last war Hitler , certainly no respecter ' of international covenants , refused to resort to poison gas and germ warfare . It is pointed out that it plainly was not because of any scruples or humanitarian considerations that the Nazi conquerer adopted this course . It was solely because he knew his enemies possessed the same weapons and would have retaliated in kind if he had made use of such frightful methods of warfare . No Questions It stands . to reason , therefore , it is argued , that the same considerations might restrain the Soviet Union in the use of atomic and hydrogen bombs in the event of a third world war . Further , the supporters of this argument contend , the western powers could @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hydrogen bomb attack , if they built and stockpiled these weapons to such a decree that they would be assured of a certain edge over the Russians . In any case , the rising debate over the practicality of present American policy toward the Soviet Union is being watched with intense and unfeigned interest at UN headquarters . In the main , there is no disposition here to question the principal thesis of American policy  --  namely , that there must be a firm and long-range bulwark against Soviet expansionism . In this connection , it can be said that general UN support for American insistence upon a " foolproof " system of international control of atomic energy remains as strong as ever . At the same time , there is considerable questioning at Lake Success as to whether present American tactics are all that they should be . In other words , it is asked whether a few ostensible concessions by American policy makers might not at least ? contribute to an easing of international tension . An important factor in this sort of thinking is the evident insularity of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the widespread publicity attendant upon President Truman 's decision to order the manufacture of the hydrogen bomb must have appeared to the Kremlin as a direct challenge to Russia and , therefore ; can be expected to lead only to further adamancy in the Russian position . Policy Redefined Somehow , in some way , it is argued , the United States must find a way to stand firm in the face of Soviet aggressiveness and at the same time persuade Russia that it is not intent upon plunging the world into irretrievable disaster rather than " lose face . " Thirteen days ago , Secretary of State Dean Acheson redefined United States policy in the following statement : " If we could reach our goal by agreement ( with Russia ) that would be desirable and the simplest and easiest way to do it . But I think four years of experience have brought us the realization that it is not possible . . . . " Agreements with the Soviet Union are useful when ( they ) record an existing situation or fact , but otherwise they are not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been our basic policy to . . . create strength instead of the weakness which exists in many quarters . " Taken at face value , the secretary 's statement evokes no quarrel here . Yet there are many observers who wonder whether its tone , advertently or inadvertently , does not seem to rule out further negotiations with the Russians on the differences which divide them from the West . Considering the peculiarities of the Soviet mentality , it is asked , Can there ever be a period when negotiations can be regarded as useless ?                     