@@718922

txt Last week was an important one in the constitutional history of the United States . In two major decisions , one in the contempt case brought against John T. Watkins on behalf of the Committee on UnAmerican Activities and one in the case of fourteen West Coast Communist party leaders convicted under the Smith Act , the Supreme Court reasserted the principle of the right of a citizen under the First Amendment and the Fifth Amendment to be protected against arbitrary procedures . Mr. Watkins , as the Government itself admitted , had given the committee a " complete and candid statement of his past political associations and activities . " He refused , in - the belief that tile law could not demand it of him , to give the names of persons who may have been Communist party members but who were so no longer . For this he was sentenced to pay a $100 fine and to serve one year in " a common jail . " He was then placed on probation . The Supreme Court in sustaining his appeal did not maintain that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to testify on relevant matters . It did decide , however , in Chief Justice Warren 's cogent majority opinion , that the purpose of such inquiry - must be explicitly stated , that the questions asked of witnesses must be pertinent and that Congress must not " unjustifiably encroach upon an individual 's right to privacy nor abridge his liberty of speech , press . religion or assembly . " The Smith Act case is not so clear in its implications . The court did not question the constitutionality of that legislation , which indeed it had already once upheld . But the decision did require in the case of the five convicted Communists set free and *nine given a new trial , that courts trying cases under the Smith Act make a clear distinction between the statement of a philosophical belief and the advocacy of an illegal action . The practical effect of these decisions was almost bitterly recognized in two dissents by Justice Clark , who , as a former Attorney General , could easily understand the embarrassments confronting prosecuting officers if persons charged with crime and reluctant witnesses @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ To the majority of the court , if not to Justice Clark , this seemed " a small price to pay if it served to uphold the principles of limited , constitutional government . " Thus the Smith Act still stands , but the Government will no longer be able to convict and punish members of the Communist party for expressing a mere belief in the violent overthrow of government . It will have to prove that the prisoners at the bar actually intended to overthrow the Government by violence or to persuade others to attempt to do so . The danger will have to be very clear and present indeed . It remains true that the Constitution is what the Supreme Court says it is . But those who criticize the court at this moment may well remember that it is neither inferior nor superior to the other two departments of government . The late President Franklin D , Roosevelt could not upset it for being , as he thought , too conservative , and its decisions will not be rescinded now because some think they are too liberal . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the hearts of the American people . When we feel ourselves in danger we tend to restrict the liberties of those who add to the danger . But the time is passing when the existence of a small group among us made up of persons with warped minds and twisted judgments and calling themselves Communists is a menace requiring us to suppress our ancient freedoms . The freedoms the court has reasserted and defended are the sources of our strength . We can far better afford to have some of the enemies of our freedom go free than to see freedom itself mocked and imprisoned .                     