@@715492

txt The Eisenhower administration is up against the first serious , king-size revolt from within its own party on an issue that affects its whole fiscal program . Republican members of the powerful House Ways and Means Committee , led by its redoubtaole chairman , Daniel A. Reed ( R ) of New York , persist in defying the President , the Secretary of the Treasury , and House Speaker Joseph W. Martin ( R ) of Massachusetts in refusing to approve the extension of the excess profits tax for six months to put the federal budget in a better position to balance . Letting the tax expire now would be a boon to a small group of big industries , according to Secretary of the Treasury George M. Humphrey , who calls the Reed policy unfair and unwise . CC-NAM Action But the two largest groups of organized business in the country , the United States Chamber of Commerce and the National Association of Manufacturers , after a quick canvas of leading members , have voted to buck the administration on this issue . In doing so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the harder to take because Mr. Eisenhower has from the first attempted to give strong representation to the business viewpoint in his administration , in contradistinction to positions taken by the Truman administration . The situation has ramifications . If the Reed revolt is successful , it will be a sign of weakness in the administration 's ability to control the new Congress , not on a minor matter but on the basic White House fiscal program to retain national sacrifices , balance the budget , and ultimately reduce taxes all round . Reed Holds Club AlSO involved is the extension of the Reciprocal Trade Agreements Act . This measure is before the same Reed committee , and so far no hearings have been held , nor have any been scheduled , despite the announcement earlier in the week that an agreement had been reached in the committee to allow quick passage . Mr. Reed is holding this bill as a club over the administration 's head . Mr. Reed is likewise counterattacking in a way the Eisenhower administration probably never expected . Taking the fact that the administration has made @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the NAM to back it on the tax matter , Mr. Reed has hailed Undersecretary of the Treasury Marion Folsom before it for allegedly violating the law against                     