@@718078

txt Tne House of Lords rejected tonight the House of Commons bill to abolish the death penalty in Britain . The vote of the peers means that capital punishment will remain on the statute books at least . until spring . The House of Commons can override the upper chamber after a delay of one year , according to the Parliament Act of 1949 . The Lords defeated the bill by 238 votes to 95 , the largest ballot taken in the upper house in many years . The vote followed a two-day debate in which nearly-seventy peers spoke . In 1948 the House of Lords threw out , by a vote of 181 to 28 , a House of Commons bill to suspend the death sentence for five years . By , their vote the Lords defied critics , mostly in the Labor party , who believe that the upper house is reactionary , obstructive and obsolete and should be abolished . Although the ganger of aboli- ' tion is probably remote , many , observers believe that the peers forfeited any hope that the La-1 bor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the House of Lords . Tonight 's vote amounted , in effect , a Government majority of 143 . As in 1948 , when a Laborite Government was in power , the campaign to abolish hanging was sponsored by Labor party members . The present Conservative Government under Prime Minister Eden favors retention of the death penalty . Nevertheless , it suspended party discipline for the voting in both the Commons and the Lords . The bill passed in the House of Commons because a number of Conservatives took advantage of the free vote and voted with the Laborites as a matter of conscience . The question now arises : What will the Government do about hanging during the year that must elapse . before , Parliament can finally settle the issue . Since the House ( A Commons voted on Feb. 16 to introduce legislation abolishing the death penalty , all condemned men have ' been reprieved . As the debate neared Its end , Lord Wilmot asked the Marquess of Salisbury , Conservative leader in the House of Lords , whether the Government would reintroduce hanging if the peers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Government would have to consider the implications of the vote . A spokesman at the Home Office said : " There has been no official suspension of hanging . There is no declared policy on the matter . It happens that lately all condemned murderers have been reprieved . " Lord Salisbury stated the Government 's main argument that the death penalty should be retained because it was an effective deterrent to murder . Speakers supporting this view asserted repeatedly that Britain had the lowest murder rate of any country . Abolitionist speakers emphasized what they called the barbarity of hanging . They contended that comparisons with countries where capital punish anent had been abolished or suspended indicated thal hanging was not an effective deterrent to murder and should therefore be abolished . Viscount Stansgate warned that obstruction of the will of the House of Commons might jeopardize the future of the House of Lords . Conservative peers were unworried . They felt that the Peerage would be on the side of the people against the House of Commons . Government sources noted that the bill had passed through each stage @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it was doubtful whether the House of Commons would succeed in overriding the House of Lords next year . Sydney Silverman , Laborite sponsor of the bill , said afterward that the Government should constitutionally prefer the Commons ' decision in a conflict between the two houses . The Archbishop of Canterbury , although he said he was in favor of keeping the extreme penalty , voted for the abolition bill as a step toward amending the law . Lord Goddard , the Lord Chief Justice , said that he favored amending the law but that the death penalty should be retained both as a deterrent and a form of vengeance . Before casting his vote against the abolition bill , he said : " I believe it is a sign of a healthy conscience in a country if they are determined to avenge crime . "                     