@@714239

txt A ' word and a phrase repeated in one of those sudden disclosures of diplomatic interchanges of which Moscow is prone raised this week in new form the major question lying behind all the open maneuvers of the period upon the chessboard of the power struggle known as the cold war . Without warning , and in violation of diplomatic protocol , Russian Foreign Minister Andrei Y. Vishinskz , released a garbled version of a private statement made to him in Moscow on Oct. 5 by United States Ambassador Alan Kirk and along with it a lengthy and turgid Soviet reply . In that reply Mr. Vishinsky underlined the phrase " undesirable consequences " and the word " unpleasantnesses " which he asserted had been used in the Kirk statement , He added that " it is only barely possible to imagine that these ( U.S.-Russian ) relations can worsen even more after President Truman stated to the whole world that agreements with the Soviet Union are not worth the paper on which they are written . " The manner in which the above quotations were used @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the men in Moscow that they are being threatened by the United States . kremlin Faltering ? Now it is nothing unusual for the Kremlin to imply , and even charge , that Russia is being threatened by the United States . On the contrary , this has been a stock line of Moscow propaganda since February , 1946 , when Prime Minister . Joseph Stalin launched the Soviet Union on its postwar arms expansion program . It is possible that the semantics employed in this latest Soviet diplomatic demarche belong to the familiar sequence and have no more meaning than that the Moscow propaganda machine is continuing to play the old scratched records . However , the interpretation is also permissible that the Kremlin is this time actually nervous , uneasy , inclined to see ultimata in western statements , and is moving into a jumpy frame of mind in which ? it might be capable of making a foolish mistake based on misinformation about the West and a miscalculation of western purposes . Western experts on Russia note that , beginning with he San Francisco conference of early @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , less sure of its direction and purposes than had been the case up until this recent period of history . It is to be noted also that history actually has moved into a second postwar phase in which the Soviet . Union is rapidly losing its earlier ability to influence the course of events outside the so-called Iron Curtain area , Soviet Inflnenee ' Wanes In spite of every possible /Inssian obstacle placed in the way of such developments . the West has in fact built itself into a military and political coalition : has proceeded to rearm itself : has concluded a peace treaty With Japan : is in the process of concluding a contract with West Germany which will bring German troops into the western alliance : is in the process of bringing Turkey and Greece into the North Atlantic Treaty Organization ; and is engaged in a revision of the Italian Peace Treaty . The new trend of the new times became fully apparent at San Francisco where Russia failed totally to present effective resistance to the Japanese Peace Treaty , and also failed incidentally to stimulate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The latest Vishinsky note represents the first important Russian foreign policy move since the new trend became apparent at San Francisco . Therefore it is a first way of gauging Russian l'ishinsky Warering .1 ) reaction to the new trend . Therefore the atmosphere of nervousness present in the Vishinsky text raises the big question about these times : Is there danger that the men in the Kremlin are beginning to feel that the door to negotiation and to ultimate peaceful settlement of differences is closing and leaving them no recourse but to war ? Power Balance Tilts ' West In truth and in fact the door is not closing . On the contrary , the western nations arc beginning to acquire those " situations of strength " from which their statesmen believe they will be able to negotiate usefully with Moscow . But does Moscow understand this ? The first postwar period , stretching from Stalin 's speech of February , 1946 , down to the San Francisco conference , was a period during which Russia might have made war as a decision of deliberate policy arising out the calculation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ advantage . The concern of western statesmen during that period Was lest Moscow would elect . war deliberately as being the easiest way of achieving Russian purposes . In this new period of history , Moscow is no longer likely to make war for such a reason . The balance of military power too obviously has begun to tilt the other way . The Kremlin would reasonably choose war now only out of a belief that the West actually was bent on war and that therefore there was no choice for Moscow except to precipitate war at a moment least unsuitable Russian military interests . Peril of Miscalculation Does the Vishinsky note mean that the men in the Kremlin are in danger of making the mistaken calculation that the West has elected war ? There is no sure answer . Probably not . However . the times are delicate and dangerous . It is considered be particularly important by the principal policy makers here that the danger of the fatal miscalculation be exorcised by every suitable and propel. device . Further efforts in this direction are to be expected .  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @          