@@717948

txt For a year it has been recognized that the Kremlin 's new collective ruler-ship could make several moves which would score heavily propagandawise , remove Stalinist distortions from the Soviet system , and actually make the U.S.S.R. more efficient . Among the possible moves were three in particular  --  dissolution of the Cominform , evacuation of foreign bases , and reduction of Soviet military manpower . Now ? with Moscow 's announcement of a 1,200,000 cut in the Soviet armed forces  --  the Kremlin has made all three moves and is reaping the expected amount of international applause . The Soviet arms reduction is sizable . President Eisenhower 's special disarmament assistant , Harold E. Stassen. . - said recently that any Soviet cut of " a million men or more " would be considered " significant . " Any dismantlement which will lift 63 ground divisions , plus 3 air divisions , from the massive weight of Soviet arms which has been pressing against Western Europe since World War H is useful . But what needs to be quickly and clearly understood is that this is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Army is unwieldy . It is recruiting peasant manpower which Nikita S. Khrushchev could use more profitably in opening up vast farm acreages . It is consuming industrial manpower which could contribute to the success of the latest , most ambitious Soviet five-year plan . Reducing the number of massed divisions makes the U.S.S.R. actually stronger , not weaker . The real arms race of the world today lies in the research realm of electronics and the atom ; in the shops where nuclear bombs , guided missiles , and jet bombers are designed ; on the production lines where these new instruments of superdestruction are fashioned , and on the ranges where this " new look " in military science is tested for action . The United States sought to come to grips with this new arms race at the recent disarmament negotiations in London . Washington was only ready at the last minute with its new proposals  --  so late that coordination with its Western allies was difficult . But Mr. Stassen at this conference did propose action which recognized where the peril of the arms race actually lies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ aerial inspection to guard against sneak atomic attack . for controls to freeze all atomic bomb stockpiles. and for a preliminary demonstration of inspection and control in a limited area to get the ball rolling . Disarmament control is not a question of limiting infantry divisions , which would have to be widely dispersed to avoid mass slaughter in an H-bomb attack . The real question now is to maintain sufficient inspection so that an aggressor nation can not mass its armadas for a sneak aerial attack , to control the produc- ' Go Back to Your Plow , My Comrade ' tion and stockpiling of H-bombs , to limit the building of guided missiles . And one of the biggest upcoming problems , alluded to by Mr. Stassen , is what to do when the United States , the Soviet Union , and Britain no longer have an H-bomb monopoly , and the scientifically expert smaller countries , like Germany , India , Japan , or Communist China , are beginning to fabricate the big bombs . Will tension not be increased if no international agreement for control of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " actually becomes acute ? The Soviet reduction of military manpower does not come to grips with these issues . A lot of people , of course , will breathe more easily in Western Europe . And the problem of keeping NATO militarily up to scratch will be by that degree magnified . In fact , the apprehensions over NATO undoubtedly will augment the demand that a world statesman of special luster and drive ? such as Lester B. Pearson of Canada ? be appointed as NATO 's Secretary-General to succeed Lord Ismay . When all things critical and realistic have been said , there do remain elements of hopefulness in the Soviet arms-pruning gesture . It represents a piece of voluntary , unilateral disarmament . It is one step . If and as international confidence increases ? the " conditions of trust " often referred to by President Eisenhower ? other nations may make other unilateral disarmament steps . What the Soviets would like most of all from the United States would be a dismantling of some of its overseas bases which ring the U.S.S.R. But Moscow must pretty well @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the problem will induce no such major disarmament move in return .                     