@@717910

txt For more than a month representatives of five nations  --  the U. S. , Britain . France . Canada and the Soviet Union ? have been meeting in London trying to agree on a program for disarmament . The conference is expected to end today and no one expects any real agreement whatsoever . This failure is certainly not due to any shortage of ideas for disarmament plans . The delegates had many to choose from , and almost every day some prominent person or group comes forward with another one . President Eisenhower has his " open skies " program . Adlai Stevenson says all we have to do is stop making hydrogen bombs ourselves to set an example to the world Others have suggested schemes ranging from the rationing of armament expenditures to a tit-for-tat count on bombs and jet planes . Even the Russians have come forth with a proposal or two . And there will surely be plenty of others . It is hardly a new thought but it is certainly worth remembering that the difficulty is not in the plans ; almost @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ disarmament program if the world were ready to disarm . In the world as it . is , none of the plans are practical . Even as the delegates talked in London the Russian leaders were brandishing atomic missiles at the British , the Western Allies were planning an " advanced weapons program " and the U. S. was letting it be known we already have an H-bomb warhead . Now this brandishment of arms in the midst of disarmament talk is notsimply because the nations like to build arms . Even the Russians , doubtless , are not anxious for World War III and , for quite practical reasons , would like to reduce the cost of their arms . Nor is this brandishment of arms the cause of the tension between the Western world and the Communist world . If they were the only cause of trouble . then the delegates at London might well accomplish something . The reason these disarmament conferences nourish false hopes , and so come in the end to disappointment , is simply that they mistake the causes of the tension in the world @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we think , a very real hope for peace in the world , but it does not lie in disarmament plans . It lies in the fact that for all the noise that remains there has been a definite easing of the belligerence of Communist Russia , from what we think are realistic and practical causes . These causes may be in part internal ; in part they may be , paradoxically , a realistic fear of modern armaments and what they would do in any third World War . It may be , of course , that these are ephemeral and the tension will again increase . Certainly there are many trouble spots and much left to be done by the statesmen of the world before we can feel free of the tensions that might explode into war . But at least there , and only there , lies the hope for peace . This London conference , now passing into limbo , is one more reminder that it is not arms , but men , that make wars . 