@@717123

txt Freedom from the despotism of sickness , sin , and despair is available to all through spiritual understanding of the presence and redeeming power of the . i Christ , The Christian Science Board of Directors declared today . They emphasized the need for spiritual strength and courage in coping with world problems in a ringing message to the Annual Meeting of The Mother Church , The First Church of Christ , Scientist , in Boston , Massachusetts . Practical application of scientific Christianity is building " a mighty bulwark for individual , national , and universal liberty , " the Directors said . Their message was read before some 7.500 Christian Scientists from many parts of the world by Theodore Wallach , First Reader of The Mother Church . God 's Guidance . Stressed " The uncertainties which confuse and perplex the nations become less alarming and portentous in proportion as the certainty of God 's guidance is better understood , " the Directors sta ted . The election of Mrs. Gertrude W. Eiseman of Boston as President of The Mother Church was announced at the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Watson as Treasurer , and Gordon V. Corner as Clerk . In her keynote address , Mrs. Eiseman underscored the vital role increased spiritual understanding must play in the solution of contemporary problems . William R. Knox , retiring President of The Mother Church , pointed out the pitfalls of a shallow or merely intellectual approach to religion . Sincere Christians , he said . must take up the cross and follow the Christ in their daily living . Healinas Cited Key officials gave firsthand reports on the worldwide activities of the denomination , which has branches throughout the United States and in some 45 other countries , Their reports were heard by members who thronged the massive Extension of The Mother Church as well as the adjoining Original Edifice and a neighboring theater . In the Treasurer 's report . Mr. Watson ciescribeci the financial structure of The Mother Church as " sound and satisfactory . " Contributions for forthcoming television programs on Christian Science are being accepted in the Radio Fund of The Mother Church . he said . Healings through spiritual means alone of broken bones , tuberculosis @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were reported by Mr. Comer . Christian Science Activities for the Armed Services , he said , provides 475 workers to minister to hospitalized veterans and members of the armed forces . Letters Pour In More widespread public acceptance of spiritual healing was reported by Will B. Davis , Manager of Committees on Publication . Hundreds of insurance companies , he said , now are recognizing Christian Science care and treatment under the terms of their automobile , general liability . hospitalization , and other casualty coverages . Response to the radio series " How Christian Science Heals " often totals over a thousand letters a week , he disclosed . He said that plans for wider use of television in the informational work of the department would be announced in the near future . More than 4,000 lectures  --  including many in Asia and other overseas areas  --  were given during the year , it was announced by The Christian Science Board of Lectureship in the report read by John S. Sammons of Chicago . New Branches Listed Membership figures are not released by the denomination , but a net @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by Theodore E. Metzner , Manager of the Department of Branches and Practitioners . There are 3,161 churches and societies and 146 college organizations , he said , located in many parts of the world . Among the new branches added during the past year are those in Salzburg , Austria ; Upper Hut , New Zealand ; Fremantle , Australia ; Aarhus , Denmark ; Kyoto , Japan ; Heidelberg , Germany ; and Caracas , Venezuela . New translations of certain of the writings of Mary Baker Eddy . the Discoverer and Founder of Christian Science , into French . Greek . and seven other languages were announced by the Trustees under the Will of Mary Baker Eddy . The Trustees of The Christian Science Publishing Society . in a report read by John H. Hoagland . Manager , disclosed that circulation of the Christian Science periodicals and publications continued to rise during the year . Other stories on Annual Meeting : Pages 6 and 7.                     