@@719704

txt ' President Eisenhower snapped a high , hard one at the grouped teams of the Washing-ton Senators and Boston ' Red Sox today to signal the start of the 1958 baseball opener . A few moments later he was just another of the 26,675 spectators waiting for the umpire 's " playLball " signal . From his flag-draped box on the firstbase line the President helped root the Senators to their 5-to-2 victory over the Red Sox , evening the score at three victories and three losses for the opening games he has attended as Chief Executive . The Senators had not won an opener from Boston since .0.32 . Keeping ? his own score card , the one-time member of the United States Military Academy baseball squad munched peanuts and drank soft drinks in the manner of all fans . He clapped hands along with the most avid Washington rooters and four times bounced out of his seat to show appreciation of an " impossible " catch , a home run or a hit that brought in Washington runs . It was a perrect day for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the White House with members of his staff and a few personal friends a little before game time at 1:30 . Although he has said many times that he prefers participation ' sports to the spectator variety , he seemed to enjoy himself to the full . A White House aide said before the game that the President would be pulling for the Senators , " as he always does . " At the outset , he appeared to be doing more for the Washington side than might be expected of him . The President 's first pitch was an overhand twenty-foot , peg into the hands of a Washiniton outfielder , Whitey Herzog . A second , tossed to oblige the photographers , bobbled from the outstretched hands of several players to be retrieved by an alert Washington bat boy , Jimmy Ryan , the son of an F. B. I. agent . Mr. Eisenhower spent about ten minutes autographing baseballs for members of his party and for several players . These included the balls he used in the ceremonial pitches . Not all the Senators at the opener @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Senate was on hand . The upper Legislative branch met only briefly before taking a recess to avoid absentee marks for members who had tickets to the game . Not until the game was over did the President leave , He was " delighted that Washington won , " according to his press ' secretary , James C. Hagerty , land singled out the Senator ' third baseman , Eddie Yost , and the Boston center fielder , Jim Piersall , for special praise . Yost dived headlong in the ' dirt to stop two drives along the third-base line . Piersall had to leap high against the centerfield wall to prevent a possible ( home run . As he left the stadium , Mr.1 Eisenhower told his host , CalIvin Griffith , the president of , the Washington club , that hei looked forward to a repeat ap- ' pearance when White House routine permitted .                     