@@713272

txt ? The American program to empower the General Assembly of the United Nations to take over the functions of the Security Counci ? in suppressing aggression by military force in case the Council is unable to act is the most sweeping but also the most promising proposal yet made to give the United Nations genuine authority . If carried through , this program would provide the answer to many of the criticisms brought against the world organization . It would largely solve the problem of the veto , without either abolishing the veto itself , or , as proposed by some , driving the Soviet bloc from the United Nations . And it would do this wholly within the letter and the spirit of the Charter , without waiting for that revision which appears to be impossible under the present circumstances . As originally conceived , the General Assembly was to be the parliamentary body of the United Nations and the Security Council its executive , especially in all matters pertaining to the maintenance of international peace and security . But there are many reserve powers in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Charter 's purposes if the executive breaks down , and the frequent paralysis of the Council has already compelled the Assembly to take action that goes beyond its merely parliamentary powers . The American program would merely spell out just what power of action the Assembly really has , and how it can best employ these powers in an emergency . The basic provision under which the Assembly can act is Article 10 , which says that " the Assembly may discuss any questions or any matters within the scope of the present Charter or relating to the powers and functions of any organs provided in the present Charter $ ' " and may make recommendations to the members of the United Nations or to the Security Council , or both , on any such questions or matters . " This obviously includes questions involving aggression and its suppression , and the powers and functions of the Security Council itself . There is a provision in Article 11 that a question on which action is necessary shall be referred to the Security Council , but the same article specifically states that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 10 . The one specific exception provided in Article 10 is that the Assembly shall not make recommendations with regard to a dispute or situation in respect to which the Security Council is exercising the functions assigned to it in the present Charter . This would mean , for instance , that the Assembly can not deal with Korea while the Security Council is dealing with the same issue . But the Assembly may take up the issue under two conditions . One is if the Security Council itself decides to submit the matter to the Assembly  --  a decision which is not subject to a veto but can be taken by majority vote , as has been done in several cases in the past . The other condition , on which legal experts agree , is that the Security Council , while retaining an issue on its agenda , is actually prevented from " exercising " its functions owing to a deadlock or a veto . The one remaining difference between the Assembly and the Security Council is that the Security Council may order enforcement action , while the Assembly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ refusal by any nation to carry out a decision of the Security Council is a direct violation of the Charter but refusal to carry out a recommendation of the Assembly is not . This means that the Assembly would be able to provide the important moral sanction for an enforcement action to suppress aggression , but it could scarcely precipitate one unless its recornmendatic was backed by at least some of tl Big Powers who would have to bei the main burden of it . This provide adequate safeguards against the ri mote contingency , feared by some , the the small nations might combine I order the Big Powers into war again : their will or judgment .                     