@@712643

txt The dogged but losing nettle which two British electrical firms save waged in trying to persuade ' the American city of Seattle to accept their low bids for electrical equipment . is regarded here as pin-pointing the difficulties of breaking into the dollar market . Or , to put it another way , of trying to eliminate the dollar gap by selling British goods to the United States  --  as worthily suggested by Cancellor of the Exchequer Sir Stafford Cripps , Economic Cooperation . Administrator Paul G. Hoffman , et al . Britain ' is having sufficient immediate success in selling its traditional goods to the United States and Canada , including woolens and china . But when Britain enters a new'field of competition , its troubles begin . Test Case The Dollar Export Board here regards the Seattle bid as something of a test case for British exporters . The Lancashire firm of Ferranti , Ltd. , put in a bid of ? 71,000 ' ( nearly $200,000 ) lower than the lowest American bidder . The British Electric Company 's bid also was lower than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ British proffer on the contestable groUnd that it does not fit the city 's specifications ? although the Ferranti firm ? and British . Electric both were ready to revise specifications . It would be easy to draw from this the conclusion , discouraging for British firms , that , Americans will put up a withering crossfire of unfair competition against any enterprising British firm whi , ... 11 heeds the exhortations of the ECA and British Board of Trade and attempts to land on an American beachhead . Take the motorcycle trade . Recently ' a lightweight British motorcycle made a record trip across the United States and back . But , according to British manufacturers , the story of the feat carried in the American press failed wholly to . mention that it was a British machine . British firms say this is not cricket and wonder if the influence of the American cycle trade led to the glaring omission . On the other hand , the director of exports for the Triumph motorcycle mapuf pcturirig firm here says he has had the most cordial relations with American competitors @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his machines in the United States or Canada . In another export field , British toy manufacturers have been refused exhibition space at the New York annual Toy Fair in March. ? To officials here , Seattle 's refusal to accept the British electrical bid does seem unfortunate . And as for reports that the low bids were rejected because the British firms were unsuited to contend with the mountainous terrain , or because broken apparatus could not be repaired quickly , the ' Electric Company spokesman says : " We 've installed equipment all over the world and have built power stations in South Africa , New Zealand , Japan , India , and elseWhere and never have any difficulty in servicing them any-Where. "                     