@@714593

txt Prime Minister Winston Churchill has pledged that his goverrIment will go full steam ahead immediately with denationalization of the road haulage and steel industries . When Parliament reassembles April 21 after the Easter recess , Minister of Transport John Ma-clay is to issue a White Paper on the nationalized transport industry . Soon after that , a bill will be introduced to set the road transport haulers or truckers free from state control . it is thought that this bill may go further than setting trucking free . There is expectation of greater freedom for the passenger road-coach services and some reorganization of the relationship between road transport and the nationalized railways . A bill to denationalize the iron and steel industry is reported to be complete in draft form . Mr. Churchill now has reaffirmed that it is his government 's intention to complete the steel denationalization bill in the present parliamentary session , which would normally end in the fall of this year . Pledge Hailed by Party The Prime Minister gave his pledges to an impatient and politely complaining private meeting of his followers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 9 . A group of these Conservative backbenchers had been tabling critical motions about delay in fulfilling election promises to hand back to private enterprise certain industries which had been taken over by the state under the recent Attlee government . After Mr. Churchill had given his pledge , the Conservative rank and file warmly reaffirmed their loyalty to Mr. Churchill and the confidence of the party was restored to some extent from the low level to which it had sunk in the past week or so as a result of the unfavorable turn in the political fortunes of the government . Mr. Churchill , speaking to his party behind closed doors , is said to have stressed that the government would Nye to endure unpopularity to save Britain from economic disaster . He repeated that the nation 's economic position was . worse than expected when he took over . He appealed to the Conservatives to " put the nation first . " ( Left-Wing Threat Aired The party rank and file then indicated their readiness to go to any lengths necessary to see that the Conservative program is pressed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which sections of the Labor opposition now are threatening . Left-wing Laborite Aneurin Bevan is foremost in this threat to impede government legislation . He gave ? a warning in the Commons April 9 which has to be taken very seriously . Mr. Bevan and his group of followers insisted that Mr. Churchill was piling up a program of legislation quite impossible of fulfillment . What is more , he claimed that Mr. Churchill had no mandate from the nation for his program . He insisted that the Conservatives had won their electoral victory last October by a minority vote and that since then , local county council elections have shown a major swing sway from the conservatives to labor . Mr. Bevan argued ' that Mr. Churchill therefore has no right to force through denationalization . He said he and his colleagues would use every constitutional device to frustrate the government . He went further with a grave threat to use means which could be unconstitutional . He put the threat in the form of a question : " How is it possible for us , if the government forces @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vast majority of the electorate , continually to advise the industrial masses that they should not use industrial action to prevent legislation they do not like ? " This is a veiled threat of industrial strikes for political purposes , which is a weapon trade union leaders have been denouncing lately and which only a few weeks ago Mr. Bevan himself said he disapproved . Two-Edged Sword If Mr. Bevan had the full support of the Labor opposition , he might prevent the finance bill from going through . The government then would have no right to levy taxes . But Clement R. Attlee and his moderates are not keen on the tactics , of extreme measures which might bring " the parliamentary system into disrepute . It is a two-edged sword which could be used against a Labor government . The Churchill government also has at its command the " guillotine " system of timetables for debates , automatically cutting off debate at a certain time and thus defeating the filibuster . But this also is a practice disliked as being " unparliamentary . " Tremendous parliamentary battles appear to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the defensive . But as c.ne would expect from Mr. Churchill , it will be an offensive defense . And all mixed up in the battle for Britain 's future will be the fiery figure of Mr. Bevan striking blows in who knows what diection.                     