@@714258

txt Letters to The Times IVINGSTON HARTLEY.ROBERT W. KING.E.R . BENJAMIN.DEWITT C. JONES Jr.HOWARD W. ... ) g. 30 Letters to The Times cars is the responsibility of the Board of Transportation . Perhaps the public should donate pots and pails plus soap and water , and also their services . We know water has been scarce , but the situation has eased a bit now , and soap has always been plentiful . What do the porters do ? Or , better yet , the super-visors ? Are they too busy riding in. automobiles to interest themselves whether the subways are being maintained in an average state of cleanliness ? . We do n't expect them to be bright and shiny  --  just a dime 's worth . E. R. BENJAMIN . Jackson Heights , N. Y. , Nov. 3 , 19514 Instructing Trainees Need for Good Instructors Stressed in Connection With U. M. T. Federations in the U. N. Korth Atlantic Community Believed Contributing to U. N. Success re THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Richard W. Flournoy 's letter on Nov . I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ United Nations would not be consistent with Article 2 of the . Charter , which provides that the organization is based on the principle of sovereign equality of all its members . This view appears to overlook certain considerations . Since the Charter can not be amended ' without Russian consent and- since Russia would oppose any Western federation , the Charter , according to this view , would legally bar any federation of U. N. members indefinitely . If so , the Charter would constitute a barrier to complete international integration instead of a framework in which such integration can proceed . Integration pointing toward future federation , a natural development at this stage of history , is already under way within the North , Atlantic Community . There is reason to believe that the Charter is a much more flexible - instrument than Mr. Flournoy 's letter suggests . Recent actions taken by the General Assembly in the field of international security are evidence of this flexibility . At the present time , moreover , the United Nations includes two members , Ukraine and Byelorussia , which do not possess @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ centralization of governmental power in Russia , they actually possess less " sovereignty " than the State of New York . This multiple membership of Soviet Russia in the U. N. furnishes a concrete precedent for future multiple membership by an Atlantic Union . If this type of representation were not deemed desirable , other procedures would be possible . For example , all the nations of the federation except one might withdraw from the U. N. , allowing the federation to succeed to the membership of the remaining nation . To see this question in perspective , we must realize that the most important development now taking place in the field of international security is the progressive integration of the North Atlantic Community . This development does not harm the U. N. but contributes directly and powerfully to the success of the U. N. It is likely to contribute more effectively to that success when it reaches the stale of federation . LIVINGSTON HARTLEY . Washington , Nov. 5 , 1951 , Foreign Policy Seen as Foolhardy To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TINIES : Seldom do neighboringcolumns of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ your leading editorial of Oct. 31 and the letter from William R. Mathews . The former presents a picture of utter blackness and despair , the latter a keen and lucid account of the foolhardiness of our present foreign policy and the official propaganda that accompanies it . Your editorial says , " The United States arms not for war but for peace . " How often have these fatuous words been spoken before in other nations only to have them prove the prelude to armed conflict ? So it is with your equally pointless assertion that " Our program is for peace through strength . " It should be obvious to a child that there are portions of the earth in which we can never match the Russians in strength , just as reciprocally there are areas in which we can always be supreme . But , what is most important , there are areas in which a test of armed strength is unthinkable , notably Western Europe . Should Russia essay European territory and the United States attempt its libefation the final result would be a more wretched mess @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It is virtually certain that- the European peoples would go to extreme negotiational lengths with Russia to avoid our brand of salvation . If it is true that the Kremlin would like to see a center of communism established in the Western Helnisphere , your editorial recounts for their delectation how this is being brought about by our official maladroitness without their so much as lifting-a finger . The steps are elementary  --  back-breaking taxation coupled with spending so colossal that inflation is coming on apace ; jettisoning of the concept of individual liberty by prolonging the draft and then freezing it in the mold of U. M. T. ; extreme solicitude for the postwar status quo , virtually throughout the world , but especially in such notably unstable areas as the Near East , Greece , Turkey and Yugoslavia . But most erroneous of all is the notion , now the official doctrine of the United States , that the spread of an idea like communism , with , its blandishments for a better way of life , can be held in check with guns .. ROBERT W. KING . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Dirty Subway Cars Protested To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TurEs : In all the time that I have been traveling on the Queens B. M. T. line I have never been greeted with clean , well-lighted cars . This morning the zenith in filth had been reached . The particular car that I was in was not only littered with papers , scraps and wrappers but also the floors were covered with dirt at least an inch thick . I shall not mention the windows , which evidently are only for ornamentation preserved in dust . The paper-strewing is , of course , pure carelessness on- the part of the traveling public , who , we must assume , do the same in their own homes . However , the degree of thickness of the dirt embedded in the seats and floors of the To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK Those It was with the greatest interest that I read in THE TIMES the summary of the report of the National Security , Training Commission . As one of the old Plattsburg crowd in the summer of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the winter and spring of 1917 , a " ninetyday wonder " graduate of the First Officers Training Camp in that summer and thereafter a combat infantry officer , I am delighted to see this forwardlooking step in the direction of adequate military preparedness and training , and whatever may be the flaws in the plan of the commission , I trust , as I am sure do many others , that Congress will adopt it , at least in principle , The report stresses , most wisely it would seem , the *absolute necessity of the trainees being furnished with " topnotch " instructors . This may well be the most important point in the whole scheme . It may be that since those old days of 1917 , in the Second World War and later , the Army viewpoint has changed . I hope so , but am worried none the less . It would have been hard to find , then or later , any more enthusiastic or hard-working group of educated men than those attending the Plattsburg voluntary camps . There the instruction was excellent . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ war and faced with the actualities of military life , and many of the same men were training to be officers of a brand-new Army , for the most part of raw draftees , with the pressing necessity for first class instruction in techniques and leadership , what did we find in the officers training camps ? The enthusiasm , keenness and eagerness to work hard and learn were even more pronounced than at Plattsburg . But apart from the inadequacies of the training schedule , with its superemphasis on outmoded Army regulations and other non-essentials , the instruction itself was miserable . In talking to many who took thid , training and later became excellent officers  --  not only from my own camp but from many others from one end of the country to the other  --  opinion was unanimous . With some notable and outstanding exceptions , the Regular Army officers assigned as instructors were either lazy , incompetent or uninterested  --  or all three . ? We learned more in one month in Plattsburg than in the three in O. C.S. In the latter , it seemed that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ precept , was in " goldbricking " ? " Sergeant , carry on " and all that stuff . Those who turned out good officers , as many did , did so despite and not because of their Regular Arwy officer instructors . Of course , many regulars undoubtedly felt that to be assigned to instruction was to be sidetracked from command and the " brass " wanted to save their best men for other jobs . But it is to be hoped and strongly urged at every turn that the U. M. T. trainees will , as the report recommends , be far better served by their instructors than we old-timers of the early days of the war in ' 17 . DEWITT C. JONES Jr . Princeton , N. J ? Nov. 1 , 1951 . Rent and Wage Increases TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW Yeas TIMES : President Philip Murray told the delegates to the recent C. I. 0 . convention in New York City that the 20 per cent increase in rents permitted landlords on residential properties still under federal control was one of the reasons @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . To be fair it should be pointed out that this rent increase was the first that most landlords under federal control had since rent control went into effect , During this same period nine wage increases were granted . Of course , this rent increase does not apply to landlords in New York State , most of whose landlords have had no increase since rent control became effective . HOWARD W. TONER , Brooklyn , Nov. 10 , 1951 . Civic Cooperation Cited To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Two years ago the Catholic people of Owensboro , Ky. , were faced with the necessity of obtaining $700,000 for new schools . The people of Owensboro ? white , black , Jews , Protestants . and Catholics  --  quickly sent in contributions to cover the amount required . This year the Methodist Church decided to move Kentucky Wesleyan College ( a fully accredited four-year college ) to Owensboro . A million-dollar fund wad asked for . In two months the quota was oversubscribed , in individual contributions . Again , white , black , Jews , - Protestants @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the whole country be as generous in consideration for the other fellow 's viewpoint ? To me this is the essence of the spirit upon which our country was founded . J. C. Itzma . Owensboro , Oct. 81 , 1951.                     