@@715515

txt A bi-state agency to administer throughout this port the waterfront reforms proposed by the New York State Crime Commission will be created by the Legislatures of this state and New Jersey before the end of this month . It may take several months , however , before the new agency is staffed and begins imposing the controls , including registration of dock workers . In simultaneous announcements here and in Trenton , Governor Dewey and Gov . Alfred E. Driscoll disclosed their support of the Crime Commission 's program for curbing racketeering and other waterfront evils . Identical measures to establish the controls and authorize the bistate agency will be offered in the New Jersey Legislature , which will return June 22 from a four-week recess , and the New York Legislature , which Mr. Dewey will call into special session on June 22 or 29 . The cost of the new agency , estimated at $700,000 to $1,000,000 a year . will be levied on the maritime industry through fees for licensing and other services , Mr. Dewey said . He pointed out that the State @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ financed by the fees of groups they served . Single Executive Planned The bi-state agency will be headed by a single administrator . Governor Dewey said this would be more effective than the commission form of administration . He said the administrator would have to be " a combination of J. Edgar Hoover and the angel Gabriel . " Pointing out that Congressional approval was required by Article 1 , Section 10 of the Constitution for a pact between states , Governor Dewey said the New York and New Jersey Legislatures would enact standby safeguards against delay in imposing the controls if Congress should not vote approval this session . The standby legislation would set up identical , but separate New York and New Jersey agencies ' that could be merged as soon as Congressional approval was given . The twin announcements of the Governors ' unanimity came only eighteen hours after Mr. Dewey had ended a two-day public hearing here at which forty-six speakers expressed varied views on the commission 's proposals and the complex problems posed by some of them . Governor Dewey called reporters to his suite in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made his announcement in the State House in Trenton . Mr. Dewey said a few changes would be made in the commissionproposed controls . One will be to protect civil rights of pier workers who would , under the original proposal , have faced cancellation of registration , entailing loss of livelihood , if they refused to an*over questions at any investigation she agency might undertake . This proposal had been criticized at the hearing by all union spokesmen and by District Attorney Frank S. Hogan , the Rev. John M. Corridan , " the waterfront priest , " and by others as smacking of totalitarianism . Dock Workers to Register Governor Dewey made it clear that the legislation , already in draft form and undergoing revision of details , would keep the requirement that dock workers reglater with the agency and men with criminal records be kept out of positions of responsibility . Registration has been bitterly opposed by the International Long-1 shoremen 's Association , A. F. L. , Whose officials contend that , as designed by the Crime Commission , it would be tantamount to licensing . Pier @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ work stoppage if the Legislature adds them to the list of special occupations that now require licensing or registration . A second set of proposals by the Crime Commission , designed to end corruption and undemocratic rule of waterfront union locals , may be enacted into law at this month 's sessions , Governor Dewey , . revealed . The commission had recommended that this legislation be deferred until next year to give the unions opportunity meanwhile to clean their own houses . Governor Dewey indicated he had no faith that the I. L. A. would effect substantial ? reforms voluntarily . The longshore union , whose president , Joseph P. Ryan , is urrUer indictment for theft of union funds , faces expulsion from the American Federation of Labor at the Chicago convention in September unless it can convince the federation 's executive council by Aug. 10 that it has cleaned house . - " It is obvious that prompt and drastic action is necessary if we 're going to remove crime from the waterfront and from the unions , " Mr. Dewey declared . " We ca n't wait @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he favored limiting application of the proposed new union controls " solely to waterfront unions because of the special circumstances along the waterfront " Although the Crime Commission 's chief target was the I. L. A. , its report said that the union restrictions " would have to be drawn in general terms applicable to all urtions . " Governor Dewey believes that , instead of licensing public loaders , as proposed by the commission , . loading from piers to trucks and unloading of trucks at piers should be done by the shipping companies or the truckers . He said he agreed with speakers at the hearings who said there was no need for the independent contractors who call themselves public loaders . The two Governors said their agreement on the nature and administration of waterfront controls was the fruition of a conference they had held here a year and a half ago . At that time Mr. Dewey announced that the State Crime Commission would make a fullscale investigation of waterfront evils and Mr. Driscoll pledged his state 's fullest cooperation . Governor Dewey said he and Mr. Driscoll @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Commission and the New Jersey Law Enforcement Council several times recently and had reached final agreement in a telephone conversation yesterday morning . He said legal experts and crime agency commissioners from both states would work together on the final draft of the proposed legislation , which will be made public a week in advance of the legislative session . After the bi-state agency is set up there will be public hearings on its regulations before they become effective . City 's Stopgap Offer Out The announcement disposed with finality of the offer by the New York City administration that it administer the proposed controls as a stopgap measure until such time as a bi-state agency could take over . The offer , made ' Tuesday on behalf of Mayor Impellitteri by Edward J. Cavanagh Jr. , Commissioner of Marine and Aviation , had been doomed even before it was made , it became apparent from the disclosure of Mr. Dewey 's and Mr. Driscoll 's recent conversations about administering the controls . Governor Dewey said the agency-directed employment information centers would eliminate the shape-up method of hiring and " not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ also the licensing of stevedore companies , hiring bosses and port watchmen . The 350 miles of developed waterfront in this city and near-by Jersey communities are expected to become an Inter-union battleground if the A. F. L. revokes the charter of the I. L. A. and charters a new longshore union .                     