@@720909

txt President Eisenhower believes that the risks of non-agreement on disarmament are " enorr. mous " compared with the danger of ' evasion involved in any arms pact . The President made his views ' known in a letter from Augusta , Ga. , dated Nov. 17 and made ( public today by Senator Hubert I H. Humphrey , Democrat of Minnesota . Even the most elaborate disarmament agreements are likely to carry " some risks , at least theoretically , of evasion " by : some of the signatory nations ; ' the President said . " But one must ponder , " he " went on , " the enormous risks ' ' entailed if reasonable steps arenot taken to curb the interna1 tional competition in armaments . " Atomic War Feared Success in the quest for con trolling and reducing arena= ments , he said , " will bring . greater security to all countries and lift the threat of devastating nuclear conflict . " Senator Humphrey , as chait : = man of a Senate subcommittee on disarmament , had written the President urging @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Min ; : . nesotan , also .. urged early pas ; sage of a Senateresolution , thit would remove the reservation imposed by the Senate on its se-an ceptance of jurisdiction by the International Court of Justice. ? The reservation is one that would permit the United Stabs to declare " essentially domesticf ! : an issue that it did not wish the court to hear . The President declared his inr tention to " restate to the Congress my support forfthe elimination of this restriction . " Better Position Sought Such action , the President held , " would place the United , States in a better position . to urge other countries to agree . to wider jurisdiction of the Intei:z national Court of Justice . " ? ; The President said that one of the chief efforts of this country in the " last half dozen years " had been to try to develop means for controlling and cutting armaments , The President said he was hopeful that the present talks at Geneva on discontinuance of atomic-weapons testing would produce agreement . Senator Humphrey wrote the President @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lasting peace was particularly urgent now , after the . recent visit of Premier Khrut shchev of the Soviet Union . Such a move , the Senator . said , would make it doubly clear to the entire world that ; " while we shall strive mightily. for a peaceful resolution of So -- viet-U . S. differences , our goal // // . bas not shifted toward a two:power world . " Instead , he said , " we continue . to look resolutely toward an in , ternational system in which the rights of all nations-will be re ; : spected , regardless of size or military power . " Text of Letter Following is the text of the President 's letter : " Dear Senator Humphrey : " I write now in further reply . to your letter of Oct. 21 , 1959 . " One of the great purposes of this Administration has been to advance the rule of law in the ' world , through actions directly , by the United States Government and in concert with the : governments of other countries . It is open to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of ? esisting interna  --  tional institutions and through the adoption of changes and improvements in those institutions . " Timely consideration by the United Nations of threatening . situations , hi Egypt in 1956 , in Lebanon in 1958 and in Laos in 1959 , has made an important contribution to the preservation of international peace and security . The continued development of mutual defense and security arrangements among the United States and a large number of free-world countries has - provided a powerful deterrent . against international law-breaking . One can not , however , be satisfied with the way events have developed in some areas ? for example , Hungary and Tibet . The international community needs to find more effective means to cepe with and to prevent such brutal uses of force . " One of the principal efforts of the United States in the last half dozen years has been to devise effective means for controlling and reducing armaments . Success in this quest will bring greater security to all , countries and lift the threat of devastating nuclear conflict . In order to make progress toward @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ United Nations resolution recently sponsored by the United States and the other members of the General Assembly , this Government has followed ' the policy of seeking reliable ' international agreements on manageable segments of the - whole arms problem . i am hope- , ful that the current Geneva ne-i gotiations on discontinuance of nuclear weapons tests will produce agreement . A resulting treaty would , of course , be submitted to the Senate . Some Risks Seen " Next year the United States will be participating in further disarmament efforts to be undertaken by a group of ten nations which will , as appropriate , report on its progress to the United Nations Disarmament Commission and General Assembly . The best and most carefully elaborated disarmament agreements are likely to carry with them some risks , at least , theoretically , of evasion . But one must ponder , in reaching ' decisions on the very complex and difficult subject of arms control , the enormous risks entailed if reasonable steps are not taken to curb the international competition in armaments and to move effectively in the direction of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Congress on the State of the Union in January . 1959 , and from expressions by the Vice President , the Secretary of State . and the Attorney , Associated , es QUOTES EISENHOWER : Senator Hubert H. Humphrey , Minnesota Democrat . He made President 's letter public yesterday General , the Administration is anxious to contribute to the greater effectiveness of the International Court of Justice . The Administration supports elimination of the automatic reservation to the court 's jurisdiction by which the United States has reserved to itself the right to determine unilaterally whether a subject of litigation lies essentially within domestic jurisdiction . I intend , therefore , on art appropriate occasion , to restate to the Congress my support for the elimination of this reservation . Elimination of this automatic reservation from our own declaration accepting compulsory jurisdiction would place the United States in a better position to urge other countries to agree to wider jurisdiction of the International Court of Justice . " I appreciate having your views on this vitally important subject . " 