@@719263

txt Letters to The Times ELINOR G. BLACK , ( Mrs. Algernon D. Black ) JO ANN PIASECKI.GERARD BRAUNTHAL , ARN ... Letters to The Times To Outlaw Bias in Housing Passage of Bill Asked as Aid to Education Against Prejudice To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : With the election over we hope that the City Council will turn promptly to the vital unfinished business embodied in the SharkeyBrown-Isaacs bill to outlaw discrimination in private housing . The bill has been thoroughly debated and amended and should be passed in substantially its present form , with the Commission on Intergroup Relations the agency to implement it . - The supporters of the bill are not naive , enough to believe that ' hy itself it would end discrimination overnight . They know , however , that it would set an invaluable climate for education against prejudice , which does not take Naze in a vacuum , but on a stage set by law and affirmed public policy . The bill , further , is an essential tool for breaking a vicious circle in our slum-clearance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ family occupancy as such that depresses the value of real estate , but the myth that this will happen . It is this fear which induces waves of selling resulting in lowered values when minority families move into a neighborhood . What really causes property depreciation is ' overcrowding and lack of proper maintenance . This will never stop as long as minorities are confined within limited areas of the city , which permits landlords to take advantage of their helplessness . Overcrowded Areas At present all we do when we clear one deteriorated area of the city is to crowd its minority families into another confined area which in turn becomes overcrowded and depressed . Passage of this bill is an essential step in destroying this myth and its dangerous consequences . A much-bruited argument against the bill has been that it would deprive tenants of the right to choose their neighbors . This , however , is for New York City a nonexistent right  --  tenants in multiple dwellings never have had a voice in choosing the other people their landlord rents to . They do have the right @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , good housekeepers and good credit risks , and none of these protections is taken away by the bill . But these qualities are not associated with any race , . creed , color or national origin . What the bill does is to forbid using these false standards as a basis for denying a person the right to shelter of his choice . Further delay or defeat of this bill would be an admission that New York City , despite its moral horror at what has happened in Little Rock , does not itself believe in the civil rights that it professes to uphold . For all recognize that this is : more than a matter of housin4 ; we know especially that the schools we say we wish to integrate can never truly achieve this goal unless we desegregate our housing patterns . The time appears propitious for action . We believe that the results of the recent elections indicate that the people of the city wish their government to take this important step . KATHERINE W. STRAUSS , ( Mrs. Jerome L. Strauss ) President . ELINOR G. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Housing and Relocation Committee , Women 's . City Club of New York , Inc . New York , Sept. 7 , 1957 .. Screening of Scientists Backed To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : This is to take exception to one or two rather broad statements contained in a letter from Bernard D. Davis in The Times of Nov. 3 . Former United States Attorney Myles J. Lane said that the Rosenberg spy ring had given the Soviet Union information on an early earth satellite program in the United States . The consensus is that it has set us back at least twenty years . This is offered in rebuttal to the words of Bernard Davis that " it therefore seems unlikely that the development of the Soviet bomb * * * , seriously depended on the information contributed by Fuchs , the Rosenbergs , et al . " In the latter portion of his letter , he condemns the security measures for screening Government employes . This is certainly a very lax attitude for any citizen of the United States tl embrace , since screening is never @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Jo ANN PIASECKI . Fair Lawn , N. J. , Nov. 4 , 1957 . Economic Aid for Mideast To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Our lack of imaginative planning and failure to wrest the initiative from the Russians in recent years was evidenced again by a remark of the Secretary of State at his press conference of Oct. 29 . He stated that the Administration was not contemplating a vast economic aid program in the Middle East to counterbalance Communist influence , , although , he added , the solution of some political problems would lead to " economic aid programs of various kinds . " Granted that a political settlement must be linked to an economic plan for the Middle East , such as the establishment of a Jordan River Authority , would it not be advisable , however , for the United States Government , including . Congress , to give renewed and earnest consideration to an expanded , long-range Point Four program , arid to the support of the abortive Special United Nations Fund for Economic Development ( SUNFED ) ? While- the Soviet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ keg and is scoring a decisive propaganda coup among the uncommitted nations as a result of the sputnik voyage the United States should seize this opportunity to recoup our waning prestige abroad , and to instill hope for a more plentiful future in the poverty-stricken peoples of the world by striking out boldly in the economic realm . GERARD BRAUNTHAL , Assistant Professor of Government , University of Massachusetts . Amherst , Mass. , Nov. 1 , 1957 , Arab Students ' Activities Use of Exchange his letter published Nov. 5 , makes my accusations against Arab exchange students in the United States a matter of manners when really it is a matter of morals . Poor " taste " indeed ! Does Mr. Atalla believe it to be good taste for Arab students  --  residing on American college campuses as guests , at the partial expense of the United States  --  to spend their off-campus time attacking the American Government for its foreign policy , vilifying whole sections or American citizens for their charitable and cultural activities and justifying the political pro-Soviet misdeeds of their . respective Governments ? The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to our country to speak as freely as American citizens . Indeed , a common purpose of our student exchange program and the AntiDefamation League itself is the encouragement of the free interchange of ideas , by persons of different backgrounds . We would be the last to suggest that this objective of the exchange program be diluted by the placing of restrictions upon the activities of the foreign student , different from those imposed upon American citizens . But it is another matter , and this is the burden of the league 's report , when these students are mobilized along political lines and organized into an active force for propaganda by and on behalf of foreign powers . Part of Arab League Our report dwells specifically on the Organization of Arab Stuuents , which , far from being an independent group devoted solely to answering questions about the Middle East , is part and parcel of the Arab League 's organization for political propaganda in ' this country . . This propaganda , manufactured in Cairo , is anti-Western in nature and attacks United States motives . The Organization @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , its mentor in its propaganda effort is the Arab Information Center , the propaganda arm of the Arab League in . the United States . As stated ay Director Itahim of the center , addressing the Fourth Organization of Arab Students Convention in 1955 : " I have reported to the Arab League your activities ' and the services you can render to your nation , and recommended a special appropriation in our budget to be allocated to your organization . I am glad to announce that my request was ( granted ) . " Arab students who take part in. the 0 . A. S. propaganda program violate the purpose and spirit of the exchange student program which brought them to the United States . Their following of a directed propaganda line is what would be expected of agents of foreign Governments registered as such under the Foreign Agents Registration Act , not from exchange students whose visas are granted solely for the purpose of study . ARNOLD FORSTER , General Counsel , ' Anti-Defamation League of B'nai B'rith , New York , Nov. 6 , 1957 . Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Truss : On behalf of the Queens Civic Committee , we heartily endorse and congratulate The New York Times on the editorial of Nov. 6 " A OneParty Board . " We agree with your statement that Senator James J. Crisona has a good record in the Legislature , and we know that he will make a good Borough President . JOHN RAPP. , President , Queens Civic Committee . Woodhaven , N. Y. , Nov. 6 , 1957.                     