@@712843

txt IS IT HIS OR NATURE 'S ? Dr. Wallace E. Howell standing in the snow at City Hall Park while New Yorkers wondered if his rainmaking efforts might have induced yesterday 's freakish snow . Associated Press Howell 's Snow ' Irks Some But City Calls It Fine Stuff By CHARLES 0 . BENNETT A mystified New York woke up yesterday morning to find unseasonable snow swirling in the air , a blanket of the stuff on rooftops , slush on the sidewalks and the mercury ? at 6:45 A. M. ? down to 25.2 degrees , a record low for April 14 . Dr. Wallace E. Howell , the city 's consultant meteorologist , who seeded Catskill clouds by air Thursday and whose ground battalions began their assault on the heavens yesterday with silver iodide smoke , was inclined to give most of the credit for yesterday 's weather to Mother Nature , but the rank-and-file citizens were not so sure . Some of them were'actually irate about it . For several hours in the morning the telephone wires at City Hall buzzed with calls from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bridges . They put angry blame on " Howell 's snow . " In White Plains , snow shovels that had been put away for the season were hastily returned to service by householders who had few kind things to say about New York 's efforts to create more moisture . In Kingston , near the watershed area , John E. Egan eyed those efforts with suspicion . Attorney for several Catskill property owners and civic groups , Mr. Egan has started action in Kingston Supreme Court to restrain New York from making rain . Such activities are // AS . UNEXPECTED SNOWSTORM HIT NEW YORK AND SUBURBS YESTERDAY alleged to be a menace to farms and fields . Not Sure Howell Did It " We are sitting tight right now , " Mr. Egan said . " We are not satisfied that Howell made the snow , although he seems to take credit for it . At this moment it might be a natural snowfall . But if he keeps on working we may be able to connect him with it . " Two generators spewing silver iodide smoke into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ watershed in an effort to squeeze more water from reluctant clouds . The Catskills , like New York , were enjoying an unexpected snowfall . Taking advantage- of the snow clouds two Park Department station wagons drawing the two generator-laden trailers set out from Ashokan Reservoir about 9 A. M. Keeping in touch by radio , the cars deployed over an area in the general region of Cobleskill . The generators burned a solution of silver iodide , giving forth particles so fine as to be virtually invisible . Wafted heavenward in the smoke , the particles were spread by the winds , serving as nuclei to form crystals within the clouds to fall as snowflakes . Viewing the swirling snowflakes from the twenty-fourth floor offices of the Water Department in the Municipal Building , Dr. Howell said cautiously " it was conceivable " that the smoke operations in the Catskills could , depending on the wind , extend slightly the duration of the snowfall here . Preliminary reports of his initial cloud-seeding Thursday , Dr. Howell said , were " encouraging , but not as yet conclusive . " He @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the clouds became heavier and that snow was " intensified " after the seeding with dry ice . Stephen J. Carney , Commissioner of Water Supply , Gas and Electricity , was unrestrained in his praise of Dr. Howell and the scientist 's methods . The commissioner congratulated Dr. Howell on his " modest , cautious procedure " and said that Mayor O'Dwyer also was pleased . Mr. Carney congratulated also the people of New York who on this week 's Dry Thursday , according to final figures , used only 882 , - 000,000 gallons of water , 5,000,000 less than on Dry Thursday last week and 9,000,000 less than on March 30 . He was especially . pleased , he said , with the showing made by Brooklyn , his home borough , which percentagewise showed a saving over the average daily water use of the Oct. 2 to 8 base week of 21.5 per cent , better than the 19 per cent of the week before . The Manhattan-Bronx percentage was 24 , down from the 24.6 of a week ago . The Queens percentage was 16.7 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had been 23.2 on ? April 6 , registered 22.8 per cent this week . Mr. Carney announced another water holiday for next Thursday and said he hoped the results would be " even better than those of this week . " Figures released by Edward J. Clark , chief engineer of the Bureau of Water Supply , showed that a 680,000,000-gallon gain in the twenty-four hours ended 8 A. M. yesterday had boosted the Catskill and Croton reservoirs to an even 77 per cent of capacity-194,825 , - 000,000 gallons . While th egain was the lowest in three weeks , new watersheds rains and snows indicated an additional estimated ultimate run-off of 1,590,000,000 gallons . A year ago supplies totaled 240,267,000,000 gallons , or 94.9 per cent . Yesterday 's snowfall dumped a one-inch coating of white over the city and its environs . In near-by Suffolk County there was a threeinch fall . Snow also fell in New England , New Jersey and Pennsylvania . The latest date on which New York city ever had a measurable amount of snow was April 15 in 1892 , when three @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was recorded was May 6 in 1891 . There was a trace of sleet on April 21 , 1947 . The crews manning the silver iodide smoke operations in the Cat-1 skills were under the command of John A. Aalto , Water Department engineer in charge of the Catskill watershed . One machine traveled on Route 42 through Bushnellville Notch to Prattsville and on to Cobleskill . The second car followed Route 10 to East Worcester . They concluded their tours at 1:35 13 , M. at Middleburg . Most of the smoke generating was done between 11 A. M. and 1 P.M. The sun came out soon after that . Dr. Howell said he had no plans for cloud-seeding today either from the air or the ground .                     