@@717007

txt The National Foundation for Infantile Paralysis announced yesterday that the 9,000,000 children to be immunized at its expense with the Salk triple anti-polio vaccine would get only two shots this year . Three were administered last year . The reason for the change is the recent finding by Dr. Jonas E. Salk , originator of the vaccine , that the third , or " booster " shot , should be given no sooner than seven months after the first two " conditioning " shots . The third shot will not be paid for or administered nationally by the Foundation . The New York City Health Department said the city would pay for the third shot and give it free as part of its polio immunization program . In Augusta , Ga. , where he Is vacationing , President Eisenhower directed Mrs. Oveta Culp Hobby , the Secretary of Health , Education and Welfare , to take steps to assure a fair distribution of the vaccine . In the mass field trials of 1954 , which proved that the Salk vaccine was effective in protecting a large percentage @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shots were given one week apart . The third shot was given one month after the second . Dr. Salk 's studies , reported at Ann Arbor , Mich. , on Tuesday , revealed that the period of one month between the second and third inoculations was not enough to call forth the " booster " effect . The most effective procedure , Dr. Sall-z 's latest studies show , is to give the first two inoculations two to four weeks apart . The first two shots , Dr. Salk i found , should provide immunity against paralytic polio at least into 1956 . The third shot should then extend the immunity for an indefinite period , perhaps years , and maybe even a lifetime . Exposure to a living virus in an epidemic , it was pointed out , provides immunity against only one specific type of virus . The immunity provided by the Salk triple vaccine , on the other hand , protects against all the three types of virus known to cause paralytic poliomyelitis . Dr. Hart Van Riper , medical director of the paralysis foundation , stated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made on the recommendation of the foundation 's Vaccine Advisory Committee of six leading polio authorities . They are headed by Dr. Thomas E. Rivers , director of the Rockefeller Institute for Medical Research . The pharmaceutical houses manufacturing the Salk vaccine agreed to supply the foundation with vaccine sufficient to immunize all school children in the first and second grades throughout the United States and its territories and all children who participated in the 1954 field trials but who received dummy shots , called placebos . Reducing the primary shots from three to two will save approximately 9,000,000 doses of one cubic centimeter each . These 9,000.000 doses , it was said by Basil O'Connor , the foundation 's president , wiff remain with the pharmaceutical houses for distribution through commercial channels . They will thus provide the first two doses , sufficient to provide immunity until before the onset of the 1956 polio season , for an additional 4,500,000 children immediately . These doses will be administered at the expense of parents . 500,000 to Get ' Boosters ' However , the foundation will offer a " booster " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the 1954 field trials . This was also recommended by Dr. Salk . The decision by the foundation to give two instead of three shots will lead at once to the following : 9The available s'lltly of vaccine will be sufficient to immunize 13.500,000 children instead of 9,000,000. 9The change will save the foundation a. total of about $3,000,000 , to be used in helping polio victims of earlier seasons . 9The step will greatly reduce the temporary shortage of the vaccine for commercial channels and will give the manufacturers time to catch up on their production . Vaccine for 30 Million Dr. Van Riper reiterated yesterday his belief that enough vaccine to immunize 30,000,000 individuals would be available by the end of June , before the onset of the 1955 polio season . Any threat of a black market because of a shortage was reduced considerably by information from leading pharmaceutical houses producing the vaccine . A spokesman for Eli Lilly &; Company of Indianapolis , one of the largest of the manufacturers , said that the production capacity of his company was 4.500.000 cubic centimeters of vaccine a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inoculation , for 2,250,000 individuals . This figure represents about one-third of the production capacity of the six manufacturers of the vaccine , with Parke , Davis &; Company producing an equal amount . The other four are producing the remaining third . The total is sufficient to give the two shots to 6,750,000 a month . This would provide sufficient vaccine for 16,875,000 by June 30 , in addition to the 13,500,000 now available , or a grand total of 30,375,000 . The amount produced by the Lilly Company for the Foundation , about 8,000,000 cubic centimeters , the spokesman said , is only a small part of the company 's productive capacity . Last summer . he said , the company converted a five-story building to be used entirely for production of the Salk vaccine . By late autumn the company had a technical force of 100 working on vaccine manufacture . " While we did not know whether the vaccine would work , " the Lilly spokesman said , " public service and prestige demanded that we be ready in case it proved effective . We would have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " The same viewpoint held for the other manufacturers , all of which took a calculated financial risk . The reason his company and , presumably , the others are not willing to state the amount they have on hand , the Lilly spokesman explained , is that the vaccine produced last fall has to be tested for safety and potency at least four times . It takes twenty-one days to carry out all the painstaking tests , the spokesman asserted , and at present the various lots of vaccine on hand are in various stages of testing Hence , he said , until all the lots have been thoroughly tested , " we can not really tell just how much of an effective stockpile we have on hand . " When all tests have been made , samples of each lot of the vaccine , together with voluminous reports on the tests , are submitted to the National Institutes of Health of the United States Public Health Service . This has the final word on the release of the vaccine for general use . All this indicates that in twenty-one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than it is now . " Unless unforeseen difficulties are encountered , " the spokesman said , " the vaccind production should be rolling smoothly before summer . The public need not be frantic about getting it . "                     