@@719935

txt In contrast to the regal setting , the Premier mounted the podium dressed in a dark gray civilian business suit . Equally striking was the decoration with the Legion of Honor of 99 industrial and farm workers from all over France , including a shepherd , entitling them to wear the much-sought-after thin , red ribbon in their buttonholes . This is an honor which up until now has been usually reserved for members of the middle and upper classes . General de Gaulle is reported to have ordered this departure with the words , " It is time to debourgcoisise the ribtron . " Populace Invited , A general invitation had gone out for the people to come and hear the Premier and the hour was set at 6:25 so workers could participate . If this suggests tens of thousands of French people spontaneously coming and pouring into the square to support the presentation of a new constitution , the facts were quite different . Particularly because the Place de la Republique is in a working-class district and the Communists had promised to disturb the meeting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ough a - number of police harriers , First , the entire square was blocked off by heavy welded tubular steel fences , replacing the old wooden ones which could be too easily broken up into clubs . Next , only persons carrying a large card of invitation were permitted to enter the square . This cut the crowd in the square clown to about 10,000 . Most of it was empty because the police held the noncardholders behind the barriers at the entrances to the square . Those with cards faced a second steel barrier keeping them at least 200 feet from General de Gaulle . Finally , in front of these barriers was a third set behind which the press and certain special guests were placed . In front of these were two military Science Monitor bands , one on either side , while Garde arde Republicaine flanked the podium in their shiny helmets , tall black boots , white pants , and highly ornamented coats . This meant that ordinary citi7CIIS could at best only stand at the edge of the square , where powerful loudspeakers sent the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which enter the place , Behind these were second sets of barriers , for the police to use if they met any heavy movements from beyond , And it was from " beyond " that the Communists finally came to shout " no " to the constitution , to jeer and insult General de Gaulle . and to throw iron gratings and pieces of pavement at the police in a series of riots which lasted until 9 o'clock and resulted in 24 police and 10 demonstrators injured . Car Attacked This writer , trying to drive away after the meeting in a car with Arthur Watt of the Army Times , ran into a typical incident . When we were stopped by traffic ahead , a threatening mob of powerfully built young men in tS bite shirts , with their sleeves rolled up . moved in on our car . kicked and beat it a ith their fists , and then started to rock it . From somewhere a rough but friendly voice said . " You 'd better move out and quick or you 'll be overturned and eaten up @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ left into the opposing traffic lane , which was empty because no one was going to the square , and in a burst of speed drove down the wrong side of the street to a crossing ahead , manned by police , the Communist toughs shrieking insults as the car was snatched out of their hands . I then proposed a back way which would not identify us as coming from the square . and we were finally able to work our way to the main boulevards. where order prevailed .                     