@@720968

txt President Eisenhower arrived in Paris tonight to lead the Western Allies in their search for peace with the Soviet Union . The President received a formal . al'most perfunctory welcome from President Charles de Gaulle of France when he got off his special train at the Gare de Lyon . There were no cheering crowds to rival those that had Text of Eisenhower 's speech at Toulon is on Page 3. greeted the President on his triumphant tour of Asia and the Middle East . But it was late at night and none were expected . Leaders to Confer Today Tomorrow morning President Eisenhower will meet President de Gaulle , Prime Minister Harold Macmillan of Britain and Chancellor Konrad Adenauer of West Germany in the first session of the Western summit conference . The primary objective of the conference is to concert Western policies for the coming negotiations with the Soviet Union . A secondary , and increasingly important , objective is the settlement of differences between France and the United States , the latter backed by a majority of its allies , over the military structure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wants integration of command in a tight alliance . France seeks retention of national command in coalition . The President , authoritative American sources said , will be just as categorical in his advocacy of integration as Secretary of State Christian A. Herter and Secretary of Defense Thomas S. Gates Jr . were in their speeches to the NATO Council on Tuesday and Wednesday . It can be assumed , the source said , that the President will raise the integration issue with President de Gaulle in their private talk tomorrow if General de Gaulle does not take up the point first . President Eisenhower set foot on French soil at Toulon this morning after a voyage from Tunis aboard the cruiser Des Moines . His first words on French soil reaffirmed the oldest of America 's alliances , that with France , and stated the United States ' desire for peace . " We are stronger for the pursuit of peace than possibly we have ever been in our history , " the President declared . Pledges Pursuit of Peace Standing before the French Tricolor , which flapped in a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his conviction in the cause of peace . " We are part of a great coalition that is determined from a position of strength to pursue peace with every bit of wisdom and certainly with every bit of heartfelt emotion that we possibly can . " he said . If this " struggle " is waged with the same intensity that France and the United States have employed in the vicissitudes of their alliance , " we shall one day win through to success , " the President added . The Presidential party traveled to Paris on one of the fastest and most luxurious trains of France 's nationalized railways . Although it is capable of speeds of eighty-seven miles an hour , the train was held to sixty-seven miles an hour in deference to the importance of its principal passenger . Herter Briefs President Soon after the train left Toulon , the President and Secretary of State Herter reviewed the work of the North Atlantic Council , whose three-day meeting ended here yesterday , and discussed the issues before the Western summit conference . Since President Eisenhower is head of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Paris was attended by more ceremony than the arrivals of Mr. Macmillan and Dr. Adenauer by air this afternoon . As heads or government they had been met by secondary figures in the French Government . But President de Gaulle , head of the French state , dignified and austere , was on hand to welcome President Eisenhower while the sabers of the Garde Rdpublicaine flashed to a salute . Through his interpreter , Lieut . Col. Vernon Walters , the President chatted cheerfully with President de Gaulle in the few minutes between his arrival and his departure for the residence of Ambassador Amory Houghton . The essential seriousness of the welcome emphasized the change in the President 's role from that of a salesman of Western democracy in Asia , Africa and the Middle East to that of the leading statesman of the troubled Atlantic alliance . The residence was brightly lighted for the President and Mrs. Houghton was on the doorstep to kiss him . Then the Marine guards shut the gates leading to the residence and President Eisenhower was alone with the problems of the Western alliance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ continents , the President is faced with the task of coordinating different national policies for the coming negotiations with the Soviet Union and composing the dispute with France over national versus integrated forces . This dispute and opposing views on the approach to the Soviet Union are ma hula that most diplomats thought the Big Four would do well if they reached agreement on the date and site of a summit meeting . According to United States officials , a working party of diplomats from the four major Western powers has decided on the last ten days of April and Geneva as the time and place of the summit meeting . The leaders of two Western schools of thought on how to deal with Premier Khrushchev expressed optimism over the outcome of the Western summit conference on their arrival today . Prime Minister Macmillan , who has advocated a series of summit meetings with the Soviet Union since last April , arrived confident of success . Mr. Macmillan said he was convinced that the Western leaders would arrive " at that unity of views which is the essential prerequisite for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Dr. Adenauer , who arrived later in the afternoon , said that he , as well as Mr. Macmillan , President Eisenhower and President de Gaulle , believed in negotiations with the Soviet Union in the hope of relaxing global tension . " I am very much - convinced that these talks will have a successful end , " Dr. Adenauer said . All four allies , he declared , have the same aim : " the welfare and peace of Europe and the world . " Allies Differ on Approach These formal remarks by the British and German leaders underlined one of the principal differences of approach between the two governments . Dr. Adenauer saw the talks with Mr. Khrushchev as a means of , relaxing tension . Mr. Macmillan 's position is that tension has already relaxed and that the West must take advantage of the situation by negotiating soon on one or more key issues at the first of a series of meetings with the Soviet Union . France and the United States stand somewhere between these extreme views . General de Gaulle apparently accepts to some extent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Russians it must be at arm 's length . President Eisenhower and See'retary of State Herter believe that the state of nuclear armaments and changes in the Soviet Union in ithe last three years warrant ekploration of Soviet policies at the summit . Tomorrow 's work will begin at 9:30 A. M. , when General Eisenhower , Mr. Macmillan , General de Gaulle and Dr. Adenauer meet for a two-hour session at the Elysee Palace . Presidents Eisenhower and de Gaulle will then confer privately for an hour . The issue of integration is expected to come up at this meeting . The foreign ministers , who will meet at the Foreign Ministry in the morning , will join their chiefs for luncheon . In the afternoon there will be a two-and-a-half-hour plenary session involving the four heads of government and their foreign ministers and advisers .                     