@@718720

txt BOARD OF PAROLE ORDERS REVIEW OF LANZA 'S CASE Lefkowitz Rules That Agency Has Right to Reconsider . Charges of Violation By LAYHMOND ROBINSON Jr . The State Parole ' Board yesterday ordered- ? an official review of parole violation chargeS , against Joseph ( Sacks ) Lanza , ' convicted extortionist and former power in Tammany politics . The board 's order , announced by its chairman , Lee B. Mailler , followed a formal opinion by Attorney General Louis J. Lefkowitz that the board had the authority to reconsider the parole ? violation ? charges . The dismissal of the charges by Parole Commissioner James R. Stone on Feb. 19 touched off two state investigations and caused a furor in political circles . It also led to Mr. Stone 's resignation on . March 30 . Iii Albany , Governor Harriman said he thought it was " entirely appropriate " for the board to reconsider the Stone decision . Governor Harriman had appointed ? Mr. Stone a commissioner . Parole Period Ends in ' 58 Lanza , who has a number of relatives ind friends @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on Feb. 5 of violating his parole by consorting with known criminals and spending money in excess of his known income . He had served seven and a half years of a sentence of seven to fifteen years for extorting money from a local of the International , Brotherhood of Teamsters . He was paroled in 1950 . If he is not returned to prison , he will have less than a . Ye4r of his parole to complete . He will then be a free man . Mr. Mailler could not say exactly when the board would meet to reconsider the Lanza case . He said it would depend on how quickly the members could he assembled . In view of the importance of the case , however , the chances were considered excellent that the board would meet before the week was out , ' if not today , Rival Investigations Pushed The board 's membership was reduced to four by the resignation of Mr. Stone . The board members . and Mr. Stone have been questioned by Arthur L. Reuter , ' Acting Commissioner of Investigation , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ member of the Harriman Administration , and the Republican-controlled committee have been conducting rival investigations of the Lanza case for nearly three weeks . In his opinion , which was requested by the board Tuesday , Mr. Lefkowitz declared that " the Board of Parole may , in. its discretion , - revoke or modify any of its decisions for any reasons it may see fit . " Until the Lanza case , the board 's regulations permitted a single'member to decide whether a parolee accused of violations could be freed or returned to prison . Mr. Lefkowitz wrote that- " the power of the board to revoke or modify its decisions would clear // ly encompass the right ? to reconsider the previous determination made by a single member of the board . " He noted pie law gave the board the power . to make its own regulations " with regard to - conditions of , parole . " The Lanza case has already led to a tightening by the board of its regulations with , respect to one-man ' decisions . Its new rules require , a panel of three @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be returned ' to prison or restored to parole . Shortly after he announced the board 's decision to review the parole violation charges against the 57-year-old Lanza , Mr. Mailer picked up the records in the case from Mr. Reuter . Mr.- Reuter had sub= poenaed the records from the board 's New York- office , 320 Broadway , on March 25 . But while he was at Mr. Reuter 's office , 270 Broadway , Mr. Mailer was questioned again by the , Commissioner about his knowledge of the Lanza case , Question of Fix Studied Both Mr. Reuter and the watchdog committee are trying to find out whether a political fix was involved in Lanza 's restoration to parole . When he left Mr. Reuter 's office , Mr. Mailer declined to Oscuss fresh reports that two members " Of  --  the Legislature had communicated with the board in Lanza 's behalf . " Names in the board 's files are confidential , " he replied . Mr. Reuter also declined to comment on the reports . Mr. Reuter did say , however , that he had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I hope to be able to make a report to Governor Harriman very soon , " he said in response to questions . He said also that the , parole boars decision to , - review the case would not affect his - inquiry . Nor would it affect the investigation of the watchdog committee , according to , Assemblyman William F. Horan , ? Republican of Tuckahoe , ' who is chairman ? of the legislative body . " We 're going right ' ahead , " lie said from , his home last night . Mr. Horan said the committee , which has been ' holding closed sessions here since - Friday , ? would question the witnesses it . had scheduled for , this Saturday . Two of the witnesses are Mr. Stone , and Sylvester Cosentino , lawyer for the Lanza family . Both had received postponements . The Committees meets at 217 Broadway . It was also believed the committee would call Lanza himself . Lanza was questioned under oath for forty-five minutes Tuesday by Mr. Reuter , who said he had been a " non-cooperative " witness Oother @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Reuter yesterday were Lanza 's wife Ellen and his brother Harry . They had , been questioned by the watchdog committee and may be recalled by that ' body , perhaps on ' Saturday . The ' committee has not met since Tuesday . Another witness before Mr. Reuter was Thomas I. Fitzgerald , close friend of Carmine G. De Sapio , Democratic ' leader and New York 's Secretary of State . While he would not discuss what questions Mr : Reuter asked him , Mr. Fitzgerald said he had answered all of , them . He had been a surprise witness Monday before the watchdog committee . The committee 's formal title is the Joint Legislative Committee on Government Operations . It was set up by the Republicancontrolled Legislature to police the Democratic Administration of Governor Harriman.                     