@@716937

txt Premier Edgar Faure avoided today an overthrow of his Cabinet threatened by the action of ? rate . French taxpayers . . By staking his Cabinet against them , he persuaded his opponents to withdraw a motion that would have forced him to surrender to the tax revolt . The conflict was in fact only postponed for a week , until March 28 , when the Premier will submit a bill demanding special powers to make fiscal reforms . Six motions in all demanding abrogation of tax penalties were either withdrawn or defeatedIt was Pierre Poujade , a rural bookseller from south-central France , who was responsible for this threat to the ' Government . It came just as the advisory Council of the Republic was preparing to debate the Paris accords on West Germany . Gaullist and Independent tDeputies who had submitted - two motions withdrew them . A Communist motion was defeated , 393 to 209 . A Progressive motion was rejected , 389 to 213 . A motion by former Premier Rene Pleven 's Social Union was beaten , 347 to 240 . After @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ withdrew his motion . Throughout the night it had seemed as if the Premier 's uphill fight in the National Assembly would result in another Cabinet crisis . M. Poujade is the leader of a trademan 's revolt against taxation that has spread through the provinces . Surrounded by nearly 100 of his followers , he sat in the Assembly gallery throughout its debate on an appropriation group . The Poujade group had been invited by the Deputies who supported M. Poujade 's demands on the Government to revoke the penalties on tradesmen for tax delinquencies or for resisting inspection of their books . When the last motion for abrogation of the penalties - had been withdrawn , M. Poujade rose in the gallery and struck his fist on the railing . He took off his coat and stood in his shirtsleeves looking over the deputies . His attitude brought protests from the floor and from the press gallery . The galleries then were cleared by guards . M. Poujade and his followers had joked and shown signs of scorn of the Assembly until Premier Faure , in a fighting speech , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Cabinet would resign . " If you do not reject these motions , " M. Faure declared , " another Government will have to be formed tomorrow . " He did not ask a formal vote of confidence . But he said the resignation was implicit if the Assembly should reject his appeal not to cause a crisis that might delay the vote on the Paris accords . Such a delay , M. Faure told the Assembly , would not be understood by France 's allies . It was , in fact , a combination of the Deputies who feared the threats made by M. Poujade with those in the Assembly who are seeking to delay the Paris accords on German rearmament that caused the dangerous situation for the Government of Premier Faure . M. Faure had gone a long way on the road to concessions . He had removed from the appropriation bill under discussion his demand for special powers to initiate fiscal reforms . The Assembly 's Finance Committee had refused to pass that measure until the tax penalties were abrogated . Finance Minister Pierre Pfiimlin said the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the taxpayers ' complaints . He asserted that special powers would be asked for the purpose of adapting the tax system to the taxpayers ' demands . He gave a list of changes that were contemplated and declared the Government was ready to submit a bill outlining all the measures to be taken by decree . This bill , he said , will be submitted by March 28 . Both M. Faure and Pflimlin told the Assembly , however , that they would not revoke in spection of the tradesmen 's , books . There must be some con-1 trol or there could be no further ) respect for law , they said . M. Pflimlin asserted that tax Inspection methods would be changed and made less harsh . M. Faure said that France was now the theater of disorderly protests and dgmonstrations . He asserted if the Government should yield to them it would soon mean " the state would be crushed and that incessant con= flirts would develop , leading to anarchy . " M. Poujade 's followers present in the chamber had . been recruited among the provincial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Tradesmen and Artisans . This movement ostginated in the porer regions of southwestern France , But the movement now is spreading over France . With the local elections scheduled in less than a fmonth , the National Assembly is especially vulnerable to the action of this pressure group . The Poujade movement has aroused opposition in the working sectors of France . The Roman Catholic labor union , in a statement issued today , attacked its " Fascist methods . " The Socialist labor union Force Ouvriere described the POWs &; movement as " camouflage foil a veritable Fascist organization . "                     