@@713880

txt What is described as " a terrific ? gasoline price war outside of Massachusetts " apparently has I spread into parts of New England today ? bringing with it " promises " of half-cent to twocents-a-gallon reductions for motorists . What appears to be the first general reduction in gasoline prices since 1945 was touched off by the announcement out of Philadelphia yesterday of a one-centa-gallon cut in the posted tank-wagon prices of Blue Sunoco gasoline in 13 eastern states and the District of Columbia . The Socony-Vacuum Oil Company , Inc. , immediately followed suit , cutting its tank-wagon prices by one cent a gallon on its regular grade of gasoline . and a half cent a gallon on the premium grade . Retail Cuts Due Soon However , it may he several days before retail price cuts go into effect . Traditionally , the tank-wagon price is the wholesale price charged to retail gasoline deal ( rs . In recent months , many areas along the eastern seaboard have been affected by severe price competition . Sun 's lower tank-wagon prices arc effective in all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Delaware , Virginia , Florida , eastern Pennsylvania , eastern Maryland , and the District of Columbia . The wholesale price reduction of Socony went into effect at midnight at the company 's East Boston storage plant . Other major gasoline distributors are expected to follow the lead set by these two companies , and W. S. S. Rodgers , chairman of the Texas Company . definitely said his company would follow along . Under usual conditions , such price changes are passed on immediately to customers by the operators of filling stations . Many may wish to dispose of their accumulations ? purchased under the old prices ? before cutting retail prices . " That is a matter solely up to the filling station owners , " it was stated . Meantime , other major gasoline distributors in New England are studying the situation carefully , and long-distance lines between the regional offices and the home offices in other parts of the United States are humming today as the " price war " spread rapidly . Wait-and-See Attitude Officials of the Massachusetts Retail Gasoline Dealers Association , of which most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they are checking the price situation carefully , not only with the home offices of Sunoco and Socony , where the price reduction move started , but with all other major gasoline companies . Meantime , a spokesman for the Atlantic Refining Company said no changes have been made in New England as yet , and that word was being awaited from its home office in Philadelphia . At the American Oil Company , Amoco officials said they , too , have made " no move as yet . We are waiting to see what other competitors are doing . " That situation , in general , summed up the statements of spokesmen for the other major gasoline distributors .                     