@@714185

txt Letters to The Times SYLVAN GOTSHALJAST T. SHOTWELLKENNETH COLEGROVEJOHN NEWSTEADHOWARD W. TONER Letters to The Times Stand on Iran Questioned Policy of United States in Dispute , British Withdrawal Criticized To THE EDITOR or Tao Nava YORK Treats : Recently I read with interest your excellent editorial on the withdrawal of Great Britain from Iran . The effect of this action upon our national interest in future can in my judgment have tremendously harmful consequences to US . It seems plain to me that unfortunately , in the world as it exists today , force and not reason is the most important assurance for peace ; and that each incident such as the Iranian one is merely a smoke screen for Russian machinations which , in many cases , result in Russia 's obtaining possession of the country in question and its resources . I need only cite Czechoslovakia , with its Skoda plant , China with its resources of all kinds , Rumania with its oil resources , as examples of what I mean . Machinery to Solve Disputes Before we can have peace in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the world heretofore and the peaceful machinery of solving disputes were dependent upon , in many instances , the physical strength of the nation or nations then in power . Our country must realize , much as it dislikes to do so , that if we are to have peace in the world we first must police the world with force with our own enormous air , navy and military power and with our atomic weapons , together with our allies such as Great Britain , France and Italy . To some it may seem farfetched to compare the withdrawal of the British from Iran to the withdrawal of the Romans from Britain , but there arc similarities . When Rome withdrew from Britain no one knew that it portended the end of that civilization . No one knew that the civilization which Rome brought to England would crumble into ruins only to revive many centuries later under a different guise , Our form of society has been gradually withdrawing from many of the trouble spots of the world , thereby giving the resources of each such spot to our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ spot of the past few years , whether one agrees with the nation 's policies or not , is the fact that , at least in Korea , the United States and our President definitely took a stand when- the Communist forces threw themselves into action . That stand , although it has resulted in many bitter and unpleasant consequences , was a lifeline to the peoples of the world in the sense that they felt at least our great nation had finally come to the conclusion that the opposing forces should not pass any further . A. similar stand should be taken by our nation HI every situation of similar character . Otherwise , by process of attrition , we may ultimately find ourselves alone with no ability to withstand the aggregation of forces and resources opposed to us . Britain 's Rights The responsibility of the withdrawal from Iran by Britain is a dual one . It lies upon our shoulders in a certain sense because we let Britain fight the battle alone when we should have indicated that we would support the contractual obligations and legal rights of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Britain 's errors . But we had a choice of two evils , and for our own safety we should have insisted and demanded that Britain remain in Iran , with , at the same time , our cooperation in working out a fair solution for the Iranians over a period of time . Similarly , the nation that defended itself alone against the Germans , and which , with a handful of men determined to fight for her safety upon every road and beach , could very well have electrified the world by sitting firm and demanding the right to rpmain in Iran with force , if necessary , at the same time proposing a fair form of mediation for the ultimate solution of this complicated problem . The withdrawal ' by Britain is only postponing the evil day and will make the construction of an ultimate peaceful world only more difficult . If we do not now take a strong stand with Great Britain in demanding the return of this property to some sort of domination by our side , the consequences will most surely be the addition of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a consequence , and their use against us . SYLVAN GOTSHAL . New York , Oct. 5 , 1951 . The I. P. R. Inquiry To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : -I have read with interest and appreciation the statement of Gerard Swope in THE TIMES of Oct. 11 on the Institute . of Pacific Relations and , more especially , on the methods employed in the investigation now being carried on concerning its history and purpose . So far as I know , no objection has been raised by the I. P. R. to the holding of such an inquiry , but real concern has been expressed by those competent to pass judgment on the conduct of public affairs lest it violate fundamental principles as to the nature of evidence and the assurance of evenhanded justice . It is to this matter of procedure that Mr. Swope 's criticism is addressed , and there are many who share his hope that the testimony before the subcommittee " be subjected to searching scrutiny by the Senators themselves . " As to the Institute of Pacific Relations and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one item of evidence ; I was in charge of its research work for two international conferences  --  the one held in Hawaii in 1927 , and the one held in . Kyoto in 1929 . Nothing could be more academic than the papers for these conferences or the discussions ' held on them . This does not mean that they were lacking in realism , but that they were as objective as could be expected in such a pioneering enterprise . The one important gain was that the debate was shared in by thoughtful people from the countries concerned and the issues clarified for those unfamiliar with the background . It is of vital importance today , when crucial decisions confront us , to maintain this technique of free inquiry . JAMES T. flnoTwaLi. , President Emeritus , Carnegie Endows ment for International Peace . New York , Oct. 11 , 1951 .. Testifying Before Congress Rights of Citizens Should Be Guarded , It Is Said To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK Taint I was amazed and deeply disappointed to find that THE NEW YORK TIMES , in its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reporting that I had testified before the McCarron subcommittee to the effect that Prof. Rupert Emerson of Harvard University was in a group of experts in the State Department conference of Oct. 8 to 8 , 1949 , which was pro-Communist in its advice . This report of my testimony before the subcommittee on Internal Security Laws of the Committee on the Judiciary was untrue . I never mentioned the name of Professor Emerson in this connection . Indeed , his name was not raised by either myself or any member of the subcommittee at this hearing . Professor Emerson is I. distinguished political scientist . I hfiVe nothing but the highest regard for his integrity and loyalty . I would like to add that I have cons sistently held that teachers and researchers should use extreme caution in discussing evidence regarding the opinions and actions of their colleagues , All citizens should be protected against indiscriminate charges . At the same time , I would like to submit that the rights of citizens who are called to testify under oath before legislative committees in public hearings should be protected from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ years more and more teachers and researchers are going to be summoned under subpoena to testify under oath before Congressional and other legislative committees . When such , committees ask questions regarding the actions of colleagues or other teachers or researchers , any conscientious witness will find the public hearing to be a personal ordeal which he must suffer in the interest of good citizenship . Like the ancient parliament , Congress is the grand inquest of the nation , and has a right to investigate every grievance or condition or aitua-. tion in the United States in fhe intermit of drafting legislation or of adopting resolutions to supervise the esxecutive branch . Teachers of government try to int. , press upon their students the view that good citzenship means that every citizen should vote at the poly , should inform himself on public questions and should participate otherwise in government . Good citizenship also means that citizens should assist legislative committees by frank and honest testimony . Indeed , they can not legally . do other than this when called to testify under oath . Thus the press in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ exercise care when reporting thi , testimony of such witnesses before legislative committees . KENNETH COLEGROVIL Professol ' of Political Science , North western University . New York , Sept. 27 , 1951 . Bear Mountain Changes Regretted To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Until a year ago the city dwells ) * could enjoy a genuine rustic- relaxation at Bear Mountain , where , at the laic* near the inn , pleasant walks meandering along rocks and underbrush would give the excursionist an illusion c* aloofness from civilization . Great was my disappointment finding now asphalt roads all around , fenced-in groves , and a graveled walk alongside the lake with a line of benches , Coney Island style . Gone are those paths through unspoiled land . Refreshment stands are on parade and a comfort station of monumental size with elaborate granite-block veneer embellishes the landscape . Those in charge of parks should re ? member that city people going to the country expect a contrast to their roils tine , otherwise they could get soma . rural enjoyments right in Central Park . JOHN NEWSTF.AI @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Prices Ahead TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK Twigs . While consumers are protesting about high prices it might be noted that the United States Government will add about 800 million dollars a year to the retail prices of various commodities through the excise taxes in the Rere. , nue Act of 1951 . HOWARD W. TONAL Brooklyn , Oct. 6. 1951. rther reproduction prohibited without permission .                     