@@716574

txt Republican efforts to gain state election victories by tying the campaign closely to support of the Eisenhower administration will not work , Governor-Elect Edmund S. Muskie of Maine indicated today as he arrived in Massachusetts to help fashion Democratic victories on Nov. 2 . At a Logan International Airport press conference , the first Democrat to win Maine 's governorship in 20 years asserted : " Based on the Maine election , the people up there , although most of them have a great deal of admiration for President Eisenhower , are not going to shove aside local issues and forget about measuring the quality of state candidates to support the national administration . " Raps GOP Efforts Mr. Muskie was met at the airport by Representative Robert F. Murphy ( D ) of Malden , Democratic nominee for Governor ; John Carr , chairman of the Massachusetts Democratic State Committee : Francis X. Morrissey , secretary to Senator John F. Kennedy ( D ) of Massachusetts . and other Democratic leaders . He told the press conference he felt that the main result of Vice-President Richard @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " refusal of the people to be dictated to . " Asked whether Mr. Eisenhower could help swing elections in some states , he pointed out that President Roosevelt tried to do so and failed . " The people wo n't buy an attempt to i-ansfer the popularity of a mtional candidate to state candidates . " he said . " The people have an almost instinctive reaction against it . " S4lys No Meddling " Although the Muskie visit was billed as an aim to help the restoration of " Democratic government in Massachusetts , " Mr. Muskie at his press confer ence said , " I have no intention of interfering with the Massachusetts elections or telling the people how to vote . I am not in a position to endorse candidates , but 1 believe in the Democratic Party . " Mr. Muskie was not ready to any whether the Maine election results indicate Democratic victory in Massachusetts , but he did say , " All of New England has a similar problem to save present industry and to develop New England industry . We people in Maine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ situation and his program for meeting it . " Asked about his views on Senator Joseph R. McCarthy , Governor-elect Muskie said , " We in Maine do not get emotional about McCarthy . We agree with his objective , getting rid of Communists in government if there are any .. . We are also very much interested in protecting the rights of the individual under our Constitution , and we feel in the long run these will prevail over any emotionalism . " Asked whether this indicated a strong position against Senator McCarthy 's methods , Mr. Muskie said he was " making a statement of principles . " The Maine Governor-Elect opened his Massachusetts visit shortly before noon when he landed at the Logan International Airport , He was driven immediately in a motorcade to Boston City Hall for a reception by Mayor Hynes . His Massachusetts schedule calls for a motorcade drive to Worcester for a luncheon at the Hotel Sheraton and a reception by Mayor James O'Brien on the Worcester City Hall steps . He is to return to Boston for an evening appearance over WBZ-TV at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Chelsea City Hall and the South Boston Polish-American Club at 10 o'clock . He is to leave Massachusetts tomorrow morning after a breakfast tendered in his honor at the Sheraton Plaza Hotel by Boston 's Mayor Hynes. -                     