@@714618

txt President Truman lashed Congress with mockery today for drastically reducing defense appropriations . He warned that he was ready to summon a " special turnip day " session of Congress from now until January in order to get the funds restored . Slipping into his 194 ? " Give ' em hell " campaign mood , Mr. Truman said of Congress that he wished he had " the whole outfit right here before me now " al he accused it of insincerity for personal vote-getting reasons in making cuts of $4,000,000,000 to $6,000,000,000 in the defense budget . " But our national defense ca n't wait on petty politics , " the President declared , as he warned that the nation faced a " deadly peril " as a result of Soviet Russia 's designs . ' Turnip Day ' . lxplained In alluding to the " turnip day " session , Mr. Truman was harking back to his famous , angry speech accepting the Democratic Presidential nomination at the convention in July , 1948 , at 2 A. M. He asserted then that he would call @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Missouri ? to halt rising prices and cope with the housing crisis . As he later explained in 1948 , Turnip Day was when turnips were sowed , and that " a half pound of seed will sow a couple of acres of turnips . " The defense program was Mr. Truman 's primary topic in a formal speech he made this afternoon in dedicating the national headquarters of the American Veterans of World War II ( AMVETS ) , an old red brick building at 1710 Rhode Island Avenue , N. W. He departed from his prepared address frequently as , in a mood sometimes mocking , sometimes humorous and often grave , he interpolated to slam Congress . Hours later , when the official White House stenographer reissued the speech , he counted thirty-five interpolations . Senator Robert A. Taft , Republican of Ohio , told a rally crowd in Springfield , Mass. , that President Truman was " completely off his head " in his threat to keep Congress in session . The prospect of a call for a special session during the summer was not received @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ comment . Many will have to campaign for re-election and are counting on an early summer adjournment Senator Ernest W. of Arizona , Democratic leader noncommittal about the defense cuts but said he expected Congress to make the necessary appropriations . " It should not take too awful long to do this , " he added . " That 's one he ca n't make stick , " was the comment by Senator Homer E. Capehart , Republican of Indiana . " Even Truman ca n't keep Congress in session when it does n't want to be in session . " The Republican leader , Senator Styles Bridges of New Hampshire , accused the President of trying to seize the power of appropriations . He said it was the duty of Congress to " wring the water " out of appropriations , including the defense budget . Congress will foilnw its own course and not take Mr. Truman 's threat " lying down , " said Representative Frederic R. Coudert Jr. , Republican of New York . In accusing the House of Representatives , which was the chamber that had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they say , ' cut down on jet airplane production  --  or cut down on tank production  --  or reduce the number of men in the service  --  or provide them with less ammunt ? tion ? ' No , no , no , they did n't face up to any of these questions . They did n't take any responsibility for saying where and how we should weaken our national defense . Oh , no , they did n't do that They just took a knife and cut it  --  and they Will go out and brag about it . " Mr. Truman 's audience , mostly veterans seated in the closed-off street in front of the AMVETS Building , laughed heartily at his sallies and often applauded him . Among those present with Mr. Truman were Robert A. Lovett , Secretary of Defense , and Frank Pace Jr. , Secretary of the AtanYThe movement to slash defense funds was " very dangerous , " Mr. Truman said . He denied that it was true , as some have asserted , that the cost of the defense program would wreck @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were too high . Then he interpolated this and got applause : " We have the greatest and the best standard of living of : any people that ever came to pass in the history of the world . The very fact that you can afford to pay these taxes shows that you 've got a good standard of living . " Mr. Truman was kindlier toward the Senate . He said the Senate was saying the House , which is now on Easter vacation , was back home saying " look what we did " in reducing defense appropriations requests and suggesting that it would be the Senate that would restore the money . " Well , if the Senate does n't put it ba ? , " continued Mr. Truman , we 're going to be in an awful fix . And- I think the truth will get out , because I am going to see that it does . " He also referred to the cuts as " a fake economy wave . " Mr. Truman expressed his concern for the foreign aid programs , saying : " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as it is to cut our own " national defense appropriation . " The President stressed the importance of having strong allies , saying the veterans " would not want our young men to have to do all the fighting for the free world . " At the outset of his speech Mr. Truman said that veterans understood why it was necessary to have a world peace organization like the United Nations , and why World War II could not have been won without the steadfast help of allies . Mr. Truman 's strong espousal of the United Nations was interpreted as nn answer to the Daughters Of the American Revolution . In convention here , the D. A. R. has strongly criticized the United Nations as an organization that was injuring this ? country 's sovereignty .                     