@@720906

txt down to one item  --  budgetary and financial matters . The three-power session took place Nov. 25 shortly before United States , British , and Soviet natural scientists began their talk on detecting underground nuclear explosions . Mr. Tsarapkin Nov. 24 agreed to the work program for the technical talks on new American data . This data purports to show underground tests are harder to detect than first was believed . Mr. Tsarapkin accepted an American compromise proposal made a week ago on the way the physicists should tackle the new data . The physicists will report back to the conference on Dec. 11. 11 . Advance Welcomed Western conference sources described the Soviet agreement on the terms of reference for the experts as " a very considerable and welcome advance on the Soviet side . " James J. Wadsworth and Sir Michael Wright , the United States and British delegates , said they interpreted the agreed terms of reference as follows : 1 . The experts could consider just what seismic evidence would be necessary to send inspection teams to the sites of suspected nuclear underground @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ discuss all data and studies relating to the detection and identification of seismic events , including the new American evidence that has been made available since the Associated Press Semyon K. Tsarapkin Soviet delegate at Geneva experts met here in August , 1958 . Since early this year , the United States had pressed for a study of the new American data . Moscow retorted that such a study was unnecessary and only would delay the signing of a test-ban treaty . Mr. Tsarapkin reversed his field three weeks ago and agreed to the study , but then introduced proposals the Western side termed " too restrictive . " The three powers issued a statement saying the scientists would consider the use of " objective instrument readings in connection with the selection of an event which cannot. be identified by the international control organ and which could be suspected of being a nuclear explosion in order to determine the basis for initiating an on-site inspection . " The control organ is the suggested body for policing a test ban . It would have control stations scattered throughout the world .  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @          