@@714748

txt Ernest A. Gross , the United States representative , today asked the United Nations Security Council to refer to the Disarmament Commission . a Soviet proposal calling on all states to become parties to the Geneva Protocol of 1925 , which prohibits the use of germ warfare . Contrary to expectations , Jacob A. Malik , the Soviet representative , who had used his powers as president of the Council for June to call today 's meeting , said nothing today about previous SovietAssociated Press charges that the United States had gavel tthe headquarters here .. dneob A.Maid. of Russia. , president of the Security Connell for this month , wielding the employed germ warfare in Korea . In fact , Mr. Malik did not mention Korea in any way until after Mr. Gross had attacked the Soviet proposal as a " fraud " and declared that , despite Mr. Malik 's silence today , there was no evidence to show that the Soviet Union had " abandoned its campaign of lies " regarding the germ charges . Malik Backs Protocol Move At this point Mr. Malik @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of order . Mr. Malik said that despite the actions of the " American aggressors in Korea , " the Soviet delegation was interested solely in its resolution , which would call on all states that had not acceded to and ratified the Geneva Protocol to do so . When he regained the floor Mr. Gross repeated the phrase about Soviet " lies , " and Mr. Malik , using his powers as president of the Council to give the Soviet representative the floor , then angrily replied to the American delegate 's " lies and slanders . " These fireworks did not develop , however , until after the meeting had been under way nearly three hours . The first two hours were spent on a wrangle over the wording of the two items Mr. Malik had proposed for the agenda  --  the second concerns the admission of new members  --  and Bernard M. Baruch and a number of other spectators had left the meeting before Mr. Malik began his mildly worded speech . Although it had been generally expected that Mr. Malik , in addition to raising the germ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ United Nations negotiators on the prisoners of war issue , he confined himself in his opening speech to a statement on the value of the Geneva Pro-tocol 41 Have Signed Accord He pointed out that forty-one countries , including all the members of the Security Council except the United States and Brazil , had acceded to and ratified the protocol , and said it had become " a norm and rule of international law . " ( Pakistan , also a Council member , did not sign . the protocol ; at the time , Pakistan was not an independent state . Her delegation said tonight it believed Pakistan had agreed to carry on the obligations assumed by India , which had ratified the protocol . ) The closest Mr. Malik came to a provocative statement was at the end , when he declared that preparations for bacteriological warfare were being carried out " in several countries . " However , he made no effort to single out the United States . In view of Mr. Malik 's non-provocative language , Mr. Gross did not , as he is understood to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Communist charges on the ground that they threatened international peace and security . He offered no explanation for the failure of the United States in the pre-war period to ratify the protocol , declaring that this could be left to the historians . However , he said that President Truman withdrew it from Senate consideration in 1947 along with eighteen other agreements " that had become just as obsolete . " Mr. Gross explained that the United States believed that there should not merely be a " paper prohibition " of bacteriological warfare , but measures for making sure that the prohibition was actually carried out . For these reasons , he said , the Soviet proposal should be referred to the disarmament commission , which has already been entrusted with the task of prohibiting the use not only of atomic weapons but of all major weapons of mass destruction . Mr. Gross emphasized that the Geneva Protocol , which also prohibits the use of poison gas , contained no means of enforcement , and that in ratifying it the Soviet Union had attached a reservation reserving its right to use @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Under this reservation , Mr. Gross said , Communist forces in Korea , having accused the United States of using bacteriological warfare , could now use it against United Nations forces in Korea . Also , he said , the protocol would not apply at all in the case of war with a state , such as the United States , which had not ratified the protocol . Reservations Made by Others Mr. Malik confidently replied that Mr. Gross ' arguments had " boomeranged , " and taunted him with the fact that twenty other signatories ( the records available here show eighteen ) had attached the same reciprocity reservation to the protocol that was made by the Soviet Union . Contradicting Mr. Gross ' demand that there must be effective control of bacteriological warfare , Mr. Malik said a League committee of experts had reported at the time that such control , because of the nature of the weapon , was impossible . He asserted also that the United States not only had never submitted any proposals for international control of germ warfare , but had opposed a recent Soviet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Actually , the Disarmament Commission , in addition to refusing to hear Mr. Malik 's germ warfare charges , had accepted the United States view that since germ warfare was already included in the commission 's work program , it was unnecessary to authorize a separate study . ) The Security Council will resume the debate on Friday .                     