@@713678

txt Another long step toward , the political restoration of Germany as a member of the community of free nations was taken yesterday . The Western Powers put into immediate effect a revised occupation statute granting the Bonn regime . substantial additional plewers of self-government , including authority to establish a Ministry of Foreign Affairs and to maintain direct diplomatic contacts with a limited number of nations . This is as yet in no sense a restoration of German sovereignty . For the new statute is still an occupation statute , and the Bonn Government will exercise its expanded powers in both foreign and domestic fields subject to Allied supervision and veto , backed by the overriding right of the occupation authorities to resume full controls whenever considerations of security , or the conduct of the Germans themselves , or the international obligations of the Western Powers , make this advisable . But , subject to these limitations , the Bonn Government acquires greater control over foreign trade and exchange , a freer hand in domestic legislation , and the right to establish diplomatic relations with " friendly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ occupying Powers , which will continue to conduct their business with Bonn through their High Commissioners . Beyond that , a program is already being negotiated for relinquishing other original occupation controls , including those affecting economic deconcentration , as soon as the Germans establish conditions . In return the Germans have assumed two obligations . They have formally accepted responsibility for Germany 's pre-war external debts and , in principle , for new debts arising primarily out of American and British economic aid after the - war , estimated at around $4,500,000,000 . They have also pledged themselves to cooperate in an equitable apportionment ? of materials and services necessary . for the common defense of the West . The first obligation , imposed in the name of restoring German credit abroad , is of doubtful value in view of the precarious economic situation in Western Germany , which is hard put to feed its refugeeswollen population without foreign aid . But the second is of special importance in view of the Western defense efforts and an accompanying agreement announced in London providing for the deployment of American , British , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ zonal boundaries . The political effect of the new freedoms conferred upon the Germans would have been more pronounced had they been introduced when they were first agreed upon by the Western Foreign Ministers five months ago . But the haggling over the debt question , for which the Germans must accept their share of responsibility , has delayed the new order until it comes as something of an anticlimax and a mere way station toward more sweeping solutions already in negotiation . Nevertheless , even in its limited way , the revised occupation statute is further demonstration of the Western determination both to restore democratic self-government to the former enemies in proportion to their willingness to assume democratic responsibilities , and to accelerate their integration into the Western community . That demonstration will not remain without effect on both the Big  --  Four Conference in Paris and en the Germans in the Soviet Zone longing for unification with the western half of their country . At the same time , that demonstration should also remove , in the words of a spokesman for Chancellor Adenauer , certain psychological obstacles which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ German contribution toward defense of the West . These larger solutions envisage the end of the entire occupation regime , the abolition of any kind of occupation statute , and the substitution for it of a contractual treaty establishing a partnership between the Western nations and Germany and spelling out the rights and obligations of each . Such a treaty is essential to establish that political understanding which General Eisenhower considers necessary before German troops are incorporated into the Atlantic army .                     