@@719783

txt Some farm surpluses at last have been reduced to the point where the government can begin to see over than . Farm prices in general are up . : The peak of the crisis , for the time being , appears to be over . Under these somewhat improved conditions , farmers are reported more favorably inclined toward somewhat lower price- ! ; support levels , providing government restrictions on planting are relaxed . The attitude of the farmer , of course , depends on the crop ! which he produces , and the con , ditions governing price and sup ! ply . Possible Trend Seen And with the weakening of the once-solid farm bloc in . Congress , there is a growing tendency . to deal with different crops ' separately . This could well mean the eventual end of the long-time grouping of the so-called " basic crops " in one price-support package , in the opinion of some highly place agricultural authorities . Almost everyone in the field is inclined to hedge on outright forecasts at this time , with long-range farm legislation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more flexibility , less government controls is visible . It may be traced to the varied conditions affecting different crops and the split in the farm bloc which , instead of being one for all and all for one , is now dividing into special-interest groups more inclined to look out for their own . " Fwo-Priee Plan Hit So far this has had the effect of promoting congressional sentiments pleasing to Secretary of Agriculture Ezra Taft Benson ; that is , favoring more flexibility in the price-support level , and a lowering of the price-support floor coincident with a gradual relaxation of government con- , trols over production . It does not mean , however , that Congress is necessarily following the " Benson line . " In fact , House legislation at this . point contains provisions strongly opposed by the administration and almost certain , if retained , to bring a presidential veto . For instance , the administration has long frowned on the House proposal for what would be , in effect , a two-price plan for wheat , with 100 per cent price support for wheat @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by millers and processors , not the government , and the cost in all probability would be passed on to consumers . This type of program has the support Of the National Grange , but has been opposed by the American Farm Bureau Federation and by the administra-tion , Called ' Hodgepodge ' The House bill contains another potential COI droversy in its provisions for high price support , of dairy products to those willing to agree to rigid production controls . This is a counter move to Secretary Benson 's action in dropping dairy supports to the 75 per Cent minimum  --  a move which brought howls of protest from the industry and its representatives in Congress . On the other hand , the House bill would permit the Secretary of Agriculture to lower the minimum support level for rice , .. no to take the same action in the case of cotton and corn , providing growers are permitted to expand their acreage . The proposed legislation has been described by critics as a " hodgepodge " of something for everyone . The Senate , meanwhile , is holding @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ proposed cure-all for farm problems . There is reason to believe that the Senate version may be more in line with the administration philosophy than that of the House . At any rate , a substantial group on the Senate Agriculture Committee is thought to be inclined toward a lowering of support levels to be effective coincident with an increase in acreage allotments . Farm surpluses on the whole have been substantially reduced over the past few years , due to the disposal prOgram overseas , and to the poor cotton crop in 1957 which helped reduce the surplus in that commodity and create a more favorable market . Wheat and corn are the biggest problem crops today , with an estimated million-bushel crop of winter wheat coming to harvest . Referendum Proposed wan respect to corn , it has been proposed that growers be given the choice of a nationwide referendum between strict acreage allotments with moderately high supports or lower supports with no planting restrictions . This is in line with administration thinking , and the proposal contained in the House bill . The same regulation would apply to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dairy products , the government has acquired some 72 million pounds of butter  --  an almost inevitable result , since dealers held back on purchases awaiting the lower price , thus forcing the government to take over the supply . At this point , no one , it would seem , is in a position to say what type of farm legislation ! may emerge from this session ! of Congress , if any . Nor is it possible to see whether the change in the farm surplus picture , slight as it may be , is a trend or merely a temporary I state , to be followed by another ' build-up ,                     