@@714106

txt The Peiping radio , in a series of abusive broadcasts this morning , accused Gen. Matthew B. Ridgway , United Nations commander , of " arrogant hoodlumism " in his rejection of the Communist charges that an allied plane bombed the neutral area around Kaesong last week . it was " inconceivable " that the armistice talks in the Korean war should be resumed , Peiping said , lunlest the Americans revised their stand . Meanwhile , Peiping charged that United States planes flew . over Tsingtao and Shanghai last Thursday and Saturday , and attempted to link the alleged incident with the break-off of the Korean truce talks ; As many as four planes were sighted in one group , the broadcast said , and others flew singly over several points in Kiangsu Province . " The fact that American planes within two consecutive days repeatedly and recklessly invaded China 's air sovereignty is another proof of the aggressive policy insistently pursued by the Americans , which is designed to menace the national security of China , " Peiping asserted . Lists Places of Flights " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ China obviously are in coordination with its murderous action in Kaesong . It is now still more apparent that the American Government deliberately wants to put an end to the peace negotiations by , war . " The Communist broadcaster named the locations where the United States planes supposedly were seen on Aug. 23 as Tsingtao , Jungcheng , Tungtai and Yintao Island , noith of Tsingtao . Later , he asserted , two more planes appeared southwest of Jungcheng . On Aug. 25 , the radio said , planes flew over Chenghai , Tinghai and Hangchow in Chekiang Province . The flight near Shanghai came at 6:52 in the morning of that date , the broadcast continued . " Two American planes invaded the air over Lunghua , suburb of Shanghai , from the southeast , " Peiping said . " They then flew northward to northern Kiangsu and disappeared at a point 255 kilometers approximately 158 miles southeast of Yencheng . " A spokesman at General Ridgway 's headquarters said the charge that United States planes had violated Chinese territory was " without foundation , " but that it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It was pointed out , however , that General Ridgway 's command extends to the nonterritorial waters off the coast of China , and the Seventh Fleet under his general direction has a mission to protect the strait between Formosa and the mainland . Planes , either from carriers or based on Okinawa , could cover the seas off the places named by the Chinese broadcast . First Reference to Note The Peiping broadcast , made in English early this morning , was the first direct reference the Communists have made to General Ridgway 's note Saturday to North Korean Premier Kim 11 Sung and Chinese Gen. Peng Teh-huai . In this message the United Nations leader declared that the Communist charges of violations by allied troops and planes of the demilitarized area around the truce conference city were . " obviously manufactured . " He added , however , that he would send the United Nations delegates back to Kaesong to negotiate for a truce " when you are ' prepared to terminate the suspenIsion of armistice negotiations , which you declared on 23 August . " Almost forty-eight hours @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Korean liaison officer at a- contact point on the edge of the Kaesong neutral zone , the enemy high command had made no formal reply . It has not been unusual for the Communists during the truce negotiations to take considerable time to answer United Nations messages , and General Ridgway 's curt rejection of the Communist charges might take some time to mull over . The Chinese radio 's semi-official blasts , however , presumably set the tone that an answer would take if and when . it came . First , in replying to a report by Vice Admiral Charles Turner Joy , chief allied truce delegate , that no United Nations planes were in the area of Kaesong at the time of the alleged bombing , the , broadcasts proposed a " re-investigation . " When this was not answered by General Ridgway 's headquarters yesterday , there followed this morning 's statement that the meetings could not be . resumed . This evidently was to constitute the Communist attitude . Troop Moves Reported Meanwhile , some doubt appeared that there would be a further reply  --  except @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Some reports from Korea said the enemy was shifting large bodies of troops  --  up to corps in size . Recently , the North Koreans have been holding large sections of the front and if the divisions now reportedly malting up were Chinese , the maneuver might be a prelude to another of the Chinese " human sea " attacks such as were smashed by United Nations fire power last spring . Recently , pilots noted heavy convoy movements behind the enemy ' lines , and Gen. James A. Van Fleet , Eighth Army commander , predicted some time ago that the enemy would seek a " third round " offensive eventually . One report , which was not confirmed , said a number of " Caucasian " troops were now in Korea , somewhere south of the North Korean capital of Pyongyang . It has been rumored for some time that some kind - of " international volunteer force " has existed north of the Yalu River . Conceivably , some of these troops might have moved southward . Casualties Were Heavy Twice last spring , when the Chinese @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Seoul , then in the mountains of central . Korea , they Were stopped with heavy casualties . Some observets felt that , if . the Communists had decided to resume full-scale warfare and launch new attacks , they might have brought up some new men and materiel to try new tactics . Meanwhile , the Peiping radio strove to emphasize the will to war of the Chinese people . One broadcast produced a " model workman , " Chao Chan-kwei , and an " agricultural labor hero , " Liu Yu-hou , who appealed to their countrymen over the air to step up efforts behind the lines in support of the North Koreans and the Chinese " volunteers " in Korea . Another broadcast reproduced an interview by a Communist correspondent with an enemy soldier in Kaesong . This enemy soldier was represented as typical in saying  --  as the radio quoted him ? " if the American . imperialists do n't want an armistice , we will smash them . " Peiping 's tone plainly was one of increasing bellicosity . The closest to a direct answer to General @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of an editorial in this morning 's People 's Daily , official organ of the Chinese Communist Government . Calls Replies " Contemptible " Citing the alleged bombing of Kaesong and the . shooting of a Chinese soldier near Songgong , in the Kaesong area , which the allied command has implied might have been the work of guerrillas but not of United Nations soldiers , the Peoples ' Daily said that the replies of General Ridgway and Admiral Joy were " as contemptible and savage as their planning of the murders . " " They even dare to declare that both incidents were ' fabricated ' by the Korean People 's Army and the Chinese People 's volunteers with the aim of breaking up the negotiations , " the editorial continued . " Quite obviously , until the American side changes such a contemptible and savage attitude , resumption of the negotiations is inconceivable . " Peiping announced the receipt of General Ridgway 's statement , but did not mention his offer to resume the truce talks on Communist initiative . " Ridgway dared not mention any of the conclusive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Kaesong neutral zone , but merely lied , " the radio saicr . Actually , General Ridgway told the Communist command that the " evidence " was " palpably compounded for your insidious propaganda purpose ? . " Investigators previously had reported that what the Communists showed them ' to be a " bomb crater " apparently had been caused by the explosion of a buried hand grenade and metal fragments purporting to be parts of a napalm bomb tank , seemed to be scrap from an airplane. 