@@712973

txt Letters to The Times LEWIS MUMFORD.VIRGINIA LIVINGSTON HUNT , BORIS ERICH NELSON.CYRIL A. ZEBOT . Letters to The Times Our Military Policy Reliance on Atom Warfare Said to Defeat Our Goals The writer of the following letter , social critic and historian , is author of " Values for Survival " cord " The Condition of Man . " To ens EDITOR OF Tim New YORK TIMES : On April 30 you published an able letter by a group of professors from Harvard and M. I. T. that raised very pertinent questions about the military policy of the United States . Nothing could show better the need for the sort of discussion opened by that letter than the reply made by Robert P. Patterson in your columns on May 21 . ? Mr. Patterson 's case for our present military policy is based on a series of highly questionable assumptions . Both the assumptions and the conclusions Mr. Patterson draws from them are open to challenge . The first assumption that must be challenged , all the more because it has become a popular one , is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Soviet Russia . " Actually , the risk of war comes , not from either power alone but from the situation that has developed between the United States . and Soviet Russia : so far from preventing war , our overreliance upon atomic weapons has increased the many tensions that otherwise exist between the totalitarian and the democratic systems . Future Plan Since 1945 the United States has in effect said to Russia : " We possess the most powerful and devastating weapon that has yet been devised . By means of this weapon we have the power to wipe out every city our air forces can reach . We believe so completely- in this weapon and in the bomber we have perfected to deliver it that we have dismantled our Army and Navy ; you can tell by the size of our token forces in Europe and Asia that we do not expect to meet you in serious combat on land or sea . We have , in fact , no plan whatever for countering , your military forces by military means : even Our Atlantic defense pact is only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ while we decimate the Russian heartland . Once you engage us in War you must expect total extermination ; for we have no other strategy than that founded on our sole and exclusive possession of the atom bomb . If that does not prove sufficient , we have also perfected biological instruments of genocide , probably even more lethal . " The people who framed this policy were merely reaffirming , without pausing for reflection , the profound error they had committed in the darkest days of the Second World War , when the strategic bombing of military targets ? once proudly called pin-point bombing  --  was supplemented and largely supplanted by mass air attacks upon whole cities : obliteration bombing . Concentration of Industry Unfortunately the men who framed this military policy gave no heed whatever to Immanuel Kant 's great dictum that no means should ever be used in warfare that will make peace impossible between the survivors . In pursuing their policy since , they have apparently had no second thought as to the moral turpitude of the method they sanctioned or the possible recoil of that method @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ win a war , as the air strategists believe , then Soviet Russia will he progressively in a far better position to win than we are , since the industrial concentration and urban congestion of the United States and England make them far more vulnerable to atomic bombing than is Russia . Mr. Patterson goes on to ask if it can be " seriously doubted that the possession by us of the most powerful * * * weapons will serve as a most effective deterrent against armed attack by Soviet Russia ? " Certainly this assumption can be reasonably doubted : from the moment Russia has equal means to use the same powerful weapons against ourselves and our allies . When such parity is reached  --  and it need not be equality in the mere number of bombs  --  Russia would have no military deterrent against attack : all that would hold her back would be political or economic disabilities . Should Russia wage war then , we might well regret our share in the decision to resort to extermination bombing in the Second World War . The real problem of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the sole possessors of that weapon , can not be dealt with on the basis of our present strategy . That problem , as I have pointed out in the spring number of Air Affairs , is similar to that set by the Nazis ' possession of V-1 and V-2 weapons : it is a matter of preparing to locate and capture the centers where Russia 's atomic materials are made and its atom bombs stored . The possibility of accomplishing this task by long-distance strategic bombing is almost infinitely remote . Hence this situation calls for the creation of an air-borne and air-supplied army capable of invading these strategic centers in force : an army that would perhaps use the atom bomb as a limited tactical weapon , just as ordinary bombs are used on bridges and oil plants . Bomb Centers Without such a force we have no real defense against Russia 's employment of atomic weapons upon ourselves and our allies ; for we might level every city between Leningrad and Vladivostok without undermining Russia 's ability to subdue our European allies , occupy Europe and Asia , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ answer to this problem , " Is it suggested , " asks Mr. Patterson , " that an adequate standing army of ' our own should embody five million , or a strength approaching that figure ' ? " Precisely ; that is what the present situation dictates  --  and will continue to dictate until we have helped lay the foundations for a stable and . equitable world order , dedicated to the culture of life rather than its destruction . Better five million American soldiers , ready for war , and capable of meeting Russian forces swiftly wherever they may threaten , than a hundred and fifty million American people ready to commit wholesale genocide  --  only themselves to become the victims of the very methods they have chosen , with a possible loss not of five million but of fifty million lives . And here we come back to the heart of the matter , which is a moral point . Warfare of the Past Mr. Patterson attempts to minimize the enormity of our present policy by saying that all other modern weapons were first regarded as " ungentlemanly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he cites were all of them used as instruments of warfare : and warfare , by definition and historic practice , is a limited form of violence , practiced ( among civilized peoples ) by armed and identifiable forces , upon other armed and identifiable forces . Extermination bombing , by contrast , is indiscriminate and random attack upon the entire enemy population . Between the two methods , those of war and those ? of genocide , there is a highly significant quantitative and qualitative difference . Since our example as a nation , as marked by our daily conduct and policy , is more powerful than all our pious professions , it is time that the United States adopted a military policy that would increase the world 's security along with our own , and would harmonize with our claim that we are upholding democracy , freedom and civilization against tyranny , slavery and barbarism . As long as we resort to fascist strategy the division between Soviet Russia and the United States , particularly ' in the eyes of the rest of the world , is not nearly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , our leaders have already turned their back on the plea of the International Red Cross to renounce the use of atomic weapons , for the plain reason that our present strategy of genocide is all but wholly based on their full employment . If we had a sound military policy ' we could easily consent even to a one-sided renunciation , because we would have an effective military response , other than retaliation and total extermination . By concentrating on the strategy of extermination we have both vitiated our immediate objectives and . annihilated , in advance , our ultimate human goals . LEWIS MUMFoRD . Amenia , N. Y. , June 4 , 1950 . Memorial to George Mason To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : . I have been much interested in reading the letters appearing lately in your columns about the preservation of Washington Square , Richmond Town and other such sites with historic backgrounds . Just recently there was dedicated as a national shrine . in Virginia , twentyfive miles below Washington , on the banks of the Potomac , a famous house , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hall , built by George Mason , author of the Virginia Declaration of Rights . It is hoped that many of our citizens will visit it and derive strength and encouragement from association with the man who was not only the father of our Federal Bill of Rights but also was the inspirer of Thomas Jefferson . For here it was that Mason wrote these words : " That all men are created equally free and independent and have certain inherent natural rights , of which they can not , by any compact , deprive or divest their posterity ; among which are the enjoyment of life and liberty , with the means of acquiring and possessing property and pursuing and obtaining happiness and safety . " Gunston Hall is being permanently preserved ; it belongs to the State of Virginia and is under the custody of the National Society of Colonial Dames . Perhaps other states and communities can profit by this example of the foresight and generosity'of the late owner , Mr. Louis Hertle . VIRGINIA LIVINGSTON HUNT . Regent for Gunston Hall . Washington , June 4 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ THE NEW YORK TIMES : I must comment on your editorial in THE TIMES of June 4 on the Goodwill Mission by Virginia Union University , whereby fifty Negro students will visit twenty-five countries in a " crusade against communism . " Frankly , and I speak only for myself as a white man , perhaps some of the contributions that will flow toward this effort could be converted to increase school facilities for the Negro citizens within the continental area of the United States . These boys and girls who happen to be Negroes will be better citizens with greater school opportunities in their own land . Nothing speaks louder than action ; the mere word assurances and personal belief are not enough for cynical , hard-bitten , . badly confused Europeans and Asiatics . " The world needs more and more of this sort a contact work . " How right you are ! But let 's have some of this contact work right at home so Negro students can attend Toscanini-NBC concerts , go to the movies , churches , barber shops , universities , public libraries  --  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ because and only because they are Negroes . BORIS ERICH NELSON . Hampton , Va. , Jane 4 , 1950 . Economic Freedom Its Relationship to PoNtleal Democracy Considered The Writer of the IBMs% a Professor of Economies at University , is the author of tegoeltS1 studies of ecniparative economic NSW tents . To THE EDITOR or Tam NNW . Tom mpg The letter of Herman ItIMInst. oft Oxford University , in Tnsts June 4 , raises the basic steatite of tat ) relation between economic Imam ana political democracy . In the opinion of Mr. Shuman " the implication that the maintenance of it free economic system is synonymous with political democracy is misleading . " And he goes on to support his view by stating that countries with Socialist Governments , such as Great Britain and the Scandinavian countries , have shown better economic and political achievements than other Western European countries where Socialist parties do not control National Governments . The United States , however , was omitted from the comparison . It seems to me that Mr. Shuman 's view and argument are representative of much of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Through political democracy the citizen is entitled and enabled to participate in the making of decisions which belong to the sphere of governmental action . But what is the legitimate sphere of governmental action ? There is of course no universally accepted social philosophy . Yet the world of Western civilization does have in common the basic idea that man comes before the state , and that therefore the function of the state is subsidiary . It is only on this basis of the subsidiary role of the Government that political democracy makes sense and is considered as one of the cherished values of Western civilization . Not Government Function There is no a priori reason why economic activities should be considered as belonging to the sphere of legitimate governmental function any *more than other aspects of human life . All of them primarily belong to the sphere of free human action . The Government can legitimately step in when and to the extent that individual or voluntarily cooperative action can not achieve what is considered necessary for the common good of society . Economic freedom is , obviously , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and productive investment . It is not the business of government to deny these freedoms . But it is equally obvious that this economic freedom can be effectively exercised only by people who have the opportunity to develop their potential abilities and have access to information necessary for an intelligent economic choice . This calls for a system of education and ability evaluation that will provide opportunity to all willing to make use of it . Such an opportunity can not be developed without some governmental action . Similarly , economic depressions have been a phenomenon which , by their nature , can not be prevented by pure individual action from occurring , nor can voluntary cooperation of individuals and social groups alone be relied upon as sufficient for this by-product of economic freedom . Some government action is necessary . Bert the purpose of this intervention is to prevent depressions , not to eliminate economic freedom . And today we know positively , from economic analysis as well as political science , that an intelligent and alert democratic Government can do this job without encroaching upon essential economic freedoms . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ economic life is necessary for the common good . And in all these legitimate cases governmental action can achieve its purpose without abolishing actual economic freedom , but rather to support it through improving economic opportunity . Efficiency Factor Now , if , in addition , we take into consideration the test of economic efficiency , the conclusion is equally in favor of basic economic freedom . A. century of experience has proved that non-governmental enterprise  --  except in obvious cases where the necessarily compulsory character of certain services or the indivisibly social nature of certain products requires public production  --  is not only more efficient than a governmental institution as to cost and quality of production , but is , moreover , , indispensable for the working of the price mechanism as the only available indicator of real economic scarcity and utility . Private enterprise , however multiform or reformed in ownership and management , and a genuine price mechanism freed from monopolistic and similar arbitrary distortions from either side are essential to both economic freedom and efficiency . It is more than an overstatement to credit socialism for whatever @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ achieved . For in neither - case have the Governments socialized production , except in a few industries , some of which had been publicly operated for many years in non-Socialist countries of Europe . CYRIL A. ZEBOT . Pittsburgh , Pa. , June 4 , 1950.                     