@@720829

txt Federal mediators took charge of the steel dispute again today , but after a futile day they recessed meetings until Wednesday . This left the stage to the Supreme Court for the third and final round of conflict over the validity of the Taft-Hartley anti-strike injunction . The court advised the United Steelworkers of America and the Government that they would be permitted unlimited time for one of the great legal debates of the year , beginning at 11 A. M. tomorrow . This was one of the rare suspensions of the rule that limits each side to a half-hour or an hour . If the union loses this decision its 500,000. striking members will be under a Federal District Court injunction to suspend their 111-day strike and return to work for a maximum of eighty days . Unemployment Spreads Strike-related unemployment continued to spread , the Labor Department reported . As of Oct. 21 , it was estimated at 337,000 , a rise from 280,000 , in addition to the strikers themselves . It was assumed that in the last ten days of October the lay-offs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but actual , totals will not be available until nearly mid-November . Jovph F. Finnegan , director of the United States Mediation and Conciliation Service , said ' that actuaries for the steel companies and the union were in session , presumably trying to Inarrow the area of statistical disagreement . A major difficulty in this dispute is trying to get the parties to agree on how much they are disagreeing about . The United States Steel Corporation , for example , says that the agreement between the , union and . the Kaiser Steel Cor poration would cost more than , 32 cents an hour . Kaiser and the union put it at 22% cents . One of the important trouble areas here is projecting insurance and pension costs . Mediation Is Required No one here , least of all the parties and the mediation service , was under any illusion about the futility of bargaining land mediation at this point . The mediation service is required by law to make the effort . The Taft-Hartley Act provides that " whenever a District ' Court has issued an order under @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ threaten to imperil the national ' health or safety , it shall be the duty of the parties to the labor dispute giving rise to such order to make every effort toy adjust and settle their dif-I ferences , with the assistance of the service created by this act . " The back-to-work order was issued by Judge Herbert P. Sorg on Oct. 21 in the United States District Court in Pittsburgh . It was upheld last Tuesday in the United States Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit by a vote of 2 to 1 . But the effect of the injunction has been stayed pending disposition of the appeal . Separate Meetings Mr. Finnegan and his associates , Robert H. Moore , Walter A. Maggiolo and Robert W. Donnahoo , met with the union and industry negotiating teams separately . The teams were not brought together at any time during the day . This is a common mediation technique when dispositions are not ripe for agreement . In brief news conferences after their talks with the mediators , both sides commented edgily about the status of bargaining . R. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ spokesman , said the union appeared determined to force " a S-Kaiser-high " settlement . The pun was taken as an affirmation of the companies ' position that they would not accept the Kaiser-union formula . " Clearly- ' they are interested only in perpetuating inflation in America ; and wasteful practices in the steel industry , " Mr. Cooper remarked . Pre-strike earnings of the production and maintenance force in the steel mills aver'aged $3.10 an hour . - David J. , president of the union , said it would , not take long to reach a Kaisertype settlement " if some of the great bankers would give the signal . " He said nobody " has given the representatives of industry authority to malice a settlement . " He capped the day with the remark that there was " absolutely no headway ? of Course not . " Mediation meetings will be resumed on Wednesday at 11 A. M. By that time the Supreme Court may have made I known its decision . If it upholds the injunction , President Eisenhower then will be free to reconvene the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Philadelphia : The union filed its final brief in the Supreme Court proceedings today and the Government filed a supplementary'brief . The union 's ninety-seven-page document dealt with its contentions that the Taft-Hartley Act improperly assigned to the Federal courts powers outside the scope of the Constitution . It ? argued that the District Court had misread , the statute - and " even on that misreading , its findings were unsupported by the evidence . " The- Government , answering ' the union 's point that the law requires the judge to be a prophet and an economist in ' evaluating the effects of the ( strike , said : " This , belated contention cavalierly'diaregards the history of Anglo-American jurisprudence which has long imposed on courts comparable fact-finding problems to be solved on the basis of the evidence and arguments proffered by the parties . "                     