@@716051

txt Let us make it clear immediately and without qualification that the rising price of coffee irks us as much as it does the noxt man . Nevertheless the furor over coffee does highlight some curious circumstances . The prices of other agricultural products are high . We cite the case of butter . In part at least the price of coffee goes up because supply is short in relation to demand . But there is no such excuse for the price of butter . Instead production is ample and it continues to rise . It has been charged that the short crop is not the only reason for the ascent of coffee prices ; there have been mutterings about car .. el arrangements and manipulation . Well , in relation to butter no one has to be in the dark about those features . The United Stafes government is running a gigantic butter cartel which openly manipulates to keep the price far above what it would be in a free market . Suppose that coffee were a domestic crop instead of an imported crop . Would the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ present price ? Or would they he insisting that the price was just and that any attempt to bring it down would be ruinous to the coffee raisers ? Then ' another aspect . A good many people in this country have been worrying about the dollar shortage of Brazil , a principal coffee producer . ExportImport Bank loans have been made to assist Brazil . Undoubtedly if the Brazilians seemed to run short of dollars again there would be many to advocate a grant to Brazil . The high price of coffee does put dollars into the hands of Brazilians . But somehow this seems to make them unpopular . . If they get the money as a loan or gift , they are good fellows apparently . But if some circumstance enables them to sell goods for dollars , they should be investigated . Well , what are we to conclude ? Is it American policy to have high prices for the American producer of food but not for the foreign producer ? Or must the foreign producer be content with what consumers here think a fair price , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a bonus in form of a grant ? Those would not be sound conclusions , we think . But we suggest there is justified the conclusion that once governments begin to manipulate the free market , they rapidly involve themselves in such preposterous contradictions as described here .                     