@@719253

txt Though the United States has begun to fire test missiles with machine-gun rapidity , the current comparative missile strength of the United States and the Soviet Union appears unaltered . The time lag between successful tests and the production of an operational missile is the crucial challenge for both countries . In this respect , if Soviet announcements can be accepted ( and few here are discounting them ) , the Soviets have the edge . The Soviets have successfully test-fired an intercontinental ballistic missile , presumably of 5,000-mile range . In two trials , a United States competitor , the Atlas , has failed . Similar Soviet advances are acknowledged here in the intermediate range ballistic missile . The Soviet Union is presumed to have an IRBM of 900-mile range already operational . The United States is just now beginning intensive firing tests of its IRBM family . Soviets Started Earlier Below the ICBM and IRBM range level , the United States is apparently doing qUite well with the Army 's Redstone rocket , which has a range of 200 miles . The Soviets have a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Union is at least temporarily eclipsing the United States ' missile development has to note that the Soviets started intensive work on intercontinental missiles shortly after World War II . The United States first concentrated on long-range bombers , and waited until 1953 , until it was certain that a . nuclear warhead could be carried by such a missile , before launching a major missile program . Then it plunged into the IRBM and ICBM research and development . Without the possibility of a nuclear warhead , it was felt by military planners , missiles would not be so effective as long-range bombers carrying nuclear bombs . Congress Probe Looms There are estimates on whether the Eisenhower administration gave missile programs sufficient priority after the 1953 decision . The impending congressional investigation will shed light on this controversy . Another aspect certain to be scrutinized is why the three armed services were permitted to compete with one another in the development of parallel missiles . Specific attention will be devoted to the two IRBMs now being tested . in Florida , the Air Force 's Thor and the Army 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rocket engines are identical . Control and guidance systems are the main differences . Intense rivalry between the Air Force and the Army has made it difficult for the Defense Department to make a decision between the two . Charles E. Wilson expected to make it before he turned . over the reins of the office of Secretary of Defense to Neil H. . Critics of the Defense Department , including some former members of the " team , " insist that hard-headed intuitive judgment could have been made long ago on the two missiles . This presumably would have saved money , if not time . Decision Put Off Now Mr. has taken over ? and indicates it may be six months before a final decree is issued . So the testing proceeds at Cape Canaveral , Fla. , with the Thor and Jupiter alternately sharing the headlines . The Thornow has reportedly had four successful tests out of eight attempted launchings . Three of five Jupiter firings are said to have been successful . These ratios undoubtedly will be altered many times before the test schedules end @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the final evalution . Determination of which weapon can be put into production first may be a key factor . Originally the Navy was sharing the Jupiter undertaking with the Army . When it was determined that the Navy needed a solid-fuel rocket rather than a liquid propellant , such as used in the Jupiter and Thor , the Navy started its own Polaris project . It is estimated that the Polaris is about six months behind the other two rockets , but there is increasing speculation of whether the Navy rocket may not turn out to be as useful on land as it is on sea . Publicity Machines Oiled Both the Soviet Union and the United States are making the most of their progress in missile development . As the two powers oil up their publicity machines , it will become more difficult to sort out the headlines . Within the week , the United States has changed its policy on missile information . Before then it was impossible to get an official announcement on what missiles were being tested in Florida . Longest space shot described : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Christian Science Monitor Washington The Eisenhower - Macmillan talks have reached some impressive agreements in principle ? to pool American and British natural science and weapons work in the interest of free world security , to support a pooling arrangement that would extend to all free world alliances . ? If these agreements are implemented with anywhere near the energy and effort that went into making them , this meeting of British and American heads of government can be counted a milestone in Western cooperation and free world unity . They would inaugurate a new era in natural science ' and military cooperation among free world powers . But both British and American conferees are well aware that agreements that look fine on paper may be diluted considerably when translated into action . They , ? particularly the British recall that at Bermuda last March these same two heads of government agreed that the United States would supply Britain with intermediate range ballistic missiles . But no such missiles have reached Britain , and none will until the United States decides which of two IRBMs to develop and put ? into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ availability could be two years off . French ' Ask IRBMs The French , it has been learned here this week , recently put in an urgent plea for access to United States IRBMs on the ground that they need them as much . as the British . And it seems certain that other North Atlantic Treaty Organization members are going to ask for IRBMs if and when they become available . As if to anticipate such moves and their future availability , Paul-Henri Spaak , NATO secretary-general ( who is lunching with President Eisenhower Oct. 25 and then conferring with both the President and British Prime Minister Harold Macmillan ) is strongly urging that any such weapons the United States supplies Europe be extended through NATO and not to individual nations . If there is to be the sharing of natural science information as anticipated in these exchanges , then there will have to be ' modification of the Atomic Energy Act that now restricts much sharing of such information . And President Eisenhower is reported to have assured the British that he intends to ask Congress for certain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ immediate meeting with Senate and House leaders on the subject or any thought of calling a special session of Congress to accomplish this purpose . Act Hit The Act came in for some forthright criticism from M. Spaak this week . He called it " outdated , " barring as it does cooperation between the United States and other nations on secret data about " the design or fabrication of atomic weapons . . . " Now that the Soviets have shown that they know most of the West 's so-called secrets , he argued , is n't ' it time the West pooled its natural science talent to surge again ahead of the So-viets ? But obvious as such a pool may appear to the **25;711;TOOLONG trio , it is not going to get congressional approval without a struggle . For example , Representative Francis E. Walter , chairman of the House Committee on Un-American Activities , greeted reports of Eisenhower-Macmillan plans for a pool of Western natural scientists with a warning that he was already studying necessary security measures for such projects . And Senator Styles Bridges @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the administration for failure to beat the Soviets with an ICBM or earth satellite , nevertheless expressed concern over security involved in any pool of Western natural science talent . Thus there are certain hurdles still confronting the President that might frustrate his agreements with Prime Minister Macmillan . Optimism Grows But for the moment , at least. , optimism is running high in both British and American circles over the prospect , stemming from these talks , of rallying the free world to meet Soviet military , economic , and psychological challenges . Both the President and Prime Minister , while speaking only for their governments , have stressed their common purpose to make this a free-world measure and one d'signed , as they put it , " for greater service to the free world . " This meeting may well go down in the books for its dining room diplomacy . There have been more " working dinners " at top level than correspondents covering the affair can recall . This gives an " old shoe " informality to the talks that has largely erased the Anglo-American tensions that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                     