@@716561

txt All outstanding differences on the arming of West Germany and on the Federal Republic 's sovereignty were resolved early this ( morning when the nine-power conference completed its deliberations . The foreign ministers will meet again later in the day to approve and sign a final protocol for the conference , which will reveal the historic decisions taken during the five-day meeting . A communiqu ? said that methods had been found to resolve the difficulties over the control of armaments . These difficulties arose from the French desire for strict restrictions on West German armament industries and they were solved largely by a voluntary renunciation of German rights to the production of atomic , bacteriological or chemical weapons , jet bombers and fighters and guided missiles ? in other words , all unconventional weapons . Agreement was reached on other outstanding issues , the communiqu ? added . United States Secretary of State John Foster Dulles , British Foreign Secretary Anthony Eden , Chancellor Konrad Adenauer of West Germany and the French Premier , Pierre Mend ? s-France , completed their work on German sovereignty , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ expected that a declaration of intent pledging the Allies to the liquidation Of the occupation of Germany , once agreement on their reserved powers has been worked out , will be part of the protocol to be signed tomorrow . Paul-Henri Spaak , Belgian Foreign Minister , as he left the conference , said that of the nine powers in the conference " the most generous was England and that is a great victory for . England . " Before the final protocol is signed the ministers will also approve the report of a working group on armaments control . A draft of this report , resolving differences on this issue between France and the eight other powers  --  the United States , Britain : Canada , Italy , West Germany , Belgium , the Netherlands and Luxembourg  --  has been approved in principle . The " serious crisis " over control of West German armaments manufacture was met by a series of concessions , the most important of which was volunteered by Dr. Adenauer , according to an authoritative United States source . As a result of yesterday 's agreement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ salvage a large part of what United States policy sought through the European Defense Community treaty . French Ratification Seen It is now expected that West Germany 's admission to the North Atlantic Treaty Organization will be ratified by the French National Assembly and that the armament of the Federal Republic can begin soon after the first of the year . In the interval an expanded and revised Brussels Treaty Organization , backed by British military power to a hitherto unheard of degree , and including West Germany and Italy , will take shape as the core of European political and military unity . Although West German sovereignty must await the completion of the detailed redrafting of the Bonn conventions , the United States , Britain and France will issue , in the near future , a declaration of intent to liquidate the occupation and will instruct their High Commissioners not to use their powers save in consultation with the Federal Government . The arming of West Germany under the North Atlantic Treaty Organization , which was the objective of the conference , has almost been overshadowed , in the eyes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ asset of a powerful British military commitment to the defense of Europe . The German concession , which broke the stalemate , was accompanied by a voluntary declaration by Dr. Adenauer that the Federal Republic had no intention whatsoever of building any atomic , biological or chemical weapons . In support of , his European approach , Dr. Adenauer added that West Germany would agree to restrictions on production of heavy weapons , tanks , heavy artillery and submarines if the other continental members of the Brussels Treaty Organization would accept similar restrictions . With the support of Belgium and the Netherlands this proposal won general acceptance and this ended the argument over control of such weapons by delimiting the geographical areas in which they could be manufactured . The idea of geographic restrictions has now been dropped . Members of the United States delegation are ascribing tie success of the conference , first to Mr. Eden 's offer of a British commitment on Wednesday , and , second , to Dr. Adenauer 's move yesterday . European diplomats who have read the European Defense Coinmunity treaty , point out , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ what West Germany had originally surrendered under Article 107 , Annexes one and two , of that treaty . The French delegation was less satisfied than the German with the results of yesterday 's sessions , two of which were restricted . to a Minister and one advisor , from each of the nine nations .. But M. Mend ? s-France will ( support the compromise solution before the French Assembly , authoritative French sources said . M. Mendes-France , who has been suffering from a heavy cold all week , left the Conference last evening and is in bed . At the final meeting of the day , which began at 10 P. M. , the French delegation was led by Rene Massigli , the Ambassador in London , and Roland de Moustier , secretary of the French Ministry of ' Foreign Affairs . The conflict that stalled . ' the conference Friday was between a French plan for control of arms ? : manufacture through an international agency with the widest powers to ' ' plan and guide production programs and to let contracts , and a less elaborate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ yesterday 's compromise ' the arms production of the continental meinbers of the expanded Brussels Treaty Organization  --  West Germany , Italy , the Netherlands , Belgium , Luxembourg and France  --  will be con- , trolled by the council of the Brussels Treaty Organization . M. Spaak appeared at the first session yesterday with various amendments to his plan intended to meet French objections to it and to bring his proposals and those of M. Mends-France closer together . But it was not until Dr. Adenauer 's statement that the situation began to improve . The Chancellor 's surrender on the issue of the manufacture of weapons does not involve small arms , machine guns , mortars and light artillery . Although the possibility of last minute snags is acknowledged by all diplomats , agreements in principle now have been reached on a new European structure . This does not include all the elements of the European Defense Community Treaty rejected by : the French National Assembly on Aug. .30 but this drawback is more than offset , in the Ameri can view , by the active participatiori of Britain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Defense ' Community . Strength ' of Bonn Forces West Germany will be armed under the North Atlantic Treaty Organization . The strength of the forces contributed by the Federal Republic will be those envisaged under the European Defense Community treaty : twelve army divisions , an , air force of about 1,000 planes and a small navy for coastal defense . Control of these forces will be delegated to Gen , Alfred M. Gruenther , Supreme Allied Commander in Europe whose responsibilities will be widened when the NATO ministerial council meets in Paris later this month . This council also will , fix the minimum forces to be contributed by the Germans while the Brussels Treaty Organization will set the maximum figures . The United States delegation anticipates that the admission of West Germany to NATO will have to be presented to the Senate as a protocol to the North Atlantic Treaty This process probably also will have to be carried out in other NATO capitals . But although there are some doubts about M. Mendes-France 's ability to win approval of the French National Assembly before the first of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their defense contribution early , in the new year . One of the real achievements of the conference , in the view of the United States delegation , has been the expansion of the Brussels Treaty Organization , which will provide a hard core in Europe for NATO in the form of an organization that includes a sovereign armed West Germany . Although the Brussels Treaty Organization does not include some of the supranational aspects of the European Defense Community treaty , it does fit United States objectives in Europe to a large extent . It is pointed out that action by its council can be taken by less than a unanimous vote on important matters and that by accepting this Britain has surrendered some of her cherished independence of action . The British pledge of four divisions and a tactical air force to continental defense is regarded by the United States delegation as " the major contribution " to the success of the conference . The pledge is to the Brussels Treaty Organization , which has a fixed lifetime of forty-four years more and after that may be extended indefinitely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ represented far more than Mr. Dulles expected to get when he came to London last Sunday . The background to the British action and Dr. Adenauer 's contribution is the willingness of the United States td continue support of any structure that promises European political and military unity . There are many ends to be tied up before the work of the conference is completed , the delegates agree . For instance , the Bonn Conventions , under which West German sovereignty was to be established , will have to be revised and ai ended to meet the new situation . The important aspects of these amendments are the reservation to the three occupation powers of their rights in Berlin , on the writing of a German peace treaty and the unification of the country and the stationing of deleted 2 lines                     