@@719689

txt WASHINGTON , April ** Administration is deeply worried about the future of its foreign trade program ? so much so that the State Department is now seriously considering a revision of two of this Government 's pet economic doctrines . These are its long-standing opposition to the principle of international commodity agreements , and its opposition to prolonged Government purchaSei ? of such things as domestic-produced lead and zinc . Thus , to save the reciprocal trade agreement program in the Senate , State Department economic experts are urging a new Government-buying *gram of United States lead and zinc for Coincidentally , these same experts are discussing the feasibility of an international coffee commodity agreement to avoid financial distress and political trouble , particularly in Brazil and Colombia . The Administration ended its zinc - buying program last ' month , and allocated no funds for Government purchases of lead after June 30 , 1958 . These decisions , coupled with the competition of foreign-produced lead and zinc , have caused widespread unemployment in United States lead and zinc mines , and have greatly increased the demand @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and zinc imports . In short , the situation is as follows : Lead and zinc  --  Senators from the lead and zinc states  --  New Mexico , Arizona , Colorado , Idaho , Utah , Montana and to a lesser extent Wyominghave served notice on the Administration that they will not vote for the reciprocal trade agreements program unless the lead and zinc miners are given relief in one form or another . This informal " mining bloc , " most of whose members have previously favored the reciproIcal trade agreements program , is working closely with the ' Senate " textile bloc " and " oil bloc , " both of which also want ' protection against foreign competition . And the combination has convinced the State Department economic experts that unless some concessions are made to the protectionists , the reciprocal trade agreements program will be severely crippled if not defeated . Coffele -- Brazil , Colombia and several other Latin - American countries get 80 per cent of their foreign , exchange from the export of coffee , primarily to the United States and Europe . Their revenues from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ months . Competition From Africa Meanwhile , competition from French and British African coffee has been hurting their market , particularly in Europe , and when the European common market agreements get into full operation , African coffee will enjoy a greater priority in the European , market . The question raised here , therefore , is whether to sit down with the Latin-American coffee producers and discuss the problem , knowing that such a discussion would inevitably lead to proposals frir an international coffee agreement similar to the sugar agreement now in operation . In the past , the United States Government , white feeling that the commodity agreement for sugar worked fairly well , has opposed the extension of this device to coffee : The idea here has been that the United States was the world 's largest consumer of coffee and that it should buy coffee anywhere it could for the lowest possible price . Accordingly , United States officials have refused to enter into . international negotiations on a coffee a commodity agreement . Now , however , they see serious ' trouble ahead for the Latin-American @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as Brazil and Colombia  --  that depend primarily on this one crop for foreign exchange . Exports From Brazil For example , Brazil 's coffee exports to the United States dropped from $604,731,000 in 1956 to $528,402,000 in 1957  --  a decline Of $76,329,000 . Colombia 's dropped in this same pertodby $24,638,000 and the estimates for the future are even more disturbing , This is happening when the Soviet Union is in the midst of a major trade drive in Latin America . The State Department 's argument is that it would undoubtedly be cheaper and safer in the long run to revise lour theory about commodity agreements than to deal with Ithe economic and political conIsequenees of a financial crisis in the coffee-producing countries in the south . There is , however , serious opposition to this line of thought within the Administration . Some officials think the controversy over commodities agreements and stock-piling payments for lead and zinc will be the major issue within the Executive ' Branch of the Government in the next three months . A Question by Opponents The opponents of commodity agreements ask why @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ agreements when it has had so much trouble with trying to fix prices and agricultural . quotas at home . The free market is the best market , these officials say . Therefore , they are opIposed to the arguments being heard in the State Department . Nevertheless , political conIsiderations in both the lead and zinc and the coffee controversies are forcing a review . of economic doctrine . Even the State Department officials who , are advocating a modification Of present policies do not , like commodity agreements or perpetual stock-piling ' programs , but they are faced With harsh alternatives and feel that the time has come to talk out the differences with the Administration. , It is difficult to be precise about the Government purchases of lead and zinc in the past , for these are not published . Reliable estimates , however , put the cost at about $50 , - 000,000 a year ; The State Department argument is that this will be very little to pay if , as it believes , the future of the Trade Agreements Act depends on the votes ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ State also argues that the Latin-American market for United States Automobiles and other products will seriously decline unless some way is found to avoid a financial crisis in important parts of the hemisphere . The Secretary of State . John Foster Dulles , dealt with the Latin - American commodity price problem in a speech at Pan American Day ceremonies here this afternoon . He said that the United States Government had realized " the potential consequences of violent fluctuations in the prices of Latin America 's experts and is daily searching for ways and means to contribute toward a solution . " " I can assure you , ' ' he said , " that we are truly anxious to help within the limits of what is sound and within our governmental capabilities , And we are always ready to discuss with our neighbors these mutual problems in an effort to find practical and acceptable solutions . "                     