@@719599

txt BONN , Germany , March 14 ? The Government beat a major tactical retreat today on the question of German reunification . Felix von Eckhardt , head of the federal press office , said at a news conference the Government would not insist on a discussion of reunification at a heads-of-government conference provided the conferees showed promise of bringing general controlled armament closer to realization . Herr von Eckhardt 's statement meant that Chancellor Konrad Adenauer no longer was prepared to insist that reunification be placed on the agenda of a top-level conference . The spokesman 's announcement confirmed rumors current in the last forty-eight hours that the Chancellor had made up his mind to shift his ground because the main factors in the international situation were operating against West Germany . These factors were said to be the success of the Soviet diplomatic offensive in overcoming most obstacles put in the path of a heads-of-government conference and the apparent inability of Washington to blunt Moscow 's political attack . Dr. Adenauer was also said to have been motivated by a fear of finding himself isolated should @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ // clude German reunification . A second more explicit fear said to have motivated Dr. Adenauer was a feeling that , . if he insisted too hard and too long on a discussion of reunification , he might be accused of torpedoing hopes for a lessening of East-West tensions . Herr von Eckardt explained the Government 's decision on the ground that a disarmament agreement could start a relaxation of international tensions and this , in turn , might create the necessary climate for a solution of the German problem . The spokesman expressed confidence that the German question would come up automatically for discussion at a heads-of-government conference when disarmament talks involved European countries . As late as two years ago the Adenauer Government , supported by the Washington Administration , maintained there could be no general relaxation of tensions without a prior settlement of the German question . This position was transformed under the pressure of events to a parity between the two problems , namely , simultaneous solutions . Another change in position was made last year . West Germany and the Western Allies then said they would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ condition that the Soviet Union agree to bring in the German question at the second or implemental stage of disarmament . A third major change was made today . The implication of the latest change was described as follows : The West German Government now hopes a disarmament agreement will result in a climate that would facilitate reunification on its terms , free elections in all Germany and the right of ah all-German Parliament and Government to determine foreign policy . In the view orWest Germany and the Western Allies this would mean accession of a reunited German state to the North Atlantic Treaty Organization . "                     