@@717392

txt More than a thousand . German World War U prisoners came home in three trains today after 10 Nears in Russian prisons . Moving scenes attended welcoming ceremonies at this reception center . Few of the more than 10,000 persons gathered her e passed the day withOut experiencing a lump in their throat . One of the homecomers brought tears to many eyes when he responded to welcoming speeches . " For 10 years we have not wept , " he said . " Nor are the tears in our eyes caused by memory of past suffering . We weep because of the sudden discovery that there is still so much love left in people 's hearts . " Wave to Welcomers . It wac 6:30 a. m. when the first freight train puled thru the early morning mist into the small Hessian border town of Herleshausen . From every car of the train bearing the inscription , " We greet the homeland , " dozens of hands waved to welcomers on the platform . Dozens of relief agency workers gave the returning prisoners flowers , hot @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ asked one of the prisoners : " Wo n't you have a package of cigarets ? " He looked at her and replied , " You know , yours is the first German woman 's voice I have heard in 12 years . " A little village girl holding a huge bouquet of asters pressed forward . She recited a poem of welcome she had learned for the occasion . When she had finished , one of the returnees picked her up and asked , " How old are you ? " Thirty Generals Arrive " Six years , " was the reply . " I have a girl twice your age whom I have never seen , " he said . Thirty more former generals also came back today . They arrived in a sleeping car . All were and in new civilian suits and leather shoes . Some even brought gifts of caviar . The common soldiers , noncoms and lesser officers had been crowded into freight cars since Sept. 26 when they were assembled from various prison camps in Sverdlovsk in western Siberia . The youngest in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be carried on stretchers to waiting ambulances . Their faces showed the suffering and hardships they had gone thru . They were dressed in improvised clothes made of quilting , denim and cotton . Many wore track suits and tennis shoes . Travel in Buses Seventeen buses were waiting at the border station to bring them here , a distance of 40 miles . As they traveled over the rolling hills of Upper Hesse whole towns and villages turned out to greet the men with flowers , candy , and fruit . At Eschwege flowers were dropped front every window around trie square as the buses drove up . Mothers held up their children so they could hand flowers thru bus win-(low 's . It was a silent welcome . Everyone was too moved to cheer . The first family reunions also took place there . Mothers found their sons , wives their husbands . There were embraces and tears . When the local police band played " Praise Thee 0 Lord a solemn silence held everyone for more than a minute . Other towns witnessed similar scenes and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , gift from the Evan gelical Youth organization , announced their arrival . Carry Placards Many women , young and old , carried placards containing a name , an address , and a picture of the soldiers they were looking for . Many of those sought are dead , but mothers and wives desperately . clung to the hope that the one they wanted was among those now coming home . Police could not hold back the crowds . Mothers , fathers , wives , and children crashed thru . the police lines , tears streaming down faces as they embraced the returning loved ones . The men , already exhausted , had to stand more than an hour to receive the official welcome . Among the six speakers were Vice Chancellor Franz Pluecher who brought greetings from Chancellor Adenauer , ill with a cold , and the Evangelical bishop , Dr. Hans ' Lilje of Hannover . Of the 9,262 German POWs the Russians promised to re lease before the end of the month , 5,050 are from West Germany , the remainder from soviet East Germany . More than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ separately as par- ' titularly serious " war criminals " after Oct. 20 . Sentenced to 25 Years Also expected is another group of 32 generals from the Voikovo camp where 189 gen-1 erals were interned . All returnees were " war criminals " according to judgments of soviet courts . The majority received sentences of 25 years . Among the crimes that evoked such sentences were picking potatoes from fields when they had nothing else to eat , or taking wood from the forest to heat barracks in the winter . One former soldier displayed a thin sheet of paper bearing his sentence written in Russian . He said he did not know what he had been convicted of since he could not read the language . All the prisoners had to do the heaviest type of labor in mines , quarries , forests , on road and . house construction . Food was poor , medical treatment insufficient . Given Farewell Party , " Two days before we were told we would be freed Russian guards still walked behind us with pointed guns , " one prisoner said . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , farewell party where good food and drinks were served . A Russian military band played . When we left , soviet generals waved good-by . " The prisoners were visibly shaken ' over the treatment they had received in East Germany . The trains were moved at night and all railroad stations in towns they passed thru had been blocked off by communist police so the people could not greet the men nor talk to them . " During the entire trip thru the soviet zone we did not get a cup . of coffee , or even some water to wash our hands , " a former sergeant remarked .                     