@@716960

txt Military predictions that the Chinese Communists might attack Matsu or Quemoy in mid-April were viewed with skepticism by diplomats here today . In foreign embassies as well as in the State Department there were few who quarreled with the prevailing Pentagon estimate that the Chinese Communists now had the capability to launch a major attack . It was on the timing that many diplomatic officials demurred . Their reasoning was that the Chinese Communists , having demonstrated a flair for effective propaganda , would not risk losing support in Asia by staging an attack on the offshore islands in advance of the AsianAfrican conference at Bandung , Indonesia . The meeting is scheduled to open April 18 . The United States is bound by treaty with the Chinese Natidnalist Government to defend Formosa and the Pescadores Islands if they are attacked from the mainland . Whether it also would fight for the Quemoy and Matsu island groups has never been made clear , in keeping with the Administration policy of retaining some room for maneuver . Canadian Statement Cited Both President Eisenhower and Secretary of State Dulles @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nuclear weapons against purely military targets if it became involved in Far Eastern hostilities . The major allies of the United States have made clear their profound disagreement with the offshore islands policy , Officials in the embassies here make no secret of their alarm over the possibility that the United States may indeed go td war with Communist China over the offshore islands , whether or not nuclear weapons are used . One official remarked that if Canada , the country that on the broad range of foreign . . policy problems tends most consistently to support the United States , wanted no part of an offshore islands war , Washington would find no allies elsewhere . in the Western world . He referred to the statement in Ottawa last Thursday in which Lester B. Pearson , Canada 's Secretary of State for External Affairs , said : " While believing strongly in the view that the destinies of our two countries are intertwined * * * and that we could not stand aloof from a major war which threatened the very existence of the United States , I must @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conflict over the possession of these Chinese coastal islands * * * to be such a situation , or one requiring any Canadian intervention in support of the Chinese Nationalist regime . " Pressures were building toward a firm decision by President Eisenhower during the next week . He has invited leaders of the two Major parties in Congress to separate luncheons Wednesday and Thursday for a foreign affairs briefing . There appeared to be a growing conviction here that the policy of deliberate vagueness about the offshore islands carried withl it a sizable risk that the Com-1 munists , calculating the United States would back down in Mel end , would not hesitate to attack . A minority still holds to Mel opinion that the Communists do not want a general war with the United States and will desist if the President clarifies his position in terms they can understand . Senator Hubert H. Humphrey , Democrat of Minnesota , proposed that the United States strengthen its forces in Korea as one way of lessening the danger . He was not advocating a resumption of the Korean fighting , Senator @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Chinese Communists and thus force them to shift some of their troops away from the Quemoy-Matsu area . Peiping announced yesterday that six of its divisions were being withdrawn from Korea . Senator Walter F. George , Georgia Democrat and chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee , said that some credence was being given here to the possibility of a Communist attack after the Asian-African conference . He was not prepared to say , Senator George added , whether the United States would become involved . " The President alone must make the decision , " he declared . Senator Styles Bridges , Republican of New Hampshire , described the Far Eastern situation as " very serious . " " The puffed-up , swaggering Red Chinese are certainly doing a lot of sword rattling , and reports indicate that their build-up will be sufficient within a couple of months for an assault on Quemoy and Matsu if they intend to go through with it , " he said .                     