@@713058

txt Modern education 's increased use of radio , recordings , motion pictures , and television as teaching aids is receiving intensive discussion in Boston today . Educators and radio network officials are meeting for the fourth annual institute on radio-audio-visual education at the Massachusetts School of Art . The three-day program is sponsored by the Massachusetts Department of Education with the cooperation of Boston University , the New England Committee on Radio at Education . and the Massachusetts Committee for Radio-Audio-Visual Aids in Education . Flexible Programs Today 's more flexible educational programs in public schools include use of teaching tools that appeal through the eye and ear because it has been found that such devices help intensify the impact of the subject matter on the young people . Television  --  the newest arrival ' on the educational scene ? promises to provide considerable material for discussion during the coming days at the conference . It is scheduled to be discussed formally by Paul A. Walker , vice-chairman of the Federal Communications Commission and by W. C. Swartley , general manager of Westinghouse stations in New England @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ appeal whether they have wanted to or not . Already , since its short appearance in the i American home , it has produced 1 new fads , new toys , new costumes 1 for after school play  --  and new 1 problems of homework . Potential Tool Television , by employing techniques of radio as well as of motion pictures , has thrust itself upon educators as a potential classroom aid offering greater " immediacy " than any device hitherto available for bringing the " outside world " into the classroom . Cooperation between television station operators and educators in some sections has brought hope of specially prepared TV programs for school use . Thus far it is only reporting a fact to state that TV has not won many friends among teachers and school principals . They tend to regard TV as a distraction more than anything resembling a teaching aid at present . On the other hand , experts attending the conference are aware that TV has appeared at a time when the school systems across the country are only beginning to give audio-visual aids the attention they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ survey showed that there were only 500 16mm. sound motion-picture projectors in the nation 's schools . By 1951 , however , it is predicted that there will be 24,500 of them . Many of the new buildings being erected by more progressive school systems include facilities in classrooms or in special rooms for use of radios , motion-picture projectors , film strips , lantern slides , recording machines , phonographs , and the like .                     