@@715258

txt A subcommittee of the Senate Armed Services Committee reported today that the current war planning by the Armed Forces might not be sufficient to prevent a crippling surprise attack by an enterprising enemy , might not provide the capability for immediate retaliation following such an attack and might not assure this nation of the ability to carry on a sustained offensive against a powerful adversary . " Nor have we felt , " the report said , " that expenditure of the additional billions of dollars presently contemplated would acquire for ' our nation those capabilities that would adequately deter an enemy from waging war against us . " The opinions were those of Senators Russell B. Long , Democrat of Louisiana , and Wayne Morse , Independent of Oregon , who visited about sixty installations in Europe during the recess of Congress , traveling as far east as Turkey on a 30,000-mile survey . They recommended that the full-committee , of which neither is a member at this session , investigate the entire problem . ' A Better Answer ' " We can not understand a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ men-in units of 21000 to 5,000 sitting idly in the muck and mire of Europe , Africa , Asia and the Arctic Circle waiting for a war which we hope to avoid , " the Senators concluded . " Mobility of American reserves is a better answer to the threat of Communist aggression at remote points than an attempt to station and maintain enough American boys at sparsely settled outposts to defeat a major enemy assault ' upon such points . " " It was our feeling that either the contemplated capabilities , should be achieved at less cost or the entire plan should be , revised , " , they said . The blame for the alleged insufficiencies of overseas naval , military and air bases was placed by the subcommittee on the individual armed services and not on the Joint Chiefs of Staff . It was contended that the Joint Chiefs , in fixing the country 's strategic defense plans , decided only that certain types of bases be situated in certain places , while the Army , Navy or Air Force eventually decided the size of a particular @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " This we view as an inadequacy of the Unification Act , which makes it impossible to have any over-all defense planning , " the Senators declared . Before it was made public , the // report was submitted to the Defense and State Departments for the deletion of any information that might be useful to a potential enemy . As a result , the entire section of the report dealing with installations in France was omitted , on the objection of the State Department with the concurrence of the Defense Department . " The subcommittee has made this deletion , " the report said , " with great reluctance and only because of the security argument advanced , because it believes that some of the facts under this heading should be made known to the American people . " The only clue to the deleted information was contained in the following section , which described the situation in England . " From a security point of view , " the report said , " the personnel employed on and around American bases could not be expected to have the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Nevertheless , this situation is not nearly so much a problem as it was in France and Iceland . " In another action before the report was made public , the Senate Armed Services Committee this week began closed meetings on the charges and heard General of the Army Omar N. Bradley , chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff ; Gen. Hoyt S. Vandenberg , Air Force Chief of Staff . and Harold E. Talbott , Secretary of the Air Force . Details Around the Globe General Vandenberg was reported to have said on Wednesday ' that bases abroad must be fully ' manned to take instant retaliatory ' measures against an aggressor . ' With the other officials , he defended the Air Force against the accusations . Last year , the Department of ' investigating was asked by a Senate ' Investigating committee to withhold about $146,000,000 for construction of overseas bases pending a study . At present , both the Secretary of Defense , Charles E. Wilson , and the Armed Services Committee are reviewing overseas construction to see where cuts may be made . The Senators @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ overseas at the following specific things : There are excessive numbers of men at remote stations in Newfoundland , Labrador , Greenland and Iceland . The report cited one base name not given occupied by 450 troops of an allied nation and by 2,500 United States troops ; it drew the conclusion that the United States contingent need be no larger than that of the allied nation . The defense of such installations , it said , should depend on the mobility of forces within the United States and their capability to reinforce a skeleton garrison . ' ar more United States troops than the currently authorized total of six divisions , which would number about 100,000 men , are now stationed in Europe . The number was deleted for security reasons . Combat and operational personnel are sent to foreign stations before accommodations are ready to receive them , entailing long periods of uncomfortable idleness for them . elHighly specialized facilities , such as machine shops , are placed either where there is little use for the work they can do or where they would be easily captured in event @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rebuilding tanks was built within a few miles of the Russian zone in Germany . eiHighly complicated items are being put into buildings in forward areas ( air-conditioning facilities , etc. ) where skilled personnel to operate . them would be lacking ... in time of war . ' Agreements with the individual allied nations are made without a central policy . qLabor union regulations and restrictive labor practices in Great Britain prevent the efficiency commonly found on United States projects . It was asserted that a United States crew would lay five times as much asphalt in a. day as a British crew . qDispersal has been widely neglected on many bases . Fuel-storage facilities have been placed so close to other buildings that a fire or explosion would wreck the whole installation . Airplanes are parked on a single apron so that the whole lot could be wiped out by a single bombing attack . ' Supplies are shipped abroad before warehousing facilities are ready . Sometimes they are not properly packaged for open-air storage . In Iceland , a hangar left from World War II was found empty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ housing arrangements are poor , particularly in France and Italy , with personnel forced to pay exorbitant rentals for substandard accommodations . In France and Germany employes of some installations are compelled to live as far as seventy-five miles from their working place . The report also found the Navy base at Naples in a state of confusion . Housing accommodations were too expensive , and several hundred enlisted men subsisted on a per diem basis . The Navy authorities have already built $350 , - 000 more of housing than specifically authorized , according to the Senators . The Naples operation was described as " a completely unnecessary waste of money and personnel , " but the report added that Dan Kimball , as Secretary of the Navy in the Truman ' Administration , had personally inspected the base and that corrective action was expected soon .                     