@@718818

txt Edward P. Curtis , special White House assistant for aviation planning , recommended to President Eisenhower today the creation of an independent Federal aviation agency . He backed the recommendation with a forecast that the number of aircraft in the United , States would increase from 90 , - 000 today to 125M00 by 1975 . The ' 75 figure would include 200-passenger jet transports flying at the speed of sound . Mr. Curtis , an Air Force general in NVorld War II . said the new agency should be headed by a civilian and staffed jointly by civilian and military personnel . It would consolidate all management functions necessary to support the common needs of military and civil aviation , absorbing the present Civil Aeronautics Administration of the Commerce Department , As an immediate interim step , Mr. Curtis has recommended to Congress , with Presidential endorsement , the creation of an Airways Modernization Board . This also would be included in the Federal agency when it was established . Mr. Curtis and Louis S. Rothschild , Under Secretary of Commerce , appeared before the Senate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? modernization board be approved . Several Democrats . on the committee criticized the proposal because the modernization board would not have the power to make effective its recommendations for aviation control and communications systems . The Curtis report dealt in detail with the technical and financial problems inherent in larger , faster aircraft in greater numbers in the future , The general saw the need for bigger airports.and for a greatly improved system of communications and traffic controls in the use of the airways . The report also recommended that the.Civil Aeronautics Board be stripped of virtually all its safety regulatory authority . The new Federal agency would assume ? the aeronautics board 's powers to investigate air accidents and , to write and amend all air regulations pertaining to safety . The aeronautics board would then be primarily concerned only with  --  the economic regulation of civil air carriers . The report indicated dissatisfaction with the present system whereby the C. A. B. issues the regulations and , leaves their enforcement to the C. A. A. Mr. Curtis estimated that the number of aircraft landings annually , now at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1975 . . In New York , for example , he said , there currently are 175 aircraft airborne : , simultaneously , and that by 1975 this number will grow to 370 . In the New York-Washington corridor , he aid , there are ninety aircraft operating simultaneously , and by 1975 this number will grow to 450 aircraft . Backs New Air System en is physically impossible for . today 's aviation facilities to control 1956 volume of aircraft in such high-density areas  --  even in dear . weather , " Mr. Curtis continued . ' " The requirement , therefore , is for an air traffic Control system which can handle more of today 's traffic , not just a fraction of it , and a systein. with Me flexibility and capacity to ' grow and accommodate the air traffic of 1975 . " M. curtis endorsed the proposals of a. team of experts who have suggested a radically new air traffic system . These ? recommendations , which were made public last . month , called for strict control of all high-altitude traffic and all flying at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said he was " well aware " of policy objections to creation of a new independent agency in an over-complex Federal Government structure , but was convinced that such an office was e , ssential to coordinate both civil and military air policy . He said it was impossible now to put an estimated " price tag " on the expanded facilities . But he urged planning now so that the users of airspace would bear an increasing share of the cost of building and operating such facilities . . ; Stuart G. Tipton , president of the Air Transport Association , which represents the country 's major airlines , said the Curtis report represented an " excellent , practical analysis of the problem arising out of the present air traffic control system and the Government organization which affects ? that system . "                     