@@714423

txt Two of the greatest mass atrocities in history -- the communist slaughter of at least 4,100 Polish army officers and men in the Katyn forest and the murder of 6,000 to 8,000 American prisoners in Korea ? ? will be investigated by ' congress next month . In the spring of 1940 , Stalin 's secret police IPd the Polish officers , the flower of the nation 's manhood , into the forest in northeastern Poland , then and now in Russian hands . The prisoners ' hands were tied with a peculiar knot which became tighter if they struggled . Each prisoner was shot in the back of the head . The Poles , ranging in rank from general to noncommissioned men , were piled like cordwood in graves as large as swimming pools . Trees were planted over the graves to hide them . The fate of 11,000 more Polish officers has not been fully established . Yanks Tied 8ame Way Ten years later in Korea , American hands were tied with the same peculiar knot in communist overrun territory . The Americans were found later , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . They were executed in the same fashion as the Polish officers in Katyn forest . Both died at Red hands . Arthur Bliss Lane , former ambassador to Poland , charged that the facts in the Katyn massacre have been hidden from the American people by " Kremlin appeasing officials " in Washington , some still in power here . Disclosure of the facts might have alerted the American people to the menace of the Russians and forestalled the tragic blunders of Tehran , Yalta , and Potsdam , Lane said . Writing in the current issue of the American Legion monthly , Lane calls upon congress to get at the facts and why they were suppressed . Poses Three Questions He contends congress should seek the answers to three questions as follows : 1 . Who , at the top United States government levels , prdered hiding of all intelligence reports unfavorable to the soviets and the publication of communist lies and propaganda ? 2 . Who manipulated the techniques of the Nuernberg trials so that no soviet crime was punished , altho the evidence on the Katyn massacre @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been acting as the agent or agents of the Kremlin or as amicus curiae friend in court of soviet comunism ? Lane names among those who suppressed facts or spread Red propaganda which falsely blamed Germans for the massacre W. Averell Harriman , former ambassador to Russia and now foreign affairs adviser to President Truman , and Maj. Gen. Clayton Bissell , former head of military intelligence . Facts Important Now " The chronology of the official attempts in Washington , beginning with Harriman 's in Moscow , to cover up the communist crime , is as important now ? if not more so to Americans ? as the actual Katyn massacre , " Lane said . " The attempt to hide this crime from the American people has led into our major present national and international problems . " Whenever a report from the Polish government in exile , or any ' other Intelligence agency , reached Washington that incriminated the soviets the record will show that such a report was stamped ' top secret ' and kept out of the reach or knowledge of the American voters . Instead @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Elmer Davis . continued to broadcast only the Kremlin 's propaganda . " Lane charged that Bissell took extraordinary measures to suppress reports by two American officers , who were prisoners in Germany and present at the exhumation of the bodies of the Polish officers by Germans . These officers , both hating the German enemy , concluded the evidence unmistakably showed that the Russians and not the Nazis were responsible for the mass murder . Once Envoy to Poland Lane said the Polish officers were shot only after Russian secret police had sought to turn them into quislings . He said it is to the credit of the Polish people that after " five terrible months of communist indoctrination techniques , " the Reds were able to obtain only 20 officers " as even quisling candidates . " Lane was named ambassador to Poland in 1945 . He stayed thru the fraudulent elections of January , 1947 . He said he saw Poland betrayed " and saw " brave Poles , men and women , ' liquidated ' by the Kremlin . " He said " with mounting wrath over @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " he left the state department and organized an American committee for investigation of the massacre . This committee has collected evidence . 2 GRUESOME CRIME- ; -7 I DT LARRY Rt7E bicago Tribune Frets Service FRANKFURT , Germany , Jan. 24 ? Two gruesome crimes were committed by She Russians against Poland . One was the murder of Polish officers in the Katyn forest . The other ? aa the execution of the Polish divisional commander and his staff by the commanding general of Russian forces upon reentering Poland en the heels of the retreating German army in 1944 . The Polish general and his staff were acting on instructions from London when they reported to the Red army general for orders . In the same pattern which was later followed in the Pacific war , Stalin waited until all resistance of the Poles had been broken before he launched his attack . It was in the latter part of 1 September , 1939 . In invading , Poland the Red army had little 1 . fighting to do . Its chief job was ' to occupy half of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ soviet union  --  and to I accept the surrender of the rem-1 nants of the Polish army . Among those who surrendered were 11,000 Polish officers . Outside of the fact that these officers were prisoners of war in Russia , the fate of some of them was not known until July , 1941 . Then , after Hitler had started his allout war on Russia , in June , Gen. Vladislav Sikorski , head of the Polish exile government in London , went to Moscow to negotiate a peace treaty with Stalin . Sought Release of Troops There was military justification for Sikorski 's quick visit , as con- i siderable Polish military forces were in Russian fields . These could quickly be reactivated and used against " the common foe . " Sikorski wanted two things : an alliance with Russia , in which he thought Polish territorial integrity would be recognized , and release of the Polish troops . In September , 1941 the Polish troops were freed from Russian captivity . But there were few officers among them . This correspondent was in London at the time @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Kremlin . a high Polish government told me the story . He said Sikorski learned that the Polish officers ' were dead . Sikorski had a list containing the names of 11,000 officers who had surrendered to the Red army in September , 1939 . When he handed the list to Stalin , the latter declared , " I am sorry . We can not release these men . They are dead . " Lost at Sea , He Says He hastily added that since the Russians had felt that Polish officers could not be trusted it was decided to transport them to Siberia . Accordingly , they were put on a boat . A big storm came up on the Barents sea , and the ship foundered . Everyone on board , including the crew , drowned . Stalin then remarked : " Unfortunately , had we known Poland soon would be oar ally , that accident would not have had to happen . " The official who told the story remarked that Sikorski 's interpreter had been particularly shocked at the news because on the list was the name @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Sikorski decided to make no special inquiry or remark of reproach . The story of the officers ' deaths was brought back to . London by Sikorski , his interpreter and other members of his staff . It was reported in detail to high British arid American authorities and was immediately given the highest classification of confidential hush- ' hush . The strictest censorship was imposed . Mention of these deaths was prohibited on the ground that it would create bad feeling as well as give military information and comfort to the enemy . Killed in Plane Crash Sikorski and his immediate associates were killed the same year when an American plane , in which they were returning from the near east where the Polish army was being integrated to fight for the British , crashed on a take-off at Gibraltar . There was talk of sabotage . The Katyn story broke In all its gruesome details in April , 1943 , when the German army announced discovery of the mass graves of the Polish officers . Katyn is a small town midway between Smolensk and Vitebsk and just off the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been put in quick lime , others had not . Many of the dead still could be identified by uniforms , letters and trinkets found in their possession . There were also bodies of Catholic priests in their ecclesiastical robes and of . other Polish civilians . Ninety per cent of the bodies ? more than 4,100 were found  --  wore Polish officers ' uniforms . Still around their necks were military identification tags . Bullet holes at the top of the spine or back of the head , indicated how each had died . Their names corresponded ' with those on the Sikorski list . Poles Rebuked In the face of this evidence the Polish government in London recommended that because of the seriousness of the case and the importance of the victims involved an International Red Cross commission should be appointed to Make an investigation . The reaction was immediate . Russia broke diplomatic relations with the Polish government in exile . British and Am erica n authorities denounced the Polish proposal as unimportant , frivolous and inspired by nazi propaganda . The German army had taken neutral observers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bodies of the officers mist have been . lying in the graves at least since 1940 . Foresters confirmed their report , estimating that the pine trees , planted over the graves , had been there for more than two years . Since the war more evidence has been collected on Katyn . But neither the American nor the British government has done anything to find a clear-cut answer to what happened to the 11,000 officers . News has come from Russia to indicate that Katyn was only a part of a Moro liquidation of Polish prisoners of war . Of the 15,000 said to have been captured only 400 are reported to have survived . Plays Dead and Lives The story of one survivor was published in a German newsweekly . He was a Polish captain by the name of Przibilski who is still reported held in soviet captivity . His story was brought back by Hans Rehbach , a German prisoner of war , now living in the British zone . He quoted Przibilski as follows , " After the Polish officers had surrendered to the Red army , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Katyn forest . I noticed that many of my comrades were taken to interrogations and never returned . " Later on I was summoned for interrogation , Together with several officers I was led into the forest where we were lined up in front of a pit . There we saw a couple of our comrades lying covered with chloride 011 lime . Some of the officers standing in front of the pit prayed , others pleaded for their lives . Then the shots of the automatic pistols crashed . " I fell into , the pit feeling at once that I was only slightly injtired . But I behaved as tho I was dead . The guards threw chloride over me . " During the night I managed to climb out of the pit and crept thru the woods . I finally reached a farmhouse where my wounds were treated . " I was allowed to remain there and work as a farmhand . After several years my experience at Katyn became known . I was arrested by the MVD secret police and sentenced to 25 years of hard labor @ @ 