@@714305

txt There are strong indications that Moscow is studying the West 's revised disarmament plan more carefully than it did the original one submitted to the United Nations General Assembly here Nov. 8 . The principal bit of evidence in this direction has been the complete  --  and by no means typical silence of Soviet Foreign Minister Andrei Y. Vishinsky in the General Assembly 's Political Committee , which has been attempting to discuss the West 's arms plan . The machinery of the committee virtually stopped turning Nov. 19 after Secretary of State Dean Acheson finished outlining the West 's new position . Diplomats noted that Mr. Acheson had made a number of significant concessions to the Soviet point of view , and awaited Mr. Vishinsky 's comment . But none was forthcoming . Concessions Pointed Out Since few other countries wished to speak until the Soviet position had been clarified , the committee adjourned at noon Nov. 19 until the morning of Nov. 20 . When it reconvened , Brazil and Peru pointed out to Mr. Vishinsky that " many points " in the new western @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Union " and asked him point-blank for his reaction . Mario de Pimentel Brandao of Brazil said the committee " turned I its I view to the sphinx that sits among us shrouded in mystery zaid suspicion . " " To speak bluntly , " he said , " the success or defeat of our efforts rests squarely with the Soviet Union . We hope Mr. Vishinsky will not be deaf to the sincerity of our offers . " Sphinx Waits But the white-haired Soviet Foreign Minister merely adjusted his horn-rimmed spectacles and jotted another note or two on the papers on his desk . Other delegates said it was obvious that the sphinx had not yet received instructions from the Kremlin . The committee again decided to omit its afternoon session  --  and wait . Few experienced observers were inclined to overinterpret Mr. Vishinsky 's conduct . L'Humanite , the French Communist Party newspaper , severely criticized Mr. Acheson 's Nov. 19 speech . It also is generally recognized that for the Soviet Union to open the door to constructive progress toward disarmament would represent a major shift in Kremlin @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was discussion of a tentative Indian plan by which a subcommittee ? excluding the great powers ? would he set up to attempt to reconcile the American - British - French disarmament plan with the " peace package " put forward by Mr. Vishinsky . Compromise Plan Sought Such a subcommittee , it has been suggested , might be made up of India , Canada , Israel , a Scandinavian country  --  probably Sweden  --  and the president of the General Assembly , who is the Mexican delegate . This proposed committee would attempt to draft a compromise disarmament plan . Sir Benegal Rau of India says he feels the East-West positions are not irreconcilable , in view of the Acheson speech of Nov. 10 . One virtue of such a proceeding , it is argued , is that it would be easier for the Soviet Union to agree to such a compromise plan than to accept a program bearing the label of the West , however much the latter 's plan had been revised . All such activity , however , is expected to be held in abeyance until Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ arche . New Watchdog Unit Due Meanwhile , in the special Political Committee , which is beginning its program of work by discussing the five-year-old Greek civil war , steps have been begun to dissolve the United Nations Special Committee on the Balkans , which has been watching over Greece 's northern borders , and replace it with a subcommittee of the UN 's new Peace Observation Commission . The new commission would have much broader responsibilities , extending not only to Greece 's borders but to the Balkan area as a whole  --  which includes Yugoslavia . Should there be a " new Korea " in Yugoslavia , the new " watchdog " commission might well be on the spot to sound a warning and identify the aggressor , as the Korean Commission did in June , 1950.                     