@@717124

txt Both the Ford Motor Company and the United Automobile Workers deserve the highest praise for having reached an agreement without a major strike . This is free American collective bargaining at its best ? without governmental interferences . The achievement is especially notable in view of the extraordinary gap between their positions when the bargaining began . The tremendous effort which the union had made during the past two years in support of the " guaranteed annual wage " ? research , educational literature for its members and the public , speeches by Mr. Reuther and his colleagues  --  had built up an unprecedented pressure for success on the U. A. W. 's negotiating team . Similarly the company made compromise acutely difficult for itself by putting a corresponding pressure behind its own " prosperity partnership " package , ignoring the " G. A. V. " On the other hand , recognition on both sides of the disastrous effects of a strike created exceptional counter-pressures for agreement . A walkout would have cost the U. A. W. about S3 millions a day in wages , not to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have exceeded all the strikes the union has called against Ford in the past . On the other hand , a walkout might well have cost the company its second place in total car sales , not to mention the supremacy in the low-price field it so ardently desires . The resultant of all these forces , playing on the individual negotiators themselves , was the compromise that made possible the final settlement . In spite of the fact that even its original demand was a good deal less than a guarantee of fiftytwo weeks ' full pay regardless of layoffs , the union 's concessions have been great . The workers will get payments which , with state unemployment compensation , will amount to only about 60 per cent of their regular wages for only twenty-six weeks . On the company side the compromise is bound to seem even greater than it really is . While the form of its commitment for jobless payments was very different from any of the items in its package offer the cost to the company will apparently be no greater than it was willing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the settlement are bound to be far reaching , but their immediate effects are easy to exaggerate in terms of the " G. A. W. " The most obvious impact will , of course , be en the General Motors negotiations still under way , with tomorrow 's deadline in the offing . The Ford agreement may well set a pattern for peaceful settlements by G. M. and all the other companies in the field . But it does n't mean any quick or wholesale acceptance of the " G. A. W. " in other industries . Indeed , this is ruled out of the steel industry negotiations beginning this week by the existing contract , which limits discussions strictly to wages . Other big C. I. 0 . unions  --  such as those in the rubber , textiles , glass and electrical industries  --  have not been pressing behind Mr. Reuther 's lead ; and , apart from approval of the principle in high places , the A. F. L. and its affiliated unions have n't been doing much to force the issue . But the long-run effects of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ There can be no question whatever that it has broken ground for a new kind of " fringe benefit " at the-expense of the employer  --  for which Mr. Reuther can , and undoubtedly will , take the credit . He may say it provides for a " guaranteed annual wage "  - -  or a " semiannual guaranteed wage " as he is reported to have called it yesterday . The Ford Company may call it a " supplemental unemployment benefit plan " ? which it really is . Its tag makes relatively little difference to those who have a feeling for reality . But there can be little doubt that in the years to come employers will be asked increasingly to-protect their employes from financial hardship due to loss of work . We only hope that this new fringe benefit  --  as have others  --  will be fitted , in practice , to the economic circumstances of each particular industry or firm .                     