@@718586

txt ? Robert Tripp Ross resigned tonight under fire as Assistant Secretary of Defense . President Eisenhower interrupted his dinner hour at his vacation retreat near here to accept the resignation , effective Feb. 20 . At issue was a Senate investigation of an asserted conflict of interest because of military clothing contracts awarded to companies headed by Mrs. Ross and her brother , Herman D. Wynn , of Knoxville , Tenn . Mr. Ross , a former member of the House of Representatives from Queens , N. Y. , strongly asserted his innocence of any violation of legal or ethical standards for Government employes . In this he was supported by Reuben Robertson Jr. , Acting Secretary of Defense . Mr. Robertson said an investigation by the Defense Department 's general counsel , Mansfield D. Sprague , had disclosed no violation of law or use of influence to obtain contracts . But Mr. Ross agreed that the charges and their publication had impaired his effectiveness as Assistant Secretary responsible for legislative and public affairs . President Thanks Ross In accepting the resignation , the President thanked Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for his " contribution to the effective fulfillment of the Defense Department programs and missions . " ' General Eisenhower expressed no opinion on Mr. Ross ' guilt or innocence . But he noted the official 's " conviction that nothing you have done violates any legal or ethical standards that must be observed in Government . " Mr. Ross has been on a leave of absence since Jan. 11 while the Senate Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations looked into the charges . There was no explanation of why the effective date of the resignation was set for Feb. 20 , six days hence , although Mr. Ross already is on leave and presumably will not resume his duties in the meantime . The Ross resignation came about twenty-four hours after he had testified behind closed doors before the Senate investigating group headed by Senator John L. McClellan , Democrat of Arkansas .. Informed quarters reported earlier that Republican and Democratic committee members , after hearing his testimony , had recommended to him that he quit . If he had not resigned , public hearings probably would have been ordered . Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hower Administration to quit while his asserted conflict of interest case was under investigation by the McClellan subcommittee . The first was Harold E. Tal-1 bott , Secretary of the Air Force . He resigned in August , 1955,1 after it had been disclosed that he had used Air Force stationery to solicit business for a private engineering firm , Mulligan &; Co. of New York , from which he received half the profits . James . C. Hagerty , White , House press secretary , sum-1 moned a press conferehce at 8:30 P. M. to announce Mr. Ross ' res-I ignation and the President 's ac-1 ceptance of it . In a long letter to the President in his own defense , Mr. Rossi said that at the hearing before the Senate subcommittee yesterday " nothing was brought to my attention to indicate that the , committee had found any evidence of any wrongdoing , impropriety or conflict of interest on my part . " Mr. Ross asserted that he had not violated in any manner " the historically recognized principles which have been applicable to Government officials . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ letter of resignation from Mr. Ross , disclosed the Defense Department 's own investigation . It was made by its general counsel , Mr. Sprague , whose nomination to be an Assistant Secretary of De1 fense for International Security Affairs now is pending before the Senate . MD Robertson said that the general counsel 's report and those from other sources did not establish " any evidence * * that Mr. Ross ( 1. ) violated any of the conflict of interest statutes ; ( 2 ) sought to influence or influenced the award of any defense contract ; or ( 3 ) personally profited from the award of any such defense contract . " Special to The New York Times . WASHINGTON , Feb. 14 ? The Senate'investigating panel probably will drop its inquiry now that Mr. Ross has stepped aside . Members reported today that no evidence of illegal activities by him had been developed in a month-long preliminary staff investigation or at the hearing . They added , however , that the consensus of the panel seemed to be that he would be wise to resign . For @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that he had arranged an appointment with a Marine general a year ago for his brotherin-law . Mr. Wynn owns the Southern Athletic Company of Knoxville and holds cofttrolling or major interests in other concerns . The companies have obtained several million dollars of contracts from the Armed Services . One of the companies , Wynn Enterprises , Inc. , of New York and Knoxville , is headed by Mrs. Ross . It won an $835,150 contract for Army trousers last year . Mr. Ross was said to have testified that he saw no impropriety in setting up a conference for Mr. Wynn with an officer , such as  --  the Marine general in question , who was not responsible for awarding contracts . However , Senators said Mr. Wynn 's apparent purpose was to discuss a dispute over the quality of baseball uniforms supplied to the Marines by Southern Athletic . If so , they said , a defense The Senators said Mr. Ross swore to the accuracy of previous public statements that he had severed all connections wiefi the Wynn companies before taking office . He said he had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contracts , according to the report . But the subcommittee was still puzzled , reliable informants said , about at least two other questions . One was Mr. Ross ' explanation , that his listing as vice president of Southern Athletic in June of 190 was an auditor 's error . The other , as reported today by a subcommittee source , concerns an item in subpoenaed , records of Southern Athletic in-I dicating that the company still owed him $1,500 . ' Mr. Ross was ? said to have disavowed knowledge that the concern owed him money .                     