@@715555

txt DEWEY BILLS TO END PIER RACKETEERING PASS UNANIMOUSLY They Set Up Bi-State Agency , Outlaw the Shape-Up and Abolish Public Loaders CONFORM TO JERSEY LAW Legislature , Closing Its Spetial Session , Votes Measures to Aid Justice Procedures By LEO EGAN Special to Two NEW YORK TrMES . ALBANY , June ** recfi ornmended by Governor Dewey to set up a bi-state commission to regulate waterfront labor practices in the Port of New York and elim-1 inate racketeering , pilferage and other pier evils were approved unanimously in the Senate and Assembly today as the extraordinary session of the Legislature ended at 4:10 P. M. The measures are identical with those approved by the New Jersey Legislature this week , and embody a program devised jointly by Governor Dewey and Gov . Alfred E. Driscoll of New Jersey to end abuses disclosed by the New York State Crime Commission 's waterfront investigation and by a similar inquiry in New Jersey . In addition to setting up the bistate commission , consisting of one member appointed by the Governor of New York and a second appointed by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pier superintendents , hiring agents , stevedores and pier watchmen , the bills outlaw the shape-up system of hiring dock labor and abolish , as of Dec. 1 , the system of public loaders that has developed on the New York waterfront . The shape-up , condemned by Governor Dewey and the Crime Commission as inhuman and degrading , has been the traditional method of employing pier labor in New York . Under it , longshoremen assNnble or " shape up " daily before a hiring boss , who indicates by a nod of his head or a wave of his hand those he wants to work . Public Loaders Assailed Public loaders are groups of longshoremen who transfer freight from piers to trucks rather than from ship to piers or piers to ships , the usual work of the trade . According to Crime Commission testimony , the actual work of loading trucks is done in many instances by truckmen , but the public loaders are paid for standing by . Senator John H. Hughes , Syracuse Republican who acted as cosponsor of the bill , charged today that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unique to the Port of New York . The bills likewise bar any waterfront local from collecting dues from longshoremen if the local continues to employ an officer or agent who has been convicted of a felony and has not received a pardon or certificate of good conduct . This provision is designed to force a reorganization of many locals of the International Longshoremen 's Association , A. F. L. , which have ' ex-convicts as officers or agents . Before the final vote was taken in either House , Democrats offered an amendment to set up a tenmember commission , with five being appointed by each Governor from panels nominated by various segments of the industry . This amendment would have deferred the effective date of the law for ninety days to give the American Federation of Labor an opportunity , at its national convention in // September , to reorganize the long ! shoremen 's union . It was beaten by a party vote in both Houses . i Several Democrats charged that the evils disclosed in the waterfront investigation should have been remedied years ago , and taxed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ District Attorney of New York Coun'ty or during the early years of his tenure as Governor . They likewise expressed misgivings that some of the bill 's provisions might work a hardship onI llongshoremen , perhaps depriving some of an opportunity to work . Senator Francis J. Mahoney , Manhattan Democrat and Senate minority leader , warned that the procedure for registering and licensing dock labor , watchmen and supervisory employes might set a precedent for other industries with the result that labor 's freedom would be curtailed . Senator John F. Furey . Brooklyn Democrat whose district includes a large segment of the waterfront , added a caution that enactment of the law could lead by Dec : 1 to the worst work stoppage the port had known . Heck Claims Support Speaker Oswald D. Heck , a cosponsor of the bill , asserted that heretofore public opinion would not have supported such a measure . Referring to Democratic criticism of Governor Dewey for not having acted earlier , he said the evils had existed throughout the administration of former Gov . Herbert H. Lehman , a Democrat , who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' ' But if Dewey and Lehman were derelict , " Mr. Heck went on , " so were we because the situation required the enactment of legislation . " " The American people are an amazing people politically , " he said . " Before they attack a messy situation . and I do n't care where it originates , it is necessary to wait until a certain crystallization of public opinion appears , usually brought about by a conglomeration of dramatic incidents that brings the matter to the attention of the public itself . " We find ourselves here today confronted with a situation where that fermentation has been so powerful that public opinion once and for all is finally and completely behind these efforts . " Although disagreeing with some of its provisions , Senator Louis L. Friedman , Brooklyn Democrat , said the measure was a " good bill and a necessary bill , " A second waterfront measure making minor changes in the first was pushed through after the main bill had cleared both houses . It was made necessary by some changes of language incorporated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The second New York bill conforms with the language of the New Jersey bill . Third Bill Is Not Pressed A third bill providing for close regulation by the commission of waterfront union finances , accounts , records , election and grievance procedure was not pressed for passage . It had been introduced primarily for study and discussion with the understanding it , might be taken up at the regular , legislative session in January . The compact between New York and New Jersey provided for in the main waterfront bill requires Congressional ratification . Until this is forthcoming , the law provides that the New York and New Jersey commissions will operate separately but cooperatively , each within its own state . The cost of the commission is to be . defrayed by an assessment of waterfront employers based oh the size of their payrolls . The maximum assessment was set at 2 per cent . Pending the assessment the commission will operate on money provided by the two states . Besides rushing through the waterfront bills today , the Legislature completed action on five measures designed to improve the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . A sixth had received final legislative approval yesterday , and a seventh was dropped until the regular sessigi when it encountered strong Rrpublican opposition upstate . All seven were outgrowths of State Crime Commission investigations . The measure postponed until the regular session would have set up a uniform system for selecting jurors in upstate counties similar I to that in New York City . It was not scheduled to take effect until ' July 1 , 1954 . Some upstate legislators were uncertain as to how it would operate and therefore wanted to delay a vote . The deciding was a complaint by upstate lawyers that in many counties the county judge who would participate in naming a commissioner of jurors was permitted by law to practice in the Supreme Court , a situation that does not prevail in New York City . The law , it was said , might operate to give him an advantage with jurors in Supreme Court actions . Five Measures Approved Final approval was given in the , Senate to five measures that the , Assembly had passed yesterday. ; These would : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ extraordinary term of the Supreme Court can be made only before the justice e. presidin at that term . Wive the Governor power to remove the chief executives of all cities and the police chiefs of all cities for cause after a healing , a power he now has with respect to only a few cities , including New York . Regulate the granting of immunity to witnesses who claim a constitutional privilege against self-incrimination . Regulate the granting of immunity in certain types of civil actions . Create the office of Commisisioner of Investigation in the executive department to be headed by a commissioner appointed by the Governor and empowered to make investigations requested by I the Governor . Senator Peter Dalessandro , Albany Democrat , voted against all five . Four Republicans joined him in voting against adding to the Governor 's power of removal . They were Warren M. Anderson of Broome , Walter Van Wiggeren of ( Herkimer and Frank E. Van Lare of Rochester . Two bills amending the New York City Transit Authority Law that were rushed through at the opening of the extraordinary session @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ One validated the lease of the city-owned transit system to the authority for a ten-year period under conditions conferring on the authority certain powers that previously had been vested in its predecessor , the New . York City Board of Transportation . In the two days that it sat , the extraordinary session approved a total of thirteen bills , including one appropriating money to meet the expenses of the special session .                     