@@718084

txt WASHINGTON , July 14  - -  Crosses were burned here last night in front of the residences of Chief Justice Earl Warren , Senator Herbert H. Lehman , Justice Felix Frankfurter and Solicitor General Simon E , Sobeloff . The police said tonight that a student at the University of Virginia had admitted planting the crosses in front of the Sheraton-Park Hotel , where Justice Warren and Senator Lehman reside , and in front of the apartment of Mr. Sobeloff . They said Ronald Eugene Rowley , 24 years old of Arlington , Va. , was charged on two counts of " kindling a bonfire between sundown and sunrise . " The student forfeited a $10 bond on each count rather than // fair wrapped in oil-soaked rags , set fire to it and fled . The doorman mad a note of the car 's license number . Beside the burning cross the doorman found two paper signs ' bearing the names of the Chief Justice and Senator Lehman . The signs indicated resentment over the Supreme Court decision ending school segregation . A short time later a passer-by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which Mr. Sobeloff lives . Shortly after 1 A. M. another cross was found burning before the home of Justice Frankfurter in the Georgetown section of Washington . The police said that neither Mr. Sobeloff nor Justice Frank- , furter was aware of the burning , crosses at the time . About a half hour after the cross was set afire before Jus-1 tice Frankfurter 's home , a group of boys in a car answering the , description given by the SheraCROSS IS BURNED AT WARREN HOME // stand trial for the misdemeanors . " I wanted to influence the greater populance of the wrongness of the Supreme Court decision , " the student said , according to . the police . The student who the police said surrendered voluntarily after the car he had used was traced to his father 's home , refused to name any companions in  --  the burning of the crosses . According to the doorman at the Sheraton-Park on upper Connecticut Avenue , a group of boys stopped a car alongside the hotel lawn at 12:30 A. M. They planted the cross , a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the home of Mrs. David King , president of the Prince Georges ( Md . ) County branch of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People . Mrs. King told the police she had heard voices on her front lawn and saw the cross burning a few minutes later . Earlier today , the police discounted talk that the incidents might be connected with a resurgence of the Ku Klux Klan in the Washington area . However , Herbert -- Brownell Jr. , Attorney General , ordered the Federal Bureau of Investigation to look into the matter . He had discussed the incidents with President Eisenhower in a visit to Gettysburg . James C. Hagerty , White House Press Secretary , ' . told newsmen that the President " thought it a good idea " to call in the F.B.I . The ccharred wooden crosses were turned over to the Federal officers .                     