@@714076

txt WASHINGTON , Aug. ** a vote of 231 to 1 , the House of Representatives proposed today the immediate severance of all commercial relations with Czechoslovakia until William N. Oatis , American Associated Press correspondent , is freed from jail at Prague . Mr. Oatis , a World War II veter ? an , was arrested on April 23 . On May 16 Prague officials notified the United States Embassy that the newspaper man had confessed to espionage . He was brought to trial July 2 and was sentenced on July 4 to ten years ' imprisonment . The House resolution denounced the trial as a " sham " , and called on the executive agencies of the Government to " take all action possible " to bring about Mr. Oatis ' release . The proposal for immediate severance of commercial relations with Czechoslovakia was added to the resolution after it reached the House floor . It was sponsored by Representative 0 . K. Armstrong , Republican of Missouri , who had recommended originally that diplomatic relations also be terminated if Mr. Oatis was not released within @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ before the House voted . The instrument for // he Congressional expression on the Oatis case was a concurrent resolution , which now goes to the Senate for its action . It is not binding , but is a formal speaking of attitude by the legislative branch . Representative John T. Wood , Republican of Idaho , the single House dissenter , said he opposed the resolution because of its reference to and recognition of the United Nations . Mr. Wood is the author of a proposal that the United States withdraw from the United Nations . " I am as much interested in getting Oatis out of jail as the next man , " Mr. Wood said , " but not through the United Nations . The same gang that put him in jail is sitting in the United Nations . " We should make our demand for the release of Oatis direct , as the powerful United States , and leave the United Nations out of it . If this were done I would be for it ) ten times over . I am for direct action . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the opinions voiced by executive branch spokesmen concerning the Oatis case . The Government has officially branded as baseless the charges against Mr. Oatis . The resolution selected for House action was one of nearly a dozen that had been introduced and referred to the House Committee on Foreign Affairs . Its sponsor was Representative John V. Beamer , Republican of Indiana , where Mr. Oatis had begun his press service career . Text of Resolution As amended by the Armstrong proposal , the resolution adopted and sent to the Senate reads as follows : Whereas the arrest and conviction of William N. Oatis , correspondent for The Associated Press in Prague , Czechoslovakia , is a shocking violation of the fundamental human freedoms guaranteed in the United Nations Charter ; and Whereas the treatment of William N. Oatis demonstrates that the Czechoslovak Government has willfully repudiated the principle of free information which is so essential to peaceful cooperation and friendly relations among the people of the world ; and Whereas the persecution by the Government of Czechoslovakia of other American citizens is condemned and deplored by the people of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , therefore , be it Resolved by the House of Representatives ( the Senate concurring ) , that the Congress of the United States expresses its profound indignation at the arrest , sham trial and unjust conviction of William N. Oatis ; that the executive agencies of the Government be requested to take all possible action to bring about his release ; and that the sense of this . resolution be conveyed by the proper officials of our Government to the United Nations and to the officials of the Czechoslovak Government . Be it further resolved , that it is the sense of the House that all commercial relations with Czechoslovakia should be terminated immediately , and should be resumed only if and when the Government of Czechoslovakia restores to William N. Oatis his freedom . Action in II . N. Indicated GENEVA , Aug. 14 ( JP ) ? The United States indicated today that it may lay the case of William N. Oatis , Associated Press correspondent now imprisoned in Czechoslovakia , before the United Nations Economic and Social Council , in session here . Walter Kotschnig , United @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ during a discussion of a proposed convention on freedom of information that he reserved the right " to make certain specific proposals " about the Oatis case . " We never dreamed when we drafted the convention on the international transmission of news and right of correction that international standards could sink as low as they have sunk in some countries , " Mr. Kotschnig said .                     