@@718230

txt Egypt took over full operation of the Suez Canal tonight with almost entirely Egyptian personnel . The real test of the nationalization of the operating company has begun . Most of about 400 foreign employes , including pilots , who were to have quit their jobs at midnight walked off earlier at the end of their working day . Embassies here , meanwhile , were checking their emergency plans in the event the present uneasy situation produced any sort of violence . Egyptian authorities have given no sign of hostile reaction . Nevertheless , there is a definite atmosphere of uneasiness in the foreign colonies . For the third time since Aug. 1 the British Embassy has issued an " advice " to British residents here who have " no compelling reason to remain " to consider " whether it would not be better to depart . " The British Embassy estimates that approximately 2,000 of a total colony of 5,500 still are here . About 1,800 have left since President Gamal Abdcl Nasser nationalized the old Suez Canal Company July 26 , thus precipitating the pre @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on vacations at the time and have not returned . U. S. Defers Exit Suggestions The United States Embassy has not advised Americans to think about leaving , but has been making a careful check of its plans for handling any emergency that may arise . The check was described as routine but it was thorough . There are about 2,200 United States citizens in Egypt . Most of them are in Cairo . Each member of the embassy is responsible for knowing the addresses and telephone numbers of all Americans in one small area . Those Americans in turn know who is responsible for passing messages to them from the embassy in case of trouble . All these " wardens " have been called in to check the lists of persons for whom they are responsible and verify the present addresses and telephone numbers . On the Egyptian side President Nasser was reported to be spending his time at the headquarters of the old Revolutionary Command Council in almost constant conference with his advisers . The two principal figures , apart from the president , are Maj. Gen. Abdel Hakim @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Wing Commander Ali Sabry , the President 's principal political adviser . The Egyptian fleet still was holding maneuvers off Alexandria tonight but no details were revealed . The assumption in foreign circles is that the " rnaneuvers " are a defensive move designed to avoid any surprise coup by the Western powers . Egypt 's new canal authority issued a starement saying that " because of the , fact some foreign pilots will quit their jobs on the canal a change of time and of schedules of convoys has been made . " It said that to " completely preserve normal navigation in the canal " the pilots would have to " double their working hours . " Various sources give conflicting figures on the number of pilots available . The official Egyptian contention is that after all those who plan to leave have departed seventy pilots will remain at their posts . This total is believed to include twelve foreigners . To maintain a normal schedule with an average of forty to forty-five ships passing the canal daily , 205 pilots have been working . They already had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ called for " all pilots from the different maritime departments of the company " to drop their specialized jobs and work in the common pool . They still will have to work feurteen hours a day , seven days a week , according to the best data available . Instead of piloting a ship halfway through the canal in approximately six hours and then returning home , , they will have to stay with each ship throughout the fourteen-hour 103-mile passage . They now will make the full trip , sleep in a rest house and So a full day 's work on the return journey . Shipping circles say the pilots can not long stand the strain of such intensive work and are bound to make mistakes . Nasser Reaffirms Aim CAIRO , Sept. 14 ? ( CTP ) ? President Gamal Abdel Nasser declared today that Egypt would continue to manage the Suez Canal " as well as it used to be " in the face of a mass resignation by skilled non-Egyptian pilots . President Nasser also told Alfaro Siqueros , Mexican painter and journalist , in an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that " for the last fifty days we have managed the canal as well as it used to be , and we shall continue to do so in the future . " " What 's more , we even intend to improve the management and also widen the canal  --  for the good of humanity , " Mr , Nasser was said to have added . The interview in Al Goumhouria was coupled with an editorial attack on Secretary of State Dulles for his proposals to internationalize the canal . The editorial charged that " Dulles thinks Egypt is prepared to sell its sovereignty and honor for m'on ey . " Nasser Will Speak Tonight CAIRO , Sept. 14 1/ ? President Nasser will deliver an important political address tomorrow at the Air Force College in Bilbeis , north of Cairo , the Middle East News said late tonight .                     