@@714303

txt Gen. Matthew B. Ridgway 's headquarters has issued a statement which at least indirectly supports the charge that between 5.000 and 6,000 Americans have been massacred in Korea . The statement , issued to the press after a full investigation by general headquarters said there is " considerable evidence to justify the presumption of death by atrocity of a large number which may approximate 6,000 . " In his sensational disclosure at Pusan , Eighth Army Col. James Hanley had stated some 13,000 Allied prisoners have been executed by the Chinese Communists and North Koreans ; of this total between 5,000 and 6,000 were Americans . British War Secretary Anthony Head , speaking in the House of Commons Nov. 20 , stated he had no official information concerning the status of Britons taken prisoners by the Communists , the Associated Press reports . Figures Challenged From the beginning officers at General Ridgway 's headquarters have deprecated the validity of Colonel Hanley 's figures . Among other things , his report was officially described as " unscientific " ? meaning that it did ? not make full use @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been issued by GHQ follows the trend of playing down the colonel 's original atrocity report , which , escaping the censors , caused immediate repercussions throughout the world . According t3 this release , the total number of American soldiers killed by atrocity whose bodies have been recovered numbers 365 . It goes on to state there is no conclusive proof of how many of 10,836 Americans officially listed as missing in action are now fatalities , but it points out there is considerable evidence that as many as 6,000 may have been victims of massacre , thus providing somewhat reluctant support for Colonel Hanley 's controversial assertion . Hanlev Rebuked The statement asserts . too . investigation has established no increase in the total known killed  --  almost 7.000 ? as reported by the Defense Department Nov. 14 . As the GHQ statement indicates , however , this figure will be increased greatly once the full facts on Communist treatment of their prisoners become known . Colonel Hanley . who said he made his disclosures so that Allied troops would better understand the true nature of the enemy , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ atrocity information . " His duties do not involve responsibilities for reporting of casualities arising from the Korean operation . " the statement concluded . Despite this , however , Colonel Hanley appears to have been as good as vindicated by the investigation ordered by General Ridgway . The GHQ statement makes no comment upon Colonel Hanley 's contention that the Chinese Communists had killed more than 2,500 Americans . Cis Skeptical Whether or not this is true , a survey of opinion among frontline combat men shows they are still inclined to regard the Chinese as a far more honorable enemy than the North Koreans , an attitude that no doubt was nourished by the early Chinese practice of returning groups of Allied prisoners to their lines  --  a propaganda device the Chinese Communists found most effective in the Chinese civil war . Uncertainty dogs truce talks : Page 11. ?                     