@@714232

txt President Truman asserted today that there was no basis in fact for General ' of the Army Douglas 's assertion before the American Legion convention yesterday that the general had " unquestionably . wrecked " a secret plan . to hand over Formosa and a seat in the United Nations to the Chinese Communists . Asked at his news conference about the speech , the President 's reply was brief , blunt and to the point : It ( the general 's statement ) was not based on fact , ( pausing ) and the general knew it . The issue concerned General 's combination peace overture and ultimatum addressed to the Communist military commander in the field last March 24 when he warned that unless the enemy came to terms quickly the United Nations might expand military operations to the coastal areas and interior bases of Red China . Of this action , General had this to say to the legionnaires in Miami : " There is little doubt that the yielding of Formosa and-the seating . of China in 4lie United @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enemy commander in Korea on March 24 to meet me in the field to arrange armistice terms . This I did in view of the fundamental weakness of his military position due to the lack of an industrial base in China capable of supporting modern warfare . " The opposition I expressed to yielding Formosa and seating Red China , with the overwhelming support it received from the American people , unquestionably wrecked the secret plan to yield on these issues as the price for pease . " This differed with the testimony given by General before the Senate Armed Forces and Foreign Relations Committees that investigated his summary removal by President Truman April 11 from all his Far Eastern commands . The general was asked by Sena- tor Wayne Morse , Republican of Oregon , at that time . if his March 24 statement could be considered in violation of known Administration policies and might have been part of the basis for his recall . " I do n't believe there is the slightest validity in that comment , " General testified . " As I have explained @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ military situation that existed in Korea , and a suggestion to the enemy Commander in Chief that under such conditions it would be advisable to bring the matter to an end conclusively . " What I said seemed to me to be in complete support with everything that the Administration was desirous of doing , with every directive outlining the missions that we had to consummate . " One of the reasons advanced for the general 's dismissal was that he had willfully violated precise instructions to clear statements on military or foreign policy with his superiors in Washington in advance of their publication . , It was also recalled that General delivered his March 24 ultimatum to the enemy after the Joint Chiefs of Staff had notified him secretly that the State Department was planning a Presidential announcement shortly that , ' with the clearance of the bulk of South Korea of enemy aggressors , the United Nations was prepared to discuss conditions of settlement in Korea . U. Effort Seen Blocked General was advised by the Joint Chiefs at the same time that there was a strong @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ settlement should be made before he sent any major forces north of the Thirty-eighth Parallel , the preJune 25 , 1950 , boundary between North and South Korea . It was asserted that the General " jumped the gun " on this peace bid by the President add , by delivering his own ultimatum which could not be accepted , made impossible a concerted attempt by all of the United Nations fighting in Korea to agree on terms that might be presented to the Chinese Reds as a. basis for settlement . General , last April , denied categorically as without basis in fact a statement in Newsweek Magazine saying that before he issued his March 24 ultimatum he had been " furnished a copy of a policy statement by the President cleared by the Governments having military forces in Korea . " " I have never seen such a stateiment and do not know if it exists , " the general cabled the magazine from Tokyo . " Please publish this in the interest of truth . " Yesterday , however , he made the direct assertion that it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the secret plan " to yield Formosa and a seat in the United Nations to the Chinese Reds as the price of peace in Korea . Communists or permit Red China to obtain a seat in the United Nations . The general made his assertions here when asked to comment on the President 's news conkrence criticism of the St eech at the American Legion convention . In his reply , the general said : " President Truman habitually uses the technique of personal invective in rebutting criticism . He would relieve many millions of patriotic minds deeply concerned with our national security if instead of indulging in innuendo and trying to alibi the past , he would announce the firm determination that under no conditions , even though fostered by the United Nations , would the United States permit Formosa to fall in Red hands or Communist China to be seated in the United Nations . " This simple and understandable assurance he has never given . " I predict he never will . " " tring to alibi the " and General Challenges Truman challenged him to say @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the United ' resident Truman last night of States allow Formosa to go to the                     