@@718243

txt Eleven or 12 of the 18 members of the Suez crisis conference here now support the American proposal for a canal users ' association . The support is in varying degrees of warmth , but the parley nevertheless has decided to accept a Turkish proposal to put the users ' association project into draft , form . The move came during the second meeting of the emergency conference ' Sept. 20. following an eloquent plea on the opening day by United States Secretary of State John Foster Dulles for unity in plan.backing his pla . Sweden Urges UN Plea A working committee of experts now will draft a formal dorwmert , 4 ek-ins , rare to ronsider suggestions from any participating powers , including dissenters . During the Sept. 20 morning session , Portugal and Spain added their support to the nine powers which agreed to the users ' association on the opening day . Spain , however , cited reservations . Ethiopia said It was glad to see that the Dulles plan was based on cooperation with Egypt and contained nothing offensive , but reserved detailed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ United Nations and said he was not authorized ? to commit his government to the association . Turkey presumably supported the plan , since it suggested a working committee to clarify the ideas . Japan has yet to make its views known . Mr. Dulles told the session that in his view participation in the users ' association would not imply any specific agree- ment . Participation , he said , should be without commitment , and the objective of the working committee should be to clarify what has emerged so far . Earlier , Mr. Dulles was forced into his second major speech on the first day because of criticism voiced by doubting nations . At the day 's end , the users ' association concept had been backed only by the Western Big Three which sponsored the idea , Australia , New Zealand , Italy , No ? - way , the Netherlands , and West Germany . Among nations which either raised complaints or suggested alternatives were Denmark , Sweden , Iran , and Pakistan . They urged . that . thc dispute be taken to the United @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ negotiate with Egyptian President Nasser . Since it was clear that serious . , 73f . : ? 4 ? : : . , ... 5 ! ? !  - -  - veloped , Mr. Dulles threw himself whole-heartedly into a bid to persuade and rally the parley . Called Vital Preliminary The essence of his argument was that the users ' association would be a valuable if not an imperative preliminary step to taking the Suez dispute to the UN , as some of the delegations demanded . Then , turning to the broader aspects , Mr. Dulles declared the problem concerns one of the most significant aspects of the postwar era  --  namely , whether or not a peaceful world can he built and world issues can be solved in conformity with the principles of justice and international law . The avoidance of force , the American Secretary of State contended , is not sufficient alone . The other essentials  --  justice and international law  --  also must be brought into play . He therefore urged the conference to push on courageously with sponsorship of the users ' association . " On @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will depend whether we are able to build a peaceful , world . You all want a world in which force will not be used . But this is only one side of the problem . There must also be a world in which just solutions can be achieved . " Mr. Dulles commended the restraint used by some nations ? presumably a reference to Britain and France  --  but said this could not continue indefinitely unless a peaceful settlement were hammered out . In his effort to gain unity , Mr. Dulles surprised some delegations by saying that as far as - the ' United Smits ' is con= cerned , the users ' association would not necessarily refuse to use Egyptian pilots if Egypt insisted .                     