@@720158

txt The Eisenhower Administration plans to throw the weight of Government influence into a strong campaign to keep prices stable . Part of the effort , high officials report , likely will be public warnings to labor and to business to keep wage demands and price increases moderate . But policymakers emphasize that the move does n't mean the Administration " is any closer to price and wage controls than it was before . " The campaign , they assert , is an effort to bring the pressure of public opinion on those factors  --  particularly higher wages and basic prices  --  which officials feel lead to a continued upward trend in the general price level . Special Committee to Lead Campaign Most of the work will be done by the Special Cabinet Committee on Price Stability announced by the President in his State of the Union address . At the outset , the task of this panel is to ride herd on Government programs that have the most direct effect on prices . The group will hand down policy recommendations on such programs as farm price support @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an eye to relieving the pressures they may put on prices consumers pay . While not aimed at budget-cutting , the recommendations of the group may have that effect , officials say . However , perhaps its most significant role will be scrutiny of the trends in wages , prices and costs in the private sector of the economy . " Look at the name of the group , " comments one policymaker . " It 's a committee on price stability for economic growth  --  not price stability and economic growth , or economic growth with price stability . The key is price stability . " Wo n't Ban Price Boosts Officials hasten to add , however , that the Cabinet group certainly wo n't take the position that no prices can go up But the purpose of the panel is to bring the Government 's influence to bear on the pressures that make for general price increases . White House advisers are convinced that the . current and continuing recovery promises a good rate of economic growth . The major problem ahead , as they size it up , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ constant upward push in the price level . A rising consumer price index , these official 's believe , is the average American 's concept of inflation . Many of them feel the failure of prices generally to drop by any significant amount during the recession fostered the belief that further price increases  --  and thus inflation  --  are inevitable . Administration advisers have expressed concern that business and labor will begin to plan future wage demands and trice increases on that basis . Just what the Cabinet Committee might do about this is a ticklish question , officials concede . " Obviously , we would n't tell the steel companies and the union how to write . econtract , " says one high policymaker . But he and others concede the panel " would not be bashful " about concerning itself with a development in the field of wages or prices which appeared to threaten price stability . Officials add that , if it should appear the nation was in for a spate of wage increases that overran productivity , the Cabinet group would ' feel almost compelled to take @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would probably result-only in a public warning from the Administration  --  either through a report by the committee or by the President on the panel 's recommendation  --  that labor refrain from demanding pay boosts that top productivity , or for business not to raise prices to what the traffic would bear or to recoup the whole cost of wage boosts . There 's considerable evidence , judging from the private comments of Administration officials over the past few weeks , that labor will be the target for most of the fingershaking . Some policymakers argue that there 's every evidence that prices should remain stable over at least most of 1959 , and that if they do start spiraling upward labor costs will be the prime cause . Officials deny that , in this thinking , they are adopting an anti-labor stand . Workers , they insist , stand to lose the most from a continually spiraling price level  --  even with the protection of escalator clauses which provide a pay increase to compemsate for the increase in prices . And , these analysts add , once a spiral in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ itself . Prices Stable Recently Actually , the Administration claims , prices have shown " welcome stability " in recent months , despite the fact that the consumer price index was at a record high of 123.9% of the 1947.49 average in November , - the latest calculation . In January . 1958 , the index was 122.3% . Officials privately predict prices will remain relatively stable , and they hope to take some of the credit by pointing to the new campaign as evidence the Republicans " did something " about inflation . The President himself is expected to help sell the necessity of preventing a price-wage spiral through some radio-television appearances . He also will recommend that Congress write into the Employment Act of 1948 the aim of price stability as a national policy , as well as maximum employment and production These latter goals of the Act have been taken to mean , in effect , that the Government cult not let a depression happen . The addition of price stability as an aim , the reasoning runs , will show that the Administration does not intend to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Cabinet Committee arose out of a group which began meeting last August to consider ways for the Government to use its influence to help keep prices stable . The group included Labor Secretary Mitchell ' as its chairman . Raymond Saulnier , chairman of the President 's Council of Economic Advisers , Postmaster-General Surnmerfield , and representatives from the upper echelons of thet Commerce and Defense Departments . Mr. Mitchell and Mr. Saulnier , it 's understood . originated the idea of the Cabinet panel It 's likely that Mr. Mitchell will he on the committee , and that Mr. Saulnier will be closely associated with it , if not a member . Other likely members are Treasury Secretary Anderson . Commerce Secretary Strauss and Defense Secretary                     