@@714711

txt General of the Army Dwight D. Eisenhower has asked to be placed on the Army 's retired list without pay , starting tomorrow . This request , which the Army said today had I been approved by Secretary of Defense Robert A. Lovett , will release the general from the Army 's regulations against political campaigning . The current military appropriations legislation does not permit officers under the age of 62 to retire with pay unless the Department of Defense finds that this would cause personal hardship or be bad for the service . Ins South Dakota and California the final primaries will be held Tuesday , with the Dakota contest between General Eisenhower and Senator Robert A. Taft of Ohio attracting major attention . On the Democratic side , Senator Estes Kefauver is seeking delegates in both primaries . The Missouri Republican convention completed the formalities of naming a twentysix-member delegation . General Eisenhower wrote to Mr. Lovett on May 28 , asking that no special certification be made in his case , because his name was " directly involved in the national political campaign . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ entitled to 819,541 a year in pay and allowances if , like General of the Army Douglas , he had remained on the active list . From his European headquarters , General Eisenhower wrote : " There are a number of dele- ' gates already pledged to seek my nomination as the Republican Presidential candidate and , in the normal course of events , I will be talking to some of these delegates I prior to the National Convention . As an officer on the retired list , would feel free to engage in such meetings without any possible interpretation that I might be violating or embarrassing the Government or the Army in any way . " ' He said that his retirement would be " in the best interests a all concerned , including the Government . " Secretary Lovett began his reply the next day with the salutation , " Meer Ike , " and told the general that the President had authorized " me to make the necessary arrangements to place you on retired status as of 31 May , 1952 . " Army spokesmen explained that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ May 31 , it would not become effective until the order was delivered . It will be handed to General Eisenhower at the Pentagon tomorrow . He made his request in accordance with Paragraph 17 of Army Regulation 600-10 , which reads as follows : " Members of the Army , while on active duty , will not use their official authority or influence for the purpose of interfering with an ' election or affecting the course or outcome thereof . Such persons , While on active duty , retain the right to vote , to express their opinions privately and informally on . all political subjects and candidates , and to become candidates for public office as permitted by these regulations . " They will not be permitted to participate in any way in political management or political campaigns . The foregoing prohibition ihcludet , among Other things , activity at political conventions or on political committees , participation in political campaigns , the making of political speeches , the publication of articles , or any other Public activity looking to the influencing of an election or the solicitation of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Could Regain Pay In. view of this regulation and in accordance with his intention to discuss the issues of the current Presidential campaign , starting Thursday in his home town of Abilene , Kan. , General Eisenhower requested retirement status after thirty-seven yeses in the Army  --  and sought to remove other possible points of criticism in the campaign by going on a no-pay basis . This does not mean that he cuts himself away from the Army entirely . As a retired officer Of his rank , he retains the services of three aides , Lieut . Col. Robert Schulz and Master Sgts , John Moaney and Leonard Dry . Also , if he were not to be nominated , he could regain his retirement pay and 4dlowanceso but for the time beingi fie has clearly tried to place hiinCelf in a. position where he is free to participate in the campaign without being criticized foe breaking Army regulations or taking Army pay . ? It is understood that this decision by General Eisenhower has bean influenced to a considerable extent by criticism within Army circles of the speeches and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It is felt , not only among General Eizenhower 's managers but among officials at the Pentagon , that General is violating regulations governing an officer on active status by his public statements on political questions . No such criticism , Pentagon officials pointed out , could be leveled at General if he were to request retirement status , as General Eisnehower has done . Nor iv-Mild such a request affect his salary as a General of the Army , but he has not requested a. change in his active Army status and is thus regarded by officials here as breaking the Army regulations quoted above . Honored at White House Meantime , General Eisenhower received a fourth oak leaf cluster for his Distinguished Service Medal from President Truman this afternoon . In the presence of members of the Cabinet and representatives of the North Atlantic Treaty countries in the Rose Garden of the White House , Ma Truman praised the general for his handling of the complex responsibilities involved in leading the new Atlantic alliance . " In discharging his grave responsibilities , " the President said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inspirational military leadership , indomitable spirit , and the highest order of devotion to the causes of freedom . He symbolized his nation 's unqualified determination to stand by its allies . " General Eisenhower responded to the President 's remarks as briefly as he had done yesterday when he landed at the National Airport from Paris after relinquishing his command in Europe . He said humorously that he had listened in vain during the President 's remarks for mention Of his wife , who stood by his side during the ceremony . He then thanked the President warmly for his remarks , went through the medalpinning ceremony all over again for the photographers and left the White House to keep an appointment at the Department of State with Dean . Acheson , Secretary of State . Session on NATO Matters Today , as yesterday , the general 's activities were mainly military and ceremonial . He reported to his military colleagues at the Pentagon and to the standing group of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization this morning , and had lunch with Secretary Lovett this noon . Earlier in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his eyes examined . The pupil of his left eye has seemed to he inflamed and to be bothering him ever since he arrived . While at Walter Reed , he visited briefly with Gen. Hoyt S. Vandenberg , Air Force Chief of Staff , who is a patient there . After a press conference tomorrow ' on North Atlantic Treaty questions , General Eisenhower will . General of the Army Dwight D. Eisenhower 's press conference at the Pentagon will be televised today over Channels 2 , 4 , 5 and 7 beginning at 10 A. M. The conference also will be carried at the same time by the WJZ-A . B. C. radio network . take leave of the Army and then plunge into his political responsibilities . He has scheduled a conference tomorrow afternoon with Senator Henry Cabot Lodge Jr. , his campaign manager . The Kansas trip , however , will be under the direction of Senator Frank Carlson , Republican of Kansas , and Harry Darby , Republican National Committeeman from that state . In addition to his homecoming speech in Abilene on Wednesday and his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ see Republican delegates and members of congress from states bordering : on Kansas during his visit home . however , the ' task of meeting those delegates whose votes Wayprove decisive in the Republican National Convention , which etarte July 7 , will be delayed until the general returns to New Yeelt next Friday and departs a week later for Deiroit and Deaver . During the gear York visit , he Will meet with the state 's Repub- ' Bean convention delegation iii tWO different sections . He will also be , met at the airport in New York by , Governor Dewey of New York , ' who is supporting him for the ' Republican nominatidia While members of the New Jer , ' sey Republican delegation will meet both General Eisenhower and ' senator Taft next week , the Pennsylvania delegation will not meet with the general . Gov . John S. Fine of Pennsylvania will visit , the general at Columbia University , where he has a aesidende as president on leave , bilt#6 Cstrange- , ments have been made for the general to meet G. Mason Owiett @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who are said to favor Senator Taft .                     