@@719914

txt Despite a planned all-out opposition battle by Senator John E. Powers ( D ) of Boston , Senate minority leader , the Senate is set today to pass legislation to activate the Massachusetts Port Authority . Even Senator Powers is resigned to the fact that his opposition drive will get nowhere . But he is going through with it just the same , as one of the chief opponents of the port authority approach to economic development of Boston . Prior to Senate action , the South Boston senator is seeking to determine from Governor Furcolo whether or not the latter will sign the port authority bill as passed by the Democrat-controlled House by a substantial margin . The measure , as now written , falls considerably short of the Governor 's special message recommendations and includes an increase in the interest ceiling on authority bonds from 4 per cent to 5 per cent . Harbor Crossing ? Several port authority backers have reported the Governor is ready to sign the bill as passed by the House , but with a reluctance . Senator Powers today said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has been unable to determine whether or not the Governor would go along with the present bill . The port authority measure is an informal companion to another bill , pending in the Senate and favored by the administration , to transfer from the port authority to the Massachusetts Turnpike Authority the task of constructing a second harbor crossing to East Boston . This measure would also transfer the Sumner Tunnel to . the turnpike authority , whereas the law establishing the port authority provided for the port group to take over the tunnel and build a second crossing . Amendments . Loom A major reason for the shift to the turnpike authority is the desire of the port ' authority to delay construction of a second crossing until traffic patterns show more clearly where the greatest need for the crossing will be . Governor Furcolo , as well as many strong port authority opponents , have insisted that the second crossing be built immediately . Both the port authority and second crossing measures are expected to be passed by the Senate easily , despite lengthy debate . Senator Powers disclosed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the port bill . Senator Powers said he will seek an amendment to require an audit of the authority 's ac counts annually by the State . Auditor , as proposed by Governor Furcolo and stricken out by the House . In fact , most of the amendments concern Furcolo recommendations dropped by the House from the bill . Senator Powers pointed out that under legislative procedure he is barred from going beyond the Governor 's message . Inventory Sought The South Boston senator will seek adoption of a requirement that the authority report its votes , orders , and resolutions to the State Commissioner of Administration and Finance within 48 hours , and that a 30-day notice be given to the commissioner prior to action to increase tolls on facilities to be operated by the authority . He will seek an inventory of all assets turned over to the port authority under the authority act . The authority is to take over the Mystic River Bridge , the Logan International Airport , the Bedford Airport and state-owned port facilities . Reason for the port authority approach is that through private @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will not be subject to state appropriation limits . Such limits are becoming more severe due to the state 's difficult financial problems . Senator Powers said he also plans to seek greater protection for employees of the Mystic River Bridge Authority , the airports , and the port facilities . He added that such employeesrare not protected by civil service upon the transfer . Interest Hike Hit In addition ; he will seek to put back in the House-passed bill a Furcolo proposal to bar payment of finder 's fees in connection with placement of the authority bonds for sale , as well as a provision that the bonds be sold at public sale , not I through a private sale . Failing in these attempts , Senator Powers will seek to toss out provisions boosting the maximum interest rate on authority bonds to 5 per cent . Governor Furcolo , in his message , expressed the hope that the Legislature would not boost the interest rate but he did not erect insurmountable barriers against such legislative action . Yesterday , the Senate was poised to act on the port @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ today to prepare his amendments and to seek to determine whether or not the Governor will sign the pending bill , if it reaches his desk unchanged . 