@@717684

txt The Bay State 's Yankee Atomic Electric Company went ahead today with plans to build a $33,400,000 atomic electric power plant in the western part of the state to serve all six New England states , following approval of financial assistance yesterday by the Atomic Energy Commission in Washington . It is estimated it will be at least another 10 years before the present rising costs of fuel imported into New England to generate existing electric power plants will be offset or balanced by any lowering costs of atomic electric power . Even then , much will depend upon improved reliability of atomic-generated power over the present power generated by the conventional furnace burning coal , oil , or natural gas . Many details , including extensive proceedings before other regulatory groups , plus engineering and construction estimates , . must be worked out before construction of the 135 , - 000 kilowatt power plant at Rowe , Mass. , about 10 miles east of North Adams , can begin , it is understood . Construction of the plant is expected to require about three years , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could give at this time regarding ground breaking at the site was " early 1957 . " Power Costs Uncertain Yankee Atomic Electric Company was formed a year ago by a group of New England 's electric light and power companies now serving about 90 per cent of the six-state area . It is not possible to say now just how great a proportiqn of the power presently generated by these companies may be replaced by atomic power . Original plans for the western Massachusetts plant have undergone several changes . Under the revised proposal , the plant is improved in several respects , and capacity is increased by approximately 35,000 kilowatts , with cost estimates up about $10,000,000 . Dollar costs for construction of the plant are expected to be about $250 a kilowatt ? a cost somewhat higher than that for the conventional type of steam-generating plant burning coal or oil now used by electric companies . On the average , such a plant would run to about $225 a kilowatt to construct . In discussing the cost aspect , William Webster , president of Yankee Atomic Electric , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not immediately provide lower cost power " in relation to that produced by conventional methods . " Such a statement , " he said , " holds true for the Yankee project , and until many of ? the uncertainties of atomic generation are worked out through research and actual practice , it is doubtful whether any precise figures can be given of power costs from this atomic electric plant . " Reactor Holds Kev He pointed out that nuclear authorities are agreed there will be no marked reductions in power costs during the early stages . They do expect , however , that eventually the application of atomic energy in the field of electric generation will reduce further the cost differential now existing between areas abundant with raw materials and those , like New England , which must transport fossil fuels from far-distant points . Fundamental difference in the production of electricity from atomic energy in a plant such as that planned by Yankee is in the atomic reactor . or atomic furnace used in place of the conventional type of furnace . In the Yankee plant , a light @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the 200-odd citizens of the little Berkshire Hills town of Rowe , anticipating AEC approval , gathered at town meeting Feb. 6 and voted for sweeping changes in the town- 's bylaws . The 60 new bylaws just passed are designed to " reserve to the town of Rowe the right , the privilege , and the power to regulate its future development , " according to Selectman John H. Williams , chairman of the town 's bylaw committee . Considerable growth in population , accompanied by home and school construction , road building , and commercial development are expected to hit the town during the three years required to build the plant . It is expected that the installation not only will boost the assessed valuation of $700,000 considerably , but also may cut something from the current tax rate of $54. - Picture : Page 2                     