@@716757

txt Alben W. Barkley , former Vice President of the United States , now returned as " the junior " Senator from Kentucky , got back his old major committee posts today . The Senate Demdcratic Steering Committee acted unanimously . Senate agreement was certain . The traditionally rigid Senate seniority rule was relaxed also for Senator Joseph C. O'Mahoney of Wyoming . Mr. O'Mahoney lost , out in 1952 after nineteen years of service . He made a comeback in 1954 . The same committee assignments awaited him . Seniority tradition might have put them at the bottom of the list for assignment to " the real workrooms of Congress . " Both came out in front . Senator Barkley had asked for assignment to the Foreign Relations Committee . He got it . He also wanted to go back on the tax-writing Finance Committee . He got that , too . Mr. O'Mahoney , for years the chairman of the Interior ands Insular Affairs Committee , wanted reassignment to that panel . He received it . He also wanted to return to the Judiciary Committee . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Inde-1 pendent of Oregon , was deluged with favors . Having broken with the Republican party in 1952 , he ' was treated as a prospective Democrat . Senator Lyndon B. Johnson of Texas , the majority leader and chairman of the Steering Committee , said that if Mr. Morse formally declared himself a Democrat he would be entitled to seniority rank . Senator Morse was nominated for the Foreign Relations and Banking and Currency Committees , and also , at his request , for the District of Columbia Committee , to which he had been exiled when he quit the Republicans . ? The Foreign Relations Committee assignment had been sought by Mr. Morse for years . Democrats had sought it too , among them Senators Herbert ) H. Lehman of New York , Estes Kefauver of Tennessee and Russell B. Long of Louisiana . Mr. Lehman and Senator John 0 . Pastore of Rhode Island were said to have applied for the Judiciary seat won by Senator O'Mahoney , The posts receiver by the possible aspirants for those given Mr. Morse were : Senator Lehman , Banking and Currency @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Armed Services ; Senator Long , Interior and Insular Af-. fairs , Finance ; Senator Pastore , Interstate and Foreign Commerce and the Post Office and Civil Service Committee . While not conceding that the historic seniority rule had been cast out , Senator Johnson emphasized that experience and knowledge rated places in assignments . The majority leader observed that Senator Barkley 's assignments reflected the determination of the committee to recognize the services of " one of the truly great statesman of our times " ? " the grand old man of the Democratic party . " The contributions of Senator O'Mahoney , he added , would not and could not be forgotten . Also Acclaims Morse The Morse assignments . Mr. Johnson said , wene being carried out as a majority party responsibility . Senator Johnson said they gave him " a particular pleasure , " adding : " He Senator Morse would serve with distinction in any post and we decided to give him three . " Senator Morse said he , too , was pleased , and expected " a rich experience " in serving under @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Democrat of Georgia , " whom I consider one of the greatest statesmen of our times . " Senators George and Morse have disagreed bitter:y on numerous legislative issues . In 1952 , before his break with the Republicans during the election campaign , Senator Morse was assigned to the important Armed Services and Labor and Public Welfare Committees . After he made his bolt formal in 1953 he was shunted to the lesser committees on Public Works and the Affairs of the District of Columbia . He held those assignments throughout 1954 . The assignments appeared to strengthen the South in the new Democratic-controlled Congress . They also seemed to give Senator Johnson , a Texan , a strong control over committees . Democrats on the Appropriations Committee will in6lude eight Southt , rners out of twelve members . On . the Finance ( tax writing ) panel , six of the eight Democrats will be from the South . with the chairman Senator Harry F , Byrd of Virginia , long an advocate of economy . The Labor and Public Welfare Committee , having seven Democratic members , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to revising the Taft-Hartley Labor-Management Relations Act . The Rules and Administration Committee will be apparently in control of Democrats who have been highly critical of investigalions that panel approved under Republican control . Every Democratic member got a place on at least one major committee , rather than shunting ! new members off to lesser panels . The steering group urged that no member hold the chairmanship of more than one committee . The House of Representatives approved today the committees on ' Appropriations , Ways and Means and House Administration to permit them to get to work . The Ways and Means group was complete , but there were still vacancies on the others . The Ways and Means Chairman is Jere Cooper of Tennessee . The House Appropriations chairman is Clarence Cannon of Missouri .                     