@@719868

txt Senate-House conferees reached final agreement on a defense reorganization bill aimed at improving military efficiency and cutting down inter-service rivalry . The bill , unanimously adopted , contains several House-passed provisions which President Eisenhower has objected to . But the White House issued a statement by Mr. Eisenhower saying the lawmakers did a " praiseworthy job " on the bill " Except in relatively minor respects , " the Chief Executive disclosed , " the bill adequately meets every recommendation I submitted to the Congress on this subject . " Chairman Vinson ( D. , Va. ) of the House Armed Services Committee predicted overwhelming approval of the compromise by both Houses . In another Defense development , a Senate Appropriations subcommittee , seeking to finish writing a massive military money bill for the newly begun fiscal year , appointed a special panel to study the budget implications of a request by Democrats to step up spending by $329.5 million for jet bombers and tankers . Three controversial sections in the reorganization bill occupied the main attention of the conferees . The final version included : Language @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ function under control of the Defense Secretary . The House wanted the services administered through their individual secretaries . The final bill makes the secretary of each military department responsible to the Defense Secretary for " entire operations " of his department , and no Assistant Secretary can issue orders to a military department without specific written authority from the Defense Secretary . Congressional control over whether a major oombat function can be abolished or changed was retained , using the Senate 's language . This stipulates that a simple majority of either House can block such a change . The House bill had required passage of a resolution by both Houses , after a military chief of a service objected to a proposed change . A third provision resulted in a. definite setback for the President . The House version would have permitted service chiefs and secretaries to bring their complaints to Congress . Mr. Eisenhower had labeled this " legalized insubordination . " The Senate attempted to soften it by eliminating the right of service Secretaries to bring complaints , but the conferees restored the House language . However @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ beforehand whenever he intended to , make recommendations to Congress .                     