@@718708

txt Edmund Stevens , who went to Communist China for Look magazine , has brought back from his officially disapproved trip a conclusion which explains some things going on these days , including the reluctance of Secretary of State John Foster Dulles to ? pet ) the gates for United States reporters to China . Mr. Stevens , writing in the current issue of the magazine , says : " Thus far , policies aimed at ostracizing and blockading China have , without undermining the regime , forced it to rely almost exclusively on the Soviet Union . " This is the considered conclusion of a Western journalist who ranks among his colleagues as a leading Western authority on the countries of the Communist half of the world . It runs directly counter to the official attitude of the Eisenhower administration , which is based on the theory that the ostracizing and blockading of Communist China are effective devices ? foe retarding the rate of power growth there and ultimately might even bring down the Communist regime . However , it accords with the bulk of intelligence information @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of all Western countries , including those of the United States itself . As long as United States correspondents were kept out of Communist China , United States public opinion had no source of information on which to judge for itself the soundness of the premise behind official government policy . If such reporters were allowed to enter Communist China freely they presumably would send back a mass of confirming evidence for the Stevens conclusion . I say presumably , because Mr. Stevens 's findings do conform with the findings of Western diplomatic missions in China and of such correspondents from other ' Western countries who have gone there . Of course , some might come up with contrary findings . The probability , however , is that the great majority would agree with Mr. Stevens . The Stevens findings and the intelligence reports from other Western sources with which they agree explain also the rapid deterioration of the economic blockade of Communist China which now is in process . The question of dismantling the blockade was raised in Washington in January and early February of 1956 by the British delegation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ delegation Somehow Caviar Tastes Better With Chopsticks promised to review the lists of goods banned in China trade under the boycott system established during the Korean war . Nothing ever came of this promise . Beginning in mid-1956 , most Western countries , led by Japan , West Germany , France , and Britain , began progressively to exercise their rights to take exceptions to the boycott rules . France , for example , sent 225 caterpillar tractors in one shipment under the pretext that they were " samples . " Japan has watched with irritation while Finland shipped wooden fishing boats to China via the Soviet Union which could have been built in Japan , where need for the business is acute . The British delegation at Bermuda raised the question again . Nothing was reported about this discussion in the Christian Seirner Monitor communique for the simple reason that there was no agreement . The British are eoing ahead with continued resort to the " exceptions , " as are all the others . On the basis of the same conclusion Mr. Stevens reported ? i.e. , that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no useful purpose . The issue has reached the point where every free world country is " out of step but the United States . " Washington clings to its official contention that the trade boycott is paying off and should be maintained . The others contend that the boycott has never deprived Communist China of significant amounts of machinery which it really wanted for its industrialization and militarization . One feature of the boycott system which particularly irritates Washington 's allies is that the list of items banned in China trade is longer than the list banned in trade with the Soviet Union . The practical effect of this is merely to channel sales to Communist China through the Soviet Union . Peking gets the banned items , Moscow , presumably , gets a commission on the transaction . * There is no evidence of any disposition to change in Washington . However , the time has passed when Washington can hold the allies to its boycott policy . The practical fact of the matter is that the boycott will either be ended with United States agreement or swept away @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Japan , West Germany , France , and Britain all take the position that the boycott injures them , but not Communist China . They have simply stopped enforcing the boycott on their merchants and their shipping companies . Mr , Stevens 's report did not cause this . It merely articulates the long - existing reason why Washington has lost control over the policies of its friends and allies in this matter .                     