@@716668

txt FIX INQUIRY HOLDS AN EX-PATROLMAN He Posts Bail as a Witness ? Department Sends Reports of Own Study in 1953 By PETER KIHSS Walter J. Meyer , a retired city patrolman , was arraigned and freed in $5,000 bail yesterday as a material witness in the investigation of a " courtesy-card " racket for traffic offenders . In Kings County Court , Assistant District Attorney Julius Helfand described him as an " amenable " witness . At the same time District Attorney Edward S. Silver announced that reports of a Police Department investigation in May ' and June , 1953 , into activities of Meyer , two motorcycle policemen , then active , and another man had been turned over to his office Wednesday night . i The delivery of the reports nvolved what Mr. Helfand and the Police Department agreed was a strange coincidence . For earlier I on Wednesday , Assistant District ' Attorney Albert A. Blinder of the Bronx had revealed that the four men had told him of departmental interviews in 1953 in which they were directed to stop circulating the " courtesy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ say whether the ' 1953 inquiry had resulted in any other action . But Police Commissioner Francis W. H. Adams Con- ' firmed that it had dealt with the , Courtesy-card scheme . After check-up he said " it is indicated that the investigation was the usual and appropriate departmental investigation . " " In accordance with our policy of close cooperation with the District Attorney , " Commission ' er Adams said , " all facts relative to the steps taken in this investigation have been turned over to District Attorney Silver . " The Commissioner 's statement was made after conferences with various officials , ' including Inspector Louis J. Michaels , in charge of Queens traffic , Inspector Michaels commanded the motorcycle district from Feb. 11 , 1953 , ' to Feb. 25 , 1954 , when he was succeeded by Deputy Inspector Philip J. Burns Jr . The story by Meyer and the others had concerned a call to the chief inspector 's office , but it was understood yesterday that the interviews actually were on a lower level in the department . According to Mr. Blinder @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ relations man , had said they had admitted using the names of the motorcycle policemen  --  Donald Goodrich , now suspended , and Thomas Robert O'Connell , who later retired ? on courtesy cards . Goodrich and O'Connell , held in $50,000 bail each in Brooklyn as material witnesses , denied they had known their names were used , Mr. Blinder said . Meyer , who is 55 years old , is free in $1,500 bail on a Bronx information charging him and Bayer with petty larceny , conspiracy to defraud and impersonating police officers . He entered the Police Department April 8 , 1921 , and retired Oct. 28 , 1946 , after what was de , scribed as an average record with a commendation in 1927 . He told reporters he had been on motorcycle duty only his first two years , and that his pension is ! $1,852 a year . The affidavit by Mr. Helfand ? on which Meyer was arraigned , said the rackets grand jury " has uncovered evidence , concerning a large-scale conspiracy " in Kings and other counties in the city and state @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the laws of this state and indicating the commission of the crimes of bribery , coercion and the taking of unlawful fees . " Mr. Helfand confirmed that a search warrant had been served Nov. 10 at Meyer 's home , 117-03 109th Avenue , Ozone Park , Queens . He declined to answer questions about Bayer . District Attorney Silver said he was " satisfied " that no information that he wanted was being withheld . He said that in addition to the reports received Wednesday , the Police Department had turned over " considerable " material last Oct. 28 , including a number of the courtesy cards and data iin'Meket ' ? Bayer , Goodrich and O'Connell . ? Mr. Silver . said that as yet he had had no reason to eXplere the adequacy of police efforts against the racket , but he would call " anybody " - if the investigation required . The grand jury heard seventeen civilian witnesses yesterday on possession and use of courtesy cards ; these brought to thirtyone the number of civilians heard thus far . Today , twelve policemen , , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the first time , along with four five policemen who have testified previously : In Westchester County , Chief ' Assistant District Attorney Frederick E. Weeks Jr . questioned two motorists whose names had been found in papers belonging to Patrolman Nicholas Sulick of the county parkway police , Mr. Weeks said that so far he had received no evidence bearing on any Westchester policeman other than Sulick , who faces a dismissal hearing next week for refusing to sign a Waiver of immunity in the Brooklyn grand jury investigation .                     