@@720520

txt Gov . Earl Long of Louisiana , confined i n a mental ward here , charged in an interview Sunday that his wife and his political associates ? including his nephew , Sen. Russell B. Long  --  conspired to spirit him out of Louisiana . In his first direct conversation with anyone outside John Sealy hospital since he entered it - May 30 , Long told television station KTBS of Shreveport , La. , that " somebody put up $250,000 " to have him kidnaped . ( The Associated Press said Gov . Long shouted from his hospital window to four Louisiana newsmen Sunday night : " I 'm no more crazy than you are . They led me in here in handcuffs . . . They wanted to kill the loan shark bill . . . They wanted to pass the sales tax .. . They wanted to kill my election bill . " Long made the comments after James , Louisiana capitol correspondent for the Associated Press , and the others walked to within 30 feet of his room and yelled to him . Due @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for f re edont Monday when he appears in Galveston District court for hearing on his petition for a , writ of habeas corpus based on his claim that he was kidnaped from his home state ' and that Texao courts have no jurisdiction over him . It will be his first appearance outside the hospital since he was admitted . Adrian Levy Sr. , Long 's chief . attorney , said the governor would be the only witness at the hearing . Levy said he had no way of proving the governor was kidnaped except Long 's own word . He added that he could not subpena anyone from Louisiana and he was confident nobody there would volunteer , to testify Long was abducted by force . Draft a Challenge However , Long 's family swiftly drafted a possible challenge to.his court bid for freedom ' Atty . Theodore B. Stubbs , setting up the opposing Strategy for the habeas corpus hearing , said , " Some facts may be contested , some may not . " Long was whisked from the governor 's mansion in Baton Rouge to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ plane . He has charged in his habeas corpus petition here that he was bound hand and foot and heavily drugged for t h e flight . In an interview with Charley Ray , news editor of KTBS , Long accused his political associates , among them Louisiana Lt. Gov . Lethar Frazar , of conspiring to have him put away so they could further their own political ambitions . The governor , 63 , noted that one of his pet bills  --  a loan shark measure  --  was killed in the legislature after he left Louisiana . He said " somebody put up $250,000 " to get him out of the way . Ray tape-recorded his telep h on e conversation with Long and broadcast it on KTBS . He said he was not at liberty to say how he got the interview . Dr. Titus Harris , head of the John Sealy psychiatric ward , said Ray had called the hospital and represented himself as a " good friend " of the governor 's to get to talk to him . The governor 's story of the flight to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ t ? Ochsner clinic in New Orleans . He said " a the most jealous woman in Louisiana . " At another time , he remarked that if his brother , the late Sen. Huey Long , " had had the same tests I 've had , he 'd have been here the rest of his life . " Long was taken to Galveston after doctors said he had suffered a " physical and mental breakdown " ( luring a session of the legislature which had brought hire several defeats . Before his removal to Galveston , he had engaged in a particularly violent public attack on state lawmakers . Mrs. Long and a cousin , Dr. Arthur Long , obtained a court order in Galveston committing the governor to John ' Sealy hospital for 14 days . They petitioned for a commitment order for an . additional 90 days , and a hearing was set for Tuesday .                     