@@717409

txt A frank approach to building a federated United States of Europe , replacing the idea of his former political associates of easing in the project under the title of " supranationalism , " marks Jean Monnet 's fresh effort to start building a " new " Europe through an action committee made up of political party and trade union leaders . The remarkable achievement of M. Monnet in putting across the Coal and Steel Community , as a technician with little of no experience in politics or public relations , is still a postwar wonder of Europe . Key Unification Today a Jean Monnet wiser and more experienced in these elements has made a fresh start . And because M. Monnet is one of those men who always is seeking and learning new ideas , the new effort to build Europe is a refreshing conception . In fact , in its very organization it has achieved one of the most startling political successes in postwar Europe . M. Monnet has succeeded in uniting the Christian Democrats , led by West German Chancellor Konrad Adenauer and West German @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the new drive for " Europe . " The meaning within Germany 's political ranks of unification of these two opposing parties , and its significance in European and world politics , should not be underestimated . It means the . political axis ofthe new Europe moves toward the left by gaining support of the German Socialists and thereby wipes out one of the major previous obstacles to federating Europe . It has been the fear of the German Socialists and French Radical Socialists that a federated Europe would be a Roman Catholic-dominated Europe because the previous efforts have been carried along primarily by the " Christian " or Roman Catholic parties .. M , Monnet has managed to line up the outstanding leaders of all the non-Communist socialist parties , all the " Christian " or Roman Catholic parties . the outstanding liberal and independent parties , and all the non-Communist trade unions of Germany , France , Italy , the Netherlands , Belgium , and Luxembourg . , Operation Reversed This constitutes a political party and labor concentration which , if the organizations follow their leaders who have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ majority in forwarding European federations , M. Monnet had to build the Coal and Steel Community working through governments . Govei nments , however , often are hampered by political considerations which may temper their zeal . Learning by experience , M. Monnet has reversed the operation this time . Now he intends to work with the elements indemocracy which produce the power of which the governments are the expression . By gaining the support of these elements , he hopes , the governments can be more responsive . M. Monnet starts the tee off in a modest which is offset by the able list of . leaders he listed to support it . Letter Outlines , Aim He has sent to each of these men a letter which says , in part : " I have the honor to ask you to participate in the establishment of the action committee for a United States of Europe . The personalities who participate .. will each ask their organizations to adhere . It is understood the political and labor organizations adhering . . will be represented by the delegates they themselves choose @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ action of the members ' organizations in order to arrive by concrete accomplishments at a United States of Europe . " At first . . . its action will consist in demonstrating to governments , parliaments , and public opinion their determination to see the Messina resolution of June 2 become a veritable step toward a United States of Europe . This resolution called for the study of the expansion of . . . economic developments ... particularly in the use of atomic energy , progressive realization of a European common market . . . and harmonization of social policies . "                     