@@713284

txt Chicago missed all except faint effects of yesterday 's atmospheric phenomenon which gave weird sky colorings and blackout to large area of the northeastern United States . The air here was hazy in the forenoon and oblervPI 'S said the sun anneared to have had a veil drawn in front of it , screening out glare and filtering the rays into a delicate platinum blue . Cleveland , Sept. 24 SpeciallA dense smoke cloud drifting at an altitude . of more than 14,000 feet today blotted out the sun for several hour : , over this city and much of the north central United States , turning day into night , sending fowl to roost and frightening millions of persons . Scientists said the phenomenon was due to smoke from forest fires in the Canadian northwest caught between cloud layers by clockwise air currents over the Great Lakes . Their explanations reached radios in midafternoon and quieted persons who had been deluging newspapers , police , a nd fire stations and weather bureaus with frantic queries . Weird Colors Appear Blackouts of near midnight intensity were reported @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Weird colors in the sky were reported from points along the eastern Lake Michigan shore to the Atlantic seaboard . New York City was plunged into an eerie twilight between noon and 1 p. m. and observers in Philadelphia said the sikn resembled a pale purple disk . Snow fell in Buffalo . The New York weather bureau said the smoke shroud was about 200 miles wide and that its effects were noticeable as far west as Iowa and as far south as Virginia . Starts with Gray Cloud A high , gray cloud was observed drifting in from the northwest in the forenoon here . About noon the sky turned a coppery yellow and the sun took on a distinctly blue tint . Within an hour the sky 's colors faded into blackness . Lights were turned on for the DetroitCleveland baseball game , making it the first time a complete major league daytime game has been played under lights . Arriving pilots reported they could smell the smoke at altitudes of 16,000 to 23,000 feet . Temperatures dropped with the darkness , sinking to 44 at 3 p. m @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , United States forecaster here , said the only unusual feature of the smoke cloud was its altitude and explained that such a cloud close to the earth would produce only a familiar smog . The blackout in Pittsburgh was the most intense between 2 and 4 p. m . Lights were turned on during the first game of a ? PittsburghCincinnati dauble header and remained on for the afternoon . Reports from Detroit were that the blackout began about 10:30 a. m. and cut sharply , into church attendance . Forest fires have been raging for a week in Alberta , Canada , a n d 700 persons have been battling to save farm homes , small towns and timber tracts . The worst of 30 fires was reported at Wanham , 340 miles northwest of Edmonton , where more than 50 square miles , of , land have been blackened .                     