@@720056

txt Soviet Premier Nikita Khrushchev says he does not intend to fight the West for Berlin and is preparing formal proposals on the future status of the city . The Soviet Premier chose a Kremlin reception for graduates I of military schools to make these statements . lie also twice suggested that United States Secretary of State John Foster Dulles " cool off " over . Berlin . Noting that the Secretary of State had indicated the United States would resist by force any attempt to change the status of Berlin , Mr. Khrushchev said Mr. Dulles frequently appeals to deity in his statements and recommended that the Secretary pray for " the patience and reason to correctly estimate the international situation and not to use that position to intimidate others but to achieve a sensible solution of outstanding questions without resorting to threats of war . " Cold Bath " Suggested In ? his second recommendation , Mr. Khrushchev recalled the practice of the ancient Romans of taking a cold bath to calm themselves before making vital decisions . " Perhaps this should be recommended to certain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of war , " said Mr. Khrushchev . The Soviet Premier 's speech , which covered a page and a half in Pravda was devoted largely to his proposals for a new seven-year economic plan . He told the graduates , many of whom were veterans of World War H taking advanced courses , that the Soviet Union would not use its armed forces " aggressively " in the Berlin or-any-other dispute . " When we speak about Berlin we are not making statements that we will fight against the West , " he said . " but we have said and continue to say that any attack against the Soviet Union or any other socialist country will receive a crushing rebuff , " " We intend to make definite proposals " to the West concerning Berlin , he added . Meanwhile , it is reported from Berlin that the United States Army is expected soon to send another truck convoy west in a test of Soviet Premier Khrushchev 's intentions concerning his demands for the ? West to quit Berlin . Truck Convoy Blocked Soviet soldiers Nov. 14 blocked a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to West Germany and held it for 81z hours . The Army said the Soviets broke established procedures by making unacceptable demands to inspect the trucks . Normally heavy civilian highway traffic was moving west Nov. 15 without hindrance . Rail and air traffic also were normal . The United States , British , and French military garrisons in Berlin get most of their supplies by rail , making little use of the 110-mile autobahn through the Soviet zone . Mr , Khrushchev demanded Nov. 10 in Moscow that military forces be withdrawn from Bor .. ' lin , which his puppet East German regime claims as it capital . The Western allies say they are there by right of World War 1I conquest and will use force if necessary to remain in anti-Communist West , Berlin . The convoy incident was the first harassment of Western forces in Berlin since Mr. Khrushchev opened his campaign , But the Soviet demand to inspect United States Army trucks crossing East Germany is an old issue . The Allies claim the Soviets are entitled only to examine trucks ' manifest papers . Echo @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the United States was considering dealing with the East Germans on normal housekeeping matters on the understanding that the East Germans would be acting as agents of Moscow . The State Department said the report was a misinterpretation , but did not elaborate . Walter Ulbricht , East German Communist boss , on Nov , 14 echoed Mr. Khrushchev 's call for an end of the four-power occupation in Berlin . Herr Ulbricht offered to deal with the West on any subsequent problems . ! Its regime would not be uncooperative , Herr Ulbricht promised . There would be little the Allies could do if the East Germans take over traffic controls but to talk with them on problems that arise . An airlift to supply Allied garrisons would be more dangerous than in the 1948-49 surface blockade . Then a Soviet stayed on duty in the four-power air safety center which controls the three aerial corridors to the West . Without this Soviet participation there would be no assurance of safe air travel to 13erl in . Soviet fighters might , challenge planes flying over East Germany without permission from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the East Germans as a trespass . and Mr. Khrushchev has said the Soviet , would back up the East German regime it ' it is attacked .                     