@@720599

txt City and Port Authority agencies cooperated smoothly yesterday in another emergency at New York International AirTort . The airport was sealed off , preventing any possible recurrence of the turmoil of a week before , when 50,000 persons swarmed over the field . All rescue facilities were ready when an American Airlines jet that had reported " complete hydraulic failure " landed safely at the Idlewild , Queens , field . The trouble involved the landing gear , brakes and flaps . The Boeing 707 carried 112 passengers and a crew of eight non-stop from Los Angeles . It touched down on the same runway that had been jammed ! with 4,000 curiosity seekers last I Saturday when a Pan Americanl ' World Airways jet landed safely , I after losing two wheels . Yesterday 's emergency lasted about an hour , in contrast to last week 's four-hour crisis . Listeners Warned This time , quick action by the Port Authority and the Police and Fire Departments headed off any trouble on the field . All entrances to the airport were blockaded by the police . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ warned listeners to stay away . On the field , Port Authority foam trucks , which were not used , sped to the edge of the runway . The agency 's officials met Fire Department equipment and Ied it to the scene , and Authority policeman aided the city force at the entrances to the airport . The pilot , Capt . Byron S. Warner , indicated after the landing that he thought the elaborate precautions were unnecessary . As he stepped from the plane a reporter shouted : " Congratulations . " " For what ? " Captain Warner snapped . Brakes Hold The plane landed with the use of mechanically operated landing gear and flaps . Captain Warner said he had not known whether he had any hydraulic fluid until he applied the brakes . They held , and the plane rolled to a stop at 6:04 P. M. , nine minutes after its scheduled arrival . Captain Warner said he had notified Idlewild about 4 P.M. that " the hydraulic system registers almost zero " and " we may have to be towed off the field . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this limited information . It waited for further details . At about 5 P.M. , an hour before he was scheduled to land , Cap- tain Warner added the details , that set the emergency operation in action . He radioed : " We might be delayed somewhat putting down gear as we wish to use the mechanical instead of hydraulic system in the event that we might be low on hydraulic fluid . " The Port Authority at that point notified the Fire Depart-i ment in Queens to send equip-1 ment to a rendezvous " 600 feet south of the Van Wyck Expressway approach road . " The police , automatically alerted whenevk*. the Fire Department is summoned , responded with its own plan . Police1 cars and motorcycle policemen raced to prearranged posts on the Van Wyck Axpressway and roads as the fire equipment screamed by . Tne fire trucks were directed to the runway without delay . Later , Fire Commissioner Edward F. Cavanagh Jr . said he was " perfectly satisfied with the arrangements made to cope shunted cars to the service with any emergency resulting from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ n't anticipate any difficulty today , and we did n't have any . " Blockades Set tip The Police Department set up blockades at the Van Wyck entrance to the airport and at two less frequently used entrances . Only emergency equipment , airport personnel , cars carrying people with airline tickets and the press were admitted . Other police units patrolled roads and highways , including the east-west Belt Parkway , at points two and three miles from the airport . One newspaper man was stopped seven times before he reached the terminal . The Police Department had four launches standing by in Jamaica Bay , on which the airport fronts , and the Department of Marine and Aviation kept two helicopters waiting in the vicinity . Extra fire equipment , including ladder trucks , remained outside the airport . 1 Radio and television stations , learning of the plane 's apparent distress and the elaborate emergency precautions , went on the air with ? bulletins . but with warnings to stay away . C. B. S. Gives Warning At the Columbia Broadcasting System , the bulletin was followed by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the airport . " The National Broadcasting Company said : " The Port Authority , fire and police authorities request that the public not come to the field in order to facilitate a safe landing and not complicate the problem as had resulted last week . " Radio station WQXR , in addition to a plea to stay away added the information that police blockades had already been set up at the airport . When the plane was fifteen minutes out of New York , Captain Warner notified the passengers of a " possible delay . " He said : " Due to low hydraulic fluid we are going to put down ' gear mechanically and this will take a little time . " He said he told them that if , the hydraulic brakes did not work . " we might have to use air brakes , and this might he a little rough . " Flying 30 Years The 53-year-old pilot . who has been flying thirty years , said , with some annoyance. after landing : " The tower at Idlewild asked us to circle once . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to give time to the press and emergency equipment to arrive . " At 5:50 . Captain Warner radioed the tower : " Request permission to land . " The tower responded by asking how many persons were aboard . " We have 112 passengers and eight crewmen . " the captain replied . " What 's all the fuss about ? " " Please circle the airport once before coming in . Take runway 13 right . " the tower replied . Captain Warner swung the lane on a wide arc over Cedararst , in south Nassau , and then Cade a straight approach and Inormal landing . He said later he thought the auge appeared to have been faulty to a slight extent , but added , " I do not think we had our full hydraulic fluid . " He said he knew of such cases and had had a similar experience twenty years ago . Fifth 707 Incident Yesterday 's incident was the fifth case of landing gear trouble encountered by a Boeing 707 . Vice President Richard M. Nixon is scheduled to fly to Moscow Wednesday @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ President Eisenhower and other officials . The contrast with last week 's disrupted rescue operations was noted by Port Authority and city officials . Mayor Wagner reported that he had learned of the incident from a radio news broadcast while at his summer home in Islip , L. I. He said : ? " I was glad to see that the Fire Department and other city agencies were able to work with the Port Authority in a far more orderly manner this time . It just shows what cooperation can do in such a situation . " The Mayor , who was aboard a similar plane this week that landed without incident after a trip from Los Angeles , added : " We are all very thankful that the plane was able to get its mechanical devices working and landed without injury to anyone . " In contrast to the Pan Amer- ican incident , in which Austin J. Tobin , executive director of the Port Authority , and Com missioner Cavanagh traded charges on rescue operations , the aftermath of yesterday 's alert was mild . Mr. Cavanagh , in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the airport , also complimented the police by saying they had done " a magnificent job on the Van Wyck Expressway . " However , the problem of who was in charge , the Port 4uthority or the Fire Department  --  the question that was raised but not settled after the last incident ? still was to be settled . , Mr. Cavanagh said a new meeting between officiaLs of his department and the Port Authority would be held tomorrow morning to resolve " the only remaining question  --  the designaItion of authority during the first three minutes after touchdown . " I William A. O'Connor . superintendent of the Port Authority police , was asked after the plane landed : " Who was in charge of the operation ? " " That question ? was never raised , " he replied . The Police Department , commenting on the smoothness of yesterday 's operation , said it was partly the result of the time element . A spokesman said there was only an hour and five minutes for television and radio to broadcast the news , compared with four hours @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the police were notified immediately this time . " T. T. Wiley , Commissioner of Traffic , said : " The police are to be complimented on the way they handled the situation . It is essential that the public must be advised to stay away from any point where a disaster may occur . " Radio and TV Scored Mrs. Lee Jaffe , chief public relations counsel for the Port Authority , said she was " mad as hell " at the radio and television stations for their action in broadcasting news of the emergency . She said they had " deliberately disregarded " a request she had made that news of the plane 's difficulty not be broadcast until after it had landed . Mrs. Jaffe said she would file a formal protest with radio and television stations . Three press organizations , representing reporters and photographers , filed a protest with the Port Authority after last week 's incident , saying that the Authority 's foam trucks had turned hoses on newsmen . Last week 's emergency occurred when a jet clipper , bound for Europe , lost @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ field for four hours before landing safely . The airport was enmeshed in a monumental traffic jam and a circus atmosphere . In addition to the bitter exchange between the Port AuIthority and the Fire Department , the pilot was critical of the crowds that had jammed the runway , and the Federal Aviation Agency asked for " a guarantee that there would not be a recurrence of such an incident . " Mr , Tobin said at that time that he could not guarantee that another jam would not occur under similar conditions . He was not available for comment last night . Yesterday 's difficulty brought an immediate demand by Representative Steven P. Derounian , a member of the aviation subcommittee of the House Commerce Committee . asking for " the immediate grounding of all Boeing 707 's in passenger service . " The Nassau County Republican , who lives in Roslyn , fifteen miles from Idlewild , said he would ask correction of any defects in the jets " to make sure we do n't have these scares . " After last Saturday 's mishap , Pan American @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ airliners three times more often than before . every sixty hours instead of the normal 200. 40 707 Airliners There are forty Boeing 707 's in commercial service , and more than 275 of the military version , known as the KC-135 , which is used mainly by the Strategic Air Command . Passengers on the American Airlines plane yesterday said they had been informed of the apparent fault in the hydraulic system , but said there was little excitement aboard . The last passenger off the airliner indicated that her troubles were not over . Mrs. Irene Delphian a Fresno , Calif. , nurse , said she had taken the wrong plane in Los Angeles . " I was going on to Toronto , " she said . " I do n't know how it happened . They told me this was the right plane . "                     