@@719840

txt But as of now , anyway , he is talking rather modestly , and in quite general terms . " This is the beginning of a tremendously important phase of the American labor movement , " he declared last week as , with a flourish of his pen for photographers , he signed a document allying the Teamsters with two other key unions in the " Conference of Unity . At Jimmy 's right sat the 250-pound chief of the International Longshoremen 's Association , ex-tugboat captain William V. Bradley of New York . His signature was on the document also . His union , thouth he did n't head it then , will be remembered as the model for the Marlon Brando movie of pier gangsterism , " On the Waterfront . " On Mr. Hoffa 's left for the signing was Joe Curran , a man who less than a year ago was busy prosecuting the Teamsters out of the A F L.-C.I 0 . on corruption charges ? with Jimmy Hoffa as the Federation 's chief complaint . But now the boss of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vice-president and a member of its Ethical Practices Committee , was signing below Mr. Hotta and breathing defiance of the A.F.L.-C.I.O . Federation officials say its constitution prohibits pacts between expelled unions and A.F.L.-C.I 0 . affiliates . But if that 's their opinion , Mr. Curran snapped , then " I do n't ? care what the constitution says . " Denying the Obvious The birth of the League of Transportation Unions has been persistently forecast by labor observers for months , and just as persistently denied . Its father is clearly Jimmy Hotta , who serves as temporary chairman . Its birthplace was the third floor of the Teamsters ' Palace , a picture window 's view away from the Capitol Building . And Jimmy makes it clear that the Teamsters ' $41-million treasury stands ready to provide the necessary finances until the burly baby grows up . Another teamster executive says : " I think this is more significant than the A F L. convention in 1935 . " As a young rebel in another union , he went through that convention where the long feud between craft @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Committee ( later " Congress " ) for Industrial Organization , which split the labor movement for 20 years and organized masses of workers in steel auto and rubber . His ' prediction  --  and Mr. Hoffa 's ? could well prove accur'ate . The new alliance , aimed at tying together some 50 transportation unions with 3 500,000 members on land , sea and air , may indeed strike the labor movement and the nation 's economy with as much impact as did the birth of the C.I.O. The transport alliance , in fact , could be called industrial unionism  --  all workers in a single industry bound together for cooperative action , not splintered off in their individual crafts Only this time the industry Is n't just steel or auto or coal , vital as they are to the economy . The transportation industry reaches into every hamlet in the nation If Mr. Hotta succeeds in expanding his unity effort - and there are plenty of hurdles in his way --  the nightmare of a paralytic general transportation strike might not be farfetched . In the extreme , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , could conceivably freeze the nation 's trains . trucks , planes , ships , city transit systems  --  everything that moves  --  unti the demands were met . An Expert Testifies Is that vi , lon so extreme as to he laughable " Leaders of the unions now joining hands would say so But consider this statement made nearly a year ago by a Longshore leader . explaining the value of an alliance of transport unions . " They are so concentrated , an economic squeele and pressure can be exerted that puts any employer in a very tough spot - and flu thermore puts the U.S. Government on a tough spot . " That was the view last August of Harry Bridges , left-wing president of the West Coast International Longshoremen 's and Warehousemen 's Union , which the C I 0 expelled in 1950 as Communist-dominated Mr Bridges then envisioned an alliance Involving only his own union , Capt Bradley 's east coast dock hands and the Teamsters . Mr I loffa alresdy has Ca pt Bradley 's signature on the ity document and Mr. Curran 's as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ International Union , looks " with peat favo , " on the pact . And Mr. Bridges definitely s , ill be invited to join their alliance , Mr Hoffa pledged . It he joins , the confederation would even then be stronger than the combination Mr. Bridges described . There is , of course , no assurance that Mr Bridges ' will ultimately be permitted to join , even if he attends next month 's meeting called to expand the Transport League Mr. Hoffa said invitations to the meeting would go to every union involved in transportation . But the unions that accept and finally join will then write their own rules , and will have final authority to decide who may be admitted and who will be barred . Many prospective members already are shying away from what they otherwise consider a good idea because they are reluctant to deal the Redtinged Mr. Bridges . More Denials Tending to offset the more alarming views of the new combine are a number of denials , which should be entered for the record : that this is a monopoly ; that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the league is actually a new federation of labor , rivaling the A.F.L.-C.I 0 , The merger denial is taken seriously by many union men . Autonomy , the historic demand of all U.S. unions . is important to these labor organizations too . It would be hard to imagine the hard-as-nails Mr. Curran delivering his maritime unions into the Teamsters ' fold , its identity lost forever . On monopoly , Mr. Hoffa 's denial is accompanied by this impromptu explanation : " There are still many international unions who have lint yet committed themselves to become part of this pact . " The implication , which Mr. Hoffa might have avoided had he been preparing his remark in advance , is that a monopoly would exist if all .50 unions signed up . Mr. Curran bristled at the suggestion that the League is a federation , rivaling the A.F.L.-C.I.O. and Mr. Hotta insisted there was no thought of its chartering any unions , as does the A.F L.-C.1.0. and as did the C I.0 In the years it was the old Federation 's arch rival . Sincere as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that after John L. Lewis quit the A.F.L. in 1935 to set up the C.I.O he repeatedly declared that the C.I.O. did not intend to set up a new federation of labor . As the fight developed , the C.I.O had no choice but to do what Mr. Lewis insisted it would not . Mr. Hoffa 's denials recall some other equally-determined statements of the past , too . He first expressed the need for a Transport League a year ago and declared , " You ca n't have is successful one-city strike or a successful one-transportation strike . " A public outcry followed and since then Mr. Hoffa has always denied that he had any such goal in mind . Even as the Teamster leadership met with maritime chiefs , working out details for the alliance they have just announced , truck union officials were steadfastly insisting the sessions had nothing at all to do with any super-union in transportation . Now the alliance is called a " continuous and permanent conference on transportation unity . " Mr. Hoffa says it will work to settle jurisdictional strife , help organize @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mainly provide a means for transport unions to talk over their mutual problems , A.F.L.-C.I.O . Girds The language is similar to the explanation offered by his union predecessor . Dave Beck . whed Mr. Beck was a rising truck union leader on the West Coast He wanted to and did establish a " Western Conference of Teamsters. " over the objections of thenpresident Dan Tobin To allay Mr Tobin 's fears . Mr Beck insisted the conference was merely to give leaders of western Teamster locals a means to get together and exchange information and ideas What he built was a powerful emp 're with Mr Beck as its ruler ? so strong a ruler that he was able to topple Mr. Tobin from the union presidency Following the Beck example was Jimmy Hotta , who built the Midwest Conference and became president Of ( ourse , Mr Hoffa 's grand alliance may be stopped beim e it moves another step The A F L -C I 0 , is certain to take drastic action , probably when its executive council meets ne ; st month in the mountains of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a tough punishment for any unions that are tempted to join the Hoffa camp . many of them might be discouraged The executive council may have trouble drawing tie line , because at least three council member ; not including Mr Curran  --  already have pacts with the Teamsters Sen. McClellan 's special investigating committee , which has heard Mr Hoffa before , already has planned to ask him about his new combine when he testifies this month . There 's the possil.pl.ty the Hotta plan may spur new legislation- although not this session  --  that would stop or hamper . the alliance But even if t ? e fails ultimately , the document he and his two colleagues signed in Teamster headquarters here July 3 will be a dominant factor in labor for some time to come .                     