@@716605

txt WASHINGTON , Oct , 18 ? Dr. Vannevar Busn was on record today as warning Congress that the Administration 's security risk program had demoralized the scientific community and had hindered the nation 's weapons research programs . The president of the Carnegie Institution issued his warning last June to a Government Operations subcommittee of the House of Representatives that was looking into the organization and administration of military research and development . Dr , Bush said that President Eisenhower 's executive order on loyalty and security " was poorly conceived , has been poorly interpreted and has made the situation much worse than it was before , " A transcript of the subcommittee hearings was made public tonight . The Presidential security order referred to set standards and procedures for determining whether Government employes were se.1 . ? ? ? The New York Times Dr. Vannevar Bush curity risks and for their separation from the service . Dr. Bush , who headed the Office of Scientific Research and Development in World War II , did not discuss directly the // Atomic ' , Ignergy Commission 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Dr Oppenheimer headed the ! Los Alames ( N. , M. ) Laboratory during the development of the atomic . bomb . Last May 27 sacurity clearance to continue serving- as a consultant to the Atomic ' ' Energy Commission was denied him by a special board that investigated his record : The board found Dr , Oppenheimer loyal , but . - , recommended that clearance to see classified materials be , ; : mithheld ' fret him . The coni4Sion approved the board 's finding on ' elurie , 29 . While Dr , Bush did not : mention the . Oppenheimer Case he was believed to be describing its effects on fellow scientists when he told the subcommittee ; " There . will be no refusal on the part of scientific men to respond . when called upon . You won't- find any strikes , or any such thing . But . scientists today are discouraged and downhearted and feel that they are being pushed out , and they are . " Inspiration Held Lacking The Mutual respect between the military services and the scientific community achieved during @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " almost destroyed , and , one of the primary reasons is the security system . " Although scientists are continuing to serve the military departments , their morale is so low that they are doing the job " without enthusiasm and without fruitful inspiration , " Dr. Bush said . " They go on working , " he added , " but they feel that they are not welcome ; that they are regarded with suspicion ; that some of the men who led them during the war are now being questioned and their security and loyalty are in doubt . " Dr. Bush also testified that the Joint Chiefs of Staff were not seeking or getting scientific advice in their national security planning , and that the United States was " a year or two be .. hind " where it should be in strengthening its continental defenses against air attack . ? He said that no action had been taken on a recommendation , made last year by the Rockefeller Commission on Reorganization of the Defense Department ; that a planning committee of senior officers be set up @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ task of investigating how modern weapons could be fitted into military planning . Questioned on this point today , the Defense Department said that a directive had been issued last July 26 , mere than a month after Dr. Bush had testified . It instructed the Joint Chiefs to consult " from time to time as appropriate " with " competent civilian scientists , engineers and professional personnel " so that " a wide range of scientific information and knowledge of fundamental cost ? and , .. industrial factors " would be contributed ' to ' their , strategic . and logistic plan ? ? The Joint Chiefs can give only part of their time to . ' broad national planning , . Dr. Bush , said , because each member . ( except the Chairman , Admiral Arthur Radford ) is also ' the head of his service . In the absence of a special group , such , as that suggested : by the Rockefeller Commission , he added , present planning is " not sufficiently flexible and vigorous " to make the most effective use of nein , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hill , director of the . Lincoln ' Laboratory at the Massachusetts Institute - of Technology , echoed Dr. Rush 's statement that the country should , be putting , more effort into its continental defenses . In his opinion , he declared , it was possible " by expanding the continental defense effort to build a - system that would be more : than 50 per cent effective in knocking down enemy bombers or guided missiles . At the present rate of progress , this would take from three to seven years , he estimated , Dr. John von Neumann , mathematician and weapons expert of the Institute for Advanced Study , Princeton , N. J. , told the subcommittee that the security program presented the " major problem " in the research and development field today , though he was less pessimistic than Dr. Bush . He said that the partnership between science and Government - had been " damaged and endangered , " but denied that it was being destroyed . " Very many people who have some trivial blot way back in their past do not know whether @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ although the matter may be irrelevant and they could do very good work in this area , " Dr. von Neumann said . He conceded that the security system as now applied could result in thought control . He added that " there is a grave danger of confusing a technical opinion with a political intention . " Asserting that the security program was " in a legal no man 's land , " Dr. von Neumann suggested that Congress define the criteria " quite rigidly " and provide judicial safeguards , rather than allowing the problem to be handled Solely by administrative means . '                     