@@717896

txt Alger Hiss said tonight that he was confident of the falseness of a Soviet prediction that the twentieth century was the century of communism . The former state Department official , who served a term for perjury , addressed an audience of 200 Princeton University students in his first speech since he was released from prison in November , 1954 . The authorities had taken extensive security precautions against violence or untoward demonstrations . They had concentrated upward of fifty university guards and an equal number of municipal policemen and plainclothes men on the campus . Mr. Hiss ' address was delivered in a calm , classroomlike atmosphere . At the close of his speech and a brief question period students rose and applauded him . No questions concerning Mr. Hiss ' trial or the famous " pumpkin papers " on which Whittaker Chambers based his accusations against Mr. Hiss were raised by the students . All were members of the American Whig-Cliosophic Society , the undergraduate debating society whose invitation to Mr. Hiss had stirred a stormy controversy . Mr. Hiss spoke about twentyfive minutes , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ government last summer and its implication on world affairs . Only briefly did he mention the Yalta Conference in the Crimea in 1945 , in which he had participated as a State Department official . Ili Resnonqe-gt on Russia In a question period Mr. Hiss was asked whether he subscribed to a Communist assertion that the nineteenth century was the century of capitalism and the twentieth the century of communism . " A good Yankee declines to predict , " he replied , " but I have confidence that the statement is wrong . " Mr. Hiss was asked whether he believed that recent Soviet actions , including participation in the Geneva Conference , indicated that Moscow had abandoned its efforts to communize the world . He said it appeared " sufficiently clear " to him that the Russians had not changed their ultimate objectives but that for the present they did not think of them in terms of world war . One student asked Mr. Hiss if the roots of the Geneva Conference did not lie in " the failures at Yalta . " He replied that this I was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ type of question . " He said he did not believe that the Yalta Conference had been a failure . He contrasted the Geneva Conference favorably with the Yalta Conference . He said that the Geneva Conference was founded on something like mutual recognition of the suicidal potentiality of nuclear war . This , he said , might prove a more enduring ? principle on which to found better international relations than the hopes and good spirit displayed by the participants at Yalta . Pope and the Bible Quoted At one point he quoted the Christmas message of Pope Pius on the subject of nuclear disarmament . At another he suggested that the world in its growing awareness of the destructive danger of nuclear war might be coming to realize the essential truth of the statement of Jesus to Peter that " all they that take the sword shall perish by the sword . " Admittance to the address was limited to student members of the Whig-Clio Society and fifty members of the press . Six faculty members were present . Despite the elaborate security precautions , which included a " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ through a group of 100 curious undergraduates gathered outside the hall , Mr. Hiss appeared at ease . The extreme security precautions followed a pre-dawn " pumpkin barrage " of the campus , which authorities believed had been carried out by non students . A hundred papier-mache Halloween pumpkins were strewn around during the night . Each " pumpkin " contained a photographic reproduction of a Woodstock typewriter and roll of microfilm . Mr. Chambers ' charges against Mr. Hiss were supported by a roll of microfilm that he long kept concealed in a pumpkin . A Woodstock typewriter had a major role in the Hiss trial . The same persons who scattered the pumpkins were blamed for painting in red the word " Traitor " and " Hiss is a traitor " at various points on the campus , including the front of Whig Hall . Dr. Harold W. Dodds , president of the university , in a special statement directed to the 30,000 Princeton alumni today , restated the philosophy that led him not to revoke the Hiss invitation . He said : " Education includes the freedom to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . We have sought to resolve this problem not in the terms of academic freedom , but in the deeper and more subtle terms of human freedom and our obligation to our own undergraduates and to all young people who are preparing to assume the responsibilities of freedom in the future . " It is often not enough to tell a child that fire is hot . To learn the personal significance of fire , the child must sometimes burn himself . "                     