@@717475

txt I find it difficult to believe that the three Western for-sign ministers at Geneva were actually , as reported . shocked , surprised , or stunned by the " baggage " which Mr. Molotov brought back with him from his weekend round trip to Moscow in the middle of the conference . They were , of course , disappointed . Although their experts on the Soviet Union had told them in advance that there was no serious possibility that Moscow would agree to German unity on existing Western terms , still " hope springs eternal . " Until Mr. Molotov , fresh from consultation with the real bosses of the Kremlin . had restated the Soviet position there was room for hope that the position would be changed for the sake of progress at Geneva . A A A The position was not changed . On the contrary , it was restated in starker , more precise terms than before . In an inverted way we can be thankful to Mr. Molotov for making the position so crystal clear . At least now we know , beyond @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Soviets on this question of German unity . If we separate the obvious propaganda excuses for the Soviet position from its substance we find that Moscow has taken the expectable position that it will not surrender its grip on East Germany for anything less than its real equivalent in terms of physical position on the globe . The hope of the Western foreign ministers , and it was never much more than pious hope , was that they would trade off the real estate of East Germany for a piece of paper guaranteeing Soviet security from German attack . Perhaps such a deal might have tempted Moscow before the first Geneva conference . Plainly , it does not tempt the Soviets now . and for an obvious reason . The attack that Moscow fears is not from Germans in Germany , but from United States air power operating from behind a military front line in Germany . Western assurances the Soviets received at the first Geneva conference gave them as much security as they could obtain from a new treaty . They no longer need the treaty . They have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are willing to be candid about all this we will recognize that what we want , and for reasons perfectly valid to us , is the advance of our military front line to the Oder , with all of Ger- Just the Thought Sets Itim Off ' many on our side of the line and in alliance with us . Such a development is very much to be desired by us and by Western Europe . It would enhance our security and improve the political and economic security and wellbeing of Western Europe . It would also bring the influence of a truly Western Germany to bear on Poland and Czechoslovakia , and speed the day when Soviet domination over those countries would be checked and undoubtedly reduced by the oenetration of German influence . ? But for the very reason that such a development is desired by us it is undesirable in the eyes of Moscow . Messrs Dulles . Macmillan , and Pinay were not really so naive as to believe that Moscow would give us something we very Christian Science Monitor much want in return for something which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ position does a gross injustice to Germany is beside the point . We can argue the German claim till the cows come home and not change the cold fact that East Germany is a piece of valuable property which the Soviets hold and which they have no intention of relinquishing except for equal value . The least surprising thing about the Soviet position is the objection to " free elections . " Obviously , if a free election were held in East Germany the Soviet East German Government would disappear instantly . It might get as much as 15 per cent of the vote , probably less . More than that , such an event would carry the concept of free elections into the Soviet realm . The infection could spread at least through the satellite countries , and perhaps even into the Soviet Union itself . Communism never won a free election . To expect Moscow to accept the idea of free elections is to expect the Soviet world to sign its own ultimate death warrant . A The conclusions from the foregoing are not pleasant to contemplate . This @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ integration of West Germany in NATO would induce Moscow to give up East Germany . It is also the end of the road for the theory that the United States , Britain , and France could by means short of war induce Moscow to give up East Germany without an equivalent compensation . The choice before us is starkly simple . We can go to war to force Moscow to relinquish East Germany . Or we can give Moscow something it values as much as East Germany . The choice is unpleasant . It may be a shock to have to face the facts . It is certainly disappointing . It is not a surprise .                     