@@719233

txt Military  --  and diplomatic  --  logic today is posing one single desperately essential task for the United States . That is to catch up , at whatever cost , with the Soviet Union in missile development . President Eisenhower has made no " Operation Candor " address to the nation thus far . But all the available evidence indicates that the United States is definitely , and perhaps dangerously , behind the Soviet Union in the missile race . One need only note that the Soviets appear to have developed a rocket motor which has double the thrust of the most powerful American motor and that they have been testing intermediate-range missiles since 1955 to realize the extent of the Soviet advantage . If the sputnik now circling the globe is indeed recording anything about the terrain or exact curvature of the earth below ? as a Yugoslav savant hints  --  this aid to the aiming of Soviet intercontinental missiles would be another stride ahead for Moscow , Let us suppose , finally , that before the end of the year or in celebration of the " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ complicated earth satellite . Then the triumph of Soviet technology and rocketry will seem even more outstanding in the eyes of many nations . A A A We are dealing with something very formidable in the realm of material power here , and we should wake up to it . There are , of course , those who believe that once the Soviet leaderi have attained to full-scale " equality " with the United States in terms of international prestige they will become amenable and ready to negotiate . But it is just as likely that the bold , brinkwalking mind of Nikita S. Khrushchev intends to reap every possible military , diplomatic , and psychological ad- vantage from the Soviet missile achievements . So far Mr. Khrushchev 's uncompromising interview with James ' Reston of the New York Times , the firing of the ICBM , the launching of the sputnik , and the.testing of a new-type hydrogen weapon are all being put to use in a Communist political and diplomatic offensive . If this offensive be further pressed and the United States remain a laggard in the missile race @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one thing the Soviet threat and pressure against nations which harbor Ameri- ' 11 Said : How 's the Weather Down There ? ' can overseas bases would mount . Turkey already has been pressured . The Turks are tough customers and unlikely to cave in . Some others might . The long-term prospect is that the United States would be increasingly less able to rely on overseas bases for its medium-range bombers ? or its medium-range missiles . Again , undecided nations , Mid particularly the Arab countries of the Middle East which have a remarkable respect for military power and guns , would be tempted to place their whole reliance on the Soviet Union as the tune-caller in an unstable world . Around the globe the Soviet system would gradually loom , to the undeveloped and the unaware , as the " wave of the future . " And right back inside the Soviet bloc the success of this Khrushchev policy of big weapons and big threat would have an unhappy impact . The freedom-seeking peoples of satellites like Poland and Hungary would see Soviet force newly triumphant ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Communist cage . And in Moscow itself the massive success of the Khrushchev policies would stifle any return to collective consultation , any institution of checks and balances , and any opposition to the rule of a single bold individual backed by the Army . Nothing would succeed like success . A A A This may be too somber a reading of the Soviet advantage . It may be that Washington , with a little less brusque rejection of Soviet feelers for a visit by Marshal Georgi K. Zhukov and a little more willingness to talk realistically , could find a new accommodation with Moscow , The United States still has its potent bases ringing the Soviet Union and the long-range bombers of the strategic air arm are by no means obsolete ? as yet . But the recent trend has seen the United States slipping steadily behind the Soviet Union in military power . To the shrewd observers in the Kremlin it must seem that the Eisenhower administration is bent on frittering away whatever advantages it has held , through successive budget cuts and only a mild sense of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ deterrence requires that Soviet long-range missiles be opposed by American long-range missiles . To many military men ? and many senators and diplomats ? there seems no way around the conclusion that the United States must recover its lost ground ? and fast .                     