@@718398

txt Letters to The Times HARRY B. CREWSON , Jr.A READER.RALPH T. FISHER , Jr.JOHN MILNE , M.D.E.J.H. Letters to The Times Act of Aggression The fact of the matter is that the action of these three nations in Egypt was a blatant act of aggression , and it was denounced as such by the United Nations and by world opinion . Your untenable defense of this aggression has forced The Times to forsake the United Nations as our last hope for world peace and international justice . Fortunately , the policy of the United States is still designed to work for these objectives through the United Nations organization . Our policy must continue to support the U. N. Charter , and this support requires that we condemn aggression whenever , wherever and by whomsoever it is perpetrated . The foreign policy which The Times has been advocating would , of course , destroy the United Nations organization . Further , the foreign policy as advocated by The Times would destroy the prestige of the United States in the underdeveloped countries of the world and would open the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and equal treatment in the community of nations are two-of the most important objectives of the peoples of the underdeveloped countries . Any action by the " great " powers in one underdeveloped country which is in conflict with the realization of these objectives is resented by all of these countries . And the bond among them is further strengthened by virtue of the fact that the peoples of the underdeveloped countries are non-white . Thus the attack on Egypt has been interpreted in these countries as another illustration of the white man 's contempt for and disregard of the legitimate aspirations of the supposedly " inferior " non-whites . Views on Egypt and Hungary The Times editorial page , by implication , has seemed to indicate that the bombing of brown-skinned Egyptian civilians in Port Said was less horrifying than the killing of white people in Hungary . Fortunately , the policy of the United States has rightly condemned both actions , and consequently we have not as yet forfeited our claim to moral leadership among the underdeveloped nations . I for one am strongly opposed to the relinquishment of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the leaders of Israel , France and England . The foreign policy advocated by The Times would willingly forfeit this leadership and so enable Russia not only to gain a foothold in the Middle East but to assume the role of benefactor to all the underdeveloped countries . I am greatly distressed by the fact that The Times has defended an act of aggression which has brought the world to the brink of war . And it is tragic that this great newspaper has recommended a foreign policy for the United States which , if implemented , would destroy the United Nations organization as well as the moral leadership of the United States throughout the underdeveloped countries of the world . HARRY B. CREWSON , Jr . Athens , Ohio , Nov. 26 , 1956 . To Simplify Buying Postal Cards To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YoRK TIMES : Why is n't there some easier way to buy postal cards ? Most of us live too far from a post office to go there without the loss of a good deal of time . Is n't it possible to sell @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in machines that would deliver them in small quantities at a charge of a penny or two ? A READER . New York , Dec. 2 , 1956 . Suspending Cultural Exchange To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Your issue of Dec. 4 reports that our Government , in protest against Soviet actions in Hungary , has suspended cultural exchange between the United States and- the Soviet Union . To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : The world is sick . A physician looks at the problem in the only manner he knows , humbly and in the terms of diagnosis and treatment . A form of therapy has been outlined , but the prescription lacks the most important component . This ingredient is potent , radical and not without risk . However , the situation calls for radical action . Fortunately the prescription has its own built-in safeguard : the desire of all peoples for peace . It is proposed that the United States offer to make available adequate nuclear weapons to the United Nations General Assembly to use at its discretion  --  with no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the haze surrounding inspection of atomic resources , test ? ing of weapons , and so on . It immediately puts the United States in the unique position of making a positive and significant contribto tion , and doing so with humtlit% The moral implications of this will reaffirm the United States position in the community of nations . This proposal gives teeth and stature to the United Nations in general and to the General Assembly 's police force specifically . It demonstrates that any nation , no matter how small , could defend itself and virtually be impregnable . Conversely , any nation , no matt how large , is doomed to failure an an aggressor . This plan does not mean immediately creating a United Nations stockpile nor does it mean we must give up all our weapons . We would hope that these weapons will never be used ; that their mere availability would suffice as a deterrent . Should a transgressor fail to comply after appropriate arbitration , he would know that he was alone against the world . Should the decision be to use this weapon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by one or two nations but by the rest of the world , One might well ask : Can the United States be expected to always act with complete propriety ? Yes , if the present and past are evidence , but we can not be certain of the future ; and herein is an important corollary . It would be expected that any other nation which ' has available , or which can produce , atomic weapons would also offer the same to the United Nations General Assembly for use against us should we be the transgressor . International law must apply equally to all nations . JOHN MILNE , M. D. Hanover , N. H. , Nov. 26 , 1956 . Our Middle East Policy Course Suggested Seen As Leading to Destruction of U. N. To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : To paraphrase an editorial in The Times Nov. 17 , " if ever there was a time for an ' agonizing reappraisal ' of American foreign policy , as advocated by The Times , this is it . " I submit the view that if @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The Times in recent weeks the United Nations would be destroyed , the moral leadership and prestige of the United States in the Middle East and in other underdeveloped countries would disintegrate , and Russian influence in those countries would gain immeasurably -- all of which , to The Times and to me , would be disastrous . The " moral revulsion " of The Times with regard to the use of Russian force in Hungary , quite properly reflects the opinions of the vast majority of Americans . However , The Times , unfortunately , has not been similarly revolted by the attack of Israel , France and England on Egypt , It seems to me that this advocacy of a double standard reflects only the views of a small but powerful minority in the United States . Your enumeration of provocations ( of which , incidentally , there were many on both sides ) and your attempts at rationalization of the attack on Egypt are completely irrelevant . standable . We are naturally aghast at Soviet brutality in Hungary . We are distressed at our own inability to affect the issue @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by . suspending cultural exchange . But is our response also rational ? Can we reasonably expect this measure to bring any improvement in the Soviet treatment of Hungary ? Can we logically expect to gain by helping the Soviet leaders to isolate their own populace from outside in-fluences ? Cultural exchange has its embarrassing aspects , to be sure , but we must weigh these coolly and ration .. ally against its long-term advantages . RALPH T. FISHER , Jr . New Haven , Conn. , Dec. 4 , 1956 . Plan for Nuclear Weapons They Should Be Made Available to the U. N. , It Is Felt To Shelter Homeless Dogs To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TimEs : It is appalling , especially with cold weather at hand , to witness hungry , homeless dogs wandering our streets . This despite the numerous appeals in the press to contact the American Society for Prevention of Cruelty to Animals if the animal is unwanted . No doubt the A. S. P. C. A. is doing what it can , but it is apparent assistance is needed . Why @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ departments , say one police squad car in each precinct , equipped with the necessary gear ? It is hoped that the authorities can further reduce this inhuman situation . E. J. H. New York , Nov. 27 , 1956.                     