@@716369

txt Britain 's foreign policy won emphatic national endorsement today and Foreign Secretary Anthony Eden , its molder and , chief advocate at the current talks in Washington , was hailed as Prime Minister Churchill 's political heir by another Conservative Cabinet minister . Harold Macmillan , Minister of Housing and Local Government , speaking in Sir Winston 's parliamentary constituency , became the first Conservative minister publicly to designate Mr. Eden as the Prime Minister 's " political heir . " Aneurin Bevan and . Clement R. Attlee , speaking for the left and right wings of the Labor party , and Mr. Macmillan and Viscount Woolton of the Conservatives pledged their support of British foreign policy as it was implemented by Mr. Eden at the Geneva conference on Far Eastern affairs . These endorsements emphasized the strength of the political support for Mr. Eden 's approach to foreign affairs in Britain and the gap existing between the national attitude here and that of the Administration in Washington . Foreign Office officials have been surprised at the vehement Washington criticism of Mr. Eden 's speech to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an arrangement in Southeast Asia akin to those of the Locarno treaty . The Locarno pact was a series of diplomatic instruments drawn up at Locarno in 1925 whereby Germany , Belgium , France , Britain and Italy mutually guaranteed the peace in Western . Europe and Germany undertook to arbitrate disputes with France , Belgium , Poland and Czechoslovakia . The sentences that offended Washington were : " I hope that we shall be able to agree to an international guarantee of any settlement that may emerge at Geneva . I also hope that it will be possible to agree on some system of Southeast Asia defense to guard against aggression . In other words , we could have a reciprocal arrangement in which both sides take part , such as Locarno . We could also have a defensive alliance such as NATO in Europe and , let me add , such as the existing Chinese - Soviet treaty provides for the Far East so far as the Communist powers are concerned . " Save for the Locarno reference , it is pointed out , Mr. Eden said nothing in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has developed at Geneva . The idea of an international guarantee of any agreement at Geneva that the Colombo conference powers , India , Pakistan , Burma , Ceylon and Indonesia , would sign , has been explained to the American delegation at the conference , it is pointed out , and the British can not understand the fuss now raised over it . Locarno may be a ghost , as an editorial in The Times of London suggests today , bat it is " an honest ghost . " It is remarked in the Foreign Office that Prime Minister Churchill 's reference to a new European Locarno in his speech of May 11 , 1953 did not arouse any comparable clamor in the United States . Misreading Is Asserted It is a misreading of Mr. Eden 's speech , officials hold , to equate this single reference to Locarno with a British belief that both the West and the Communist bloc are equally culpable in Indochina . " In its broadest sense Locarno was an attempt to stabilize a dangerous frontier , " The Times editorial declared . " In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Southeast Asia today . " There has been no official comment on the State Department 's complaint that it did not know the contents of Mr. Eden 's speech until he made it . Privately , officials point out that they have spent nearly a year trying to explain to Britons that they had no prior knowledge of the surprises produced by United States Secretary of State John Foster Dulles and other Administration leaders in their speeches . Mr. Bevan characterized the Geneva conference as " one of the most hopeful and buoyant confer-1 ences " since the war and asserted that it had promoted the prospects of peace " to a greater extent than . we have peen at any other international conference . " The leader of Labor 's left wing drew the characteristic conclusion that the progress toward peace resulted from the fact that " for the first time since 1951 Great Britain has been refusing to accept the lead of the United States in international affairs . " Mr. Attlee declared that Sir Winston and Mr. Eden had his good wishes and those of the Labor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ notable " for the fact that the Communist Chinese Government participated in it . Recognition of this Government is essential " to any real progress to peace in the East , " Mr. Attlee asserted in a Labor party broadcast to the nation . Conservative support for Prime Minister Churchill and Mr. Eden and British policy was just as warm and . slightly more specific . Sir Winston and Mr. Eden have gone to Washington " in search of peace , " Mr. Macmillan proclaimed . " Not appeasement , not surrender , not defeat , " the minister added , " but peace ' through strength based on loyalty and buttressed by the collective determination of the free world . " Lord Woolton , Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster and Minister of Materials , asserted in a speech at Beckenham that Britain must be thankful that her policy rested with men of " such experienced , clear and resolute minds " as Sir Winston and Mr. Eden .                     