@@719176

txt Secretary of State Dulles seemed to have taken a first step today toward repairing United States relations with Syria , The State Department 's press officer , Lincoln White , was asked for comment on a statement in New York yesterday b , y Salah el-Sitar , Foreign Minister of Syria , that he would be willing to discuss United States . Syrian problems with Mr. Dulles . Mr. White , who had seen Mr. Dulles this morning , was prepared . He replied that the Secretary had recently seen no fewer than fifteen foreign ministers in New York and Washington who had asked to see him . The ministers were in the United States for the opening of the United Nations General Assembly . " And the Secretary , " Mr. White continued , " would be glad to extend the same courtesy to the Syrian Foreign - Minister as he has to the others . " Welcome Is Restrained Thus , while Mr. Dulles was not exactly - putting out the welcome mat , he was letting it be known that he would be at home to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the United Nations that he had no comment on the Dulles suggestion for talks . In his original statement , he had indicated that the State Department would have to take the initiative . Mr. Dulles ' position seemed to represent a change of approach by the United States since Deputy Under Secretary Loy W. Henderson made a rush trip to the Middle East at the end of August to consult about Syria 's lurch toward the Soviet camp . Mr. Henderson spent several days in Beirut , Lebanon , which is only two and a half hours ' drive from Damascus . But lie did not respond to a statement by the Syrian Foreign Minister that he would be glad to see the State Department official . Now , the department 's press officer indicated , all ! Mr. elBitar would have to ? do to get an interview with the Secretary of State would be to ask for it . The time , Mr. White said , " would depend on the convenience of both parties . " Today 's development does not mewl that the State Department has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is that the Soviet Union has succeeded in penetrating ! Syria by means of military and economic aid and by maneuvering pro-Soviet officers into control of the Syrian Army , which dominates that country 's public life . Behind the surface of merely ; neutralist Pan-Arab nationalism , State Department officials see in Syria an ideal base for ! further pro-Soviet political machinations in the Middle East . Furthermore , they- beJieve that most responsible leaders in Lebanon , Jordan , Iraq and Saudi Arabia substantially agree with this judgment  --  in private . But ' most American officials dealing with the problem also now think that the manner in which the United States reacted to this situation , in word and deed , was a serious blunder . By this they mean Mr. Dulles ' original gesture in rushing Mr. Henderson to the scene and Mr. Henderson 's statement upon his return that the Syrian situation was " extremely serious " and a threat to the free world . They also meant the hints in State Department and White House statements that the Eisenhower Doctrine of military and economic aid @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of arms to Syria 's neighbor , ' Jordan . ! ? The combination of these moves appears to have plucked a chord especially discordant in Arab ears . ' Even the officials most friendly to the United States , in Lebanon and Syria . rallied to Syria 's defense . Syria did not menace her Arab neighbors , they publicly declared , The State Department was amazed . After thinking it over , some American experts on the Middle East now offer this explana-tion : ciThe Arabs . felt that the United States moves - were meant to push them into taking a position against the Syr- ! ian regime . After generations ! of being pushed around by foreign rulers they are hyper-sen-1 sitive to foreign pressure . cFurthermore , they resented ' the idea that they should take ! a position against a fellow Arab , state . This was aggravated by ' the dramatic : airlift of Unite 'd , States arms , to Jordan , which ! looked like direct intervention ! and overemphasis of . Jordan 's ' ' dependence on the United ! States @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ arms might be used , against a fellow Arab state . cwhile Arab leaders might , admit in , private that there was : good reason to be alarmed by what was happening in Syria. , their public utterances were ' governed by the sensitivities of Arab psychology . Mr. Dulles tempered the American position at his news ! conference Sept. 10 . Since then : all branches of the United States Government have largely kept quiet about Syria . This is the context in which the Syrian Foreign Minister yesterday said he would be glad to see Mr. Dulles and Mr. Dulles ; today said he would be glad to ; receive him .                     