@@719903

txt L. Judson Morhouse yesterday ? implied that Nelson A. Rockefeller was assured of the Republican nomination for Governor . The implication was contained in a call Mr. Morhouse issued as Republican state chairman for a meeting of the Republican state committee to elect a new chairman . The meeting was set for Aug. 24 , the eve of the state convention . ' Traditionally meetings of the state committee to elect a chairman are held immediately after the convention . This practice gives the candidate for Governor an , opportunity to make his choice known . Mr. Morhouse 's re-election as chairman is regarded as certain if Mr. Rockefeller is the candidate for Governor : But it is viewed as doubtful if either State Senator ? Walter J. Mahoney of Buffalo or Leonard W. Hall of Oyster Bay should be the choice .. The call provides for a meetAng of the state executive corn. - mittee in Rochester on Sunday , to be followed the same day by a meeting of the full state committee . The convention opens in Rochester on Monday : - . Aug. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ told a luncheon meet --  ; ing of the New York Young Republican Club at Schwartz ' restaurant , 15 Broad Street , yesterday that he regarded the convention as " wide open . " The . choice of a candidate for Gov-. - governor , he continued , would be . decided by delegations that have taken no position as yeti . . Mr. Hall predicted that GO* governor Harriman 's failure make New York State More . attractive for business would be a key issue in the campaign . He quoted an executive of a large New York company as saying that New York was now forty-seventh on a company list of areas for possible expansion . Only Rhode Island was below it , he added . Failure Laid to Harriman Mr. Hall attributed this condition to Mr. Harriman 's failure to employ all the weapons at his command in combating crime and to his subservience to a few labor leaders and the Liberal party . A special meeting of Nassau County delegates and alternates to the convention was held yesterday afternoon in Mineola . The meeting reaffirmed its support @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ county leader , as chairman of the delegation . Brooklyn , which will send the second largest delegation to the Republican convention , may take a stand on a candidate for Governor next week . A reorganization meeting of the county committee has been called for Thursday at the St. George Hotel . It is usual for such meetings to instruct the delegates . John R. Crews , the county leader , had pledged Brooklyn 's support to Assembly Speaker Oswald D. Heck at a time when it appeared that Mr. Heck might become an active candidate . So far Mr. Heck has not done so . Subsequently , Mr. Crews listed Mr. Hall as his second preference and Mr. Rockefeller as his third . A reorganization of the Queens County committee is also scheduled for next week . It is expected to reaffirm its support for former Borough President James A. Lundy , a favorite son . Queens will have the largest delegation at the convention . Mr. Rockefeller 's apparent lead is causing some Republicans to turn their attention to possible Senate candidates . Senator Mahoney is regarded by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for Governor . His upstate residence , Irish Catholic background and conservatism are regarded as furnishing a natural balance to Mr. Rockefeller , a Protestant liberal from Westchester County .                     