@@717495

txt This is being written on S-Day ( the day Adlai Stevenson says officially what everyone knows lie has decided to say for many weeks ) . It seems appropriate to take stock of the political situation in the United States one year before its voters decide whether to continue or change their management . The most immediately prominent and conditioning factor , I submit , is that the Democrats know that their most likely potential candidates arc all thoroughly available and the Republicans do n't . Among the Democrats the likely candidates are Mr. Stevenson . Averell Harriman , and Estes Kefauver . Which among these three will be in the front next summer when the party meets in convention is , of course , an imponderable to be determined by events . But there is no problem of availability to be overcome : it is merely a question of party choice . The reverse situation prevails among the Republicans . They have five prominently possible candidates , but of these the two strongest ones may well not be available  --  Dwight Eisenhower and Earl Warren . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ entirely upon what happens to the two men who may not be available . That . in turn , will determine the type of campaign the Republicans will run and perhaps the ultimate outcome of the election . It is. of course , self-evident that the Republicans will take Mr. Eisenhower if they can get him . That has been clear ever since the party took the back seat in the 1954 mid-term elections , and even more clear after its local components failed to demonstrate unusual popular vote appeal in the local elections last week . The party obviously needs a very popular candidate to compensate for its own shortages in this area . It would appear now to be equally self-:evident that if Mr. Eisenhower decides that he is not . available the party will then turn to Chief . Justice Warren , The reason would be the same . Mr. Warren , like Mr. Eisenhower , possesses a proved ability to appeal to voters outside the ranks of the regulars of the party . If the party does not appeal to independents and Democrats , and if it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ then it needsa candidate with the broader appeal . But Mr. Warren has said in public that he is not available , and has fortified this in innumerable private conversations in which lie has asDon St. Louis Globe-Democrat ' Who Else Could Wear That Size ? sorted the theory that a chief justice of the Supreme Court should never step down from the bench to reenter politics . The fact that it never has been done strengthens the argument . ( Charles Evans Hughes was an associate justice . not the chief justice , when he reentered politics . ) Among Republicans who consider Mr. Warren to be their obvious second choice there are two theories about how his asserted nonavailability could be overcome . One theory is that Mr. Eisenhower , the man who put him on the bench , could with propriety ask him to give it up and take over the leadership of the party . The theory goes on that Mr. Warren would find it difficult , indeed almost impossible , to refuse such a request from such a source . But it is not . by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be the agency for such exer- Lion of pressure upon a man who regards the suggested course of action as being improper . that event the other theory conies into play . It is that the Republican Party simply could nominate Mr. Warren , without his prior consent , and present him with an accomplished fact . This , too , never has been done in United States political history . One can only speculate on the results . The party would be taking a chance on being repudiated and on haying to choose another man . Although responsible politicians have talked about this course of action . it seems implausible that the party as a whole would go through with ' it . In the Republican Party , therefore , much depends on Mr. Eisenhower himself . He can make himself the candidate . Possibly he . and he alone , could make Mr. Warren the candidate . If he chooses to do neither , the list is exhausted of well-known Republicans with proved ability to appeal widely to independents and Democrats . What happens then if Mr. Eisenhower @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ himself or the other candidate most nearly like himself in popular vote appeal ? The question is the key to Democratic hopes . The Democrats are banking on a belief that Mr. Eisenhower will leave the Republicans with their demonstrably , available candidates  --  Richard Nixon , Thomas Dewey or Harold Stassen  --  and with the necessity of appealing primarily to avowed Republicans . This theory of the Democrats could break clown at a number of points . Mr. Eisenhower might surprise them . If he did n't , the Republicans might take one of their several young governors who have learned how to appeal to independents and Democrats . The only sure thing , as sure as anything can be in politics , is that Mr. Eisenhower himself the most important X factor in the equation .                     