@@713384

txt Brier experience with voluntary controls have convinced officials that production controls are best administered through regulations backed up by industry cooperation , Charles Sawyer , Secretary of Cqnunerce , told a news conference here today . Mr. Sawyer , an advocate of close cooperation with business in the defense effort , Said that the National Production Authority agency within his department would rely chiefly on mandatory orders because voluntary compacts " just wo n't work " in most cases . Mr. Sawyer said that the full impact of defense program requirements probably would not be felt by civilians until mid-spring or perhaps early summer . He said that the armed services and other priority claimants for scarce materials were endeavoring to give the N. P. A. an accurate idea of their ultimate requirements but that all forecasts were necessarily subject to revision . Mandatory Controls of Two Types Mandatory controls to date have been of two types . The production authority has issued orders calling upon producers of such strategic materials as building supplies and teel to allocate certain percentages for defense output , while certain non-essential @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ types so far ptit , in effect is the rubber regulation- designed to cut back Manufacturers ' use of raw rubber to amounts not greater than the average monthly consumption for the year ending last June 30 . Aluminum and copper regulations following this pattern are in prospect . Labor will be represented in both advisory ' and operating capacity in the National Production Authority , Secretary Sawyer also said . He added that it was necessary to give labor opportunity to express its , views on all orders . The Secretary said that all branches of the Government were in agreement that curtailment of civilian goods to make way for de- fense production should lie so timed as to cause the least disruption to the economy . Spokesmen for industry have recently expressed the fear that the cut-back orders emanating from N. P. A. would come in advance of defense orders and force many plants to close down part of their production facilities . A steel expansion.program which will see the nation 's steelmaking capacity up to 120,000,000 tons annually by the end of 1954 is en- ' visaged by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ supplies of , manganese should be solved by that time . According to Secretary Sawyer 's estimates the steel industry 's plant expansion program , now in hand , should produce more than the presently scheduled increase of 9,500 , - 000 tons by the . end of 1952 . Current production is in the neighborhood of 100,000,000 tons . The N. P. ' A. delayed again today the issuance of an order'which would cut back aluminum ? consumption for civilian , goods by 25 to 35 per cent . According to reports here tonight the order has been held back for - re- examination in the light of sharp protests filed with the production agency by producers of aluminum products and by workers in the industry . Similar delays have marked consideration of a copper conservation order which the N. P. A. had.scheduled for issuance early this week . In ms statement that labor would have representation in the National Production Authority so that it might cooperate in the determination of policies , Mr. Sawyer told newsmen  --  after a confer .. ence with top labor officials-ghat he agreed that labor should @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cutback ' orders before they were issued. , - This announcement grew out of Mr. Sawyer 's meeting today with William Green , ' president- of the American Federation of Labor , and Walter P. Reuther , president of the C. I. 0 . United Automobile Workers . It was . a frank conference , in which everybody expressed himself freely . It lasted nearly three hours . William Henry Harrison , administrator of the N. P. A. , was present . Mr. Green was accompanied by Harry O'Reilly , A. F. L. Director of Organization . Donald ' Montgomery , chief of the Auto ' Workers Research Section , attended . Under-Secretary of Labor Michael J. Galvin represented Secretary- of Labor Tobin . ' Both Mr. Green and Mr. Reuther told the Commerce Secretary and Administrator Harrison that labor was directly affected by curtailment orders . Mr. Reuther described ' his experience in World War II when labor was instrumental in ridding defense plants of bottlenecks to production . This could be repeated on the plant leVel , he said , ' provided labor ' were consulted ' in good @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ review of labor's. role ' in the defense production organization generally , and . specifically for ' the purpose of bringing to a head . labor 's 1 . desire ' for representation which had been planned ' when the N : P. A*. was created . Secretary Sawyer told reporters that two offices for labor had been originally planned , an Office of Labor Production and an Office of Manpower Requirements . As a result of today 's meeting , . he said that they , would . be ' combined-under another ** ? ' - The Secretary stressed that " top level " labor representation . would be provided for labor . in both ' an advisory and an operating capacity . 