@@720959

txt The payola investigation is snowballing into sensational proportions . Not only disc jockeys , but station managers . program directors , and others high up in the industry are said to be involved in questionable promotion schemes and even kickbacks , according to reports reaching the House legislative oversight subcommittee . These reports will form the basis of a new series of hearings by the subcommittee , under the chairmanship of Representative Oren Harris ( D ) of Arkansas early next year . It is an investigation which is bound to have a direct effect , not only on the industry and its practices . but on the relationship of the Federal Communications Commission to the industry . Censorship Shunned For the charges not only involve rackets which have grown ' up within the industry , but the question of official responsibility . The FCC always has maintained it has no authority to exercise censorship . It is being ! told  --  in hearings which the com- I mission itself is now conducting ; ? that while it may he restrained from censorship , it has an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ objective of the Harris subcommittee was to check up on the so-called reguatory agencies , such as the FCC. the Federal Trade Commission , and others . Its way of checking up was to investigate the relationship of these agencies to the industries which they are responsible for regulating . The FCC has been under the investigative heat for some time ? going back to the inquiry into pressures on the committee for favoritism in the allotment of television channels . Indictment Recalled As a result of this inquiry , one FCC commissioner . Richard A. Mack , was indicted by a federal grand jury on charges of con- ! miring to defraud the government . Under these circumstances , the upcoming hearings take on particular significance . If members of the industry have become involved in shady rackets ? kickbacks , payoffs , rigged interviews  --  the role of the FCC in preventing such activities in the past and in the future will be a key subject of the inquiry . If the authority of the FCC is not specific enough at present to deal with such situations , there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the law . Robert W. Lishman , subcommittee counsel , has mapped out a course of investigation based on countrywide inquiries into payola scandals  --  ranging from Baltimore to Hollywood , from Seattle to Birmingham . Payoffs Reported During the course of this inquiry , Mr. Lishman has been told that in some cases checks have been made out to juvenile performers which they were instructed to ' cash and return to station personnel . Mr. Lishman 's memorandum to the subcommittee states that " key personnel " in some stations " have long , serious , criminal records . " There are also complaints , he told the subcommittee , that record manufacturers sometimes have required talent to sign away all his royalty rights ? before the record will be manufactured and then made available to the public through disc jockeys . " The inquiry has turned up charges involving men at the top of the recording industry . These are the men who decide what is to be recorded . It is alleged that some of them " are receiving payola in sums far exceeding those paid to disc @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ through , it also may go into the allegation of rigged interviews , purporting to be spontaneous , but deliberately designed to defame or smear . These , it is implied , are a device employed in election campaigns . The charge is that some station owners permit the use of their broadcasting facilities " in systematic vilification of persons and companies . " The payola involved in these varied practices may be in the form of fictitious loans , mortgages , or consulting fees . The FCC , conducting its own exploration into payola has called upon every station to submit a sworn statement with regard to its practices in that field . Witnesses Outspoken Meanwhile , it is holding open hearings to determine what authority , if any , it has over station programs . Witnesses before the commission have been unusually outspoken . One witness , Prof. Elmer E. Smead of Dartmouth College , told the commissioners they not only had the legal authority to regulate radio and television programing but a legal mandate which left them no choice but to do so . " I am convinced @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can not avoid the regulation of programing . You have no choice . " The commission has contended that such regulation approaches " censorship , " which it is prohibited from exercising 