@@717355

txt The United States refused today to discuss the possibility of a foreign ministers ' meeting with Communist China until Peiping had fulfilled its promise to release forty-one Americans . Ambassador U. Alexis Johnson made clear in Geneva , and the State Department repeated in Washington , that talk of a conference between Secretary of State Dulles and Chou En-lai , China 's Premier and Foreign Minister , was " premature " at this stage . Henry Suydam , department press officer , said it was a " fair implication " that the United States would refuse to discuss with the Chinese at Geneva not only the possibility of a conference at a higher level but all other substantive questions until the United States civilians held for years in China were returned . The proposal for a DullesChou meeting was made ify Wang Ping-nan , Communist China 's Ambassador to Poland , who has been negotiating with Ambassador Johnson at Geneva for the last six weeks . Peiping agreed last Saturday to free all forty-one United States civilians . Washington in turn reaffirmed the right of any Chinese @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mainland . So far , none of the Americans has come out of China . Ambassador Johnson indicated that until they had been allowed to leave the United States would not consider that the first item of the agenda of the Geneva talks  --  return of civilians  --  had been disposed of . The Communists are eager to get on with the next item on the agenda ? " other practical matters " in dispute between the two governments . This carry-all heading may cover the easing of the United Nations embargo on shipments of strategic , materials to Communist China , Peiping 's recognition and ultimate admission to the United Nations or any other problem either side would like to raise . Ambassador Johnson told the Chinese negotiator that " only full implementation of the agreed announcement can resolve the problem of the return of American civilians , " " The faithful carrying out of the terms of the announcement , " he added , " should be the continued task of the Geneva meetings and should provide a basis for proceeding to the discussion of other practical matters at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said in recent weeks that they do not exclude the possibility of an eventual foreign ministers ' meeting with Communist China . Meanwhile , Richard G. Casey , Australian Minister of External Affairs , said that Communist China would have to give more evidence that it was " mending its ways " before Australia would support its admission to the United Nations . Although Australia considers the time has come to move toward universalization of United Nations membership , he said his Government would not yet include Peiping . " We still lack a definite statement from Peiping that it has renounced the use of force , " Mr. Casey said . , Under the circumstances , he said , he would not be surprised if the United Nations General Assembly postponed the consideration of Communist China 's admission for another year . The Australian Minister is in the United States to attend the opening of the General Assembly in New York next Tuesday and the annual meeting of the Anzus Council here on Sept. 24 . Yesterday and today he conferred with officials of the State and Defense Departments and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                