@@717733

txt There are at least four ways of looking at the United States Indian Bureau 's relopation program . One is from the reservation standpoint . It makes the program look extremely desirable . One is from the big-city standpoint . It measures the program 's undoubted current successes against incidental difficulties , some of which are acute , even tragic , in their human implications . Another is from the position that relocation is helping America 's Indians toward greater self-sufficiency . Secretary of the Interior Douglas emphasizes this position when he says , " Nobody is any good as a ward of the government . " The fourth is the Indian viewpoint . Doubtless it is first in importance , but it is the hardest to ascertain . The Indian viewpoint is as diverse as the Indian himself . Reservation Indians in this country number some 400,000 . One thing is clear . On almost any of the nation 's 300 reservations , it is certain that many Indians think there must be more opportunity somewhere else . This , basically , is why the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ do so . Take Window Rock in northeastern Arizona , windswept headquarters of the Navajo Tribe . Any visitor is bound to sense the rigors of making a living on the raw , defiant , magnificent land that stretches to mountains and beyond any way he looks . Or watch the unprosperous- looking Navajos on the streets of nearby Gant . N.M . White man 's enterprise has made this a prospering railroad center , but it is obvious the opportunity for Indians from the adjacent reservation country are meager  --  far too few for real encouragement . Los Angeles , by contrast , fairly beckons . Los Angeles is one of the four city areas where the Indian Bureau is operating placement field offices , the others being Chicago , Denver , and San Francisco-Oakland . An Indian can find work in Los Angeles easily . He can trade in any store , eat in any restaurant , live anywhere , He can send his children to good schools . If he wants to , he can find many of his own people . Los Angeles has a substantial established @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it the main relocation center . It is n't always easy for an Indian family% to get established here , but compared with a Kogan near Gallup , even a rundown Los Angeles bungalow for $60 a month looks luxurious  --  and many reservation Indians have been able to move into much better quarters than that . One thing is sure . The Los Angeles Indian Bureau field office , in charge of Mrs. Mary Nan Gamble , is obviously keyed to a voluntary approach . Mrs. Gamble 's entire operation bespeaks an Indian Bureau policy in line with Mr. 's furthoc statement , " We believe in freedom of movement and free dom of choice for the Indian people . " They are coming here  --  Crows , Navajos , Sioux , Papagos , and other tribesmen ? at the rate of 200 a month . But just two-thirds are coming , Mrs. Gamble says , under the auspices of relocation planning . A good one-third are surprises . She calls them " drop-ins . " Whether relocation works hardships on Indians is another question . Critics refer to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could tell you sadder stories than anyone else . " But she also can tell stories of successes , one right after the other . It is amazing , she adds , to consider what great transitions Indians are accomplishing in moving suddenly from mud huts and hogans and communal societies to the sophistication of Los Angeles . Involved , she comments , are adjustments almost inconceivable to white people . " Sure , they have troubles , " she admits . " But they square away after a while or learn a real good lesson  --  and become good citizens . "                     