@@713870

txt Chief City Magistrate John M. Murtagh was placed under arrest yesterday in Kings County Court after District Attorney Miles F. charged him with " neglect of duty " while he was Commissioner of Investigation during the O'Dwyer administration . The charge was contained in an information filed by the Brooklyn prosecutor before Judge Samuel S. Leibowitz . It accused the Chief Magistrate of " willfully and unlawfully " neglecting to report to the then Mayor William O'Dwyer the results of an investigation of the Police Department he had conducted . In the unusual proceeding , Judge Leibowitz , sitting as a committing magistrate , paroled Mr. Murtagh in the custody of his attorney , Lloyd Paul Stryker , for a hearing May 28 , after counsel agreed to waive the technicalities of a formal arrest . The complaint against the youthful Chief Magistrate ? he is 40 years old  --  listed seventeen purported instances where examiners of the Department of Investigation uncovered evidence of widespread corruption among plainclothes men of high and low rank . Yet , according to the information , " the record does @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , was made by the defendant . " Copy to Deputy Mayor 's Aide Later in the day , Solomon Klein , administrative assistant to Deputy Mayor Charles Horowitz , called at the District Attorney 's office and obtained a copy of the information . At City Hall , Mayor Impellitteri announced that he would " immediately " look into the charge , but declined to indicate what action , if any , he would take . " I want to familiarize myself on exactly what happened in Brooklyn before making any comment , " he said . He then explained that magistrates are appointed by the Mayor but , under the law , could be removed only by the Appellate Division . Asked whether he had the power to recommend the suspension of a Chief Magistrate , he replied : " That is what I want to look into . " " Would it not be unusual for a magistrate to continue serving under those conditions ? " he was asked . " I will look into that immediately , " he answered . " I want to study the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ curbstone opinion . " Talked With Chief Magistrate Later , the Mayor said that he had talked with the Chief Magistrate over the telephone and had asked him to take a leave of absence , but that Mr. Murtagh had told him that " after mature reflection " he had decided not to sit as a magistrate , but would continue to perform the administrative duties of his office . A similar statement was issued by Mr. Stryker from his office . In offering the information to the court , Mr. said that on April 13 , his office , under the supervision of Assistant District Attorney Julius Helfand , who is directing the borough 's gambling inquiry , and Aaron E. Koota , a special assistant , had inquired into an investigation previously carried out by the city agency into those members of the Police Department charged with the suppression of gambling and vice . . " As a result , I have concluded that , in the intgrest of public justice and welfare , it is morally incumbent upon me as District Attorney of the county to institute @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ requested Judge Leib- owitz to preside as a magistrate and asked that in ' " justice " to the chief magistrate a hearing be held that would afford the defendant an opportunity to " openly confront the witnesses against him , to crossexamine them and present any necessary evidence he might desire without any restrictions . " Mr. Murtagh , who had been advised Thursday night by Mr. Koota by telephone to present himself in court yesterday morning , was obviously disturbed by the charge . Called to the bench by Judge Leibowitz , Mr. Murtagh stood by nervously entwining his fingers behind his back while Mr. Stryker did the talking . A fifteen-minute recess was called after Mr. Stryker waived the reading of the information in open court and asked for time to " read it myself . " Will Question the Legality At the resumption of the proceeding , Mr. Stryker asked for an Iadjournament until May 28 , when , he said , he would make a series of legal motions , including one questioning the legality of the action . " Whatever charge made here or elsewhere @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " He will plead not guilty in any case in any court . " Possible court action against Mr. Murtagh would follow the line fixed in Magistrates ' Court . The defendant would get an opportunity to plead . Should he decline Mr. 's offer of an open hearing he could waive examination . The District Attorney 's office would then either file an information and bring Mr. Murtagh into the Court of Special Sessions for trial or present its evidence before the grand jury in a move for an indictment . The latter action would move the trial into County Court before a jury . Should the present proceeding lead to a trial and conviction , Mr. Murtagh would be subject to a year 's imprisonment and/or a fine of $500 . The charge is a misdemeanor . Basis of the Allegation Mr. 's complaint alleges that the defendant " failed and neglected reasonably " to follow through with investigations into the financial status of police officers " although preliminary reports indicated the necessity therefor . " He further complained that " in numerous instances " reports @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and incompetence " on the part of high-ranking officers were currently missing from the files of the Department of Investigation . However , Mr. added , " copies of some of the missing reports " were procured from other sources . The excerpts of examiners ' reports listed in the information cover an investigation ordered by Mr. O'Dwyer on Aug. 26 , 1946 , and was for the purpose of determining whether plainclothes squads were accepting graft from gamblers and bookmakers . The data offered by Mr. indicated that Mr. Murtagh was apprised of pay-offs , stand-in arrests , collusion among the policemen to establish arrest records , inefficiency among the higher echelon of the department and corruption all along the line . According to these reports , a bookmaker , when starting his operations , gets into contact with either a plainclothes man from the division in the area in which he plans to operate or one of the policemen in a city-wide squad . Arrangements are then made to pay a stipulated amount " to members of the Police Commissioner 's plainclothes squad , the Chief Inspector @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ division office . In some of the commands , the information pointed out , the members , including the commanding supervising officers , made no " concentrated " effort to gather evidence against the " bigshot bookmaker or the man behind the rackets . " The information pointed out that plainclothes units have the same personnel over a period of years even though the division commander may be shifted by a change in administration . " The reason for this is that the members of said squad all become co-conspirators and are acquainted with the activity of his commander and would be in , a position to give very damaging testimony against his superiors in the event that he were dropped for any trivial infraction of the rules , " the complaint said . Close Friend of the Envoy Mr. Murtagh , a close friend of Mr. O'Dwyer , now Ambassador to Mexico , became the target of 3rooklyn 's racket - investigating grand jury soon after the former chief executive made his last appearance before the panel in March . The chief magistrate was among a number of present and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In the course of three appearances before the panel , Mr. Murtagh admitted that he had never reported the results of his investigation to Mr. O'Dwyer . Then , during one of hic appearances , he told reporters that the District Attorneys of the five counties had been " derelict " in their duties because they did not pursue investigations started by the Department of Investigation . He later apologized for this remark in open court at the behest of Judge Leibowitz when it was pointed out that Mr. Murtagh 's information concerned minor cases of vice . On April 13 , Mr. Helfand brow lit to Judge Leibowitz ' attention two reports taken from the department 's files which showed that no disciplinary action had been taken against two plainclothes men who had admitted corrupt practices in the discharge of their duties . Judge Leibowitz then called for an inquiry into the department under Mr. Murtagh and impounded the records of the agency . Since then Mr. 's staff has been studying the official records , documents and other papers seized . " Totally Innocent , " Lawyer Says @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ court proceeding , the attorney said that his client was " totally and completely innocent of the charges and implications . " " We seem to be living in times of great excitement , " Mr. Stryker continued . " I might say almost of hysteria . And while , no doubt , there are some persons always ready to believe a charge as soon as it is made , I have confidence that the great mass of the people will not pre-judge this fine public servant and will hold an open mind . " Mr. Murtagh became active in city affairs in 1938 when he was appointed an assistant Attorney General in the Kings County bribery investigation conducted by John Harlan Amen . In 1940 , after this investigation , he was named a special assistant in the Anti-Trust Division of the United States Department of Justice . During the last war he was an aide to Mr. O'Dwyer , who was a brigadier general in the Air Force . When Mr. O'Dwyer took office as Mayor Jan. 1 , 1946 , he appointed Mr. Murtagh to head the Department @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Murtagh was named Chief Magistrate by Mr. O'Dwyer . Mr. Murtagh is married and has a 3-year-old daughter .                     