@@714784

txt CONVENTION BUILDING in Chicago , July ** protests from the women and the South , the Republican Convention ' voted today to give a National Committee seat to state chairmen whose states voted predominantly Republican . As a battle of the sexes , it was rather one-sided . The women made the speeches and the men got the votes . One woman protested that the rule would " make women for the Democrats . " The decision came on the adoption of rules to govern the party for the next four years . Several other changes in the rules also were made . Under the old rule , each state , territorial possession and the District of Columbia had two National Committee members , one man and one woman . Under the new rule , a bonus seat with full voting rights will go to the states that at the preceding election cast a majority of their votes for the Republican Presidential nominee ; or elect a . Republican Governor , or choose a majority of Republicans for the state 's seats in Congress , Senate and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ territory , that has a Republican delegate in Congress . To Add 26 Members The National Committee will add at least twenty-six new members to its 106 total now , and possibly a few more , because the Republicans have twenty-five governors and the delegate from Hawaii . The occupant of the bonus seat will be the state chairman , commonly a man . Thus the balance of the sexes will be upset . Obviously , too , few if any Southern states will be able to qualify for the bonus seat . But the Southern men let their women wage the battle against the rule . Mrs. John E. Messervy of South Carolina cried that this was " a proposal to stack the cards against us , and with a marked deck at that . " " For too long we Southern states have been treated as stepchildren at family reunions , " she continued . " We hope for sympathy and understanding and not discrimination . " Mrs. Beryl Meyers of Idaho de1 claimed : " Hear ye , hear ye , hear ye , ladies of this convention @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " Mrs. Meyers had little chance to overcome the din of convention disorder . Many delegates did not know what was going on , as requests for explanations on the vote indicated later . Copies of the // proposed rules changes were not available until after the decision was made , Nevertheless , Mrs. Meyers went on : " Women do like an equality of consideration . We want to stand With you shoulder to shoulder . We do n't want to be heaved between you from shoulder to shoulder . " Mrs. Katharine Murdock of Pennsylvania , who led off the women 's fight to kill the bonus seat proposal , persuaded her own delegation of the righteousness of her cause , for Pennsylvania 's seventy votes were cast against the ful report of the rules committee . Owen Cleary , Michigan chairman , " sold " ' - the bonus seat idea to the rules committee on Tuesday . ' He said it would provide an incentive to state organizations to work harder in campaigns . When the motion to strike out the bonus seat proposal was put to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the confusion it could not muster the necessary support , which means five other states . So a voice vote was taken ? then another , because the chair man could n't figure out the first one  --  and the women were outshouted . On the question of accepting the full report of the Rules Committee , ' Florida asked for a roll call . Bye that time the opposition was bet-1 ter organized but the committee ' was upheld , 683 to 513 . No Taft-Eisenhower pattern was ' discernible in the balloting . The ; South was virtually solid against the committee . So was Illinois.i New York and Wisconsin were1 ' solidly " Yes . " Ohio and Rhode Island divided their votes evenly . Massachusetts voted 23 to 15 in favor of the bonus seat . Rules on Primaries Changed The new rules , with a view to , restricting Republican primaries rto Republicans as far as possible , ' provided that the governing Republican committee of each state and territory should have the authority to prescribe qualifications of voters not inconsistent with law or with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rule , the national chairman may , and if requested by a majority vote of the National Committee , shall appoint an advisory committee composed of stater chairmen , members of Congress and others . The rules for handling contests , over convention delegates were , ' clarified , Under these clarifications , at the time of appointing a convention arrangements committee , the national chairman shall appoint a contest committee of seven . The committee , on the basis of briefs submitted by the contestants , is to file a report with the National Committee on each contest , ending with a statement of the issues , both fact and law . A copy of the report also goes to the contestants , who may ask for a hearing before the contest committee and may appeal a decision by that group to the National Committee . Only contests affecting delegates elected at large , including district delegates if they are merely recommended by their districts and elected at a state-wide convention , shall be decided by the National Committee . An exception is that if the contest regarding a district @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the state committee or convention , the National Committee may take jurisdiction . The rules also include the " fair play " ' amendment adopted by the convention Monday night in the first test of strength between the Taft and Eisenhower forces . This provides that no delegate whose , right to be seated is contested , except those approved by two-thirds of the National Committee , shall be entitled to vote in the conven-1 Lion or a committee on their own or any other contests until by 1 vote of  --  the convention the contest ' has been finally decided . A Congressional district , to be ' eligible for a delegate to the National Convention , will have to record 2,000 or more Republican votes in the preceding election . The minimum in the old rules was 1,000.                     