@@717026

txt 22 ? So far the Bandung conference seems to have helped our cause in Africa and Asia more than we had expected . It has not proved the anticipated boon to Communist propaganda . And the issue of colonialism which friends of the Soviet Union had hoped to exploit has now been thrown back in their faces . It is comforting that the laaders of former colonies should recognize the dangers of Eastein as well as Western imperialism . When Bandung was first conceived there was much foreboding . It was feared rabble rousing on the racial issue might develop a form of Monroe Doctrine for Africa and Asia aimed at the United States and its European allies . Pan-Asian sentiments promoted by Japan during World War II had been founded largely upon a racist spirit which remains powerful . In advance of the conference questions of color and blood had been tied to other issues expected to arise . Communist propaganda had convinced many Asians , for example , that the United States used the atom bomb against Japan because it was a non-white country ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Asian war . An Asian Viewpoint On the eve of Bandung men like K. M. Pannikar , an Indian diplomat , were pointing out that the principle known in South Africa as apartheid I was directed as much against Asians as against Africans , and adding that in a nu'clear conflict " the nations of Asia and Africa are altogether helpless ; these countries see themselves threatened with annihilation in a war which they do not consider their own . " Our friends at the world 's first assembly of African and Asian statesmen have proved more numerous and more stanch than predicted . But underlying issues must yet be faced . The meeting is not truly regional . Australia and New Zealand are , for example , more intimately concerned with its problems than is the Gold Coast . Nationalist China , the two Koreas , Israel and South Africa have been excluded . Sir John Kotelawala of Ceylon says of South Africa : " I ca n't go there . Why in the devil should I invite them ? " The issue that links the Bandung Powers psychologically is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The notion of white supremacy is not dead among Westerners in Africa and Asia . Hatred and suspicion of such an attitude are vigorously alive on both continents . Communism has taken advantage of this sensitive situation . Its propaganda seeks to describe a United States that has assumed the mantle of colonialism and encourages racial discrimination . The Psychological Revolution Unfortunately , this kind of propaganda has considerable success . The revolutions now taking place in both Asia and Africa are psychological as well as political . New nations seek recognition of their pride and self-respect . And their intellectuals talk openly of ugly incidents that have occurred in the United States to people who do not have a fair skin . Some years ago the State Department began bringing selected foreigners to America on free tours . The idea was to demonstrate our way of life and build friendships among coming generations in distant lands . Unfortunately , many visitors have suffered embarrassment when faced abruptly with our race problem . Some , their pride hurt , have returned home distressed and convinced that we are at least " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Communist contentions . We have not done a forthright job in meeting the issue squarely . We have not explained adequately just what we have achieved in overcoming archaic prejudices or that the Executive branch of our Government actually takes the lead in trying to erase the stain of discrimination . An American Prescription Willand Savoy , an American Negro , wrote some time ago in The Reporter : " Many of our friends in Asia are confused by our failure to meet communism 's race-color Hate-America campaign face to face . They are unable to defend us against Communist charges and their confusion prevents Asians from thinking of us in terms of the freedom and better way of life that are Asia 's objectives . Asia 's revolution demands that the physical needs of its people be met and that their hunger for human dignity be satisfied . If we are to win the enduring allegiance of Asia 's nations , we must help them find answers to both of these demands . We must tackle their doubts about us with the same realism that we are tackling their diseases @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ our self-improvement on this embarrassing issue . That is a paramount necessity ; it is intolerable that anyone could mention our democracy in the same sentence as South Africa 's . Another is by giving encouragement to Negro leaders such as Representative Powell , who appears to have fought some successful battles for the United States in Bandung . ' And another is by dealing more frankly with the problem in our propaganda overseas                     