@@718532

txt After taking time ' out for the Presidential Inauguration Congress has resumed hearings on the Eisenhower Doctrine fen- the defense of the Middle East in a somewhat changed atmosphere . The change has been brought about by the impact of three recent events . The first of these is the President 's own Inaugural address , which wrote finis to the last vestiges of isolationism as no longer tenable in a world that involves us deeply in the destiny of men everywhere . The second event is the pledge of full support to the Eisenhower Doctrine by the four most important Middle Eastern nations  --  Turkey , Iran , Iraq and Pakistan , which together constitute the " northern tier " of free world defense against communism , organized under the Baghdad Pact . These nations , being most directly exposed to the Communist menace , in effect plead for the program " as it stands " as " best designed to maintain peace in the area and advance the economic well-being of the peoples . " What is more , they raise powerful voices of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ himself the spokesman of that area and to construct an opposing " southern tier " based on defeated Egypt , shaky Syria , tottering Jordan and reluctant Saudi Arabia , all dancing to the Soviet tune . Finally there is the joint declaration by Soviet Russia and Communist China denouncing the Eisenhower . Doctrine as interference with their designs on the Middle East and pledging themselves to " continue " giving " the necessary support " to their dupes . This support , expressed in armament deliveries and propaganda , began long before the Eisenhower Doctrine was proposed and this doctrine is the answer and the challenge to it which we dare not shirk . It must be hoped , therefore , that Congress will endorse the Eisenhower program as speedily as , possible and with as close an approach to unanimity as it achieved in approving the joint resolution regarding the defense of Taiwan . It may even be hoped that during his conferences with President Eisenhower King Saud will acquire a true view of this program and help to stem Communist penetration into the " southern tier . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ affirmed by the Baghdad powers , . we , seek neither to create spheres of influence nor to enslave people ; we do not even seek military alliances with nations averse to them . We seek only to assure the independence and sovereignty of all nations because only in a climate of freedom can we live and prosper . No doubt such a program will exact a price from us , but if - the program helps to avert war the price will be cheap compared with the cost of new conflict . Even so , the price will have to be kept within our economic capabilities , for American economic strength is the bulwark of free world defense and the collapse of the first means the collapse of the second . The program will be all the more effective if , side by side with it , our Government also presses for a solution ? of the problems of the Suez Canal and the Arab-Israeli conflict , in which the Gaza Strip and the Gulf of Aqaba stand in the immediate foreground . The approach to Such solutions has already been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ further ? action would seem to be necessary to strengthen Secretary General Hammarskjold 's hand in dealing with Nasser , lest the latter 's defiance of the United Nations and international law precipitate new conflicts that could defeat the very aims the Eisenhower program seeks to attain .                     