@@715261

txt The BritishFrench talks on European defense that have just been concluded here will have a ' sequel in Washington next month . Britain is expected to inform the United States that she is ready to take a further step toward reassuring France provided the United States moves in the same direction . In other words , the British Government is expected to consult the United States regarding an extension of the tripartite declaration made by France , the United States and Britain last May to fifty , years . This declaration asserted that all three governments would regard a threat from any ' quarter to the integrity or unity of the , European Defense Community as a threat to their own security . In it they promised to maintain forces on the Continent to defend the North Atlantic Treaty area . But the North Atlantic Treaty is'to run for twenty years-whereas the European Defense Community Treaty , when it is ratified . is to last for fifty years . The object of extendir , the tripartite declaration for the full term . of the European Defense Community @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ might come to dominate the alliance or even break away from it with her ouin national army and become -a Menace to- her former partners . It was for that reason-that Premier Ren ? Mayer and Foreign Minister Georges Bidault ; in their talks with Foreign Secretary Anthony Eden and Prime Minister Churchill , stressed the importance that is placed in France on British assoz ciation with the " political " aspects of the European Defense Community . They made it plain that pledges of British technical cooperation , . through the exchange of liaison officers and the provision of training facilities , were not enough . They proposed that Britain should have a full representative of ministerial rank on the European Defense Community 's council and not merely an observer . It is the French view that there are solutions possible short of full membership in the European Defense Community , at which Britain balks . Even though Britain is unwilling to yield any of her sovereignty to the European Defense Community , the French argue , she can associate herself ' with it on a contractual basis to insure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be effective and organic . It may be said that any step toward the closer integration of the European Defense Community would be acceptable here ' if it were accompanied by a closer integration of the Atlantic community as , a whole . Britain , while unwilling to join in any European supranational body , is willing to move closer to a unified Europe provided the United States and Canada go with her in developing the ; interdependence of British , Canadian and American forces . After two days of talks with British officials M. Mayer , M. Bidault and Robert Enron , Minister for Economic Affairs , left ? by air ! for France today . They expressed themselves as satisfied with the outcome of their mission .                     