@@718151

txt President Eisenhower today chose a new ambassador to Egypt , career diplomat Raymond A. Hare , 55 , who has filled previous assignments in Cairo . He succeeds Henry A. Byroade , reassigned to the Union of South Africa . Hare now is director general of the foreign service . BY PHILIP WARDEN Chicago Tribune Press Service Washington , Aug. 14 ? Fear of oil shortages in case vital mid-east shipments thru the Suez canal are curtailed concerned Washington today as State Secretary Dulles left for the 22 nation Suez talks in London . Dulles issued two departure statements predicting peaceful settlement of the crisis created by the nationalization of the Suez canal by President Gamal Abdel Nasser on July 26 . Dulles , his wife , and nine aids left by plane at midafternoon for London where preliminary talks for the Suez conference get under way tomorrow . Dulles will have 13 additional assistants joining his staff in London . The administration established a special petroleum industry " emergency " committee to make preparations to fill the oil needs of the United States and western Europe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Seaton , former Presidential adviser , will head the committee , Defense Mobilizer Arthur S. Flemming announced . Members of the committee will be representatives of 13 of the companies engaged in the petroleum production and export trade in the Arab lands . Creation of the emergency committee was approved by Dulles and its membership cleared of anti-trust liability by the justice department and the federal trade commission . Pooling Authorized The committee will be authorized to : 1 . Pool " without regard to ownership " private oil company transportation , terminal , and storage facilities to achieve their most efficient use . 2 . Exchange crude oil supplies by safe , loan , or otherwise to fill emergency requirements in the United States or western Europe . 3 . Increase or reduce crude oil production and refining in overseas fields as may be needed to reduce the difficulties of transportation . Administration officials estimated that 2,360,000 barrels of oil a day now come from the Arab oil fields thru either the canal or pipe lines , with 1,160 , - 000 barrels of this oil going to western Europe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or any increase in canal tolls to satisfy Egypt is expected to be reflected almost immediately in American gasoline prices . Officials predicted a one cent a gallon increase at retail is likely by fall . Dulles spent 40 minutes with President Eisenhower at the White House discussing American policy for the Lon-1 don conference . He said he and the President reviewed " a good many of the formulas which could be devised to assure dependable ' international operation of the canal con- , sistent with the rights and dignity of Egypt . " " We believe that such a formula can be found and that it will be found , " Dulles said , " because any nation that rejects such a formula will have a heavy responsibility before the world . Hopeful and Confident " Therefore , I go hopefully and with confidence that , we will find a peaceful solution . " Dulles issued a second statement at the airport , asserting , that he was leaving " with a deep awareness of the importance of this meeting . " " It bears closely on the peace @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he said . " President Eisenhower and ( the congressional leaders with whom we conferred last Sunday have made clear the concern of the United States in the satisfactory settlement of this problem . I shall devote myself untiringly to this end . " All of us at the conference will , I am sure , be conscious of the heavy responsibility as it affects world security , which has fallen upon us . Accordingly , No can be hopeful of : achieving positive results . " Dulles repeated that " the legitimate treaty rights and interests possessed by the world community in the Suez canal , including , of course , those of Egypt , must be assured and respected . " Meanwhile , it was disclosed t h e commerce department 's bureau of foreign commerce has begun compiling a partial list of commodities that normally move thru the Suez canal . These products include rubber from Malaya and virtually all materials from India .                     