@@718056

txt Letters to The Times To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : In his letter published July 8 , Prof. Kinsley R. Smith 's blanket rejeotion of closed-circuit television in the educational field seems to me to be as ill-founded as any blanket statement that this medium is a panacea for all educational ills . I think that Professor Smith has a definite point when he objects to the use of this medium in the first-grade level . I think , too , that he has a point when he objects to the lumping of all readiness level groups in the same television classroom . But the point of the Maryland experiment , if I read it correctly , is that it is essentially experimental . Kindergartners and first - to - fifth - grade students may not be proper subjects for television training . The personal contact of a teacher at this level is important ; but supplementing it with some form of closed-circuit television information is bound to have beneficial effects . Where Professor Smith goes off the deep end , in my opinion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ teaching tool at the college level . Here , and on the high school level , closed-circuit television has a very definite contribution to make . United States Navy experiments in this field of training by closed circuit are most illuminating . They have proved that not only the ability but the willingness to absorb is exceedingly high . It is important to note that while the absorptive ability is high , it is no higher than in a classroom taught by an interesting , forceful instructor . Fault of Users In television classrooms which Professor Smith describes students show their indifference by " reading newspapers or books , writing letters , sleeping and conversing . " If this is an accurate description , the fault is not with the medium , it is with the users of the medium . If an exciting and interesting teacher could utilize the medium of closed-circuit television to expand his classroom a thousandfold ; would there be the indifference and boredom of which Professor Smith speaks , regardless of whether the classroom was monitored or not ? For doctors and dentists in hospitals and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and high school students interested in science careers the medium has been used and has proved its effectiveness when the subjectmatter is right . Teachers utilizing this new communications tool must be outstanding in'their ability to project themselves and their subjects . This is , of course , not a new thought , nor does it apply to television alone . In the field of education , when you have a well-trained television instructor and utilize the medium to its fullest by expanding the walls of a dozen classrooms simultaneously into laboratories , hospitals , mines , museums , government buildings , courtrooms and perhaps even newspaper offices , by " live " pick-ups or by motion picture film , you have indeed taken education a long way from the " three R 's . " IRVIN P. SULDS . New ' York , July 10 , 1956 . Beria 's Role in Purges To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Among many lies contained in the resolution by the Central Committee of the Soviet Communist party there is one which is particularly easy to refute . That is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the late Thirties . Everyone who lived in the Soviet Union or is in some way connected with the study of Soviet history knows , that Beria was appointed head of the political police when the purge was already going on . With Beria 's appointment , a slightly milder course was adopted , Some of the arrested were set free and the repressions did not have such a mass character . Surely Beria , as his predecessor Yeshov , committed innumerable crimes against the Russian people , but the responsibility for these crimes lies with the Soviet Communist party and the whole Soviet system . RUSSIAN ANTI-COMMUNIST . Easton , Pa. , July 4 , 1956 . Freedom to Travel To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : The Workers Defense League , in the very nature of its task , has frequently called public attention to the injustices and inequities of governmental security procedures . We should therefore like to take this opportunity to discuss some recent good news . We refer . to the case of Arthur J. Kraus of New York City , who was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that he failed to prove that he had adequate finances to make the trip abroad and back . The Workers . Defense League appealed the case , and in a decision rendered July 6 by the United States Court of Appeals it was held that the State Department had been " arbitrary and capricious " in withholding a passport on the basis of inadequate financial status . This decision , climaxing more than two years df litigation , is a triumph . in our continuing struggle to maintain civil liberties during this period ofencroachment . It also serves to reinforce an earlier decision of the same court in another significant case argued by the Workers Defense League , In OM Shachtman case the court ivied that travel is a " natural right " of a Americans and can be abridged bpi the Secretary of State only wheel reasonable grounds are adduced , ' such grounds being subject to je . dicial review . ( A passport was de . nied to Max Shachtman , the pros% dent of the International Socialist League , on the basis that this oe. ganization was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ This ruling was reversed by the United State Court of Appeals in June , 1955 . ) In view of the fact that the W. D. L. has played a leading robs in the struggle to maintain the free . dom to travel , we want to share with the public our satisfaction in this strengthening of American traditions in one significant area of human activity . Rev. DONALD HARRINGTON . National Chairman , Workers De .. fense League . CARL RACHLIN , Chairman , Legal Committee . New York , July 6 , 1956 . Danger in Nuclear War No Civilian Defense Is Considered Possible Against Bombs To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES ! ' Plans of the Office of Civilian Defense for indiscriminate evacuation of our cities in the face of threats of atomic bombing make very little sense indeed . The assumption that there is safety in the open country and along the high . ' way is effectively denied by recent testimony of Lieut . Gen. James M. Gavin , Army Chief of Research , before the Senate Armed Services Committee . The bald conclusion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ line of defense against atomic death is the prevention of nuclear warfare in any form . In the Senate hearings referred to , Senator Duff asked General Gavin to describe the effects of the explosion of nuclear weapons by our Air Force during " an assault in force " on Russia . In reply the general revealed that " several hundred million deaths * * * either way depending upon : which way the wind blew " could be expected . The implication is clear . Because of the widespread nuclear fall-out in lethal doses , a brief atom-based attack could wipe out the entire populations of Russia , or of Western Europe , or of Southeast Asia , or of the United States ? if the wind were right . This should be headline news for Americans . So far it has received slight publicity . The seriousness of radioactive fall-out lies not only in the debilitating and ultimately lethal consequences of a gradual , build-up in toxic poisons , from controlled experiments . It lies still more in the probability of undreamed mass destruction from bombs exploded under uncontrolled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ralph Lapp , the atomic physicist , seriously suggest that simply a continuing series of test explosions can produce dangerous atmospheric contamination ' of the entire planet by the Nineteen Sixties . And even limited nuclear war clearly means mass death and quite conceivably the end ? of all life on earth . Under these conditions the decision to initiate nuclear war is the decision to kill indiscriminately much or all of mankind . In such a situation there is no civilian defense . In my opinion , the point has been reached where people everywhere must understand that all the possible fruits of peaceful atomic uses are jeopardized by further nuclear explosions of any kind . VINCENT H. WHITNEY . Providence , R. I. , July 7 , 1956 . Deficit Spending Opposed To THE EDITOR or THE NEW Yosx TIMES : To . anyone brought up in the tradition of thrift as a virtue that benefits the community as well as the individual , the present trend toward deficit spending is rather disturbing . We are being exhorted on all sides not only to spend our last dollar but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ maxim " A. penny saved is a penny got " has given way to the lure of " Buy now , pay in three years . " We are no longer expected to save so that we may have , but to spend what we have not in order to keep , business booming . By what alchemy of economics do we expect to transmute the growing burdens of personal debt into pillars of prosperity ? JACOB J. LEIBSON . Halcott Center , N. Y. , July 8 , 1956 . Educational TV Backed Use of Medium by Superior Teachers Approved as Instruction Aid                     