@@716315

txt Some 3.500 hard coal miners . laid off by Lehigh Navigation Coal Co. a month ago because of heavy operating losses , were directed by John L. Lewis . mine union chief , to heed the firm 's back-to-work call , which they rejected earlier this week . And last night . United Mine Worker leaders and rank-and-filers of the Panther Valley General Mine Committee were meeting to reconsider their earlier rejection of the company 's offer to reopen its mines under a trial scheme to see whether . by strict adherence to union contract , they can mine coal profitably . The idled miners were to have returned to work Wednesday under a five-point " toe-themark " plan laid down last week ' by Lehigh Navigation President W. J. Parton . The plan stipulated that miners must adhere strictly to the union contract in all details , that " each must produce all he is capable of producing each day . " work longer hours than in the past ( though not longer than required by contract ) . perform mine maintenance and other chores when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if called on to do so and accept mine mechanization methods . " applying themselves diligently " John L. Lewis entered the Panther Valley dispute in support of his anthracite area union sub-chieftains , who have voiced approval of Lehigh Navigation 's back-to-work scheme , have assured workers that it does not infringe on the union 's general contract , and urged their acceptance of it . These included U.M.W. vice president Thomas Kennedy of Hazleton , and Martin Brennan , president of the union 's anthracite district 7 . Mr. Lewis ' telegram to the Panther Valley general Mine Committee however , gave short shrift to the body 's plea that he visit the valley and acquaint himself with miners ' rears that acceptance of Lehigh Navigation 's terms would chip away at their union security . Mr. Lewis telegram , described by one local union official as " short and to the point , " rejected the P.V.G.M.C. suggestion that he address a Panther Valley union mass meeting , saying . " the day of the mass meeting is long past and forgotten . " Veteran observers of labor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was all it would take to secure rank-and-file acceptance of Lehigh Navigation 's " produceor-else " conditions for returning to work . None could recall when U.M.W. members here have ever flouted the will of their revered union leader . Lehigh Navigation , which on Tuesday called back its supervisors and office crews in anticipation of resuming coal production the next day , is tentatively re-scheduling its mine opening again for next Monday . Both company and union officials late yesterday expressed hope that the miners would reverse their earlier decision and return to work . If they do , the 3,500 recalled miners  --  all but about 1.000 of those laid off May 3 ? will be put to work in successive stages early next week . Last night 's meeting of the General Mine Committee was called ostensibly because the 900-man Coaldale Local 8. one of the biggest and a key unit among the Panther Valley unions , on Tuesday night reversed its earlier vote against the back-to-work plan . The Coaldale Local asked Committee head John Robin to reconvene his group to hear a report that its members @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ company . Prior to last night 's union meeting , an informed source said , no ' final decision on returning to work could be made at that special session of the General Mine Committee . Under union procedure , the source said , it would probably be necessary to schedule new voting on the issue by members of all 10 affected locals , following which the Genera Mine Committee would again vote " yes " or " no " on Lehigh Navigation 's work plan .                     