@@718154

txt f A compromise civil rights plank designed to prevent a Iparty split on the school segregation issue was adopted at 12:40 a. m. today by the platform drafting subcommittee of the Democratic national convention . A foreign relations plank pledging all-out aid to Israel had been agreed upon earlier . Chairman John W. McCormack Mass . Said the vote was 12 to 5 on the civil rights plank , which apparently did not satisfy Gov . J. P. Coleman of Mississippi and other southern members . Rep. Celler N. Y. said he voted with the prevailing side . No Minority Plea Yet Spokesmen for the National Association for Advancement of Colored People did not immediately say whether they would ask that a minority report on Civil rights be presented to the convention tonight , when adoption of the party platform is the chief order of business . The N. A. A. C. P. had insisted that the plank take a firm stand in pledging support of the Supreme court 's ruling that segregated schools are unconstitutional . The plank : had been carefully drafted so that Dixie @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ against it . Advised to Ignore Suez The aid to Israel pledge and other foreign policy stateMents were completed at 12:15 a. m . The plank was called " excellent " by Thomas K. Finletter , former air secretary , who , during the day and night , had been in and out of the Blackstone hotel suite where a drafting subcommittee of 16 was in executive session . Finletter , a top strategist in the Stevenson camp , advised the platform group not to say anything about the Suez canal situation . 0 . K. Essentials in Advance The essentials of the 1952 civil rights plank , which was acceptable to all southern delegations , had been agreed upon in advance by the platform drafting subcommittee , informed sources said . All 108 members of the convention 's platform committee were called to a meeting in the Hilton hotel this morning to approve the platform draft . Rep. W. L. Dawson of Chicago , the only Negro on the subcommittee , decl in e d to comment on the plank ignoring the racial issue . He is vice chairman of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Makes Appeal An effort to get a stronger p I a n k , specifically pledging support of the Supreme court ! opinion , was made by - Roy Wilkins , secretary of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People , and Joseph L. Rauh , director of Americans for Democratic Action . Expects Minority Report They indicated discourage ! ment about immediate pros ? pects when they talked to Rep. Celler N. Y. in the corridor outside the room where the subcommittee was meeting . Wilkins said he is certain that a minority report , asking for a strong plank , would be put before the convention by the signatures of 10 per cent I of the members of the full committee . He said the backers of a ! strong plank are still hopeful of repeating 1948 history , ! when the convention adopted a minority report for a strong civil rights plank . Wilkins would not say who would lead the floor fight tonight , if one is necessary . Avoided Affront to South The 1952 plank put Democrats on record as being con ! cerned about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the four states that voted the Dix. iecrat ticket in 1948 . In 1954 , the Supreme court held the southern system of segregated schools to be unconstitutional . Since then the Adlai E. Stevenson Democratic wing has sought to appease the south . Stevenson carried only nine southern and border states in 1952 . For several hours , the subcommittee was on record as favoring high tariffs for protection of American industry , which was a reversal of the Democratic party 's traditional stand . The committee then reversed itself a n d , claiming that a clerical error had been made , , substituted a section approving reciprocal trade agreements . Tentative planks covering labor , free enterprise , agriculture , ' and government operations were made public during the day . Platform Chairman John W. McCormack was commended for making the tentative planks public as soon as the drafting subcommittee finished them . McCormack , a Boston congressman who is house majority leader , and his subcommittee have been working more than 12 hours a day on the planks . " The Republican administration has allowed giant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said the plank on free enterprise . It promised to curb corporate mergers and restore " truly competitive conditions in Amen , can industry . " I The labor plank pledged Democrats to raise the minimum wage to $1.25 an hour . A pledge to " return " national government " to a sound , efficient , and honest basis " was made in the government operations plank . It charged that , there is a " trend toward secrecy in goy ! ernment " and alleged that under Republicans the postal ! service has become inefficient . Statehood for Alaska a n d Hawaii was recommended by the subcommittee . "                     