@@719754

txt second tunnel across the harbor but forecast that within 15 years a third tube would be started . Population trends , he said , indicate a 30 per cent increase at that time . Harold E. Gray , . executive vice-president of Pan American World Airways , another luncheon speaker , emphasized that airport ground problems are increasing and must be licked . " Of what avail is it to cut flight time in half if an international air passenger must wait as much as two hours at the end of his journey to claim his baggage and clear government formalities , " Mr. Gray said . " A 600-mile-per-hour transport is of no use if we do n't have the airport facilities to handle it , " he pointed out . Jet Age Speed " If we are to take advantage of the speed the Jet Age offers , we must streamline our operation on the ground , " Mr. Gray declared , The new jet aircraft stIch ' as the Boeing 707 and the Douglas DC-8 -- -which Boston will have in tiine=will not only cut flight @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ capacity of commercial aircraft , Mr. Gray said . " When we have ground facilities set up on the basis of 70 passengers per airplane , we ca n't handle 150 passengers with the kind of speed and con venience the Jet Age requires , " Mr. Gray explained . " And I do n't think anyone believes we are doing a good enough job on the ground with our present facilities , " he emphasized . Crocker Snow , director of the Massachusetts Aeronautics Commission , a long-time flier with a long personal association with Logan International Airport , said Boston was making progress in aviation activity , but not nearly at the same rate as the averages for the rest of the country . tenants . This plan should include , ' among other things , he said , high-speed taxiways , to permit the most efficient use of runways and aprons ; suitable arrangements for handling hundreds of arriving and departing passengers and their baggage in all kinds of weather ; a modern air-cargo storage and distribution center ; and adequate service and other conveniences for business flying @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Snow insisted , of federal airport aid that is now available and the greatly increased amounts the present Congress is almost sure to appropriate for this purpose . This warning was also sounded by Joseph L. O'Brien , vice-president for personnel relations of the Air Transport Association , who stated that Boston 's readiness now does not mean that Logan will not have to improve its facilities in the future . " While Logan is ready operationally to handle jets , right now , passenger-handling and terminal facilities in general will have to be improved to aceornmodate the increased volume of traffic anticipated as the new and larger aircraft are phased into the life of the community , " he asserted . Picture : Page 2                     