@@715538

txt Whether you realize it or not , you are a bread squeezer . If you do the family marketing , you are a regular , habitual , time-hardened bread squeezer . If you are sent to the store to pick up what your wife forgot to buy , you might be termed ' a week-end bread squeezer . No matter how you sice it , the country is full of them . The reason is simple . It is practically impossible to buy a loaf of bread without picking it up . And because , by nature , fresh bread is soft to the touch , you squeeze it , and this makes you a bread squeezer . After you have squeezed three or four other loaves , you probably return to your first squeeze and take it home , judging it to We , the Consumer be the softest and therefore the freshest of all . ( This discussion falls outside the field of Fretich bread , of course , whose pi ? chasers would be alarmed it thqy did not feel a distinctly crunchy exterior @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ related to fxeshness . From this it is readily seen that if it were possible to leep bread soft beyond the point ; of freshness , there would be opportunity for deception . And it is possible . Chemical Softener There is a chemical bread softener with a tongue-twisting name , called pOlyoxyethylene monostearate , It is able to keep bread soft far beyond bread with out this ingredient and beyond the point where flavor is at its peak . This ingredient has had something to do with the practice of " bread rolling , " a trade term to describe delivery men who pick up old loaves from one store and deliver them as fresh bread to another store along their route . To be sure , this practice is condemned by all responsible parts of the baking industry but is nevertheless not an unheard of happening . Federal bread standards , designed to correct inequities , have been a long time in coming . Hearings began before World War II but were dropped because of the scarcity of certain food items . During the war bakers began using polyoxyethylene @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ supply . By the end of the war most bakers had reduced the proportion of shortening to bread , Ban Authorized Food supplies began to return to normal after 1945 but shortening remained high in price and many bakers continued using this bread softener . When hearings were resumed and bread standards were adopted in 1952 for plain white , enriched , milk , whole wheat , and raisin breads , no provision was made for this chemical among optional ingredients , on the grounds that there was insufficient evidence to show the softener was thoroughly safe for human consumption over a long period of time . The three leading manufacturers of monostearate appealed the decision to the circuit courts . Two cases were tried with findings favorable to the government . The third case is still pending but the Food and Drug Administration now has received authority through court action to enforce the ban on this ingredient , and is doing so . Federal bread standards apply only to bread sold in interstate commerce . However , as a rule . federal food standards are adopted by about half of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Research with polyoxyethylene monostearate is being continued and in time may be established to the satisfaction of federal authorities that , used in proper quantities , the chemical may be used without danger to the public .                     