@@714787

txt Mayor Impellitteri began yesterday a campaign to obtain the cooperation of city , state and Federal authorities in a program to eliminate unsafe and insanitary slum housing conditions . The program was recommended last Sunday by a six-man committee , headed by Construction Coordinator Robert Moses and appointed by the Mayor as a result of the fire at 1101 Bedford Avenue , Brooklyn , on June 18 in which seven lives were lost . As the- Mayor announced the opening of this campaign Chief City Magistrate John M. Murtagh disclosed that he had recommended to his subordinates on the bench that they impose suspended jail sentences as well as fines in cases of dangerous violations of the building laws and put the sentences into effect if orders to correct the violations Within a specified time were not obeyed . In Brooklyn , the special Kings County Grand Jury that was directed last Tuesday by ' Judge Nathan R. Sobel to investigate fire hazards in the borough heard two public officials yesterday in a four-hour session . Bernard J. Gillroy , Commissioner of Housing and Buildings , testified @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ chief housing inspector in the Brooklyn office of the Department of Housing and Buildings , also was a witness . He had testified on Wednesday . Edward S. Silver , chief assistant district attorney , said the special panel would hold another session next Tuesday . Directions to Officials The Mayor took the following steps to implement the recommendations of the Moses commit-tee : 9Ordered Budget Director Abraham D. Beame to take prompt action to enlarge the inspection , clerical and enforcement staff of the Department of Housing and Buildings by adding 110 employes at an estimated cost of $650,000 . Wirected Corporation Counsel Denis M. Hurley to draft bills to be submitted to the 1953 Legislature giving Housing and Buildings Commissioner Giliroy full control over his deputies and the five borough superintendents . The legislation would amend the City Charter and , according to the Moses committee , eliminate conflicts and overlapping responsibility on multiple dwelling inspections . The committee found such conflicts among the Housing and Buildings , Fire , Health and Welfare Departments . CAsked Chief Magistrate Murtagh to review enforcement of the building laws in his court @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ owners charged with violations . Proposals for Legislation ( IWrote to Governor Dewey asking for help in getting the 1953 Legislature to pass a constitutional amendment , effective in 1956 , providing a new $250,000,000 state slum-clearance housing program with $200,000,000 allocated to New York City . The Mayor made the same request of State Senator Mac Neil Mitchell , chairman of the Joint Legislative Committee on Housing and Multiple Dwellings . In addition , he asked Mr. Mitchell to aid in passage of a statute making violations of certain sections of the Multiple Dwelling Law " offenses " instead of misdemeanors . This change , the Mayor said , would give the . City Magistrates ' Courts summary jurisdiction and avoid long delays now caused by trial in the Court of Special Sessions. gAsked Raymond M. Foley , Administrator of the Federal Housing and Home Finance Agency , to help the city obtain Federal subsidies for slum-clearance housing to be privately financed . Asked for aid in obtaining an additional 20,000 units of , Federal housing in substandard areas in the city ; loosening of restrictions on . rehabilitation loans @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , thus tending to slow down migrations of Puerto Ricans to New York , where they settle in slum housing areas . Asked similar aid from the United States Senate and House Committees on Banking and Currency to which such legislation is ordinarily sent after introduction . The Mayor asked that both committees hold hearings this summer or early in the fall with a view to initiating legislation . Instructing of Magistrates In a letter to the Mayor explaining his instructions to City Magistrates , Mr. Murtagh said that he had directed them to grant not more than one adjournment in cases of building violations involving danger to human life . He told the Mayor that the lat-I ter 's suggested policy of suspended ' sentences would apply only in cases , where the guilty person indicated a willingness to undertake at once the removal of the violation for which he was convicted . Mr. Murtagh declared that he would be glad to add an additional part to the municipal term of his court to handle cases involving firetrap conditions . In a letter to Commissioner Gil/-roy , Mr. Murtagh suggested @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Buildings could aid City Magistrates in identifying violations in the " hazardous " category . The Mayor declined to comment on a letter sent him by Dr. Edwin S. Burden , president of Cooper Union and head of the housing ' committee of the Community Service Society . The letter charged ' that " wretched " conditions found by the society two years ago in 35,000 one and two-family houses had not been remedied although they had been made known to the appropriate city and state agencies .                     