@@718980

txt Governor Furcolo is acting to postpone a showdown vote on the controversial sales tax bill by sending a new special message to the Legislature . In the new message , it is understood , the Governor will ask the Massachusetts House to accept the adverse report from the House Committee on Ways and Means on the pending compromise sales tax measure . At the same time , the Governor plans to embrace as his own the pending compromise , thus clearing away parliamentary obstacles in the path of its consideration by the Legislature . Even if the Furcolo forces had been able to overturn the adverse committee report , which was considered unlikely today , a point of order could have been raised successfully against the compromise on the ground that it exceeded . the scope of the Governor 's July 1 message offering a sales tax with accompanying income tax cuts . Test Postponed The Furcolo decision to send in the special message at this time was a victory for those advisers who urged that the Governor postpone an immediate test on the sales tax issue @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Until afternoon , the . Governor was undecided whether to stage an all-out drive to overturn the adverse report or to seek a delay in the showdown test . The new message being sent to the Legislature presents almost the identical situation as occurred on July 1 . At that time the Governor was faced with certain defeat on his original proposed 3 per cent limited sales tax . Before the Legislature acted on the measure , the Governor sent in a special message offering a compromise program and asking the House to reject the pending bill . Although the House staged a long debate over a motion to refer the measure to the Legislative Committee on Taxation , usually a routine procedure , the Governor was able to have the measure referred to the committee . Course Set by GOP By making the new compromise his own , reported favorably by the taxation committee but adversely by the ways and means committee , the Governor actually is following a course for which Republican leaders have been maneuvering during the past few days . Report of the Governor 's plan came @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ S. Giles , Jr. , ( R ) of Methuen , House minority leader , recommended that Republican representatives vote to accept the adverse report and force the Governor to send in a message embracing the compromise publicly as his own . The pending compromise plan boosts from two-thirds to three-fourths the share of sales revenue to go to the cities and towns . It includes the Governor 's proposal for $500 increases in basic exemptions on earned and unearned income but boosts from $400 to $500 the deduction for each dependent instead of to $600 as the Governor proposed . It also exempts candy and patent medicines from the tax , thus going beyond the original Furcolo plan . As the final showdown neared , it became more and more evident that if the sales tax loses , it will be due as much to its friends as to its enemies . Advocates Split The ranks of sales tax advocates have been split by maneuvers to gain income tax cut concessions as well as additional exemptions , such as for machinery and the like . These people have failed to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they want in return for passage of the sales tax . What pleases some does not please others . And the sales tax suffers . The outright opponents of a sales tax have been solidly grouped . They are against any sales tax at all  --  despite repeated insistence on the part of its advocates that only a sales tax can produce sufficient revenue to aid hard-pressed cities and towns . Thus far the combination of outright opponents and proponents who will vote for a sales lax only on their own terms has been sufficient to block any com promise . 