@@715938

txt The last appeals are now being made to ? the twenty-two , American prisotwrs of war in Korea who refuse to return home . The time for explanations is running out . For reasons which no'one now knows and which perhaps no one will ever know , this little group of G. L 's is making its " most fateful decision . " Twenty-two Americans ? Yes , there are twenty-two of them : Pate and Douglas and Wills and Tenneson and Batchelor and the rest ; and they come from Carbondale and San Angelo and Fort Ann and Alden and other equally grassroots communities that form the heart and soul of America . Twentytwo are twenty-two too many , But when one thinks about it , twenty-two is an infinitesimally small proportion of the total number of American prisoners captured by the Communists in the course of the war . It is in its way a triumph that we have lost a mere microscopic fraction under the circumstances . And what are the circumstances ? There are reports that some of the twenty-two are holding back @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ know if there would be even as many , as twenty-two if each man were truly free to make his own decision . In any case , we do know that all of them have been subjected to moral and mental if not physical pressures to_the persuade them to remain . We do know that brain-washing is no figment of a propagandist 's imagination ; we do know that the Communist captors have fought with every psychological weapon at their command to maintain their grasp on the prisoners , The twenty-two Americans are young ; to judge from one of their letters they have the naivete mixed with dogmatism that often afflicts the most ignorant of our youths . Their captors have without doubt held out to them all the shiny hopes and promises of a brave new world ; and it is hardly surprising that a handful of utterly unsophisticated boys , led perhaps by a few convinced or conniving leaders , ' would be befuddled into accepting illusion for reality . We think of them sacrificing home and friends ; but how many of them rejected their homes and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have been eager at any cost to cut themselves off from all former ties for personal reasons that have less than nothing to do with communisrn or democracy . And yet we have made  --  and it is right that we have made  --  every possible effort to convince them of the terrible mistake they are making . Up to the very last moment we have held out to them the chance for redemption . This is a principle embedded in our democratic institutions . . We have been willing to exercise it in the - case of these twenty-two young soldiers . Is it too much to expect that we extend it to other Americans who , unquestionably loyal , ' May have been temporarily deceived by communism fifteen or twenty years ago and have long since realized their error but are still forced to pay the penalty by self-serving politicians and an indifferent public ?                     