@@717518

txt Farmers would receive up to $5,000 a year for diverting surplus producing land to grass , forage and trees under a new subsidy plan drafted by Agriculture Department experts . The proposal , details of which became known today , is designed to eut production of surplus drops on a long-term basis and thus go far toward solving one of the biggest problems of the Eisenhower Administration on the economic and political fronts . If adopted as Administration policy the plan would constitute the major new feature of the Eisenhower-Benson farm pro gram to be laid before Congress in January . It will be considered at the regular meeting in mid-December of the National Agricultural Advisory Commission , created by President Eisenhower in 1953 to guide him and Ezra Taft Benson , Secretary of Agriculture , on major farm policy questions . The cost to the Government of the plan , which Mr. Benson calls a " special version of a soil bank , " is estimated at $1,400 , - 000,000 in the fifteen years that it would remain in. effect . Probable outlays in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 000,000 . Basic Details of Plan To be eligible for the pay-1 ments farmers would enter into : voluntary five-year agreements with the Government to take , specified land out of the production of surplus crops and put it " reserve " for possible future , n6ed . Grasses and other soilbuilding cover crops would be substituted in large part for the wheat , cotton and other surplus commodities now planted on the acres to be diverted . Cooperating farmers would be permitted to harvest seed from the new crops , but not to harvest the crops . They would be permitted to plant the land in grasses and other cover crops valuable as forage and to use this forage land for the grazing of livestock . They could also plant grasses useful only in building the soil 's fertility . They would be allowed $15 or $20 an acre for seed , plus annual payments of 5 to 7 per cent of the appraised value of the converted land . The annual payments to any farmer would be limited to $5,000 . The first-year goal is to take more than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more than 800,000 farmers cooperating . The fifteen - year aim envisions at least 23,000,000 acres put in reserve by more than 1,000,000 farmers . Existing Agricultural Conservation Program committees in counties throughout the country would administer the new pro- gram . The regular soil conservation system , which now entails payments of about $250,000,000 a year to encourage terracing , contour plowing , cover crops and other such practices , may also be expanded . The " soil bank " plan evolved from a study of seven or more separate plans having similar objectives , some entailing outright Government rental of surplus-producing land . Democrats as well as some Republicans have been pressing for adoption of some such formula to help solve the mounting problem of agricultural overproduction . An Agriculture Department task force devised the version now under consideration and laid it before the eighteen-member National Agricultural Advisory Commission at a meeting last week . The commission then called for additional information preparatory to a possible deep sion next month . Whether the program la adopted by the administration depends largely on Secretary/ Benson , regardless of the advis. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cool to such an approach to the twin problems of surpluses and lag ? ging farm incomes . The surplus disposal problem has a high place on the agenda of the thirty-third annual Agri. cultural Outlook Conference , which convenes here tomorrow for a three-day session . The outlook for export of farm surpluses will be analyzed by Gwynn Garnett , administrator of the For ? eign Agricultural Service . Key conference topics also include the trends in agricultural prices and costs . Economists representing the Agriculture Department 's Extension Service in the forty-eight states and Puerto Rico are dee ? gates to the conference . The aim is to bring them up to date Ott current economic trends and thus aid them in carrying on their educational work among farmers .                     