@@720302

txt Mayor Wagner will go to Albany Saturday in a new effort to win over Governor Rockefeller and Republican ' legislative leaders for off-track betting and his entire fiscal program . The meeting between the Governor and the Mayor will be the third on city tax needs . At the state capital yesterday , a legislative test on Mayor Wagner 's request for legalizing and taxing off-track betting on horse races was postponed at the request of Assembly Speaker Oswald D. Heck . Both houses had been scheduled to debate yesterday a Democratic motion to discharge fiscal . committees from further consideration of the off-track bill . Meanwhile , the City Council , after a spirited debate , called on the Legislature to approve the off-track betting bill . Letter Campaign Urged The resolution making the request was adopted 20 to 1 , with one abstention . The measure , introduced by Majority Leader Joseph T. Sharkey , also requested the public to write directly to Governor Rockefeller and the Legislature , urging them to approve the proposal . A similar letter-writing , suggestion had been made by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Leader Stanley M. Isaacs , Manhattan Republican , assailed the off-track proposal as " a most disgraceful method of raising mjney . " The system , he contended , would " drain the resources of the poorest people of the city . " Mr. Sharkey retorted that " the biggest disgrace in the city today is the bookies who are running rampant in this town and laughing at the police . " People favoring off-track betting " probably outnumber the opposition 10 to 1 , " he said . Mr. Sharkey suggested that it might still be necessary to increase the retail sales tax from 3 to 4 per cent . Mayor Wagner said recently that the sales tax . proposal was " dead . " Originally lie hadof : fered it as an alternative " one big tax " in case the off-track betting proposal should not be enacted . But no bill for the sales tax increase was introduced into the Legislature . Mr. Sharkey told the Council he hoped the Republican majority in Albany would look at the off-track betting proposal impartially . " They do n't want @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " Mr. Sharkey charged . The Republican legislative leaders have been hostile to the betting suggestion , and Governor Rockefeller has indicated strongly that he does not like it . On the Council roll-call , Mr. Lsaacs voted against the resolution and Councilman George J. Schneider , Queens Democrat , refrained from voting , Poll Favors Betting Bill Councilman Edward V. Curry , Richmond Democrat , who previously opposed off-track betting , changed his position and voted for the Sharkey resolution . A postcard poll taken by him in his district , Mr. Curry said , turned up 1,700 persons favoring off-track betting and only thirty-two opposed .. Pressure increased in Albany yesterday for off-track betting in the letter-writing drive urged by Mayor Wagner . Scores of letters were piling up on the desks of the Governor and the Republican leaders . They were running about 20 to 1 in favor of the Mayor 's position . At City Hall , Mayor Wagner received seventy-five letters , representing about 150 signers , saying the writers were urging Albany to support the betting proposal . The request in the Legislature to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from further consideration of the off-track betting measure was made by Mr , Heck to Assemblyman Anthony J. Travia of Brooklyn , the Minority Leader , just before the Assembly convened at 11 A.M. Before consenting , Mr. Travia got Mayor Wagner 's approval by telephone . The delay was requested presumably to avoid having a long debate interfere with a Republican Assembly conference at which agreement was reached on Governor Rockefeller 's budget and tax program , Meeting Sought by Mayo ! Mayor Wagner requested the Albany meeting . He will be in Albany to attend the annual dinner of the Legislative Correspondents Association Saturday night . Democratic leaders said that in addition to off-track betting , the Mayor planned to discuss the need for other taxes . The meeting will be at the Executive Mansion . Those attending , in addition to the Governor and the Mayor , will include Mr. Heck , Mr. Travia , Senate Majority Leader Walter J. Mahoney , Senate Minority Leader Joseph Zaretzki , and Assembly Majority Leader Joseph F. Carlini ) . The city must close a $151 , - 000,000 gap between @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , off-track betting would produce $75,000,000 to $100,000,000 for the city in the first year . The plan calls for eventually sharing the " service charges " with the state on a fifty-fifty basis . The city filed with the Legislature last week eight other revenue bills calculated to produce $76,500,000 . The Board of Estimate is expected to take up in executive session today alternate tax proposals in ease off-track betting is turned down . WCBS-TV offered time yesterday to the Protestant Council to state its objections to legalized off-track betting . The council , which had requested an opportunity to present " significant facts , " indicated it would accept the offer to have a representative appear on the " Right Now " program next Saturday at 1:30 P. M. Charles H. Tuttle , chairman of the council 's executive committee , is expected to be the spokesman .                     