@@715696

txt More than two score plans for raising revenue to replace taxes expiring in the coming year have been drawn up by the Treasury Department and are awaiting the perusal of President Eisenhower when he returns from his vacation . The plans , drafted over the last six weeks , are intended to make up in part , at least , for some 88,000,000,000 in revenue that will be lost through the automatic expiration of taxes on Jan. 1 and April 1 . A reliable Administration in-I formant said today the question of a Federal sales tax was " very much in the picture . " The Administration concedes that it will face a tough battle on Capitol Hill when it introduces the sales tax measure but the chances are that it will go ahead anyway . Still smarting from the setback it received in attempting to raise the debt limit in the closing days of Congress , the Administration is chary of bracing Congress again on an unpopular measure such as the sales tax , but believes it might get by with the measure if sufficient pressure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the excess profits ' tax and present individual income tax rates to an increase in excise taxes on luxury items . ? Other - proposals suggest reforms in existing tax laws to close various loopholes . Commitments Made on Levies According to Administration advisers , President Eisenhower is Committed to permitting the excess profits tax to expire on Jan. 1 , along with the repeal of the 1951 increase of about 11 per cent in individual income taxes . The Administration argues , however , that it is not barred from seeking other sources of revenue to replace the estimated loss of approximately $5,000,000,000 in revenue that the expiration of the two levies will entail . The Administration also faces the probability of losing an additional $3,000,000,000 worth of taxes if Congress does not cancel the April 1 expiration of 1951 increases in excise and regular corporation taxes . If the White House hopes are realized , the Administration will get through the fall without the necessity of calling Congress back for a special session to authorize art increase in the nation 's debt limit . Every effort is being made by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Treasury can get by until January . Treasury officials are uneasy at the limited " head room " that the present $2,500,000,000 of unused debt expansion affords . The limit , now fixed at $275,000,000,000 , has been all but used up and White House spokesmen insist that any sudden demand for aid from such world trouble , spots as Iran , French Indo-China or Korea might well place this country in an embarrassing position from which only Congress could extricate it by permitting increased borrowing by the Government . However , in line with instructions from the White House , the I Administration is going to strive Ito get through this fall without calling a special session of Congress . If it succeeds , and spokesmen for the Treasury Department as well as the Bureau of the Budget , believe it will , this will be used as an indication that the Administration has tried its best to live economically and therefore is entilted to consideration when it demands ( 1 ) .. that the debt limit be lifted in 1954 and ( 2 ) that the Congress consider @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tax or some other substitute for existing tax levies . Experts at the Treasury Department have toyed with the idea of increasing existing excise taxes as another possibility , but the solid opposition of industries has discouraged positive action along this line . The Administration has been worried over pressure in Congress to do away with some taxes to alleviate certain industries . At the last session , for example , Congress passed a measure  --  later vetoed by President Eisenhower ? to repeal the tax on movie admissions . Amid the proposals , therefore , are arguments by Treasury officials against lifting such levies .                     