@@719809

txt President Eisenhower accused Russian of all but ending prospects for a summit conference soon by executing Hungarian resistance leader Imre Nagy . But Mr. Eisenhower carefully avoided saying at his news conference that a summit session would n't happen . He also refused to call an immediate halt to diplomatic correspondence between himself and Soviet Boss Nikita Khrushchev . The President thus advanced a major U.S. diplomatic tactic : Accusation of Russia for blocking a summit session . The aim is tO show Western Europe , Asia and other areas  --  where a summit meeting has great popular appeal ? that Russia does n't really want a heads-of-government meeting but the West does , if it held prospects of easing world tensions . Secretary of State Dulles took a similar tack at his press conference Tuesday . The discussion of summit talks at the Eisenhower press conference grew out of the Chief Executive 's volunteered statement that the Nagy execution " shocked the civilized world . " The Kremlin 's news agency announced late Monday night that Mr. Nagy , Hungarian premier during the 1956 revolt , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had been executed after a secret trial . This broke the Reds original promise that Mr. Nagy would get safe treatment when he left the Yugoslav embassy in Budapest after Russian troops squashed the revolt . " I would say anything of this kind that shocks the whole free world , its whole conscience and its whole beliefs , is detrimental to fruitful negotiations , " Mr. Eisenhower declared . While the President condemned the Soviet execution of ex-Premier Nagy , he also laid aside past diplomatic pretentions over foreign aid to Poland and Yugoslavia . " I would give aid to anything that I think would help to weaken the solidarity of the Communist bloc , " Mr. Eisenhower said . If U.S. trade and aid can strengthen the independence of Polish and Yugoslav communists from Russia , " that is all to the good , " Mr. Eisenhower argued . On other foreign pblicy matters : The President said Secretary of State Dulles might discuss with French Premier De Gaulle the possibility of an Eisenhower-De Gaulle meeting . But Mr. Eisenhower indicated he did n't really expect anything would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ spell out the conditions under which U.S. troops might intervene in the Lebanon crisis .                     