@@720198

txt The Administration outlined today a long-range national program to explore the infinite reaches of space  --  from the turbulent atmosphere of earth to the fiery coronas of distant stars . The ten-year , comprehensive space program was drafted by the National Aeronautics and Space Administration . The scientific objectives of the space program were outlined today in a Presidential report to ' Congress on the first year of space exploration by the United States . President Eisenhower called the year of space exploration , which began Jan. 31 , 1958 , with the launching of the Army Explorer satellite , a " record of solid achievement " in which " the nation can take great pride . " ' Wealth of New Data ' The five satellites and two space probes launched by the United States during 1958 have gathered " a wealth of new data " about space , the President said . " The human race has begun its greatest , most daring adventure " in reconnoitering the new frontiers of space , he asserted . Meanwhile , T. Keith Glennan , head of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Astronautics that more money would not accelerate the nation 's exploration of space . Dr. Glennan conceded that the Soviet Union was ahead of the . United States in development of large rocket boosters for launching space vehicles . ? Wo n't Match ? Soviet He estimated that it would be eighteen months to two years before this country could send aloft as heavy a space vehicle as the Russians have already launched . " I do n't presume to guess that we 'll be matching them , if indeed we should be matching them , in three years , " he said , agreeing that the Russians probably will have progressed also . He insisted under repeated questioning , however , that his ' administration 's $280,000,000 budget for the fiscal year starting July 1 was adequate to carry forward the space program on an " urgent basis " and that more money would not buy more speed . The primary need now , Dr. Glennan said , is " for urgently sustained effort for years to come . " ' If our space programs are to be run @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the turn-of every new year , then we 'd better spend our money buying telescopes to watch the Russians pioneer in space , " he declared . The National Aeronautics and Space Administration , which was created last year to direct the nation 's exploration of space , has drawn up a program that calls for launching at least one satellite or deep space probe a month , starting in the middle of - this year . In. addition , about 100 sounding rockets will be fired annually , some to distances as great as 4.000 miles , to explore the earth 's atinosheric. blanket . Among the questions about the universe to be answered are these : Would Newton " s apple fall at the same rate in the outmost regions ' of the universe ? - Is t.ne earth enveloped in the sun 's atmosphere and what effect does this ' have - on earthly weather ? . What is the origin of the Mysterious , pbtverful cosmic particles . articles . that bombard the earth ? Would an atomic clock in a satellite run faster than its earthbound counterpart @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? The space program has been divided into five general areas of research : Atmospheres ; inospheres ; energetic particles ; electric , magnetic and gravitational fields , and astronomy . Following are the general objectives in the five fields : ATMOSPHERES An intensive investigation into the atmospheres of the earth , planets , moon and sun is planned . Recent rocket and satellite experiments have shown that the pressure , temperature and density of the earth 's atmosphere up to 250 miles are highly variable . The first big objective will be to determine with rockets and satellites how these atmospheric conditions vary with location , night and day , and the eleven-year cycle of sun pots . The next objective will be to determine the relationship between the - atmosphere above fifty miles and weather patterns on earth and the relation between the earth 's atmosphere and solar and cosmic radiation and the newly discovered radiation belts surrounding earth . Deep space probes , going millions of miles from earth , will attempt to answ , - the question of whether the sun 's atmosphere extends to the outer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ current theory that the earth is orbiting through the sun 's atmosphere , thus accounting for much of the heat received by earth . There is at present no evidence that the moon has an atmosphere , but experiments will be made to see whether traces ' of an atmosphere exist on the lunar surface , perhaps swept in by solar clouds of gas . The exploration of planetary atmospheres will look for evidence of life or a capability of supporting life . IONOSPHERES The ionospheres are the : electrically charged layers of the earth and planetary atmospheres . From the last twelve years of research a fairly complete picture has been obtained of the ionosphere up to about sixty miles , and the emphasis will be on discovering the density and variations in the ionosphere in the layers from sixty to 180 miles and higher . The latitude and time variations of the ionosphere will be obtained by use of polar-orbiting satellites . Sounding rockets , deep space probes and satellites will determine the density of electrons and hydrogen and oxygen ions in the ionosphere and find out how the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rays . Also the relation of the ionosphere to the radiation belts , the aurora and the sun 's atmosphere will be studied . ENERGETIC PARTICLES The interaction of high energy particles  --  such as fastmoving electrons , protons and cosmic rays with the earth 's atmosphere will be studied intensively . The composition of these particles in interplanetary space will be investigated and attempts will be made to determine the-origin of  --  cosmic rays and the source of the energetic particles that cause aurora or northern lights . As part of this phase of research , satellites and space probes will be used to map out in greater detail the two newly discovered radiation belts and to discover what particles make up the belts . FIELDS IN SPACE Satellites and space probes equipped with magnetometers will study variation in the earth 's magnetic field , particularly those caused by clouds of charged particles in interplanetary space . Attempts will be made to discover whether the moon has a weak-magnetic field  --  a finding - that - p.nould provide clues on the origin of thes'trioon and earth . The magnetic fields of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Magnetometers in space vehicles also will be used to determine whether electrical currents surround the earth above the ionosphere , as they do in and beneath the ionosphere . Gravity fields pose one of the great scientific mysteries for it is not known now how gravity is produced , the source and unit of its energy or how fast the energy travels . The nature of gravity will be explored as a long-range project , including an answer to the question of whether Newton 's theory of gravity holds in the far regions of the universe . As- an immediate experiment , a highly precise atomic clock will be placed in a satellite to determine how the time scale of atomic processes are affected by gravity . According to Einstein 's general theory of relativity , the satellite clock should appear to run faster than an atomic clock on earth . ASTRONOMY Rockets and satellites will be used to get an entirely new look at the sun and the stars . They will be equipped to observe signals from the stars  --  such as ultra-violet radiation , X-rays and ' radio @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ atmosphere and thus can not be observed by ground astronomical stations . Deep space probes also will be used to make direct astronomical observations of the sun 's corona , or atmosphere .                     