@@713418

txt Fresh from a two weeks ' Florida vacation , Governor Dever nimbly side-stepped questions at his first press conference yesterday which might tie him down to a definite policy during the next two years , but indicated there would be no increase in local taxes because of an overestimate of tax revenues . How he intends to meet the problem of financing the increased old-age assistance benefits , or get around the problem , the governor was not willing to speculate . No Comment on Auto Rates No special session of the Legislature will be called , however , to act on the problem , which some say would cause financial Chaos if it were put into effect . Whether or not the old-age benefits referendum accepted by the voters is constitutional , Governor Dever said he had no opinion . " No comment , " was also his reply to questions regarding compulsory automobile insurance rates . Questions regarding appointments or possible reappointments brought the same answer no comment . " from the governor . Among those directly named v.-a. , Thomas F. Sullivan , Boston @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Dr. Clifton T. Perkins , who resigned last spring as state Mental Health Commissioner to take a similar post in Maryland . " I suspect that he would like to come back . . . . I think the commonwealth would be fortunate if it regained the services of Dr. Perkins , " commented Governor Dever . Asked if he intends to name a nf-2w insurance commissioner , Governor Dever said he does not know . The term of Commissioner Charles F. J. Harrington of Watertown expired in April and has not been acted upon . Turning back to matters of iinance , Governor Dever said that the overestimate by Henry F. ' Long , Tax Commissioner , on the amoat of revenue due to the state 's cities and towns from income and corporation taxes , would be made up from other tax sources . " Except for one or two communities the 514,000,000 overestimate will not be the cause of an increase in local taxes . Those communities are not large ones , " be said . A further explanation from the chief executive will be made next week @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Primary Convention flit Officials in Boston have estimated that they will be " shortchanged " some ** because of the overestimate . If they are correct , it would mean nearly S2 on Boston 's tax rate in 1951 . Another question at the governor 's press conference was on talk of a possible return in Massachusetts to the preprimary convention . " I am opposed to restoration of the system , " said the governor flatly . He said that he had witnessed both Republican and Democratic conventions and " the conduct of certain people was scandalous , I have a passionate belief in democracy and have no argument with the popular judgment , " he added . Asked if he would veto such a bill if it came before him . Governor Dever said that is a " fair assupmtion . " He added that it is against his policy to indicate his action on legislation in advance .                     