@@714129

txt If you eat what you like , it is probably good for you . This is the contention of Dr. Carl Pfaffman of the psychophysiology branch , biosciences group , office of naval research , Washington , D. C. , one of the speakers at the American Psychological association meeting which closes today in the Sherman hotel . In a paper presented to the association , Dr. Pfaffman pointed out that taste seems to serve as a guide to the selection of foods the body needs . He defined taste as saltiness , sourness , bitterness , and sweetness . " Altho taste has been generally recognized as playing a part in the selection of food , its role until recent years has been minimized , " Dr. Pfaffman stated . Find Some Are " Taste Blind " " Of course , there are exceptions to the use of taste as a guide to the selection of beneficial foods . For instance , persons will accept saccharine in place of sugar in their diets , tho it is of little nutritional benefit . Also there are individual @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' which constitute variations to this rule . Our research , however , has shown that for the most part , aninials and individuals will select those foods that the body requires . " Dr. Pfaffman told of a dramatic incident that points up the importance of taste . A small boy was taken . to Johns Hopkins hospital for observation , but died several weeks after he was admitted . Subsequent examinations showed he had suffered , from a tumor of the adrenal : gland . Inquiry disclosed that before : his admission to the hospital , ? he had developed a decided craving for salt , ' and would gulp it by the handful , thus Unconsciously substituting for a deficiency in his body . When he came to the hospital'and was unable to go on " a salt binge , " salt depletion developed . Rats Prolong Own Lives The scientist also reported that in doing research work on this subject he had removed the adrenal gland , which controls the salt content of body fluids , . from a number of rats . The ' rats were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one with water and one with salt . The rats showed a preference for the salt solution and in this way increased their ' intake of salt and their length of life . A paper by Dr. Alex L. Sweet of the University of Kansas disclosed that glutamic acid , " the brain food , " when fed to pregnant animals , stepped up the learning ability of the offspring . The young animals born many days later were able to solve a puzzling network of pathways much more quickly than other groups whose mothers did not get the supplementary diet ; Dr. Sweet said that glutamic acid might be a help to mentally retarded children .                     