@@719617

txt Premier Felix Gaillard received another suspended sentence today from the National Assembly . By a vote of 282 to 196 , the Assembly accorded him its confidence on the immediate issue of constitutional reform . In effect it voted not so much for the Government as against an immediate crisis that would further compromise the central authority in France . It was ate four-month-old Government 's eleventh vote of confidence . Large police and military forces stationed around the Assembly building and in other parts of the city served to heighten uneasiness about the future . In these circumstances there was general reluctance to create a power void that antirepublican extremists on the Right or Left might be encouraged to try to fill . Gaullist Drive a Factor A campaign throughout ' France for the return to power of Gen. Charles de Gaulle , France 's leader during World War II and just after the war , has caused particular concern because he has a well-known contempt for the French parliamentary system and because he has a substafftial following . General de Gaulle was present in spirit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in his home in eastern France . The Government 's authority was shaken most recently last Thursday when off-duty policemen laid virtual siege to the Assembly after they had held traffic-stopping street demonstrations . Denouncing the maneuvers of a minority of the police , Premier Gaillard warned in a special statement to the Assembly this morning of the double danger of " a renascent extreme Right that hates the regime " and of the Communists . Danger of Disunion Cited He contended that the only danger lay in disunion among the parties supporting his Government . He also used the police demonstration as an apparently telling argument in favor of reform measures designed to stabilize and reinforce the executive branch . He said sanctions had been taken ( one police official has been retired and another demoted ) and more ' were in the offing . The Prefect of Police was replaced by the Cabinet last Friday . The demonstration had started as a move in favor of higher pay and of danger bonuses because of Algerian terrorism in Paris . But the movewent quickly took on a political flavor . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into Paris from Algeria and elsewhere partly because of a mass rally staged tonight by the Communists to protest against the Twist " police demonstration . The Communists apparently failed in their attempt to break out of their political isolation by getting the Socialist party and other Leftist forces to join in a meeting in the Left Bank 's Velodrome d'Hiver , Paris ' equivalent of New York 's Madison ) Square Garden . Rightists Also Meet On the Right Bank , at the Pleyel Concert Hall , Rightwingers and conservatives held a meeting in favor of the Algerian war . Among its organizers were former Premier Georges Bidault , Jacques Soustelle , a Gaullist Deputy and former Governor General of Algeria , and Andrd Morice , former Minister of National Defense . ? The Left-Wing rally drew about 15,000 noisily enthusiastic partisans to shout their defiance of " fascism " and their demands for peace in Algeria . More than 1,000 police and Mobile Guards had nothing to do but deal with a human and vehicular traffic jam . The Right-Wingers nearly filled their hall , which holds 2,500 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ after speaker evoked cheers with statements that Algeria must remain French . Contributing to the air of uncertainty and uneasiness here is the fact that in the Assembly no ** issue was settled today . Despite the Assembly 's reluctance to open a crisis , the Premier still had no clear sailing ahead . M. Gaillard 's statement on the police was received coldly . Later , Maurice Bourges - Maunoury , Minister of the Interior , reho has over-all responsibility for the police forces , confirmed that he had offered his resignation and was still willing to resign . The Cabinet refused the resignation Friday , but the Assembly : ward him in unsympathetic silence and made no move to hold him back . Constitutional reform measures must still come up for a final Assembly vote this week or next . They are designed to make opposition majorities harder to form and dissolution of the Assembly easier . The confidence vote had been put principally 3o'force a second reading of an amendment that the Assembly had approved against Government Opposition last week . The amendment would limit the Government 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ general policy , international treaties and budgetary issues . If the over-all bill gets through the Assembly , then long ' delays are expected in the Council of the Republic ( Senate ) .                     