@@719258

txt Anthony Coppola , confidante and occasional chauffeur for Albert Anastasia , New York gangster who was killed by two gunmen on Friday , was jailed for vagrancy early this morning . Coppola , described by some as Ana , stasia 's bodyguard . and by Chief of Detectives - James B. Leggett as ' his " messenger boy , " was booked at 1:10 A. M. at the West Fifty-fourth Street station . The specific charge was that he " has no visible means of support . " The police would make no official comment on the reason for the arrest . It was known , however , that Coppola had been " uncooperative " in many hours of questioning . Goes to Court Today Anastasia , the former head of Murder , Inc. , gang of kill-forhire hoodlums , was shot deal Friday morning in a barber chair at the Park Sheraton Hotel . Coppola first surrendered to the9police at 6:30 P. M. Friday . He was questioned all Friday night and yesterday morning until 5 o'clock . At that time he was permitted to leave @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The questioning continued through yesterday afternoon and last night until his arrest . He will appear in Week-end Court today on the vagrancy charge . Coppola , who was near the hotel when the shooting occurred , has denied that he had an appointment with the slain gangster . The police yesterday pressed a wide search for the two gunmen . Detectives were deployed throughout the city hunting leads . About sixty persons were questioned at the police station and about 100 more at their homes . Other Cities Alerted Frank Costello , the gambler , was questioned about the Anastasia slaying last night for the first time . He threw no light on the case , according to Deputy Chief Inspector Edward W. Byrnes . Inspector Byrnes , in command of Manhattan West detectives and in direct charge of the investigation , called on Costello with Deputy Inspector Frederick M. Lusser at Costello 's home , 115 Central Park West . After the questioning , which started at 6:15 P. IC and lasted for fifteen minutes , Inspector Byrnes said that Costello had " passed no comment regarding the shooting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the police investigation in this way : " No motive . No progress . " The police in other cities were asked to notify authorities here if they thought they had any information that could lead to the solution of the Anastasia murder . Checking the pistols used by the two killers , which were recovered after the slaying , detectives learned yesterday that one of them had been purchased in 1934 in Evanston , Ill. , by a Gary , Ind. , business concern . This fact supported an opinion held by some policemen here that the Anastasia killers were professional gunmen imported from the Midwest . If New York detectives had an answer to the slaying of the one-time " chief executioner " for the now defunct gang known as Murder , Inc. , they were keeping it from the public . Meanwhile , the body of the slain racketeer lay yesterday at the funeral chapel of Andrew Torregrossa &; Sons , Inc. , 1305 Seventy-ninth Street , Brooklyn . Only members of his family and a few friends visited the mortuary . Although Anastasia was a Roman @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he will not be buried in consecrated ground . The family plot is in Holy Cross Cemetery , Brooklyn , but the racketeer will be buried at 10:30 A , M. tomorrow in GreenWood Cemetery , Brooklyn , which is nonsectarian . The slain racketeer had lived in a *75,000 home in Fort Lee , N. J. ? Andrew Torregrossa Jr . of the mortuary said that arrangements for the funeral had been made by the dead man 's brothers Anthony ( Tough Tony ) , and the Rev , Salvatore Anastasio , a priest . ( Both Tony , a Brooklyn waterfront union leader , and Albert used the name of Anastasia , rather than Anastasio . ) Mr. Torregrossa said that Father Anastasio had not applied to either the Brooklyn or New Jersey diocesan authorities for masses or a consecrated burial for his brother . Albert Anastasia was one of the top figures in the nation 's criminal hierarchy , but he rested yesterday in a simple , maroon-colored steel coffin . He was dressed ' in his favorite dark-blue business suit , a white shirt with a blue @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ around his right hand , which was clasped on his left wrist that had been struck by two bullets . There were only a few floral wreaths in the mortuary . Although the police disI claimed any knowledge of the motive for the ' Anastasia murF der , some observers contended that it might lead to a shake-up in the top echelon of the underworld in the ** York area . They pointed out that it had followed the abortive assassination attempt on Costello and they expressed the belief that the two shootings were Connected . They said that younger men were probably trying to supplant older gang leaders . Reuters reported from BarChelia , . Italy , that Raffaele Anastasia , who was described as a brother of Albert , had been attacked in that village on Friday . However , members of the racketeer 's family denied here yesterday that the victim of the assault in Italy was related to them .                     