@@717435

txt LONDON , Oct. 22 ? For the last two and one-half years relations between the Soviet Union and the West have shifted from the patterns established by the victory in World War U in 1945 and the " cold war " into a more fluid and , from . the Western standpoint , more uncertain situation . At the meeting in Geneva next week of the foreign ministers of the United States , Britain , France and the Soviet Union the first and most important of the three items on the agenda is European security and the future of Germany . At their meeting in Geneva in July the Big Four heads of governments nominated this as the first point for consideration by their foreign ministers . The other items and are ' disarmament d development of East-West contacts . GERMANY AND SECURITY Since the Big Four meeting in July the situation in Europe has ' changed so greatly as a result of West Germany 's agreement to enter into diplomatic relations with the Soviet Union , that it is now accepted that the foreign ministers ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reunification in freedom along lines it has advocated for a decade . The future of Germany and seH curity for the Soviet Union are tightly linked in the first point on the agenda . The directive to foreign ministers agreed upon by the heads of government put security first . The directive instructs the ministers to consider various proposals to establish security in Europe , including the following : ( 1 ) ' A security pact for Europe or for part of Europe including assumption by pact members of an obligation not to resort to force and to deny assistance to an aggressor ; ( 2 ) Limitation , control and inspection in regard to armed forces and armaments ; ( 3 ) Establishment between the East and the West of a zone in which the disposition of armed forces will be subject to mutual agreement . Second place in the heads-ofgovernment directive is given to consideration of the " common responsibility " of the Big Four for the reunification of Germany by " free elections " in conformity with the national interests of the German people and " the interests @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have reached a stalemate on the central issue of European security and the future of Germany well before the first harried secretaries have arrived in Geneva . This stalemate arises from the Soviet Union 's refusal to agree to the unification of Germany in freedom as the Western powers have asked . The rulers of the Soviet Union believe they have , adequate reasons for refusing . ' They fear the presence in Cen- , tral Europe of a democratic Ger- ! many , although they are careful , to say that what they are afraid of is an armed and vengeful Germany . Their fear is based on two factors : Free elections in Germany will result in the end of Communist rule in East Germany and the departure of the Government of the German Democratic Republic to Moscow . More important , Moscow can not accept the principle of free elections in one Communist country without encouraging the Western powers to ask for the application of the same principle in other Soviet satellites . The Russians have made it so plain that they are guided by these principles in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Germany must be discounted . The test will come during the conference when Secretary of State Dulles or Foreign Secretary Macmillan offers Mr. Molotov the carefully thce out Western plans for estal . sliing security in Central 1 ' ope . These include a prelii , , nary reduction of all forces in Germany during the period of unifi- , cation , the conclusion of a four-I teen-power pact guaranteeing the Soviet Union and its satellites against German Iggression and , as a final installment on security , the gradual creation of a demilitarized zone along the eastern frontier of a united Germany . The Soviet Union has made it abundantly clear that it will not negotiate on the reunification of Germany until , its security demands are met . But these demands are expected to go beyond what the West is prepared to offer , to the unacceptable condition that a united Germany remain outside the North Atlantic Treaty Organization . DISARMAMENT ENT Disarmament , like the weathe ? . is something everyone wants to do something about . It can not be doubted that the Government of the Soviet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at the horrible picture of war in the nuclear age . But if the Russians , have reached the point where ! they believe that in the armory of nuclear weapons the great powers of East and West are in balance , they are unlikely at Geneva to do more than , after much argument for propaganda purposes , agree to refer the matter back to the United Nations Disarmament Subcommittee . Arms Plan President Eisenhower 's proposal for the mutual inspection of armaments by the Soviet Union and the United States has sorely tried Russian propagandists . For the first time , not only was another nation 's leader talking about disarmament and peace , but he was trying to do something about it . In the interval the Russians have riposted with Premier Bulganin 's proposal , which accepts General Eisenhower 's plan for safeguards in principle but establishes , two conditions . Mr. Molotov will say a lot about these at Geneva . One of ' the conditions asics that the warning system against surprise attack established by both powers cover United States bases overseas . These bases @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ propaganda since their establishment . The second Bulganin condition is that the warning system be included in a comprehensive system of disarmament that will include nuclear as well as conventional weapons . But the Russians know , just as the Americans , British and French know , that there is no absolutely reliable way of detecting stores of nuclear weapons . What the Western ministers will ask Mr. Molotov to do is ' to prod the Soviet delegation on the United Nationr Disarmament Subcommittee into serious discussion of an inspection agency for all sorts of arma- , ments . EAST-WEST CONTACTS Ultimately , the foreign ministers will arrive at Point 3 on their agenda : " The development of contacts between East and West . " For more than a year , thesecontacts have been developing . But careful analysts shows that they have not developed in fields that the Western powers desire . They do not , for instance , elimi-1 nate barriers that " interfere with free communications . " The exchange of cultural and scientific missions does not represent free communications . Barriers that the Soviet Union maintains @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . For instance , until a realistic rate of currency exchange in Russia makes it possible for ordinary travelers to visit that country , it is foolish to believe that the small number of non-communist Westerners now able to go to the Soviet Union kill have any effect on the thinking of its 200,000,000 people . Similarly , it is absurd to believe that any freedom of thought . can exist or will exist in the Soviet Union while newspapers , magazines and books from the outside world are barred . ' Prospects The prospects for anything ' tangible emerging from the foreign ministers ' meeting on even this third point are dim , indeed . But because the Soviet delegation will be able to make definite proposals on such exchanges as suit Russian policy and even to give guarantees in individual cases , something similar to definite progress may seem to emerge . Yet such gains will have to be balanced against the whole record of the conference . On the central issues , security and German unification and disarmament , there does not appear to be a likelihood for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ON ISSUES FOR GENEVA No Compromises Are Seen Likely On Security or German Unity By DREW MIDDLETON Special to The New York Times . AS THE FOREIGN MINISTERS MEET THREE STAGES IN THE CHANGING MAP OF EUROPE BEFORE WORLD WAR II END OF WORLD WAR II NITED INGDOM 1 : ; 171:1 . NETie CZECH RAO , Sfy410 : : . ; GREECE TURKEY OS Western Allier E2230c5apied by West Communist Attics VEMOccupied 17y Soviet Countries assocted with Westr defense plans Essi CoriCrpunloc                     