@@716437

txt Communist East Germany claimed that a second high-ranking member of the West German intelligence system , identified as Gerhard Rather , has deserted to the Soviet zone and asked for political asylum . An Italian court sentenced 21 agitators to seven-month jail terms for inciting violence in the Communist-led Ferrara farm strike , which was ended in June after troops moved in to maintain order among 100,000 farm hands . Washington : Peking Rejects Second U.S. Protest Communist China has rejected a second protest over the shooting down of a British airliner carrying six American passengers , a State Department spokesman said . He was unable to say what further steps , if any , the United States plans to take in the incident . Supporters of President Eisenhower 's farm program pushed for a showdown Senate vote on the key issue of price supports . A Rockefeller Foundation suggestion that a House investigation of tax-exempt foundations went beyond its announced purpose was followed by a demand by Representative Howell ( D ) of New Jersey that the organizations he given an open hearing . A special @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but ended its open hearings after only one foundation spokesman testified . Page 7.1 Boston : Oyster Institute Reelects Nelson J. Richards Nelson of Meriden and New Haven , Conn. , was elected to a third term as president of the Oyster Institute of North America at the organization 's annual meeting at the Sheraton-Plaza Hotel . National : Superiority in A-Weapons Cited The United States has an " overwheligning superiority " in atomic weapons , Lewis L. Strauss , Chairman of the Atomic Energy Commission , told the Veterans of Foreign Wars in Philadelphia . He hoped " we may continue " to be ahead " until such time as all nations agree to workable international control . " Senator Kefauver . Democratic presidential candidate in 1952 , faces a stiff challenge from Representative Sutton in the Democratic primary in Tennessee today , according to observers . At the same time , the nation 's youngest governor , Frank Clement , is bidc:ing for a second term against former Gov , Gordon Browning . Far East : Neutral Group Protests ROK Move An angry Louth Korean campaign against Communist members @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ protest from the Neutral Nations Supervisory Commission . ROK police chief Kin Chang Yong replied that he saw no reason to halt the anti-Communist demonstrations . Communist China has refused even to accept a second United States protest against the shooting down of a British airliner and attacks on American rescue planes off Hainan last month , it was reported in London . Represeetatives of the three nations forming the Indochina truce commission held their first joint meeting in New Delhi with delegates of the five countries concerned in the truce . The Yangtze River , already at a record height , has surged several inches nearer the top of dikes in the Wuhan industrial area in central China . Part of the dike system surrounding Wuhan is more than 98 feet high , according to Peking Radio . Weather Predictions : Fair Friday ( Page 2 )                     