@@713349

txt German rearming is regarded in the outside world almost entirely as an answer to the question whether the western Allies will permit the Germans to rearm . Here in the federal republic , however , it is becoming increasingly obvious that of almost equal importance is the other question , whether the Germans will accept rearming under the conditions which the western Allies , particularly France , will lay down . Chancellor Konrad Adenauer probably could get a majority in the Bonn Parliament tomorrow for aeceptance of almost any Allied . terms which may be put forward . But this would be a small majority . Even superficially , it would show how divided the West Germans are on this issue . And in view of the general feelings about rearming , the true opinion among the population would be against it . OppOsition Stiffens ? A strong , consolidated , Social Democratic party , the parliamentary opposition , has come out more - emphatically than hitherto , not against German rearming in principle but againSt rearming under existing conditions . The party 's leading spokesmen have stressed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , not rearming , is the main immediate objective . These utterances , it is reasonable to assume , express the opinion of the party rank and file , as shown in its meeting here Oct. 20. - Dr. Kurt Schumacher , leader of the Social Democrats , declared at a press conference Oct. 24 that the basic condition on which his party would be prepared to encourage the nation to participate materially in European defense would be that " Anglo-Saxon material and national destiny " should be inseparably linked with that of the Germans . This development , he ' added , would not be realized in the near future , according to reports from abroad . Until then the Social Democrats would give a negative answer to this question , he said . Security Demanded Dr , Schumacher declared that security . guarantees , of western powers could not be a substitute for military weapons or any Ot , - Pensive idea . The announcement of the strengthening of the occupation . troops in .. West Germany offered no prospect of successful resistance against a possible Soviet aggression , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , under which the Social Democrats are willing to agree upon German rearmament is that there first should he such strong western Allied troop concentrations along the German-Soviet borders that any Russian and German Communist . attempts at invasion of the federal republic could be repulsed . In other words , only under conditions of complete protection against possible reactions from the East would they approve German rearming , Dealing with this problem of rearming from the viewpoint of internal politics , Dr. Schumacher maintained that this present Parliament is not competent to decide the issue . He rejected a plebiscite but favored new federal elections as a means of ascertaining public opinion . Answering Dr. Adenauer 's earlier comment that this is not that kind ? of situation in which the constitution allows an appeal to the electorate , Dr. Schumacher interpreted it as a question of intelligent judgment . " The Allies must also know whether a casual formal majority is or is not enough for them . " French Plan ? Rejected He also rejected the idea of coupling acceptance of ? the Schuman Plan by the federal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reports from Paris indicate is being put forward by the French Government . In German Protestant circles this problem of Gethian rearming is also a matter of lively discussion . Bishop Hans Lilje , head of the Evangelical Church in the province of Hannover , declared recently this issue to be of such significance that it must be dealt with quite openly . The Evangelical Church , at its great conference in Essen at the end of August , had declared openly against remilitarization either in East or West Germany . Bishop Lilje maintained that the situation had changed completely since then so that the council of the Evangelical Church , which will meet in-November , will have to reexamine the issue . 