@@716478

txt Communist China 's expedient change of policy toward Britain has been amply demonstrated this week by the lotus blossom atmosphere the Chinese have carefully built around the reception accorded the British Labor Party delegation in Peking , The official Chinese Communist press  --  and there is no other kind  --  has devoted hundreds of enthusiastic columns to the visit of the Attlee mission , while accounts of British correspondents accompanying the delegation that have appeared in the Hong Kong press have been generally favorable . Reuters reports that British delegates ' arrival Mukden for a tour of Manchurian steel mills was heralded iw a big display of their Peking speeches and activities in the Mukden regional newspaper . Free ' to Travel The Chinese Communist leaders obviously are putting themselves out to charm the British visitors . And it is easy enough to be charmed in Peking , for the Chinese are excellent hosts and their ancient , storied capital is one of the world 's truly great cities . The British delegation , upon its arrival in Peking , was told it could travel where it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that has crushed civil liberties ( a point , incidentally , that recently was put before Premier Chou En-lai by both Indian Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru and Burmese Prime Minister U Nu ) , Communist China has a good deal to hide from foreign visitors it hopes to impress , this apparently artless invitation may be regarded as something of an overstatement . It may be assumed that former British Prime Minister Clement R. Attlee and most if not all the members of his party will not accept at face value all the Chinese Communists tell them and show them . Before leaving London , Mr. Attlee commented that he had been exposed to lots of eyewash in his time and that he knew it when he saw it . jAdroit Flatterers However , the very presence of the British party in Peking at this time is of tremendous importance to the Chinese Communists for propaganda purposes , fitting neatly into their specious " peaceful coexistence " campaign  --  a campaign being waged by a country that already possesses one of the world 's most powerful armies . Obviously , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ what the Chinese Communists wish them to see : they will be permitted to talk only to those who have been carefully chosen and prepared . And however open the delegates may , keep their minds regarding the true state of affairs in China and the real aims of this great new Communist power  --  committed as it is to expansion  --  the Chinese are adroit flatterers and it may be assumed that they have neglected no opportunities to cast their visitors in the role of peacemakers  --  a potent draft for ' any person . And in attempting to win the support , or even admiration , of the BrItish Labor leadership , the Chinese Communists no doubt too are looking toward the possibility of a Labor victory in Britain 's next elections .                     