@@719688

txt The visit , as nearly everybody knows , is taking place in the Metropolitan Theater , commodious in every respect with the unhappy exception of the stage . And this was truly unhappy . When the Metropolitan comes to Boston one has a right to expect more than a performance that appears to be improvised in the local high school gym . The flimsy curtain , for instance , so thin that the audience witnessed a shadow-play of scampering stagehands on the other side ; the drafts that caused it to billow upwards , revealing the feet of those on stage ; the shallow orchestra pit that elevated some of the instruments above stage level ; the shallow stage that put an obvious crimp in the ballet  --  all these things should stimulate civic action . Opera House Needed . Boston must nave an opera house  --  not a civic auditorium that can at times serve with difficulty as an opera house , but a house designed for opera under ideal conditions . This is a crying need , not outside the possibilities of Boston initiative to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can be grateful that we still have opera , and that the piece last night , Tchaikovsky 's " Eugene Onegin , " was a musically superb production . This we expected , knowing that Dimitri Mitropoulos would be in the pit , infusing both the players and the singers with his own ardor and flexibility . This we also expected from the stellar cast , and from Lucine found a depth of characterization not before observed in her work  --  a sense of fire that turns a first-rate singer into a prima donna . Her Letter Scene ( a challenge that only the most gifted actress-singers can face successfully ) was a tour de force of eloquent singing and impassioned turmoil . It was marred only by an ill-timed burst of applause from the audience , which Mr. Mitropoulos rebuked with violent gestures by his left hand ( but which the listeners doubtless considered part of his directions to the orchestra ) . Americans have the bad habit of applauding while the music is sounding , a practice that Europeans scrupulously avoid . Composers are just as desirous of applause @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it . Listeners should wait for the stopping places . This is one of the Metropolitan 's new productions of the season , and Rolf Gerard 's settings and costumes are handsome and atmospheric . One can not say how much Peter Brook 's directions have been altered in adjusting to the confines of this stage . The grand march in Act II , for instance , was eliminated in favor of a ballet sequence far less effective than a grand march can be . Lyric Scenes ' . But musically , as we said be-fore , the production was superb . This is an opera in which the listener , with the exception of the shot in the dueling scene , can relax in the sheer beauty of the Tchaikovskian melodies . Tchaikovsky himself , aware that he had not turned out a typical I grand opera , called the seven episodes " lyric scenes " ; and Mr. Mitropuulos helped to eliminate the awkward waits between changes by devising four interludes , extracted by Julius Burger from the score . Supporting Miss Amara were Martha Lipton , giving us @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Elias , a lovely combination of physical and vocal beauty as Olga ; Richard Tucker as Lenski , whose tenor admirably throbbed with the operatic sob ; George London , appropriately sinister as the dissolute Onegin ; Belen Amparan as the loyal nurse ; and Giorgio Tozzi as Prince Grernin , whose declaration of love for Tatiana was a high point , vocally and dramatically , of the evening .                     