@@718760

txt In a programmatic speech fully endorsed by President Eisenhower , Secretary Dunes again expounded and affirmed yesterday the basic concepts that guide American foreign policy in a world menaced by a Soviet imperialism possessing great and growing power of atomic aggression . These basic concepts really boil down to one , and that is to " wage peace " in order to avert the waging of an atomic war which would leave no victors and would only lead to the greatest and perhaps last of all human disasters . This concept is in line with President Eisenhower 's previous dictum that there is no alternative to peace . But , as President Eisenhower has said before this and as Mr. Dulles reiterates , this does not mean the peace of surrender . On the contrary , the goal of " waging peace " is a peace of justice and liberty for nations and persons , and that kind of peace must be waged on many levels ? military , economic , political and propagandistic ? and it must be waged sometimes at great risk and , for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . There can be no quarrel with this basic concept or with America 's primary concern with the Soviet menace that is at the bottom of most of the troubles of the post-war world . But there has been and will continue to be criticism of the Eisenhower Administration 's and especially Mr. Dulles ' application of this concept to individual situations and also to the cost of it . In so far as Mr. Dulles takes account of such criticism , his speech is an effective defense of the policies he represents against those who accuse him of reckless " brinkmanship " and against Congressional quarters which , in the name of a false economy , would cripple these policies by denying the necessary funds for them . Mr. Dulles ' exposition is weakest in its dealing with the most immediate point of danger  --  the Middle East , which is also the most immediate point of indirect Soviet aggression . Mr. Dulles is quite right in rededicating this nation to the principles of the United Nations , which bar force except in self-defense .. He is equally right in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ British , French and Israeli military intervention , now generally recognized as a mistake . But he makes no mention of the vacillating American policy on the Suez Canal issue prior to the intervention or of the one-sided American approach to the latter in favor of President Nasser . This certainly helped to determine the equally onesided United Nations approach . Mr. Dulles recognizes that the intervention grew out of " provocative and dangerous " conditions prior to it and pledges himself to seek a settlement in conformity with justice and international law . But he not only fails to pin any responsibility for these conditions on Nasser ; he even appears ? to excuse Nasser 's continued defiance of law and still provocative attitude as due to highrunning emotions and a deep sense of grievance . In contrast to this soft touch Mr. Dulles is firm in dealing with the Soviets themselves . He rightly expounds the wisdom and the necessity of our collective defense arrangements with forty-two nations which , in contrast to the alliances imposed by the Soviets on rebellious people , rest on a purely voluntary and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ threats . He just as rightly defends the re- quest for " foreign aid , " amountinE to 1 per cent of our gross nationa product , as essential to our own cle. fense which , without such aid , woglc consume many more billions OJT now allotted to it . As disarmament has been frustrated thus far b3 Soviet objection to effective control we must erect a defensive shielc based not only on balanced land sea and air forces in case of " little ' wars but also on nuclear retaliatory power . Behind this shield we must worlt for the economic and social improve , ment of all people , especially of th ( vast masses in Asia and Africa re sisting communism despite their desperate poverty . In propounding these concept ; Mr. Dulles is guided by the abidinf faith that the wave of the future not a reactionary Communist des . potism but freedom . He sees thi : force already at work not only it subjugated countries like Hungary and Poland but also in . Soviet Rus ? sia itself . . To these forces of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ incitement to revolt , and pledges no deal with the Soviets al their expense . Whether the United States did all it might have done in support of the Hungarian revolt is a moot question , but in the policy of liberation by means short of wai Mr. Dulles is assured of the support of the American people , now con ? vinced of the necessity of it .                     