@@719458

txt Dag Hammarskjold will take up the deadlock over disarmament negotiations during his ' visit to London this week . Authoritative sources said today that while the Secretary General of the United Nations would also discuss Middle Eastern problems the principal subject of his discussions with Foreign Secretary Selwyn Lloyd el Britain would be the Soviet boycott of the United Nations Disarmament Commission . Mr. Hammarskjold will leave for London tomorrow , and is scheduled to stay only one day . While there , he will also have an opportunity for discussions with Foreign Minister Christian Pineau of France , who will be in London on Friday . Depending on the outcome of his talks , Mr. Hammarskjold may decide to go to Moscow later . HaYnmarskjold Saw Dulles Mr. Hammarskjold conferred with M. Pineau en route to New York from his visit to the Middle East over the Christmas holidays . The Secretary General had a lengthy discussion on New Year 's Day with Secretary of State Dulles and Henry Cabot Lodge , Permanent United States Representative at the United Nations . Mr. Lodge is chairman of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ evident that no meeting will be held this month . Some delegates , in fact , believe that none will be held before March . The official explanation is that Mr. Lodge is waiting until the Western members of the commission agree on a common policy for dealing with the Soviet decision not to participate in the work of the twenty-fivenation commission . Czechoslovakia and Poland , which were among the fourteen countries added to the commission by the General Assembly last December , have said that they also will , boycott it . The Soviet bloc 's explanation is that the commission , even with its enlarged membership , is dominated by the Western powers . According to reliable sources . however , one of the principal reasons why no meeting has been called is the reluctance of neutralist members ? notably India and Burma  --  to attend in the absence of the Soviet Union . Yugoslavia . which is not a member of the Soviet bloc but has a Communist government , takes the same position . The situation of the Disarmament Commission , in other words . is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the General Assembly , known as the " Little Assembly , " which was established at the 1947 session of the Assembly over vehement Soviet opposition . Over the years the Soviet bloc has.refused to attend any meetings of the Interim Committee , which was proposed by the United States in the hope of circumventing the Soviet veto in the Security Council . As a result the Interim Committee has become as much of a dead letter as the Military Staff Committee of the Security Council . Most delegates believe that if no way is found to induce the Soviet . Union to resume negotiations , a special Assembly session in April or May is inevitable . Indian and Yugoslav delegates , among others , are discussing such a meeting . Mr. Hammarskjold is also expected to . discuss with Mr. Lloyd the prospect of opening negotiations ? oft ' compensation for shareholders of the Univerdal Suez Canal Company , which was nationalized by Egypt in July , 1956 : Under a tentative agreement that the Secretary General worked out last fall , negotiations with Egypt will be on a governmental @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ refuses to negotiate with officers of the company . However , representatives named by the company would be members of the French delegation . The company announced yesterday that an extraordinary meeting would be held Feb. 5 to consider negotiation plans . The British Government , which is the largest shareholder in the company , is expected to join the negotiations .                     