@@714465

txt Renioval of Mrs. Kathleen Ryan Dacey and Louis F. O'Keefe , two paid members of the board of appeal of the State-Department of Mental Health , was recommended today in a majority report of a special . Senate committee which investigated the board . The report charged that " there has been an abuse of public trust . " It recommended that Governor , Dever remove these two members , who were paid a total of ' $5,525 for 65 days of organizational meetings , which included only one hearing . A third unpaid member of the board , Mrs. Eva Silva , assistant attorney general , was not criticized by the Senate investigating , committee report . The report was signed by Senators Philip A. Graham ( R ) of Hamilton , chairman , and Paul R. Achin ( R ) of Lowell . The third member of the investigating committee , Senator William J. Keenan ( D ) of Boston , is expected to file a minority report with the clerk of the Senate . Waste Charged " It is the opinion of a majority @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ spent on these matters ( organizational work ) was wasted . Much of the work could have been done more efficiently and more economically by others , " the report continues . Mrs. Dacey was paid $50 for every day or part of a day she put in pay vouchers for work on the appeal board . Mr. Keefe was paid S35 for each day . " Other than on the four days when all members met , these activities were primarily reading statutes , psychiatry , accounting manuals , and mail , filling out forms , looking for office space , and general organizational work , " said the report of the Senate committee . Beyond this , it continued in the 42-page report , it found that " the board has violated several statutes . " In quoting various bits of testimony the Senate Committee charged that there were many inconsistencies regarding the dates of meeting and work on these occasions . IReorganizaLion Factor " No clerk was appointed . No board office was established . No votes or resolutions were kept . No hearings were held . No @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Department of Mental Health whose applications for discharge had been denied by the commissioner were obtained , nor was any serious attempt made to obtain them , " reported the investigating committee . In addition to recommending the removal of the two paid members of the board of appeal , the Senate committee further recommended that the Joint Committee on Legal Affairs , which is studying a bill calling for the reorganization of the appeal board , take this report into consideration .                     