@@717030

txt Other delegates , however , took a different view . They argued that Mr. Chou merely was throwing dust in the eyes of the conference . They pointed out that Peking and Moscow both have been talking peace for some time now but have sidestepped any positive acts of good will which might create an atmosphere conducive to negotiations . Those who doubt Mr. Chou 's intentions point out that the Chinese Communist delegation has made the desired impression on a significant portion of assembled representatives . Some time in the future , they add , he could easily renew his sabre rattling under the pretext that circumstances have changed and that Peking was being forced to take military measures in the " interests of self-defense . " There 's fairly general acceptance , however , of the theory that if Mr. Chou is genuinely sincere at this time , he must take certain positive steps to establish that sincerity before the western powers would be willing to sit clown to talk tangible terms . One such step and perhaps the most obvious would be the release @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Another might be an announcement by Peking that Communist armies would terminate harrassing around the Matsus and Quemoy pending talks with the United States . Gestures Lacking Still another gesture of good will might be a Peking announcement that the state of war with Japan has ended . The effect of Mr. Chou 's peace statement on the conference itself , meanwhile , is significant not so much because of what may come later but because ' of the impact it has had on existing relationships between India and the Colombo powers . There is no question now but that India has suffered a serious setback in terms of Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru 's ambition to play a major role in achieving Asian peace . India came to the Bandung Conference with the primary aim of seeking Mr. Chou 's agreement to a cease-fire , thereby clinching Mr. Nehru 's claim to a major role in world affairs . This is not to say Mr. Nehru is not sincere in his efforts to promote peace . But Mr. Nehru has gone about the task in such a way as to cause @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ feels he is the only person capable of handling such matters of world import . Throughout the conference there has been an undercurrent of bad feeling , particularly on the part of Indonesia over the fact that Mr. Nehru was a bit heavy handed in bossing his fellow cosponsors about and making it appear he alone was the arbiter in matters ranging from protocol to definitions of colonialism . This was even more noticeable in the case of Mr. Nehru 's advisor , V. K. Krishna Menon , who in flowing robes and wooden stave made little attempt to conceal his disdain for those with whom he differed . During the course of a political committee debate , for instance , he attacked a Turkish delegate in such a fashion that one member of the committee remarked that even if one did not agree'with the Turkish gentlemen , Mr. Menon 's attitude left no alternative . This may or may not have been a factor behind the failure of the Indians in the end to make any progress in their effort to get a cease-fire formula from Mr. Chou . Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hours during one evening at Bandung . And at midnight , interviewed in his quarters , he admitted glumly and somewhat petulantly that he could see no prospects for . success . Aimed for Spectacular Later at a luncheon with a group of newsmen , he reiterated this view and stated that India had then given up trying . It was shortly after this luncheon that Mr. Chou made his peace statement . One could not escape the conclusion that Mr. Chou had deliberately pulled the diplomatic carpet from under his big neighbor to the south . There is little question about the fact that Mr. Chou meant this as a spectacular pronouncement on Communist China 's aims . And any doubts on this score were settled when the Chinese Communist delegation later distributed copies of the statement to newsmen . If any credit is due for at least setting the scene for the statement , it would go to Sir John Kotelawala , Prime Minister of Ceylon , who before the Indians could themselves initiate peace talks ever Formosa , himself ' came forward with a proposal that Mr. Chou @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . India , Pakistan , Indonesia , Burma , and Ceylon constitute the Colombo powers . Thus , if nothing else , Mr. Chou 's peace bid has stimulated a friction among the Colombo powers and stolen quite a bit of Mr. Nehru 's thunder . Conceivably , Mr. Chou has been feeling Mr. Nehru was gaining too much influence as leader of the neutral nations , particularly as regards Laos and Cambodia , And it is also conceivable Peking was annoyed over Mr. Nehru 's rough treatment of the Communists inside India , particularly in connection with the recent Andrha elections wherein the Congress Party won by a landslide over Communist opposition . The net effect of Mr. Chou 's bypassing of the Indians , at any rate , was to force Mr. Nehru into a corner , diplomatically speaking , and to elevate the Peking leader as the alleged great advocate of peace . Impression Made Despite some bitter wrangling over the question of colonialism , accompanied by attacks on the Soviet Union by some delegates , Mr. Chou as principal proponent of the Communist bloc managed to make @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It is difficult at this early date to assess precisely how powerful an influence he had on the other delegations . But at least two surface signs are visible in fact that during the course of the conference both Egypt and Syria made clear their friendly attitude toward the Peking regime , and it is further reported that both stated they are prepared to exchange preliminary diplomatic representatives . Mr. Chou also made some impression upon the Japanese delegation , who , despite reports to the contrary , came to the conference with the express purpose of making both private and official contact with the Peking delegation . Regardless of what the Japanese achieved or hoped to achieve as a result of the meeting with Mr. Chou , they considered the meeting sufficiently important to bring their top Chinese interpreter from Tokyo , who , incidentally , never appears on airplane manifests or the official roster of delegates . It is also perhaps significant that while the Japanese contact with the Chinese Communists was handled officially by the chief delegate , Tatsunosuke Takasaki , an unofficial contact was made with Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ group from Tokyo .                     