@@714596

txt , Asked whether he thought the WSB had authority to recommend a union shop , Mr. Truman said its recommendations were within its authority . Meanwhile , the first court test went against industry . Judge Alexander Holtzoff of a United States district court refused industry 's request to grant a restraining order to nullify federal seizure . This is only the beginning of a big court test , however , and industry is expected to press it to the uttermost . In the meantime , so long as government holds the vast industry there presumably will be no strike . Congress Concerned The other phase of developments is in Congress . Congressmen are glad no strike has occurred but are deeply concerned over the manner in which it was averted . In simple terms the matter boils down to this : Is the so-called " inherent power " of the President big enough to deal with a national emergency like a threatened steel strike in the manner adopted by the President ? This is a constitutional issue and one in which the lines are not clear @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his power . On the other hand counterauthority has been advanced . The issue is unlikely to be settled until long after the present controversy , if at all . Many critics who deplore government seizure of steel are not aware that the government seized the railroads two years ago and is now actually holding and operating them . Here it is the trade-union groups which are outraged by the situation . Relatively little editorial attention has been attracted to this seizure which is still in force . Legal Difference Seen However , there is a big legal difference between Mr. Truman 's seizure of the ' railroads and his seizure of the steel industry . In justification of the rail seizure , Mr. Truman had a remnant of the emergency powers of the old War Powers Act . In taking over the steel industry Mr. Truman did not base his legal position on this former statutory authority but leaned heavily on the so-called " inherent powers " of the chief executive . During the 1949 debate in Congress on revising the Taft-Hartley Act , Attorney General ( now Supreme Court @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Labor Committee : , " The inherent power of the President to deal with emergencies that affect the health , safety , and welfare of the entire nation is exceedingly great . It is my belief that access to its own courts is always available to the United States , in the absence of a specific statutory bar . " Future Possibilities Eyed The extreme power over industry implied in this " inherent power " doctrine is the basis for real heart-searching in Congress . Even some trade-union leaders , though they rejoice over the present situation , privately express concern . Suppose some antilabor President should exercise the same power against trade unions , these leaders observe , then the shoe would be on the other soot . Other commentators here express doubt whether a British prime minister would have the power to make a similar seizure of an industry without a specific act of Parliament . Senate Republican leaders considered a proposal that the Senate Judiciary Committee investigate President Truman 's seizure of the steel industry . Mr. Truman 's message touched off a debate in the Senate on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Banking , or Judiciary Committee . Vice-President Alben W. Barkley referred the message to the Labor Committee , but Senator Burnet R. Maybank ( D ) of South Carolina , Chairman of the Banking Committee . The industry , rebuffed in its first attempt to have the seizure nullified by the temporary restraining order , pleaded in vain in federal court on April 10 for an immediate hearing in its court fight against government seizure . Court rules allow 20 days for the defendant , the government , to reply to the steel company suits : Candidates ' Views By a Staff Correspondent of The Christian Science Mnnitor Washington Following is the reaction of four presidential candidates to government seizure of the steel industry : Gov . Earl Warren of California said : " I think it a bad policy to give the President power to seize property , no matter how small , because of some indescribable , undefinable inherent power to preserve the public welfare . " Senator Robert A. Taft ( R ) of Ohio said that President Truman " usurped authority which he does not have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said , " I hate to see the government have to resort to seizure of industry , no matter how vital it might be . " He said there is no question in his mind about the President 's inherent powers to place the industry under federal operation ? but that the dispute should never have reached that point . Harold E. Stassen said the President shouldhave called both sides to the White House 10 days ago to work out a settlement without government seizure . He said the seizure resulted from neglect of presidential duty . Steel chief flays Truman ? Speech charges politics : Page 11.                     