@@717603

txt France elected yesterday a new Nationr.l Assembly more heavily loaded than any previous one with extremists regarded as unfriendly to the parliamentary system . These extremists were the Communists , expected to have about 150 seats , and the new and somewhat violent tax revolt movement led by Pierre Poujade , which had won forty-four ' seats on the basis of still incomplete returns at 8 A. M. today . It appeared probable that the only way in which a government could be formed would be througlt a coalition of the major moderate parties that formed the two ofposing blocs in the campaign . Those blocs were led by Edgar Faure , the Premier , and Pierre Mendes-France , former Premier , both of whom won re-election to the Assembly , Poujade Faction a Surprise The strength of the Poujade movement came as a surprise . It was believed that many votes that had previously gone to the Gaullists had shifted to the Poujadists , the Gaullists suffering a sharp decline . Returns at 8 A. M. included the results for 481 Assembly seats out of 544 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; Socialists , 82 ; Poujadists , 44 ; Radicals , 42 ; Left Republican Rally , 11 ; Democratic Resistance Union , 5 ; various lefts , 3 ; Popular Republicans , 62 ; Independents , 88 ; Gaullists ( Social Republicans ) , 12 ; " new right " , 2 . Most of the Radicals follow M. Mendes-France , as do the Socialists . The Independents , Popular Republicans and members . of the Rally of the Republican Left have been allied in this election under the leader . ship of Premier Faure , Antoine Pinay , Foreign Minister and Georges Bidault , former Premier and Foreign Minister . According to The Associated Press , an unofficial tabulation of 5,261,000 votes , representing all sections of France but only a scattering from the Paris region , gave these percentages of the Popular vote for the main groupings : Communists , 22.8 ; Republican Front ( backing M. MendesFrance ) , 35 ; Right-Center coalition ( backing M. Faure ) , 31 ; Poujade movement , 10.7 . The old Assembly , which had 627 members when it was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , was made up as follows : Communists , 98 ; Socialists , 103 ; Radicals , 78 ; Democratic Union of the Resistance , 23 ; Popular Republicans , 87 ; Peasants , 21 ; Independent Peasants , 28 ; Independents , 54 ; Republican and Social Action ( former Gaullists ) , 32 ; Social Republicans ( Gaul // lists ) , 68 ; other and unaffiliated , 32 ; vacant , 5 . The relatively moderate groups , extending from the Socialists on the Left to the independents on the Right , appeared to have held their own , with , M. Menas-France 's lists succeeding well in Paris and some other areas . The Faure-Pinay-Popular Republican combination seemed sure to have the largest bloc of seats between the extremes , but not enough for a majority . Nor could the Menas-France Republican Front hope for a majority except in coalition with either the Communists or the Center-Right parties . There seemed likely to be four notable divisions in the new Asi sembly : the Republican Front of Radicals and Socialists , the Faure-Pinay-Popular Republican coalition , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Popular Vote Drops The Communists made their gain in Assembly seats as a result not of any great gain in popular votes but of the splits among the middle parties that had united against the Communists in the 1951 election , The proportion of the total vote , estimated at 82 per cent of those registered , that went to the Communists appeared to have dropped . Yet the party won additional Assembly seats through the failure of many of the moderate alliances to get more than 50 per cent of the votes , which would have entitled them to all the seats under the proportional representation system in effect . This fortuitous Communist gain , a windfall for the party , was foreseen early in the campaign when the middle parties wear split by a rift running through the center of the Radical party and separating M. Menas-France and M. Faure . It had been predicted that supporters of M. Poujade would Win a few seats , but not the wide sweep that the three tickets Ile put in the field apparently have made , thanks irrtly to the , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all odds the novelty of the election . It brought into the , Assembly a new group of irreconcilables on the Right to supplement the familiar one formed by the Communists on the Left side of the legislative chamber . M. Poujade , a 35-year-old bookseller of St. Cere in the Lot Department , began by organizing small shopkeepers to resist tax gatherers . He later stumped France to form a national movement , first to revise the tax laws and finally to demand the convocation of a " States general " like those that met just before the French Revolution to pro-. claim popular grievances . Poujade 's Aims Not Clear M. Poujade has not - explained how such a body would be constituted , but apparently his advocacy of it means that he looks beyond the National Assembly and to some extra parliamentary instrument . Beyond this he seems to have no program . But he is an able , emotional orator and effective in stirring the crowds he addresses . It seemed to observers that it would be as impossible for the Assembly to assimilate the Poujade movement , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The two together seemed likely to mean that not far from a third of the legislative body would be composed of men who would not fit into the parliamentary system , and that nearly all the other votes in the Assembly would need to be mobilized into a single bloc to attain the majortain and which must be devised by compromises that rarely last long . The moderates fell out this time because such a compromise had resulted in an alliance between M. Faure and M. Pinay , who hated to contemplate the return to power of M. Mendes- , France . M. Faure 's dissolution of the Assembly was a blow against M , Mendes-France , The personsonal bitterness that divides him and M. Faure more than doctrines do arose from this action by M. Faure . Mendes-France 's Attacks Fierce M. Mena's-France made fierce attacks on what he called " ten years . of decadence " and political " immobilism . " He attributed the guerrilla war in Algeria to the current government , while Georges Bidault , former Foreign Minister , attributed it to the " abandonment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1954 . M. Merras-France implied he could quickly ' solve the Algerian problem if in power ; but Jacques Soustelle , Govejnor General of Algeria by appointment of M. Merlas-France , said this could be done by no magic wand . The Algerian question came to dominate the campaign because young French reservists had been called ' up for service in Algeria , because that country is an important market for French exports , and because many Frenchmen feel that if France lost North Africa she would lose her rank as a - great nation . An almost equally important issue was that , of constitutional and electoral reform to insure more stability in governments . But it was not clear how these reforms were to be enacted unless the moderate parties fighting against each other in the campaign should unite afterward to enact them . Some officials here who foresaw a heavy Communist vote and additional Communist seats in the Assembly were worried lest the outside world should assume ' this meant communism was growing in France . It may be difficult to draw a , ity necessary for the Government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ M. Mend  --  s-France said the election had demonstrated the discredit into which the majority of the Faure Government had fallen . He said the Faure-Pinay coalition had suffered setbacks on its two wings and that " tke artifices of a voting system long condemned did not prevent the Republican Front from winning victories , especially in the Paris region . " The campaign that ended Saturday was more bitter and more personal than that of 1951 . Moderates and conservatives were split during the 1955 campaign into two loose coalitions that played into the hands of the extremes by scattering the votes in the micelle . One was the Center-Right coalition led by Premier Faure . It embraced %bout half the Radicals , the Roman Catholic Popular Republicans , some former Gaullists and a large conservative group linked rougily with the Independent party , ' of which Foreign Minister Pinay is the leader . The other coalition was the Republican front led by former Premier Menas-France . It included the rest of the Radicals , the Socialists and a few scattering Gaullists . It would be a puzzle to draw @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that would run between these improvised coalitions . M. Faure is approximately as Left as M. Menas-France , and the Gaullists that M. Menas-France sought as allies are Right . There were clericals and anticlericals on both sides , as there were advocates and opponents of a federal European union . Both the supporters of M. Merfas-France and the . Popular Republicans urged a f deration for the French overseas territories . Both M. Pinay and M. Menas-France urged a reform of the Army that wouuld reduce the need of conscripts . In a broad sense it may be said that this time the campaign battle was between two fairly moderate groups . But when moderates fall out in France they play into the hands of the strong Communist party and the less strong extremists on the Right . They thus increase the nor : - mal difficulty of finding a majority in the National Assembly , which no party can hope to obline between Communists and Communist voters , but there is such a line . They used , to draw it in Alsace by saying most Communist voters there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ general go to mass less regularly than the Alsatians , yet it may be said that the most of those who vote for Communists are as little Communist as in Alsace . Some vote Communist because of a tradition of voting as far Left as possible . Others vote so because the leaders of the very efficient General Confederation of Labor , which fights the battle of the worker in negotiating with employers , are Communists . Above all , Communist votes in France reflect the feeling of a large fraction of the workers that they have not really participated in the life and benefits of the nation . It is not only their standard of living that has suffered but their dignity , which is perhaps equally important .                     