@@719140

txt Premier Maurice Bourges-Maunoury today called a special session of Parliament to deal with the Algerian problem . It will meet Sept. 24 . Officials hope that early in October the French Assembly will adopt a new basic law for Algeria . If so , this proffered statute will be the basis of France 's case when the Algerian problem is discussed in the United Nations General Assembly later next month . The statute is not yet finally drafted . Cabinet meetings tomorrow and Friday are expected to complete it . The Premier 's action in summoning Parliament reflected optimism in official circles regarding acceptance of the stz.tute . It is believed he would not have taken the action unless he felt ' fairly confident of a majority . A vital point remaining to be settled is the character of the central authority in Algeria . The original project called for an all-Algerian assembly , from which a central council or cabinet would he chosen and to which it would be responsible . The Conservatives , Radicals and Gaullists objected to both an assembly wielding political power and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the central council should be chosen by the terri // torial governments . In that case it might or might not be responsible to the central assembly . This question , affecting the status of the Algerian assembly , remains to be solved by the French Cabinet in consultation with party leaders . But it was said authoritatively tonight . that the French governor ' at Algiers would not preside over the council and would have no responsibility for the central government . It was also said that a single college , or equal voting between Europeans and Moslems , would be adopted in the new plan , replacing the double college , by which the total vote of the European minority has received equal weight with that of the Moslem majority . Based on Federal Idea Apart from uncertainty about the method of choosing the central executive , high officials said the plan remained approximately as outlined in a dispatch to The New York Times on Aug. 25 . It is based on the federal principle . There would be probably six territories in Algeria , each with its assembly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rep  --  esentative would be responsible only for the powers reserved to France  --  defense , currency and some aspects of justice and education .. In the capital , Algiers , would be a central assembly exercising such powers ( apart from the reserved powers ) as the territorial governments should dele ? gate to it . A governor repkesenting France would exercise the reserved powers but apparently no others . The European minority would receive safeguards in ' territories where it remained a majority since it could delegate a minimum of powers to the central authority . French officials are keenly aware that much of the discussion so far has been directed at finding a basic law that would suit the French Parliament and impress the United Nations rather than one that would rally the Moslems of Algeria to its support . The French officials agree that a major problem will be to find Moslems ready and able to back up the new law and win the support of their fellow countrymen in its application . The Premier has insisted that the law will not be " granted " but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rejected by Ferhat Abbas , one of the leaders of the rebels ' National Liberation Front in Algeria , according to The Tribune of Lausanne , which thus quotes him in an interview published today . Colonials Oppose Law Special to Trie New York Times . ALGIERS , Algeria , Sept. 10 ? Rumblings of opposition to France 's projected basic law for Algeria are beginning to be heard here among the ultracolonialists . War veterans ' organizations have published resolutions urging that all reform be postponed until the rebellion is defeated . The right-wing newspaper Echo d'Alger has published a series of articles strong-1 ly condemning the proposed single voters roll . Jean-Baptiste Biaggi , rightwing lawyer , who has often been in the forefront of colonialist agitation , came to Algiers for the weekend and proclaimed his intention of whipping up opposition to the proposed law . Quarters close to , Robert Lacoste , Residing Minister for Algeria and chief executive of this rebellion-torn land , says he is preparing to put down any right-wing obstruction to the projected reforms with as much vigor as he has shown in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is determined to stay in Algeria and apply the projected law firmly and , if necessary , to expel from the territory any colonialist leaders and agitators who get in his way . Opinion close to M. Lacoste is that the proposed law is France 's last hope of finding a settlement in Algeria short of the independence demanded by the rebels .                     