@@714824

txt The United Nations and Commun ! st. delegates negotiating at Panmunjom for an armistice in Korea resumed plenary sessions today in a thirty-two-minute meeting . Then the Allies called for and obtained a new adjournment of a week  --  until 11 A. M. , Aug. 11 ( 10 P. M. , Aug. 10 , Eastern dayli:ht time ) ? when neither side had a fresh proposal to make on the deadlocked issue of the exchange of war prisoners . The recess was the fifth called by the United Nations within a month , and apparently a new pattern for the long-drawn-dut sessions had now been set . The Allied delegations , it seemed evident , would decline to sit at the roadside meeting place unless ccavinced that the enemy meant to make a move toward discussion of the firm principle set out by tie United Nations Command that no captive would be returned to Cornmunist rule over his own objection . Maj. Gen. William K. Harrison Jr. , the senior United Nations negotiator , told correspondents just before he went into the tent for the brief session @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ understand the bals on which the talks now would be conducted by the Western reln.esentatives  --  refusal to bargain over the number of prisoners who may be returned under the princ ;  |p1Q  of voluntary repatriation . Dealing With a Principle " The number ' of prisoners to be sent back is determined by the prisoners themselves . " General Harrison said . " We have nothing to do with it . We are dealing with 3 , principle , and the CommuniGt3 ca n't seem to understand that . " The United Nations at recent secret truce sessions , told the enemy that 83,000 former Chinese Red and North Korean soldiers , out of about 170,000 , had consented after the polls in South Korean stockades to return to their Communist masters . The Communist Command then demanded the return of at least 116,000 , including all the Chinese , and termed the results of the poll " a monstrous lie . " In contrast with the former occasions when the Communists bit ? terly protested the Allied walkouts , forcing adjournments of three days to a week , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? mand for a new pause in the talks . For the first time , they agreed with little argument to the new recess . North Korean Lieut . Gen. Nam head of the Communist group , made a brief address when the session opened , reiterating his assertion that 116,000 Red prisoners must be returned and charging General Harrison with " running away " from the conference table . But General Nam failed to make his usual angry outburst when thi United Nations delegate moved for the recess . Lieut . Col. Joseph Borcohert , the Army spokesman at advance headquarters , said it was his impression the United Nations delegation would have walked out in any event as soon as it learned that the Communists had no new material to introduce . The United Nations commander , Gen. Mark W. Clark , has already informed the Communist leaders that no obligation rested on the Allied representatiVes . to go to Panmunjom daily only to listen to the repetition of propaganda material by the enemy . The new pause in the negotiations , although not otherwise officially explained , gave @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ further stage after more than a year 's continuance . Previously the talks had been held daily , although for long periods no progress was made and the Communists , according to the United Nations viewpoint , were chiefly interested in using the sessions as a propaganda forum . This process , 4. was speculated now might be considered to have come to end and while meetings would be called periodically , they would also be recessed quickly unless profitable discussion seemed likely . If this was the case , a major turn in the truce talks might seem to have been reached . Today 's adjournment followed more tart exchanges between General Harrison and General Nam . The North Korean 's language , General Harrison said , was such as ( with in civilized countries associate with common criminals or persons who , through ignorance or stupidity , are unable to speak logically and convincingly . " General Nam 's manner of talk , General Harrison informed the Communist negotiator , " serves no useful purpose . " Later , General Harrison told correspondents the Communists " are still trying @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is this cow worth . ' We ca n't do business . " In two minor developments the Communists today again charged that United Nations shells fell inside the neutral area around Panmunjom , and they arranged to carry on the staff officers ' meetings during the adjournment of the plenary delegations . Investigation was under way of the Reds ' . statement that two projectiles hit the area early today . An indication that the Communists ' position was unchanged and that the Chinese and North Koreans were prepared to resume where they left off  --  in their long series of accusations against the United Nations Command was seen by observers in a letter handed over at the staff meeting yesterday . In the letter , General Nam repeated an old charge that Chinese prisoners were forced to act as . intelligence agents for the Allies after their capture . He raised the total of those allegedly parachuted behind the Communist lines as spies to 238.                     