@@719791

txt Despite the many problems confronting 1958 graduating classes , commencement exercises bristle with hope and a positive outlook . Dr. James S. Coles , president of Bowdoin College , in delivering the baccalaureate address during that school 's 153d commencement week exercises ; said : " , If you are to continue to be Men , of vision , you must mainEducation Roundup tain an independence of thought , a , courage of your own convictions , and a determination not to follow the crowd for that sake alone . . . ? " You have knowledge and training which is the privilege of but few . These , no one can take from you , but you can lose them for useful pUrposes if you are not constantly alert . " Think hard , think independently , " counseled Dr. Coles . " If ( your thoughts ) are worthwhile , initially they may well be unpopular . But If there is truth in them , they will eventually prevail . " True Perspective Vital Secretary of the Treasury Robert B. Anderson , in addressing the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ greatest challenge of all to the educated citizen in a free society is , first , to disentangle the issues and see them in their true perspective ; and , ' second , to interpret them faithfully in meaningful terms to his associates . " Developing the idea ' that we can produce anything we want in the way of an educational system , he said that " we shall have wasted our effort if all we get are technicians with little sense of mission , little competency in decision making , and little concept of how their learning should be applied toward the goals of a free society . " Delivering the baccalaureate address to Boston College seniors ? Msgr . Francis J. Desmond of Cardinal O'Connell Seminary urged that the young men be loyal to spiritual values . He advised that in an atheistic society , no success is complete ; and that material accomplishments increase the desire for still more success without full satisfaction . Balance Urged Msgr . Desmond stressed the necessity of keeping the humanities in stride with natural science education . " Many American educators @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he said . " They tell us that when the Christians ' cultured solidarity has passed and carried with it its authority and its sanctions , the American youth in common with the youth of the world will build a new social order in which humanity will realize its dreams and ideals in the here and now instead of waiting in superstitious and vain hope for the new millennium . " He added that , " losing ( natural ) science will not give us philosophy , but if we lose philosophy itself , we must prepare to lose science , reason , and liberty . " Referring to the Biblical ' parable of the talents , James P. Baxter , 3d , president of Williams College , reminded the graduating seniors that they have incurred a heavy responsibility for the proper use of their mental , moral , and physical endowment . Talents Stressed The argument that one is " doing too much already " should be countered , Dr. Baxter stated , by seeing the total picture : ' ' The stakes of diplomacy , the dependence of peace @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the competition between the free world and the Communist world . " Where the rub will come , " asserted the Williams president , is hi deciding " how much of your time to commit to secondary efforts ; the demands of your community , your school , college or graduate school , the state , and the nation . " The responsibility for using one 's endowment . " is proportionate to the amount of the endowment , " submitted Dr. Baxter .                     