@@715747

txt The Communists transferred to the United Nations at Panmunjom , Korea , today tWelve South Korean prisoners of war and one Turkish captive who had changed their minds about not returning to their homelands . A pooled dispatch from the scene said there was no reaction from witnesses on the United Nations side who had gathered at the exchange point . The returned prisoners showed no emotion as they climbed down from a Russianmade truck when their names were called . The delivery of the . Allied captives was the first by the Communists since Operation Big Switch , the mass exchange of prisoners , ended Sept. 6 . The men returned today were presumed to be from among the more than 300 South Koreans and twenty nonKoreans the Communists have admitted holding and who-reportedly have decided to remain with the Reds . The prisoners returned today were flown by helicopter to Seoul , where they will get thorough physical examinations . The twelve South Koreans were to be handed over to South Korean Army medical officers , while the Turk was scheduled to be cared for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ indication whether any of the thirteen would choose or be permitted to talk with Allied news correspondents later today . While the Allied camp was cheered by the return of the thirteen prisoners , hope faded for 3,404 Allied service men once held by the Reds . Wilfred Burchett , conesspondent for the French Communist newspaper L'Humanite , was quoted as having said yesterday that " there is nobody being held except the handful who wo n't go back . " Mr. Burchett said Communist authorities were checking a list of names , including those of 944 Americans , that the United Nations Command delivered to the enemy Sept. 9 . However , the possibility remained that the Communists might be holding captive a few American airmen whom the Reds said had been shot down over Manchuria . Mr Burchett himself said earlier that such captives would not be considered prisoners of the Korean war and suggested that their release would have to be arranged through regular diplomatic channels . United Nations authorities were thrown into temporary confusion yesterday by a threat by - the South Korean Government to refuse to deliver @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hands . A policy statement released by the South Korean Provost Marshal , Lieut . Gen. Won Young Duk , said his action had been taken as a result of Communist threats against the families of men already turned over to neutral custody in the demilitarized zone near Panmunjom . General Won charged , that Communist observers it the neut'r'al camp were gathering the names of the prisoners and the addresses of their families in North Korea as the captives who refused to return to communism passed through the processing lines . However , officers of the Indian force guarding the neutral camp insisted several days ago that the Communist observers move at least 100 feet away from the compounds where the prisoners were being processed . From that distance , the observers would be unable to hear the names and other details given by the prisoners to the neutral officials . It was clear that General Won would not be able to carry out his threat short of the use of force against the American guards who handle the delivery of the anti-Communist prisoners to the demilitarized zone . General @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Korean prisoners last June only because his own troops were guarding the compounds in which the captives were held . The United Nations planned to deliver to the Indian guard force today 2,000 more Chinese antiCommunist prisoners . It was announced that the prison compounds on Cheju Island , off South Korea , that once had housed almost all of the 14,700 Chinese captives , had now been emptied . About 2,900 North Koreans and 5,000 Chinese remain to be delivered into neutral custody . Yesterday , when 1,000 North Koreans and 1,420 Chinese were handed over to the Indians at the neutral camp , witnesses reported the Koreans moved through the processing lines without trouble . However , the Chinese threw stones and shouted insults at the Communist observers . The Indians reported that one North Korean delivered yesterday had expressed a desire to return home . Six North Koreans who previously underwent a similar change of mind were returned to the Reds yesterday .                     