@@713985

txt There are situations from which there is no exit that could be called good or graceful . One way out may be less bad and awkward than the others , but none are good . Let us suppose the case of an ordinarily well-behaved citizen who one day overindulges in a barroom , becomes belligerent and is eventually lifted from the gutter by a policeman who transfers him to a jail cell . About the best that man can hope for is that an understanding magistrate will take account of the man 's previous good record and let him go with an admonition . If that happens , the man should realize that he has merely been spared the worst possible consequences of his indiscretion . If he thinks that he has somehow enhanced his dignity and reputation , he is probably in for more trouble . This newspaper very much hopes that there will be a cease-fire in Korea . But if there is one , as now seems probable , it would be self-deception for the people of this country to regard the event as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ least evil way out of a situation . A cease-fire is better than a stalemate war with men killed and wounded to no purpose . It is better than an extension of the Korean fighting into a full scale war . It is better than a withdrawal from Korea . But a cease-fire is not by itself a solution ; it might even be the preliminary to a more insoluble situation . If the American people now are persuaded to believe that a cease-fire is a diplomatic victory  --  attempts at such persuasion are as certain as anything can be  --  they will be lulled into a state of mind which is very likely to be an invitation for more Koreas . Soon after the end of the war , successful pressure was brought to make Russia get its troops out of Iran . Untilvery lately that was advertised as an achievement- Everyone now can see that the Russians may take over Iran by methods which it wovld be impossible to counter except by armed force . The end of the blockade of Berlin was represented as a diplomatic victory -- The truth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Russians can exploit it at their choice . Driving the Communists out of Greece was similarly represented . Recent news makes it clear that the Communists have not given up in Greece and that they are probably able to make trouble there . The greatest misconception of the American international position was that immediately following the end of World War II we had won a great victory over totalitarianism and a peaceful world was in sight . The truth was that another totalitarianism had strengthened its hold both in Europe and Asia and that it was probably a more venturesomely expensive totalitarianism than that which had been defeated . Had Americans faced that fact , a great many of the things which have since cost them lives and money would very probably not have developed . World ' War I produced a famous cartoon . Two soldiers were in a foxhole . Shells and bullets screamed over their heads . One soldier was saying to another . " If you know of a better ' ole go to it . " Obviously there was but one answer to that practical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Old Bill " . who posed this question to his mate , wanted to be in any kind of a hole . He was in one and intended to stay there because his life depended on it . It 's that way with a cease-fire . We dor .. ' t know of a " better ' Ole . " But we are quite conscious of the : act that the " ' oles " are not where we would choose to be .                     