@@716592

txt Hurricane Hazel , most powerful storm of the year , was reported to have changed directions early this morning toward the S outh Carolina coast and this port area of 150,000 persons . The Charleston weather bureau reported at 1 a. in . Chicago time that a weather plane had gotten a new track on the season 's most vicious storm packing 130 mile an hour winds in the center and reported she now was headed for Charleston . The Norfolk weather b u reau , which also reported the change in direction , said the storm was expected to h i t about 4 a. in . Headed for Wilmington The storm was headed north northwest at 27 miles an hour . Forward speed was expected to increase to 30 in. p. h . The change in course brought a whole new area into the danger zone . Earlier only storm warnings had been played along most of the South Carolina coast and the main blow had been headed for Wilmington , N. C. The North Carolina coast had taken all possible precautions . Gales Extend @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ get away and stay away " from low lying beaches and other places that might be swept by high tides or storm waves . The Miami weather bureau said in a 10 p. m . Chicago time advisory that hurricane force winds extended 80 miles north and east and 40 miles south and west of center . Gales extended 200 miles north and east and 100 miles south and west . " This is a severe hurricane , " the bureau warned . The pre  --  midnight advisory located the eye of the hurricane 275 miles south southeast of Wilmington and 220 miles New England Warned At 7 p. in . Hazel was centered 275 miles . east of Daytona Beach , Fla. , and 350 miles southeast of Wilmington . A navy reconnaissance plane kept tabs on the storm by radar thru the night . Storm wary New Englanders , already battered by two death dealing hurricanes this year , hurried preparations against Hazel just in case the storm maintained its course and hit there . All along the coast front Charleston to Block Island , R. I. , storm @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ winds and high tides . The North Carolina coast line was brought under hurricane alert last night . Earlier only the capes area expected the full brunt of the storm . Warning Stresses Severity " Winds . will gradually increase and squalls become more frequent along the coast as the hurricane approaches , " the weather bureau said . " Thin is a severe hurricane JCAM iMITERAS Atlantic Ocean Me all precautions should be folken immediately in the area Ili warning display for the protection of life and property against dangerous winds and abnormally high tides . " Planes from the coast guard air station at Elizabeth City patroled North Carolina 's outer banks and inland sounds during the day , dropping warnings . Atlantic Beach , N. C. , already has lost most of its summer residents , and the rest ? it has a winter population , of 49 ? prepared to sit it out . Routine preparations were made at the sprawling Camp Lejeune marine base and at the Cherry Point marine air station . Under hurricane alerts , Cherry Point sends its big planes to inland air @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ f o 1 k . Navy planes that could not be stored in nearby hangars were flown inland . The battleships Iowa and Wisconsin and the cruisers Pittsburgh and Roanoke sailed out to sea to ride out the storm . Smaller ships sailed up Chesapeake bay to the navy 's hurricane anchorage near Tancripr Wand ? Points as far inland as Philadelphia were advised to expect heavy rain Laid some high winds as the center whirled past to the east . Gales were forecast for New York tomorrow . At Atlantic City , the navy announced it was flying its planes there to bases in Pennsylvania and Ohio . New Englanders , twice hit by hurricanes this year , were put on notice by the Boston weather bureau that Hazel 's position and course " make it critical for New England . " Haiti 's Loss Is Heavy Far in its wake , the island republic of Haiti began gathering up the pieces and surveying damage after Hazel 's violent visit Tuesday . Accumulating reports from isolated regions told of more damage , suffering , and death . The United States @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ medical supplies and personne 1 , foodstuffs , and rinthino Messages received at San Juan , Puerto Rico , said the town of Dame Marie was " 80 per cent demolished with five dead . " An orphanage north of the town reported five children died in the storm . An unofficial report from Jeremie said there were three dead in that town of 11,000 . The report said 165 houses were destroyed and 1,768 damaged at Jeremie . A priest who walked 40 miles over the mountains from Dame Marie to Jeremie said there were more than 100 dead in the villages in the area . Five persons were reported dead at Anse d'Hainault and 50 injured . Six persons were reported dead and 500 homeless at Les Irois.                     