@@717083

txt An optimistic report on the progress toward integration of Negro and white children in the nation 's schools was issued yesterday by the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People . The report was based on a survey by the association . It was released shortly before the first anniversary of the Supreme Court decision May 17 outlawing segregation in public schools . Negro teachers , as well as students , have become integrated with whites as a result of the decision , the survey shows . Indian children , too , have benefited . Many formerly confined to reservation schools are now attending public schools with white children . In some instances , the report states , white children are now enrolled in schools that were formerly exclusively Negro . Although private schools are not subject to the Supreme Court decision , many parochial schools , particularly those of the Roman Catholic Church , have complied with the ruling , the survey shows . In Washington , D. C. , and in St. Louis , Catholic schools had removed the color ban four years before @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ children are attending classes peaceably together in 500 public ' elementary and secondary schools that , until last year , had been ' for the exclusive use of boys and girls of one race or another , the N. A. A. C. P. reports . " Admittedly , this is only a tiny ) minority of the 9,821,000 white ' and 2,397,000 Negro children enrolled in schools in the segregated areas , " the report states . ' The association points out , however , that integration has been voluntary . The Supreme Court.ruled that segregation- was contrary to the law of the land but did not implement its decision with a directive on how any school system should desegregate . Four of the six communities involved in cases ruled on by the Supreme Court are included in the 500 desegregated schools surveyed . These are Washington , D. C. , Topeka , Kan. , and two school districts in Delaware . The other two , Clarendon County , S. C. , and Prince Edward County , Va. , have refused to heed the court 's decision . School desegregation has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ two towns in Arkansas , twenty-nine counties in West Virginia , thirty corn muriities in Missouri , five towns in Delaware , six cities in Kansas and in scattered communities in Arizona and New Mexico , the survey shows . Several Southern colleges have also begun to abolish segregation . The N. A. A. C. P. report chides the press for ignoring the extent to which integration has been achieved . It terms the attitude of the press as " something of a journalistic scandal . " " The inspired strikes , the demonstrations of resistance in ( White Sulphur Spring , W. Va. , Milford , Del. , Baltimore and Washington have been widely publicized , " the report states . " However , for every Milford incident , there have been scores of unheralded instances of Negro children being welcomed by their new white schoolmates and teachers . Indeed , this has been the rule ; the hate demonstrations , the exception . " Most of the sensational demonstrations , the report says , were instigated by adults , parents , or by " outside forces , " who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ court 's ruling . " " Even the widely publicized demonstrations in Baltimore and Washington never involved more than a small minority of the s:udent bodies , " the report states . Two States Lauded Perhaps the most effective job in school desegregation has been done in West Virginia and Missouri , the N. A. A. C. P. reports . Of the forty-four West Virginia counties in which Negro children of school age live , twenty-nine have initiated desegregation , including twelve that have completely integrated . In Missouri , 110 of the 177 school districts reporting Negro children have opened schools previously Imited to white pupils to colored children , according to the survey . St. Louis , Baltimore and Washington are the largest cities to comply with the Supreme Court ruling . Arkansas is the only Deep South state that has taken action to comply with the Supreme Court decision , the survey shows . However , the association finds " plenty of evidence that the South  --  even the white South ? does not . present a solid phalanx against compliance . " Governors and other public officials @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ being ready , even though in some cases reluctant , to take steps toward , complying with the Supreme Court 's decision . In New Mexico , the association reports , threatened opposition to the admission of Negro children to the white schools of Hobbs failed to materialize . " Subsequently , two candidates who ran for the school board on a platform of re-instituting segregation were decisively defeated , " the report says . Roy Wilkins , executive secretary of the N. A. A. C. P. , predicted that school integregation eventually will " spread the non-segregation idea to all of American life . " " The effects are being felt already , " he said , " in public recreation , housing , and other areas . " " It becomes more clear each day that racial segregation in our country is on the way out , ' he said .                     