@@720914

txt President Eisenhower said today that his eleven-nation tour , which starts tomorrow , was part of a design to use his prestige to dispel doubts about this country 's peaceful intentions . Addressing what will probably be his last Washington news conference of 1959 , the President said he intended to work for this purpose " in every possible way I can " so long as " other duties do not prevent me from doing so . " Question 2 , Page 18 . " I have relatively few months left , " he said . " I decided to make ? ? ? an effort that no President ever was called on before to make , " he said , " to let a great part of rthe world know exactly what I believe the United States is trying to do . " Peace With Justice Is Aim His message , he said , would be " that our basic aspiration is to search out methods by which peace in the world can be assured with justice for everybody . " He added : " I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we seek nobody else 's territories or posessions ; we do not seek to violate anybody else 's rights . We are . simply trying to be a good partner in this business of searching out for peace . " He concluded : " This is what I 'm trying to do , and such prestige and standing as I have in the earth , I want to use it , and ? as long as my other duties do not prevent me from doing so , I 'm going to work on this in every possible way I can . " Physicians Approve Trip The President is to leave Washington for Rome about 8 P. M. tomorrow , after an address on the major networks from 7:15 to 7:30 . In the next nineteen days he will visit Italy , Turkey , Pakistan , Afghanistan , India , Iran , Greece , Tunisia , France , Spain and Morocco . In response to questions , General Eisenhower said he had received a physical examination three days ago and had been assured that he was capable of carrying out the strenuous @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's family begins to think that he is probably , here and there , taking on a load that he should n't , " the President said . Question 5 . But , he added , " I think that I am as fit as I possibly could be at my time of life to do this thing . " Although he expected a tiring schedule , he said , he believed- he was capable of filling it " without losing the last vestiges of what I once thought was a. good disposition . " Replying to another question , the President indorsed Prime Minister Jawarhalal Nehru 's insistence on negotiating a peaceful settlement of India 's border dispute with Communist China . He said he would " be glad to discuss such problems " with Mr. Nehru . The " real issue " between China and India , he said , was whether nations would settle their differences by negotiation or by force . Question 137 . " I am very much ? ? ? on the side of the people that say , ' We must do it by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that it would be " a wonderful thing " if the dispute between Pakistan and India also was settled . A " good beginning " has been made on the problem of distributing the water of the Indus River , he said . Powers Go With President The President indicated that he foresaw no problem about exercising , the powers of his office from remote countries in case of emergency . One such power , which may be exercised only by the President , is to authorize the use of nuclear , weapons , General EiLsenhower was asked whether he had made any arrangements to delegate the authority during his absence from Washington . There was no such . arrangement , he replied . Such a deci. sion , he said , could be carried out from any place he may travel " by a simple message that could be delivered instants .. ineously . " Question 1 . Discussing his trip , the Presi. dent emphasized what he con ? sidered a failure of all other techniques to dispel world-wide doubts about the United States ' attitude toward peace . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the minds of many people " about this coml .. try 's " real sincerity in pursuit of peace , " he said . " We have tried to emphasize ' this point in every possible want through diplomatic contacts ? through speeches of Secretaries of State , myself and other , and still it does n't seem to come through , " he said . Hence , he concluded , he decided that a personal mission was needed to drive home the point In a last-minute addition to his schedule , the White House announced that he would attend services at St. Paul 's Protestant Episcopal Church in Rome Sunday morning shortly before his audience with Pope John 20aH.                     