@@720941

txt The city 's 1,700 organized architects gave their enthusiastic support yesterday to the zoning resolution being considered by the City Planning Commission . They urged some changes in the basic proposal made to the commission last February by the architectural firm of Voorhees Walker Smith &; Smith . But the architects made it clear they considered essential the replacement of the present zoning law , which was written in 1916 and has since been amended 2,500 times . The resolution would entirely revise the city 's zoning code . It would include such innovations as allowing builders extra floor space for each square foot of open street level space that is provided . Also , for the first time , a complete code for offstreet parking would be offered . The action was taken by the Architects Council of New York City . It consists of the five borough chapters of the American Institute of Architects and two related organizations , the New York and Brooklyn Societies of Architects . The architects ' position differs sharply with that taken last week by the city 's real estate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ called the proposed zoning resolution " fundamentally wrong , " arid declared that it would " deal a damaging blow " to the future of New York . While not intended ? specifically to answer the realty men 's criticism of the zoning proposal , the architects ' endorsement disputed several points made by the real estate boards . " A lot of twaddle is rampant that a new zoning resolution replacing the existing obsoles- cent code will be a straitjacket for the city , " L. Bancel LaFarge , president of the architects ' New York chapter , said . " Civilization progresses by means of intelligent regulation of the individual when he comes in conflict with the public good . " Charles M. Spindler , president of the Architects Council , said : " In this age of jet travel , New York City simply can not go on living under the horseand-buggy zoning enacted forty-three years ago . The city has changed radically since then , and is still changing . " James Felt , chairman of the planning commission , said yesterday that he was " delighted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the support of the Architects Council , and hope for their continued cooperation in gaining the eventual passage of an improved zoning resolution , " he said . " When the commission 's own proposal is made , it will incorporate many of the changes recommended by the architects , as well as by , ' other interested groups . " The architects based their approval of the revised zoning law on a fifty-seven-page report prepared by a subcommittee of the New York chapter headed by G. Harmon Gurney , chief architect for housing for the New York Life Insurance Company . After several months of study , the five-man subcommittee concluded that the proposed resolution served the best interests of the city at large , and thatl the architectural profession should take the lead in urging its enactment . Final Decision Awaited A final decision on the zoning Ilaw is still several months away . The original report by Voorhees , Walker Smith &; Smith resulted from a two-year study financed by the city . Since its presentation last February , it has been the subject of a series of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ also sought , the views of groups having a special interest in zoning . These have included the architects , realty men , the city bar , housing and planning groups , and the Municipal Art Society . The planning commission is expected to present its own proposal , based on the Voorhees , Walker Smith &; Smith report , ' in about ten days . The commission will then hold further hearings , after which the resolution will go to the Board of Estimate . The board is expected in turn to hold public hearings . Any action by the board will be final , since it has the sole power to make zoning law for the city , In any case the earliest the new resolution would become effective is July 1 , 19 ' 1 . Build , ing plans filed before that date would be considered in light of the present zoning law . The architects ' reservations about the proposed resolution are relatively minor . They advocate these changes : 41Greater incentive to builders to include plazas , arcades and other open space on the ground-floor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the city that have " esthetic character and historical values " worth preserving . These would include parts of Greenwich Village , Brooklyn Heights , Hanover Square and Gramercy Park , among others . 9Granting authority to the planning commission or another municipal agency to designate specific buildings as having historical value , which would serve to delay their demolition or alteration until steps could be taken to acquire them for preservation . 9A relaxation of limitations on the height of building towers , to encourage builders with small lots to extend towers set back from the building line all the way down to the ground level , thus providing more open space . gSimplification of the controls on population density for dwelling units , but retention of the basic limit on the number of rooms than can be built on a plot of a given size . ( IThe prohibition of garages or other off-street parking facilities In crowded business districts , to discourage motorists from entering areas where traffic conditions are difficult . The most important of the ' suggested changes , the architects feel , is the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Members of the committee of the New York chapter of the architects ' group that drew up the report under the chairmanship of Mr. Gurney are Anthony J. Daidone , Chief architect for the division of mortgage banking and housing of the Controller 's office ; M. Milton Glass , partner in Mayer , Whittlesey &; Glass , architects and planners ; Richard G. Stein , partner in Katz , Waisman , Blumenkranz , Stein , Weber ; and H. Seymour Howard Jr. , Associate Professor of Architecture at Pratt Institute .                     