@@718435

txt There now is available to United Nations diplomats an assessment from what should be a reliable source : Soviet Deputy Foreign Minister Vasily V. Kuznetsov . His adjective is " tremendous . " Mr. Kuznetsov used the word Dec. 14 to describe the scale of " sabotage activity " by what he called " American agents " inside Eastern Europe . Since in Mr. Kuznetsov 's officially stylized form of speech the " counterrevolutionaries " in Budapest were egged on by " American intelligence agents , " it clearly is his judgment that opposition to the regimes in the so-called " people 's democracies " exists on a " tremendous " scale . Mr. Kuznetsov , of course , may have been exaggerating for the sake of dramatizing the case he was attempting to make against American " intervention " in the satellites . But Asian diplomats report that privately , he has told them he is " frightened " by the course of events . Reason for Alarm Close students of the European scene believe there is good reason for alarm in Moscow . . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ become so great as to prompt the Kremlin to take some desperate and ill-considered move . This is one reason why many sober Western diplomats welcome indications that Washington is preparing a peace move in the form of a new disarmament plan . Negotiations on this plan  --  and a Soviet proposal put forward Nov. 17 ? would offer Moscow a face-saving way to withdraw from all or part of its seething satellite empire . The Soviets have shown considerable eagerness to begin such negotiations . The American disarmament plan was approved by the National Security Council Nov. 26 . On Dec. 1 , Soviet UN delegates began clamoring for a meeting of the disarmament commission . The commission is scheduled to meet briefly Dec. 20 , but full-scale negotiations are not expected to begin until January . The UN General Assembly decided Dec. 14 by a vote of 58-2 to discuss Mr. Kuznetsov 's complaint against the role of American " agents and provocateurs " in Eastern Europe . There were eight abstentions . The subject , however , was assigned to a secondary committee and placed so far down @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be considered before February . The United States did not oppose inscription of the item on the agenda . Like a ju-jitsu expert , United States Delegate James J. Wadsworth used they momentum of the adversary 's thrust to throw him off balance . " The United States believes in the cleansing power of free debate , " Mr. Wadsworth said . " We are willing , indeed anxious , to have the whose truth told . " He warned the Soviets that they , would " regret " having brought the subject forward . There was much that was revealing in Mr. Kuznetsov 's explanation of the supposed basis for his complaint . He was so sharp and so extreme in his charges that some observers commented : " If what he says is true , the CIA Central Intelligence Agency must be doing a pretty good job . " Mr. Kuznetsov said " hundreds of millions " of leaflets had been dropped from balloons . There had been , he said , a flood of " diversionists and spies " into Hungary . Radio Free Europe was , he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and wide . The Soviets and their satellites have made every effort to jain the broadcasts of Radio Free Europe , the Voice of America , and RIAS ( Radio in the American Sector of Berlin ) . Clearly the jamming has not been wholly successful . Boomerang Possible Mr. Kuznetsov obviously was trying to give the impression that the turmoil in Eastern Europe is being artificially whipped up from outside . Few believed , however , that in the light of the sustained heroism of the Hungarian people he would be able to " sell " this version of events . The whole d ? marche in the UN may have been a Soviet miscalculation . The United States objected this week to a passage in an Indian resolution on Hungary which deplored " external intervention of pressures , armed or otherwise , from any quarter . " It was felt that this phrase might be construed as a hint that the United States had , in fact , helped the Hungarian people to rise up against the Kadar regime . Mr. Kuznetsov may have taken this as a sign @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fact , the United States was sensitive to it  --  but only because it came from an Asian source . Coming from the Soviet Union , it has carried virtually no weight , and indeed may boomerang on Moscow . The Soviets may also have hoped  --  fruitlessly , as it developed ? to divert the Assembly from action to follow up its history-making condemnation of the Soviet Union Dec. 12 . The vote on that action rose to 56 to 8 Dec. 14 when Libya , which has been absent , recorded its vote as " yes . "                     