@@717519

txt East Germany has elevated its state security service to the level of a ministry in a reorganization designed to strengthen the Central Government 's operations . The changes in some respects hark back to the situation prior to the " new course , " which after , the death of Stalin sought to increase popular support for the regime by raising the living standard . Nevertheless , special emphasis is still placed on production of consumer goods . One of the key East German Communists has been placed in charge of a newly created commission to speed output in this category . The shuffle , announced today , was enacted two days ago . It raises the number of deputy premiers from seven to nine , giving the Communists a majority in the Presidium of the Cabinet . Riots of 1953 Recalled The Ministry for State Security was demoted to a state secretariat when Wilhelm Zaisser was ousted as head of that secret police organization in 1953. - His fall followed that year 's June riots in East Germany and the arrest of Lavrenty P. Beria , who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ East German security apparatus was then placed within the Interior Ministry in a reorganization parallel to that in Moscow . Now it is again independent . Ernest Wollweber , who succeeded Herr Zaisser as its head , is chief of the new ministry . The purpose of the reorganization , the announcement said , is a " strengthening and improvement of the work of the state apparatus . " With the new lease on life that the East German regime has derived from the failure of the recent talks on German unity at Geneva , it seems determined to press on more rapidly ward its goals . The return of the . State Security Service to ministry rank may foreshadow a more ' , concentrated effort to root out opposition elements , it is believed he-re . Three new ministries have been added to the government structure , bringing the total to twenty-two . Three special commissions , each headed by a deputy premier , have been created to coordinate the work of these many organs . The idea of such commissions was introduced in " Stalinist period , " but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the Government was reorganized for more efficient production of consumer goods . Six ministries and state secretariats concerned with heavy industry and machinery construction were merged into two ministries . Three Commissions set Up More recently the trend has been in the opposite directibn and now there are again five ministries in this field . The three new commissions to coordinate the work of the ministries are : 1 . A Commission for Industry and Transport , headed by Fritz Selbmann , who is made a deputy premier . 2 . A Commission for Questions of Consumer Goods Production and Supply of the Populace , headed by Fred Oelssner , a member of the Communist Politburo . He also is promoted to deputy premier . 3 . A Commission for Agricultural Problems , headed by Paul Scholz. who for some years has been a deputy premier The creation of two new deputy premierships gives the Communists a six-to-four majority in the Presidium of the Cabinet . The Presidium consists of the premier and deputy premiers and constitutes an inner cabinet . Previously the group was evenly split between Communists and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the Communist Politburo . Hans Loch , " at his request , " has quit his post as Finance , Minister and has been replaced by Willi Rumpf . Herr Loch remains as a deputy premier and will concern himself with " all-German questions . " The West German Government already has a Minister for All - German Questions , whose task is to keep an eye on East Germany and study technical problems linked with reunification . What his East German counterpart will do is not clear . Herr Loch is head of the Liberal Democratic party in the Soviet Zone . Being non-Cornmunist , his task will probably be of little importance . It is noteworthy that Herr Oelssner , whose new job is to try to raise the standard of living , is the party theoretician who not many months ago demanded a return to heavy industry expansion , with an implied reduction in consumer goods .                     