@@715620

txt New England : U.S. Post to Brown President ? President Eisenhower is considering offering a government position to Dr. Henry M. Wriston , president of Brown University , according to the Providence Journal , and " sources in the Republican National Committee " in Washington . David Brackman , chairman of the State Public Utilities Commission , has been ordered to appear in Suffolk Superior Court next Tuesday to show cause why the commission should not be restrained from granting a five-cent Metropolitan Transit Authority fare increase . Washington : Approval Forecast for Korea Fund Congressional approval was forecast today for a 200 million dollar fund as the first bite of what some lawmakers say may be a billion dollar outlay to bind up Korea 's war wounds . In case truce arrangements should break down . units of the 2d , and 3d Marine Divisions in this country are being alerted for rapid movement to Korea . The Veterans Administration said that-some four million veterans with GI term insurance will no longer have to apply for renewal of their policies for another five-year term before the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The National Farmers Union has urged Congress to order Agriculture Secretary Benson to use his authority to support cattle prices at 100 per cent of parity . New York 's fares on city-owned subway and surface lines went up from 10 to 15 cents today . The new rate became effective one minute after midnight . Far East : India Charters 2 Ships for Troops India has chartered two ships to take to Korea Indian troops who are to guard prisoners of war unwilling to be repatriated , according to sources in New Delhi . United States 1st Marine Division , defending three hill positions northeast of Panmunjom , drove back 3,500 attacking Chinese in bitter hand-to-hand fighting . Europe : Americans Drive Over Soviet Highway United States Embassy staff members have completed the longest automobile trip made by any westerner inside Russia since the war  --  a 900-mile journey along the new Moscow-Crimea highway . Yugoslavia has turned down a Cominform invitation to attend the Kremlin-dominated youth " festival of peace " opening in Bucharest , Romania , Aug. 2 . Turkey has rejected Russia 's protest over the courtesy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 