@@714815

txt The six-power coal-steel treaty known as the Schuman Plan has now come technically into existence , but its official entry into international affairs was , it is felt here , a rather sorry affair compared to the vastness of the ideas inspiring it . The two-day meeting of the six foreign ministers of France , Germany , Italy , and the Benelux countries was expected to be something of a mere formality , a meeting required to settle a few relatively simple administrative and organizational questions , and yet provide a frame of some little pomp and circumstance for the launching of this new pooling factor in Europe 's economic and political life . Instead , it tt:rned out to be the scene of profound disagreement , of some unseemly and unsuccessful bargaining , in short of a display falling far short of the show of six-country mutual comprehension that was expected . Communique ' Limp ' The communiqu ? published after the meeting , which was singularly unproductive from a concrete point of view , lists a meager roll of achievement : the decision to consider @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ languages , the proportional distribution of seats at the consultative committee between representatives of pradncer and consumers , the statue of members of the high authority and the court of appeal , a sum in cash to be ready at the disposal of the authority . But no permanent or temporary seats have been chosen for the pool 's various institutions , the names of the nine-member authority and the seven court of appeal judges still are not agreed . It is merely indicated that the high authority shall take up its duties Aug. 10 , for the time being in Luxembourg , " the names of presidents , vice-presidents , and members being the object of a special communication before this date , " says the communiqu ? RI a somewhat shamefaced manner . Sets Off Struggle The crux of the meeting came with the early proposal by French Foreign Minister Robert Schuman that the pool should use Strasbourg as a temporary seat , and finally remove to Saarbruck with the other European institutions such as the Council of Europe . thus turning the capital of the much disputed Saar @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tossed out lightheartedly , gave a tone to the discussions that became more and more long-drawn-out andforced to agree to an extra evening session that lasted until almost 4 a.m . For the Germans , Chancellor Konrad Adenauer immediately asked , how such a " Europeanization " of the Saar was envisaged . Did it include the whole of the present Saar territory in such an idea ? What form of popular consultation of citizens of the Saar would be provided ? What role , if any , would be played in such a consultation by the ( pro-German ) political parties at present banned ? Would France modify its present economic union with the Saar ? Spurs Discord At first sight the idea of using the Schuman Plan as a handy means of settling Franco-German differences on the Saar might seem like a stroke of genius , a rare example of two diplomatic blows with one swing . But to judge from the immediate result on the tenor and achievements of the past two-day conference . it amounted to throwing an apple of discord on the table before the six @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the MilliStCr:4 , who already dispensed for some time with their two experts apiece , even sent the interpreter out of the conference room and struggled on as best they could in each other 's languages . The communique also announces that the common assembly will sit for the first time at Strasbourg on Sept. 10 , prestun ably for a token session since the Council of Europe is due to meet there Sept. 15 . This early session represents a speeding up on the original timetable , where the high authority was to have five months before the assembly met , an interval granted to insure drawing up of a full repo:t on present conditions in the coal and steel industries of the new community 's ? six members . This can scarcely be done between Aug. 10 and Sept , 10 . Meanwhile , the French Foreign Minister and the German Chancellor are due to begin negotiations on the Saar problem . One aspect of the discussions that was suggested by Holland 's Foreign Minister Dirk Stikker is the problem raised by the end of the Ruhr authority 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . There is , at present , a hiatus in this domain that is only lengthened by the nix ministers ' failure to produce the new coal-steel high authority , complete with members and a designated seat .                     