@@714616

txt A settlement of the strike of employes of the New Jersey Bell Telephone Company was reached , here at 12:40 o'clock this morning . ) Whether full service would ' be restored immediately in the state , however , was uncertain . There were indications that the 10,100 ' operators and . service personnel , who had left their jobs on April 7 in a dispute over wages , would honor picket lines being maintained across the country by Western Electric Company workers , still on ; Electri A spokesman for the operators said that the union 's policy was not to cross picket lines , and Western Electric workers indicated that they would man lines around as many exchanges as possible . Under the terms of the agreement between the company and the Communication Workers of America , C. I. 0. , the employes will receive weekly increases of between $4 and $4.50 . A union spokesman said that this increase , averaging about 11.3 cents an hour , was in line with agreements reached earlier with ' Bell Company workers in Ohio and Michigan . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of wage agreements ranging from $4 to $7 a week . Through piecemeal settlements about half of the 67 , - 000 telephone workers who struck eight days ago in various areas have now reached agreements . Still striking are 16,000 workers of Western Electric in forty-three states and operator. ; of the Bell phone system in Northern California and Nevada . The contract in New Jersey includes a maintenance of union membership clause , but does not provide for a union shop , which the telephone workers originally sought . Thus , present employes who are not members of the union or new employes will not be required to join the union . The contract , however , provides that employes who are already members or those who will elect to become members must remain in the union for the duration of the contract . A spokesman for the company explained that part of the increases in wages would result because of changes in fringe items such as more extra pay for night workers and additional pay for Service assistants . Moreover , about ) 00 operators in eighteen towns @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rates . The spokesman added that the agreements that now had been ' eached with all the unions representing the company 's employes would cost the company $6,700,000 more annually and that the company would now have no choice but to seek higher toll rates immediately . The telephone workers in New Jersey have been receiving between $38 and $56 weekly and had sought increases of $14.83 weekly . Despite the fact that 70 per cent of the 1,750,000 phones in the state are dial-operated , residents of suburban areas have had considerable difficulty placing calls and New Jersey was . one of the states most inconvenienced by the phone tie-ups . All through yesterday in other parts of the country Federal mediators had pressed their search for a full peace in the Bell system . Though the walkout of 16,000 Ohio telephone workers was settled , pickets representing striking Western Electric employes blocked their return to work . They also interfered with service in other areas , including Michigan , where a similar settlement was reached on Friday . An unexpected stoppage by 3,000 New Orleans telephone employes over a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that local and long-distance traffic was being handled on a normal or near-normal basis in most parts of the country . In many sections Bell units obtained or applied for injunctions to halt the Western Electric picketing . The Southwestern Bell Telephone Company got a restraining order against picketing in Kansas . Similar orders were in effect in most Southern communities . The Chesapeake and Potomac Telephone Company in West Virginia Invoked the Taft-Hartley Act against the pickets . It announced that it would file charges of unfair labor practices with the National Labor Relations Board on the ground that the pickets were " engaging in violent , coercive mass picketing and physical assaults upon the company 's employes . " New York continued to escape any perceptible impact . The Western Electric strikers engaged in sporadic picketing at some exchanges of the New York Telephone Company but only a few operators stayed away from work . One of the few places where employes of the New York telephone company ran into pickets was the company office at 228 East Fiftysixth Street . Fifty maintenance men were late for work because @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they were told their morning work had been assigned to others . They returned at 1 P. M. and found a second picket line in place . The result was that they lost a day 's pay . The maintenance men belong to an independent union , the United Telephone Organizations . Long-distance operators , who belong to the same union as the Western Electric workers ? the 7ornmunications Workers of America . C. I. 0. , respected picket lines in New York and six other large cities , but company officials said there was no substantial interference with service . Ninety-two per cent of the positions on the longdistance switchboard were manned , most of them by supervisory employes , the company reported . An analysis of Easter Sunday toll calls , made public by the company , showed that 125,008 calls had been handled in New York , a rise of 40 per cent over the traffic for a normal Sunday and 51:2 per cent above the volume for Easter , 1951 . An American Telephone and Telegraph Company spokesman said Western Electric pickets were marching outside 113 exchanges @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ offices in the country . The Ohio settlement , which was reached after forty-eight hours of almost uninterrupted negotiations in a Cleveland hotel , provided the same range of wage increases as the earlier settlement in MichiganHowever , the average rise in Ohio was estimated at 11.5 cents an hour , as compared with 12.7 cents an hour in Michigan . If the same general basis of increase were applied to the striking workers in the installation division of Western Electric , their average rise would be slightly under 14 cents an hour , according to persons in close touch with the negotiations . Rumors that an early settlement was likely drew an emphatic denial from Ernest Weaver , strike leader .                     