@@714899

txt Texas Democrats today voted glumly in their state convention here to place Adlai Stevenson on the November ballot as the state party 's nominee for President but roared approval of a resolution requesting every Democrat to vote and work for Gen. Eisenhower . Rebel yells , stomping , clapping , screaming , and cheering accompanied the voice vote by which the Eisenhower resolution was adopted . Act Became of Pledge The measure , brought before the convention by its resolutions committee , explained that the formality of nominating Stevenson and his running mate , Sen. Sparkman Ala. , had been followed " because of the pledge given at the Chicago convention and the provision of the present Texas election code , and to give such Democrats as desire to do so an opportunity to vote for Stevenson and Sparkman . " The r esd Iu t I on urged Gov . Shivers and all other state officials to work for the Republican candidates and called upon Democrats who have pledged support to Stevenson and Sparkman to " reconsider their actions and actively support Eisenhower and Nixon . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for congressional , state , and local offices , scratch the national party nominees , and cross to the Republican column to vote for the Republican nominees for President and Vice I President . Speakers Denounce Ticket The convention acted after a day of oratory in which speakers denounced the Democratic national ticket and platform and assailed the Truman administration . The only support for Stevenson came from Ned Fritz , a Dallas attorney , who was booed and hooted while speaking for the national ticket Gov . Shivers , who delivered the keynote address , told the delegates that political morality demanded the state Democratic party put electors pledged to Stevenson and Sparkman on the ballot . He assured them , however , that no one 's Democratic party stpnding will be jeopardized by voting for Eisen , hower and Nixon and state Democratic candidates . A group representing an extreme conservative wing of the party sought to force adoption of a plan for a dual Democratic ticket , with Stevenson and Sparkman heading one slate of electors and Eisenhower and Nixon another . A roll call was demanded on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Shivers forces held control by a majority of nearly two to one . When the roll call was halted 590 delegates had voted against the dual ticket and 350 had voted for it . There were 1,227 votes in the convention . Assails Tidelands Stand Shivers , Atty . Gen. Price Daniel , and Wright Morrow , national committeeman , got moderate applause while arguing ethical points of party obligations but stirred tumultuous approval when assailing the national administration . Shivers denounced the administration stand on tidelands oil as " a new and dangerous doctrine of paramount rights under which the government can take the property of individuals and states without compensation . " He described the Truman foreign policy as " unstable and stalemated . " He hit at communist infiltration into government and " corruption , ineptness , and inefficiency in high places . " Daniel , Democratic nominee for the United States senate , asserted that Stevenson 's stand for federal ownership of tidelands oil has made it impossible for Texas Democrats to support him . " I can not vote for the candidate nominated by the Democratic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ approving cries of " Pour it on him , " and " Give him hell . " Texas has 24 electoral votes . In the 1948 Presidential eiec t ion Democrats cast 66.4 per cent of the vote , with 24.4 per cent going to the Republican nominees and 9.2 per cent to nominees of the Dixiecrat party . Texas has not voted Republican in a Presidential I election since the 1928 contest between Herbert Hoover and Al Smith .                     