@@714903

txt With nothing like it ever attempted before , the European Defense Community must break new ground in all directions , according to . Jean Monnet , the man who has done so much to bring out this growing . community sense in Western Europe . The aim of European leaders must be not merely the handling of special individual problems but rather a continuous cooperation seeking to set up new formulas for the association of European nations . The calendar of work immediately ahead has been outlined by M. Monnet as follows : 1 . The Consultative Committee of the High Authority of the Schuman Plan must be set up by Nov. 10 . Composed of industrialists , workers , and consumers , it will act as an advisory group to the High Authority in all matters affecting these special groups . The High Authority . therefore , v.-ill discuss its decisions with this committee before they become final . 2 . Assessment of the six member nations ' coal resources and needs for 1953 . Work already has started on this , but there is a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in order to bring it to a successful conclusion . 3 . The common market called for by ' the treaty for next sprihg demands , as the first step , the elimination . of the transport discrimination which now exists . Tariff Review Looms 4 . The whole question of the most-favored-nation clauses as applied to tariffs must be reviewed on the basis of a common market . 5 . Discussion must be undertaken with the member governments in respect to the fiscal measures and social security structures which will be affected by a common market . 6 . A complete picture of the whole High Authority setup must be ready to be presented to the community assembly in January . All aspects of production , consumption . and investment in coal and steel in the six member countries must be clearly pre-sented . Speaking to the press , M. Mon-net pointed out that this latter point is most important . It must be well done , particularly in relation to industry , trade union , consumers . and international organizations , for many things depend upon it  --  the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Counsels Press M. Monnet then told the press that its function was most important and asked it to criticize , but not too soon , and to bring good will to the task . Because of the important place of the press from now on , he said , there would be regular meetings set up to acquaint it with the progress and that the work of the Schu-. man Plan authority would be in the open where it could be studied and criticized . M. Monnet as much as said that the success of building the new Europe depended in part on the press , since it in ! : st acquaint the people with what is being done and gain their interest and support . The report to the assembly in January will be the first and biggest chance to inaugurate this press phase of building a federated Europe , he said , and that was why he felt the report must be most comprehensive and complete . West German Chancellor Konrad Adenauer and French Foreign Minister Robert Schuman also have met to take up once again the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ now held by France . A Quai cl'Orsay spokesman has announced that the French position has not changed in the last few weeks and that a new move from Dr. Adenauer is awaited now . It is undetscored that this is a very " closed " meeting , just between the two men , a very " personal diplomacy , " and that therefore little probably , would be announced about it afterward . The foreign ministers now have met " with their other beards on , " that is in their other role as the six foreign ministers of their countries rather than as the ministerial counzil of the High Authority , the role in which they acted during the previous day 's two sessions.                     