@@717318

txt Both major political parties . stepped up their campaigns for 1956 today , nearly a year before the national conventions , The Republicans , through the Senate Republican Policy Committee , issued a new blast at the Democrats in the form of a " suggested speech " for Republican Senators , They also gave details of a campaign school for the forty-eight Republican state chairmen , to be held in Washington next week . The Democrats selected Gov . George Leader of Pennsylvania to substitute for former President Truman in two JeffersonJackson Day dinner engagements in California later this month . The Governor , like Mr. Truman , is expected to pull no punches in his attacks on the Administration , The Senate Policy Committee 's " suggested speech , " distributed just a day after a White House brochure listing Administration " achievements , " charged the Democrats with a " record of obstruction " in the recent session of Congress . It used such terms as " a Democratic nightmare , " " a crazy maze " and " a jerry-built ' structure " in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the previous Democratic Administrations . The White House brochure , prepared by the Executive Branch Liaison Office of the White House , was mimeographed at White House expense for distribution to several hundred top officials in the various Executivedepartments . Today 's " Suggested . Speech on Republican Achievements and Need for a Republican Congress " was prepared under the direction of Senator Styles Bridges of New Hampshire , Policy Committee chairman , for distribution to the forty-seven other Republican Senators . It drew a sharp contrast between the " record of solid accomplishment " of the Republican-controlled Eighty-third Congress and the present Democratic-controlled Eighty-fourth Congress . ' In the latter , it charged " there was no device that the Democrats left untried in their efforts to undercut the President 's domestic program , and embarrass him personally . " Leader for Truman Governor Leader will fill in for Mr. Truman at a $100. aplate Jefferson-Jackson Day Dinner in San Francisco Sept. 14 and a similar affair in Los An , geles the following night . Mr. Truman had originally planned to speak at the two gatherings but announced he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ doctor and Mrs. Truman . Paul M. Butler , the Democratic national chairman , announcing the substitution , emphasized that the former President was not in ill health . Mr.1 Truman 's doctor and " other close advisers , " he said , " felt . he must pace himself in such a way as Ito avoid concentrating too many , engagements and too minv long trips in too short a period . " Mr. Butler made no reference to reports that the ex-President was passing up the dinner because he was angry with Edwin S. Pauley , California oil man and former Democratic party member , for entertaining Vice President and Mrs. Richard M. Nixon at a recent reception . Mr. Truman has said " there is not a word of truth in it , " and Mr. Pauley said he knew of no rift . The Republican " campaign school " will start informally next Tuesday with tours of national Committee headquarters and the Senatorial and Congressional campaign committee offices on Capitol Hill . Vice President Nixon will greet the touring chairmen in his , Senate office . At @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mountain Republican State chairAssociated Pres. Gov .. George M. T , ea , der men 's Association at a reception in the Sheraton-Park Hotel . The school will convene formally Wednesday morning with a roundtable on campaign techniques featuring a panel discussion led by Leonard H. Hall , the national chairman ; Senator Barry Goldwater of Arizona , chairman of the Senatorial committee , and Representative Richard M. Simpson of Pennsylvania , chairman of the Congressional committee . The subject will be " The 1956 Campaign . " Statements will also be made by Robert Humphreys , National Committee Campaign Director , and Murray Chotiner , campaign manager for Mr. Nixon in 1950 , when he ran for the Senate from California and in 1952 when he ran for Vice President . Mr. Hall will give a reception Wednesday night for the chairman and members of the press , radio and television , at the Sheraton-Park . Thursday sessions will consist of round-table discussions of door-to-door finance drives , purchase of radio and television time , " use of political ' advance men , ' " direct mail advertising and organization @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ group at luncheon Thursday . On Friday the chairmen will hold still another round table at which each will relate the campaign technique he has found to be most effective . At 6 P. M. , Friday , the chairmen VII leave by chartered plane for Denver , where they will meet President Eisenhower at a breakfast conference on Saturday .                     