@@714582

txt If you are one of 30,000,000 American citizens this year who will not vote without special persuasion , you can expect a visit between now and November from a Boy Scout or a member of about 200 other groups now being mobilized on a community level for the American Heritage Foundation 's and the Freedoms Foundation 's " get-out-the-vote " campaign . Approaches never before tried on a national scale will be used to pull up America 's voting patticipation that has been going downhill ever since 1880 . The score on voting in the United States , according to the Heritage Foundation : 1880 , 78.4 per cent voted ; 1900 , 73.5 per cent voted : 1920 ( women first voted ) , 49.3 per cent voted ; 1940 , 53.4 per cent voted ; 1950 , 44 per cent voted . By contrast , 83 per cent voted in England 's elections last October , 80 per cent voted in Sweden in September , 1950 , and 75 per cent voted in Canada in June , , 1949 . Advertising Methods Laboratory for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Portland , Maine by Dr. Ernest Dichter , advertising psychologist who came to the conclusion that voting has to be sold to the American people just as is toothpaste . Finding voters more discouraged than apathetic , the foundation is taking the position that the voter must be told encouragingly like a pupil in school , " It 's very simple ; you can do it . " Then he must be shown how and why . ? The campaign will assume that people everywhere are tremendously interested in the election and merely require a reminder concerning . qualifications , dates , and registration places . One segment of the " teachers " in this year 's campaign will be 2,170,000 Boy Scouts who are working closely with Freedoms Foundation Inc. of Valley Forge , Pa. , and also with the Heritage Foundation . The scouts have labeled their get-out-the-vote campaign " the most significant contribution to the nation ever made by the Boy Scouts of America . " All-Out Campaign Campaign material to be distributed through the scouts include 1,000,000 copies of a " Register and Vote " poSter , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reminding " Today 's youth counts on you to use your freedom to vote . " As a " reminder " of his part in the campaign , each scout is to get a plastic medal the size of a half dollar that he can carry around in his pocket . The scouts plan to dramatize their part of the campaign with parades , sound trucks , " town criers , " porch-light displays by voters , and sidewalk stencils . On election day itself , the scouts will aid by transporting people to polls , baby sitting , and staging bicycle parades.                     