@@720080

txt When this newspaper was founded 50 years ago , William Howard Taft and John S. Sherman had just been elected President and Vice-President of the United States . No one at that time would have d reamed of a vicePresidential Visit by Mr. Sherman at Buckingham Palace or No. 10 Downing Street . The population of the United States was about 00 , - 000,000 persons , and the United States national debt had just turned the one billion mark . The United States possessed a sturly small Navy , a negligible Army . It was a vigorous world power , but definitely of the second rank . It recently had acquired possessions or colonies in the Caribbean and the far Pacific , due largely to protective support from Britain , Although no one at the time called the United States a British protectorate , still it was sheltered from the great power conflicts of Europe as it had been for the greater part of a century by the protective shield of the Royal Navy . ? Fifty years ago the truly great powers of the world @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Russia , and Austria-Hungary . Russia was a fumbling giant in population  --  an infant in industry . On the far side of the world , China was anyone 's property , and Japan was emerging as the newest contender in the race for industrialization . Few persons 50 years ago would have dreamed of India being anything more than " the brightest jewel " in the imperial crown of the King Emperor who reigned from London over the broadest empire in history . Socialism existed either as tedious theorizing by people who did not count or as concessions granted by an Imperial German Government to make its workers more efficient because better housed and fed . Theodore Roosevelt was getting ready to go off big game hunting in Africa because his own Republican Party regarded him as a dangerous radical . The word was widely used against him in his own party , largely because he , had launched a program of bending the new giant corporations of America to an elementary concept of the national welfare , and because he had taken . wide stretches of forest and grazing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enterprise developers and set them aside for public use and enjoyment . No serious political radical of the times would have dreamed of proposing federal income or inheritance taxes . The great . statesmen of Europe of those times possessed and used what they regarded as deterrent power . They all commanded large armies of infantry and artillery with which they checked one an-other 's move on the chessboard of power politics . But this had been done so often and so safely that not even the wisest . of them could fore- Christian Science Monitor see that within six years and largely by accident they would find themselves using their deterrent power in a way which would bring income and inheritance taxes into the world , and impose on every modern government the concept of responsibility for full employment of its peoples rising economic prosperity , Fifty years ago the primary role of government was conceived to be the protection of the frontiers against foreign enemies and the discovery of overseas markets for its ? exporters . The idea of internal responsibilities beyond policing was a novelty and far too @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ did not exist except as a wild-eyed theory among slum denizens of Western European capitals or as the intellectual toy of a few idealists in New England . Nor could any reasonable person have foreseen the rise of industrial and political power in China , or the division of Germany into two ideologically incompatible economic and social systems , or the spread of imperial power based on Moscow to the Elbe in Europe , or a clay when a Vice7 President of the United States would be greeted at a London airport by a Foreign Minister of Great Britain . * * The world of 50 years ago was a placid one . True , there was change . But to most of mankind the pattern was formed and could not conceivably change in any substantial part . One measure of the changed ? pace of change is that on the 50th anniversary of this newspaper a Vice-President of the United States was in London under slightly embarrassing circumstances . He was invited when he was the only visible SLICCOSSOr to the presidency of the United States . By the time @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . it made a dilIerence in the conversations . Another measure of the pace of change is that in these days one ennnot know whether the man who gives the orders in the Kremlin is interested in Germany because he wants to divide it for all time or because he seeks by raising a ? German question to find a means of building better relations with the West at the ? expense of his avowed ally , Communist China . ?                     