@@717185

txt Senator Lyndon B. Johnson , Majority Leader of the Senate , suffered a moderately severe heart attack today . He will be unable to return to active duty at this Congress session . An aide , George R. Reedy , said the Democratic Senator of Texas was stricken while visiting a friend in Middleburg , Va. , this afternoon . The Senator was at the home of George R. Brown , a Texas contractor , when he betgan to suffer from pains around he heart , Mr. Reedy said . After an examination by a local physician , Mr. Johnson was transferred to the Naval Medical Center at Bethesda , Md . Mr. Johnson is 46 years old . The medical center issued this bulletin : " Senator Johnson has had a moderately severe heart attack . His condition at present is considered serious . He will be confined to the hospital for an unknown period of time . " Mr. Johnson had visited with Senator Walter F. George , Democrat of Georgia , during the afternoon at his Washington apartment and left about 4:45 P. M. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from Washington . Mrs. Johnson was in Washington at the time her husband was stricken . She joined him when he was taken to the Naval Medical Center . The Senator was reported in good spirits ' after the heart attack . Mr. Johnson , a native of Johnson City , Tex. , has been very active during the recent sessions of Congress . He was out for more than six weeks during the early part of this year due to an operation for removal of a kidney stone . He was operated on at the Mayo Clinic in Rochester , Minn . Senator Earle C. Clements , Democrat of Kentucky , the as , Blatant Democratic leader , probably will take over Mr. Johnson 's duties . He served as acting Democratic leader during Mr. Johnson 's previous absence due to illness . Battles With President Senator Johnson and President Eisenhower exchanged verbal broadsides a few days ago over the record of the Eighty-fourth Congress , which is controlled by the Democrats . Issuing a summary of Senate achievements , Mr. Johnson . who has been an exponent of interparty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ list should be contrasted with a statement made by a certain party leader last fall that a Democratic Congress would mean ' a cold war of partisan politics ' . " The " party leader " to whom Mr. Johnson referred was President Eisenhower . The President used the phrase " cold war " in appealing in 1954 for the return of a Republican rather than a Democratic Congress . The day after Senator Johnson challenged him on the legislative record , President Eisenhower demanded even more backing from Congress in his first head-on partisan collision with that body . Senator Johnson retorted that his party would " give just , fair and reasonable consideration " to Presidential requests but was " not going to carry out instructions like a bunch of second lieutenants . " It was the only occasion since Senator Narle C. Clements , who is expected to act as majority leader of Senate . the President had moved into the White House that he had seriously criticized Congress and the only occasion in which any highly placed Democrat had replied in such tones . Youngest Leader Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ He was first elected to the Senate in 1948 and again in last year 's elections . He became a member of the House of Representatives when he won a special election on April 10 , 1937 . It happened that the late President Franklin D. Roosevelt was fishing off the coast of Texas that April , when word came that a young Texan had just been elected on a pledge of down-the-line support for the New Deal . The President summoned the winner and was so impressed that he invited him to ride back to Washington with him aboard the Presidential train . As a freshman lawmaker , Mr. Johnson was accorded the rare privilege of frequent Sunday breakfasts at the White House . An additional impetus to his career stemmed from the fact that the House Speaker , Representative Sam Rayburn , Democrat of Texas , had served with Mr. Johnson 's father in the Texas Legislature . . Mr. Rayburn helped young Johnson over the hurdles . Senator JOhnson , a six-foot three , 200-pound Texan , is ( though he is not fond of the term ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ individual star , not a great speaker . It is said of him that he can persuade the most improbable of people to move together in a cause . He has brought an extraordinary unity in action to the Senate Democrats .                     