@@714765

txt Many observers who believe the strongest argument for Gen. Dwight D. Eisenhower is his foreign policy think he may be outmaneuvered by his astute rival , Senator Robert A. Taft ( R ) of ( Min Senator Taft blandly asked " who , me ? " at a press conference here in answer to comments that he was the target of General Eisenhower 's Denver speeCh June 23 , at which the general warned that isolationists are " taking an unjustifiable gamble with peace . " Senator Taft thought General Eisenhower might have been directing his shafts at John Foster Dulles , the Republican who is trying to write a compromise plank that will reconcile the differences between the Taft - Eisenhower views . But certainly not at Senator Taft . The Ohioan never has hesitated to mention General Eisenhower by name and criticized him sharply at his extemporaneous talk June 24 in Hershey , Pa . On the other hand , General Eisenhower has not mentioned Senator Taft publicly since the campaign started , either in his Texas speech , his letter written to Mr. Dulles @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in his foreign-policy speech June 24 . Off-Cuff Statements He has told some reporters in an off-the- , record conference that later got into print that he regarded Senator Taft as an " isolationist , " but it is left to correspondents covering his public appearances to draw the inference that it is Senator Taft  --  who is his target and to make themselves the authority for drawing the direct distinction between the two men . Nobody has any real doubt that this difference on world affairs exists , but the general does not say so . The issue between the two is of such importance , in view of some of General Eisenhower 's supporters , that they wisti he would speak out . In his address from Denver he said that " peace may well be at stake . " Senator Taft , with years of political experience , is smilingly minimizing the only real difference which many here see as separating him from General Eisenhower , General Eisenhower 's public statements indicate that he takes approximately the same right-of-center stand on many domestic issues as the senator . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Party as a whole . Senator Pooh-Poohs Senator Taft calmly repeated at a press conference here that there actually is not much more difference between him and General Eisenhower than a question of " emphasis . " On " principles , " he said , they seem to agree . Senator Taft quoted the foreign-affairs paragraphs of the 1950 Republican statement of " principles and objectives " to which General Eisenhower gave approval at his Abilene , Kan. , press conference . Senator Taft thumbed through these statements , which are sharply critical of the Democratic administration , and observed that they suited him fine . If General Eisenhower approves this 1950 statement , how can he disagree very broadly with Senator Taft ? Given the choice between two conservative candidates , many Republican delegates would prefer Senator Taft because of his wider political background and experience , unless there were a real difference over foreign policy . In the Eisenhower camp this difference is emphasized and is regarded as fundamental . The general himself has said that it is this which brought him into the presidential race . It is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to pooh-pooh the supposed issue , and affirm that there really will not be much trouble in writing a GOP foreign policy plank upon which both can stand . Role of Peacemaker General Eisenhower 's failure to cite Senator Taft by name or to indulge in personalities is based on a concept of the election in which he would assume the role of unifying force , to try to heal the divisions within his party and within the nation . What the country tragically needs , he believes , is unity and national leadership in America 's new world role . His Denver speech on foreign affairs is widely praised by supporters for its lofty idealism and statesmanlike approach . The trouble for the general is that he not only is running for the presidency but for the nomination . Some observers begin to wonder whether any Republican candidate who does what is necessary to get the nomination this year can win the election . This assumes that the bulk of the independent voters are internationalist and give general approval to the objectives of the Truman-Acheson policy if not to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ another problem . It always is easier in an election year to over-simplify issues in black and white , and to castigate the opposite party . General Eisenhower has taken too responsible an attitude to do this , and it may make his task more difficult . Attack on Administration Senator Taft has made a ferocious all-out attack on the administration , the " Truman war " and the alleged leniency of Secretary of State Dean Acheson to communism . In his speech at Hershey , Pa. , June 24 , Senator Taft attacked General Eisenhower for not doing likewise . Mentioning the general specifically by name without any reticence , he charged that he had " overlooked every phase of the complete failure of Truman , Acheson , and Marshall and other people who directed our foreign policy . " He appeared deliberately to invite delegate comparison between his fighting approach and that of his adversary .                     