@@718209

txt Now that the rebuff to the 18-power Suez proposal has been delivered by Egyptian President . Nasser , the British Government is expected to refer the crisis to the United Nations ? without a resort to force . The threat of force , however . is likely to be kept very much , at the ready  --  until , the issue has been resolved one way or another . French Premier Guy Monet and Foreign Minister Christian Pineau have arrived in London for important talks with British Prime Minister Sir Anthony Eden and Foreign Secretary Selwyn Lloyd . They came at Sir Anthony 's request . The urgent conversations at . 10 Downing Street certainly will include a firsthand report by Australian Prime Minister Robert G. Menzies . chairman of the five-nation presentation committee , just back from Cairo , empty-h anded . Deep Concern Bared Mr. Menzies unquestionably will provide further details of why he considers that " the situation is very , very grave , " as he declared in Cairo at the end of his talks with the Egyptian leader . The hasty visit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ concern in both London and Paris about the unfavorable way the situation is developing . As a steady stream of cars deposits British and visiting officials in the cul-de-sac on which the Prime Minister 's residence is located , the question of turning to the United Nations was described as being " in delicate balance . " Sir Anthony has called a Cabinet session for Sept. 11 to assess the situation and prepare the government 's position for the emergency reconvening a Parliament on Sept. 12 . That should be one of the most momentous meetings since the war . In the six weeks since President Nasser took possession of the Suez Canal , meanwhile , British . opinion has veered through at least one major shift . At the outset , all shades of political opinion rallied behind the . Eden " use of force if necessary " policy .. There was a moment , observers were convinced , when the House of Commons was ready to go to war in his support . Since then , a great many second thoughts have been ? aired , leaving Britain today @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ accepts the government view that full Egyptian control of the canal would be intolerable for Britain and must ' be opposed , in the last resort , by force . A second view is that force is out of the question before the United Nations has had an op , portunity to solve or moderate the conflict . Genuine Disagreement It is a genuine difference of opinion involving serious-minded people , as well as a fringe of extremists , on both sides . A possible outcome , according to informed sources , is to give the UN a chance but to continue meantime to prepare for using force . The British and French are considered likely to join in an announcement that they intend to keep military precautions in full readiness during a UN debate  --  just in case of a provocative or reckless act on Colonel Nasser 's part . Chief objection here to turning to UN is that it takes a long time  --  and in the end may not provide a solution . Meanwhile , the Eden regime dislikes the passage of time , every day of which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vital waterway . A joint British-French move to take the Suez issue to the UN nevertheless is considered likely  --  on the grounds that the Egyptian refusal even to consider the 18-power plan for international control of Suez is a potential danger to world peace . ? Bt  --  rdirralsb-is'ista - piased at ' the question 's once more being placed at the disposal of an agency where the Soviet Union either can use delaying tactics or voice outright opposition .  - -  bn , r. - French. meanwhile , . are anxious to verify that Britain 's determination to take action by force if the circumstances warrant has not wilted under Washington 's obvious disapproval . The British likewise are believed eager to clarify in greater detail what the American position is now that Colonel Nasser has said " No . " Mr. Menzies , accompanied by American and Swedish delegates to the Suez committee , has returned to London to report to the British Government on the talks ' failure . The Egyptian note proposed that steps be taken to decide the composition of a negotiating body and when it should meet . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ disputed points could be found without violating Egypt 's sovereignty . Points specifically cited by Egypt as capable of solution included freedom of navigation in the canal , improvement of the canal to meet the canal 's future needs , and fair tolls . The note said that the negotiating body could review the Constantinople convention of 1888 , which guaranteed the international status of the canal . The statement also said that Egypt had no aggressive intent , and stressed the interest of Egypt , as owner of the canal , in ensuring the waterway 's proper management . Earlier Colonel Nasser had set before Mr. Menzies and his committee colleagues from the United States , Ethiopia , Iran , and Sweden his views on the future of the Suez Canal . These views expressed Egypt 's opposition to non-Egyptian control of the strategic waterway , but pledged Cairo 's willingness to seek a peaceful solution to the crisis . ? Legality . Reiterated Colonel Nasser reiterated to the committee the view that Egypt was legally entitled to nationalize the Suez Canal Company . He repeated that Egypt , would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out of Egypt 's hands . But , Colonel Nasser said , it remained the " policy and intent " of the Egyptian Government to negotiate a peaceful solution of the Suez dispute in conformity with the purposes and principles of The United Nations Charter . Colonel Nasser also reaffirmed Egypt 's intention to stand by its obligation to guarantee freedom of navigation through the canal in accordance with the convention of 1888 . He said Egypt would agree to a solemn and internationally binding commitment in the form of reaffirmation or renewal of the convention . Egypt was likewise ready to enter into a binding arrangement about just and equitable canal tolls and charges , he declared . Colonel Nasser also restated Egypt 's willingness to give assurances about future developmen ? of the canal , and to use the services of experienced and qualified experts from all over the world . Mandate Limited The Suez Canal committee under Australian Prime Minister Robert G. Menzies could not , of course , accept any of these points , because its mandate was limited to explaining the specific proposal endorsed by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , incidentally , assured the committee that there was no truth in any suggestion that Egypt wanted to disrupt the British economy or interrupt the British economic lifeline through the Suez Canal . As the Menzies committee stated in one of the documents exchanged with Colonel Nasser and now made public , though the Cairo discussions were conducted in an atmosphere of courteous frankness and responsibility , they disclosed " deep differences of approach and principle which it seems clear no repetition of debate can affect . " This perhaps could be used as an argument against further negotiation with Colonel Nasser . But what is the alternative to further negotiation ? One other course is attempt to force inL ternational control of the canal on Egypt by recourse to arms . Colonel Nasser told the committee this would be the signal for incalculable strife  --  a view shared by most Western observers here with any experience in the Middle East . Provocation Charged Colonel Nasser said he was convinced that the aim of the proposal submitted to him by the Menzies committee was to take the Suez Canal out of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hands . It is difficult , Colonel Nasser said , . to imagine anything more provocative to the people of Egypt than this . An act of such a nature Colonel Nasser continued , is both self-defeating and of a nature to generate friction , misunderstanding , and continuous strife . In other words , Colonel Nasser said , it would not be the end but the beginning of trouble . In explaining the London conference majority proposal , the Menzies committee had insisted it would in no way be derogation of Egyptian sovereignty . The committee . said Egypt would be the landlord of the canal and the proposed international operating authority a tenant . The committee , compared status of proposed authority with that of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development World Bank . This was probably an unhappy analogy . Colonel Nasser has been disenchanted about the World Bank since it withfirew its offer of a loan to help build the Aswan Dam as soon as the United States withdrew an offer of American financial aid for the dam project . 