@@717170

txt Pension laws in Massachusetts which encourage early retirement and allow abuses must he revised before " they wreck the entire system . " according to James A. Shurtleff , City Manaeer of Medford . This opinion offered at the fourth annual Governor 's Conference at Amherst this week before some 300 city , town , county , and state officials found no dissenters . A resolution was passed unanimously at the conference asking the state Legislature to take immediate steps to tighten the pension laws , Specifically , the Governor 's Conference voted to support Senate Bill 725 which was filed by Senator Philip A. Graham ( Ii ) of Hamilton . Check on Earnings His bill was seen not as the whole answer to this involved and controversial problem , but " clearly a step in the right direction . " Senator Graham told the audience of public officials that he is personally convinced that the job can not be done all at once , but that specific changes must be made , one at a time . To discourage premature retirement by persons who more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Graham bill would cut pensions of cii:abl:ty pensioners proportionately to the amount that their outSicie earnings exceed the difference between their pension and the current salary of the position from which they retired . Tension Aristocracy ' Arthur O'Shea. executive secretary of Brookline , warned that the state pensions system is establishing " a pension aristocracy in Massachusetts . " As an extreme case of this he cited the possibility of a young man going into the armed forces at the age of 18 . At 38 he would retire and enter the state or municipal service and earn another pension . He would still be young enough to gain private employment , plus another possible pension and social security . If a disabled veteran , he ends up with a tax free federal pension , a noncontributory city , town , or state pension , plus social security . Before he is through , this individual costs the taxpayers more than $100,000 for pension rights which are in addition to his earnings . The extent to which noncontributory pension charges have grown in Massachusetts was outlined at the conference . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cent for the taxpayers . In Newton costs have gone up 311 per cent in the past 10 years . The average increase , according to the Massachusetts Federation of Taxpayers Associations is more than 150 per cent for this period . Roy C. Papalia , selectman from Watertown , cited examples of abuses of the pension system . Nearly every official from the 19 cities and 55 towns present offered to match these examples of abuses . Mr. Papalia referred to a fireman who was assigned to driving the chief 's car . He retired on disability for an alleged injury incurred 20 years earlier but not reported until five years after the accident . This fireman was retired as totally incapacitated and unable to do his present job of driving the tire chief . After being pensioned , he took a job driving a taxi . Inadequate Ref ortn ? ? Mr. Papalia reported a school teacher who applied for a disability pension in September " because he said he expected to be completely disabled because of a nervous condition by the following January . " As a veteran @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interest and retired at 65 per cent of his high school pay at the age of 49 . This teacher then went to another state and is running a boys camp and school , according to Mr. Papalia . A police detective in his late 30 's retired because he was declared totally incapacitated and unable to carry on his duties . He is now a private detective . The only criticism of the bill offered by Senator Graham was that it does not go far enough . The senator 's answer to this was that when the alternative is all or nothing , nothing gets done .                     