@@718416

txt Justified by Marx The usual phrases have been produced again from the Marxist textbook to justify this new reign of terror . It is a " counterrevolution " which all these measures are being invoked to repress , it is said . These measures provide the framework of violence and blackmail for another Soviet decision announced in the same breath through the mouth of Istvan Dobi , Hungary 's puppet President . This was the decision to dissolve " with immediate effect " the Central Workers Committee in Budapest and all similar district and regional bodies . It is significant that this decree makes no mention of workers councils in individual factories . The implication is that they may continue in operation , at least for the time being . For it is the top-level patriot organization which the Communist now are striking at after all their recent attempts at intimidation have failed . General Strike Called This new offensive was launched by the regime only four hours before another general strike call was due to go into effect . It had been issued that same morning @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Obviously this sequence of events is closely linked . The Communists ever stung into immediate action by the latest threat to their shaky prestige and authority which new strike order represented . But it would be misleading to treat this simply as a weekend cycle of cause and event , of provocation and retort . It has been evident for some time that another brutal action against the patriot leadership was under preparation . Soviet troop reinforcements had been moving on the capital for several days from their concentration areas around Miskolc , Debrecen , and Szolnok . Infantry Moves In Before the patriots issued their strike appeal , all the vil lages in the deep belt of territory beginning ten miles east of Budapest were again choked with Soviet Army units . This was the identical pattern of military preparation which preceded the second Soviet onslaught against Budapest five weeks ago . But these latest concentrations contain an even higher percentage of infantry  --  the arm of occupation . In the campaign of repression which again has been launched , the Kremlin will try to push the freshly formed Communist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ But it is inconceivable that this handful of discredited antipatriots will be able to achieve by themselves what 15 Soviet divisions have already failed to bring about . Grim Forecast Noted A few days ago the patriot leadership made a forecast that the treachery of the regime was leading the country toward " a new blood bath and a new national tragedy . " There is sad evidence that this somber fore cast is moving . now toward fulfillment . Why has the Kremlin decided on this desperate step , which will reap for it a new harvest of hate among both the enslaved peoples and disgust in the free world , as well as sow fresh seeds of doubt in the " uncommitted " nations ? The short answer is that in the Central Workers Committee the Soviets are not attacking a strike leadership but an underground countergovernment . Struck at Underground This workers movement claimed to speak not only for the factories but for the whole Hungarian people . It has raised its voice not only to redress economic grievances but to express the fundamental political demands for liberty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In doing so it defied not only the Soviet satraps in Budapest but the Soviet leadership in Moscow itself . As far as can be judged here the Kremlin 's decision to reject all compromise with these patriot spokesmen and refuse even negotiations with them on political problems was taken fairly suddenly about three weeks ago . Until that point Hungarian Premier Janos Kadar had been parleying politely if unhelpfully with workers ' delegations on questions affecting the political future of the country . - But almost overnight his tone changed . The orders are believed then to have been passed down from Moscow that military and not political solution must be imposed in Budapest . Whose decision this was and what quarrels it may have produced within the Soviet leadership are among the many massive question marks which the Hungarian trade unions have raised . Czechs Blast Tito By Reuters Belgrade The Communist Parties of Yugoslavia and Czechoslovakia are openly quarreling over the amount of independence Communist-bloc nations should gain from Moscow . Borba , official newspaper of the Yugoslav Commtinist Party , took violent exception to a Czech Communist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at Pula . In this speech Marshal Tito said there was a sharp division among Kremlin leaders . The Stalinist faction among them , he said , was trying to prevent Communist-bloc states from gaining the same independent status as Yugoslavia . The Czech news agency Ceteka on Dec. 10 distributed a speech by Czech Communist Party chief Antonin Novotny charging Marshal Tito with " weakening the revolutionary Communist front . " Mr. Novotny said Marshal Tito 's Pula speech was " in contradiction " to Yugoslav pledges of noninterference in the affairs of other Communist parties . Borba replied that the Czech Communists had " gone pretty far in their unprincipled attacks on Yugoslavia . " It said they were using Stalinist methods to attack Marshal Tito and even had quoted him out of context in the Prague press . By Mary Hognaday Staff Correspondent of The Christian Science AI ' on2:or United Nations , N.Y.-Grave violation of the United Nations Charter by the Soviet Union in its suppression of Hungary 's struggle for independence is charged in ' a new resolution put before the United Nations General Assembly Dec. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The move to record international censure against the U.S.S.R. was initiated as the Hungarian Government 's iciness to all UN efforts to inquire into the morbid state of affairs in that terror-torn naL tion continued to frustrate the free world . Thus far , admission to Hungary has been refused even to UN Secretary-General Dag Hammarskjold , and a Dec. 7 deadline set for a reply on UN observers to Hungary has been ignored completely . Suspension Try Shelved On the surface , the new American-initiated move appears to be " just another resolution , " but it has certain diplo " - matic significance and is felt to be the closest to sanctions that the Assembly can go at the present time . A move to suspend the Hungarian delegation has been shelved , at least temporarily , for lack of adequate support . The new resolution keeps moral pres'sure and the eyes of the world on the Hungarian situation and moves the Assembly into a position from which it could move into sanc*-tions if they appear advisable . A United States canvass of free-world opinion has shown reluctance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ oust Western diplomats , thus leaving the Hungarian people to the complete mercy of their Communist masters . The latest resolution on Hungary charges the Soviet Union with direct violation of the UN Charter , which bids all members to refrain from the use of force " against the territorial integrity or political independence of any state . " Deep Concern Aired Expressing continued deep concern for the tragic events in Hungary and noting the lack of response to previous UN overtures , the new UN resolution : Declares , that by using its armed forces against the Hun-. garian people the Government of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics is violating the political independence of Hungary . . Condemns the violation of the Charter by the Soviet Union in depriving Hungary of its liberty and independence and the Hungarian people of the exercise of their fundamental rights . Reiterates its call upon Moi : cow to desist forthwith from any form of intervention in the internal affairs of Hungary . Calls upon the U.S.S.R. to make immediate arrangements for the withdrawal , under United Nations observation , of its armed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ independence of Hungary . ' Horn swoggl e ' Charged The United States was spurred to place another resolution before the Assembly by what Henry Cabot Lodge , Jr. , chief American delegate , called the " hornswoggle " perpetrated on the Assembly by the Hungarians , who gave the UN Secretary-General to understand that he would be welcomed in Budapest at his earliest convenience . When he proposed Dec. 16 as the date of his visit , the Kadar government announced via the Budapest radio that the date would be " inconvenient . " As far as is known , no alternative date has been offered the Secretary-General , who as the chief permanent officer of the UN has been presumed in the past to be entitled to visit any UN member nation at any time . The mildness of the new resolution , though it may serve to attract the support of some of the Asian nations , has alienated a segment of world opinion that considers it too weak and will make an attempt to strengthen it on the floor of the Assembly . Heading this group is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ plan to have UN observers start to work in countries neighboring to Hungary by interviewing refugees and col , lecting any data available has had serious obstacles put in its way by the official refusal of Yugoslavia and Czechoslovakia to admit such observers . Austria alone has thus far consented to receive the investigators .                     