@@719648

txt The First National City Bank of New York agreed yesterday to take over the Park Avenue block that was to have been the site of the Astor Plaza skyscraper . The bank will erect its own office tower on the block , which is bounded by Park and Lexington Avenues , Fifty-third and Fifty-fourth Streets . Although it may be as tall as the fortysix-story building Vincent Astor had envisioned for the site , the bank 's structure will be of a more utilitarian nature . Final plans for the new building have not been drawn , but it is expected to have about 1,250,000 square feet of floor space , 250,000 more than had been planned for Astor Plaza . The plans presumably would dispense with the broad land. ; scaped plaza that Mr. Astor had // projected for the Park Avenue side . First National City 's head office will remain downtown in Wall Street . The new Park Avenue building mill house most of the bank 's mechanical operations ? check collection , bookkeeping , . accounting and the like . The bank 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , said merely that an agreement had been signed for the bank to acquire the interest of Astor Plaza , Inc. , in the site . Mr. Astor holds a long-term lease on the property , which is owned by the William Waldorf Astor estate . Its beneficiaries are the English branch of the Astor family . Court Approval Required Because the City Bank Farmers Trust Company , a subsidiary of First National City , is trustee for the estate the agreement must be approved by the State Supreme Court . None of the parties- would disclose the price paid by the bank for Vincent Astor 's lease . It was understood , however , that the bank had an - option eventually to buy the land and that the court would have a good deal to say in setting the final price . Yesterday 's deal was made possible in part by the capitulation of a druggist who had held out for years against attempts to buy the small plot he ' owns on the Lexington Avenue side of the block . The druggist , Jacob A. Michels , reportedly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the William Waldorf Astor estate for inclusion into the plot . For several months since demolition of all other buildings in the block Mr. Michels ' building had stood alone . His pharmacy will be moved to Madison Avenue and Sixty-eighth Street . First National City reportedly will use about 750,000 square feet - in a building that will have about 1,250,000 square feet of floor space . At present plans are being made for a thirty-sixstory structure , but it may go as high as the forty-six stories originally projected by Mr. Astor . The bank now leases property in a score of buildings in midtown . Most of these will be given up , and their functions transferred to the Park Avenue site . No decision has- been made on the building at the northwest corner of Madison Avenue and Forty-second Street , which First National City owns . It will probably keep WS branch on the ground floor of that building , which is considered one of the best bank locations in the city . First National City has no plans to abandon its building at 55 Wall @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The head office , administrative headquarters , national and international divisions , and the direction of the branch banks will remain in Wall Street . For Vincent Astor , yesterday 's agreement ends what was to have been his family 's first construction venture in New York City . He is a descendant of John Jacob Astor , who invested , the fortune he had , made in. fur trading in New York real estate , but who , along with his descendants , never built in the city . Vincent Aster had hoped to make Astor Plaza " a prestige building in a prestige location . " He ran into financing difficulties , however , and discovered that he could not build the kind of building he wanted in today 's market without extremely heavy investment on his own-part . He approached other builders for a possible partnership , but= finally decided to sell out to First National City .                     