@@714853

txt Gen. Dwight D. Eisenhower , the Republican Presidential nominee , today turned down an invitation to lunch with President Truman and members of his Cabinet next Tuesday and be briefed on the world situation . General Eisenhower made it clear that he declined the invitation to the White House , in the absence of any " grave emergency 's compelling his attendance , in order to remain free to criticize Administration foreign policy and to hammer away at his Democratic opponent , Gov . Adlai E. Stevenson of Iflinois , as the " hand-picked candidate of the Truman Administration . President Truman 's offer to ex .. tend:to General Eisenhower exact ? ly the same courtesies and information accorded to Governor Ste ? venson two days ago , arrived here yesterday morning . Eisenhower campaign aides noted that it had not been sent by the President until after General Eisenhower had bitterly criticized Governor Stevenson 's attendance at the Tuesday Cabinet meeting and had said that it " signified that the present Administration is determined to nail down through its handpicked successors every de ? tail of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ presA ent situation of bewilderment , indecision and fear for the future . " Truman 's and Bradley 's Versions In Washington , President Truman said that plans for the briefing of both Governor Stevenson and General Eisenhower had been made a week or thn days ago , and that he believed both had been accordingly notified . General of the Army Omar N. Bradley , Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff , said later that Mr. Truman had suggested he communicate with General Eisenhower on the matter but that , unfamiliar with political procedures , he ( Bradley ) did not get in touch with General Eisenhower immediately . General Bradley said he would have acted at once had he known it would become a political issue . The Republican Presidential nominee did accept , however , Mr. Truman 's offer to send weekly reports to him from the Central . Intelligence Agency . The general agreed on the understanding that this would not " limit my freedom to discuss or analyze foreign programs as my judgment dictates . " ' The American people , he said , are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " only in those cases where the security of the United States is involved . " Political campaigners here could // recall no precedent in American history where a retiring President had offered to hold Cabinet luncheons for both major contenders for the Presidency and to brief them on world events . In turning down the invitation , General Eisenhower said that his position as standard bearer of the Republican party " and of other Americans who want to bring about a change in the national government " compelled him to remain free to analyze and discuss the Administration 's policies and acts . " During the present period , the people are deciding our country 's leadership for the next four years , " General Eisenhower declared . " The decision rests between the Republican nominee and the candidate yoy. and your Cabinet are supporting and with whom you conferred before sending your message . " In such circumstances and in such a period I believe our communications should be only those which are known to all the American people . " Consequently I think it would be unwise and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to attend the meeting in the White louse to which you have invited Me . " Reserves Right to Change Mind He said he would , of course , instantly change his decision in the event of " grave emergency , " but he pointed out that " there is nothing in your message to indicate that this is presently the case . " The reasons General Eisenhower outlined to Mr. Truman for declining his invitation included some of the arguments the Republican nominee will be making for his own election in November . He will be arguing that Governor Stevenson was not the product of a genuine " draft " at the Chicago Democratic Convention , but that he was the " hand-picked " choice of Mr. Truman and the other leaders of the Democratic party . One of the principal Republican ' arguments is that this is the time ' for a change , and by change they do not mean only a new face  --  that of lovernor Stevenson  --  in the White House , but a change , as , well , in basic foreign and domestic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that he had decided long ago to invite both candidates to a White House , Cabinet meeting and briefing , the only response at the Eisenhower headquarters was that the invitation was not received until after 9 A. M. ( Mountain standard time ) yesterday and after the general had assailed the meeting the day previously with Governor Stevenson . After Mr. Truman 's press conference this afternoon , at which the President said that General Eisenhower had been advised a week or ten days ago that top secret reports by the Defense Department would be furnished to him , it was stated at the general 's headquarters that this information had not reached Denver . Message Not in Files " Neither the general nor anyone in this office has any memory of any such message , and there is nothing in our files , " said Arthur H. Vandenberg Jr. , executive assistant to the Republican nominee . General Eisenhower 's message in which he declined the invitation from Mr. Truman to go to Washington , was made public at the G. 0 . P. nominee 's headquarters here this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . This is not the customary procedure , but James C. Hagerty , press secretary to General Eisenhower , notified Joseph H. Short , White House press secretary , in advance of the release . " I told Mr. Short that the general , in deference to the Office of the President of the United States , was desirous of seeing that the President received his telegram before it was made public , " Mr. Hagerty told reporters . " I also told Mr. Short that since Democratic spokesmen had informed the press that the President was going to issue the invitation , it was felt in all fairness that we would make our telegram public , although we would not make public the President 's telegram . " The White House made public Mr. Truman 's telegram to General Eisenhower in Washington later this morning . Carrying on his regular preparatory work looking toward the active campaign that is scheduled to start about Labor Day , General Eisenhower had a long conference this morning with Senator Richard M. Nixon , his Vice-Presidential running mate , and with Dr. Gabriel Hauge @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ callers included Paul Hoff'man , head of the Ford Foundation ' and a pre-nomination leader in the Eisenhower campaign ; Victor A. Johnson , who was organizational director for Senator Robert A. Taft 's pre-convention campaign ; Senator Guy Cordon of Oregon , and John Davis , president of the National Council of Farm Cooperatives.                     