@@715635

txt The 400 Allied prisoners who came back on the-first day of the Korean armistice Ply exchange had little to say that was new and startling beyond what their predecessors who returned last April disclosed . The central story again was one of individual hardship , privation , boredom , heartbreak , and anxiety . And , most of all ? waiting . Waiting for the day of liberation which it was hard to believe had come true as the returned fighting men sat in the vast sand-floored structure here safe behind the Allied lines . It was a second pause in Allied territory during their ? long journey home from captivity . For most , it was still difficult to feel free from the bonds that lay only an hour or two behind . The presence of high American and other Allied officials at the scene impressed them , but only added to the temporary scene of bewilderment at the activity that engulfed them . Less Tainted On the military- side , 21 generals , including the Eighth Army commander , Lt. Gen. Maxwell D. Taylor , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Secretary Robert T. B. Stevens and a Navy admiral also were among the early arrivals . Later , Secretary of State John Foster Dulles , with Assistant Secretaries Walter S. Robertson and Carl W. McCardle , and United Nations Ambassador Henry Cabot Lodge , Jr. , added congratulations to the men released from long bondage to the enemy . Those who watched the pre-armistice pris-7.er exchange in . April found this first postarmistice transfer different , however . In a way that is  --  hard to define ; but the men seemed less tense , fearful , and solemn . Perhaps it was because they knew that hostilities had ceased , hence they appeared more willing to criticize their Communist captors openly , and were less tainted with Communist indoctrination to which many were exposed . Well Men Or perhaps it was because most of them were well men  --  and , therefore , less subject to enemy ideological pressure than the ill and - wounded , who had to conform to obtain attention in overcrowded Communist hospitals . Talk of atrocities committed against their fellows , which featured much of " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at a minimum . The first men who came back this time either were less impressed with their mistreatment  --  or more willing to forget it in the joy of finding themselves in friendly hands once more . It became the lot of Cpl . Raymond Shepherd of Pyramid , Ky. , to be welcomed back publicly by Mr. Dulles himself . Both the State Secretary and the returnee vied with each other in expressions of happiness over the situation . Fruit at Last " I am just very happy to be going home , " Corporal Shepherd said simply . This Second Division soldier was captured in December , 1950 , during the heavy fighting around Kotorj in North Korea . Mr. Dulles told the corporal that this also was " one of the great moments of my life . " He perhaps was thinking of his long labors in UN activities  --  and this prisoner return was the greatest fruitage so far . " Never once did President Eisenhower or his officials forget you and their desire to get you back home on honorable terms , " Mr. Dulles @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " greatest privilege of my life " to be greeted thus by the Secretary of State . But it is likely that this is only the first sampling of what is to come . And the thought persists that the Communists may have carefully selected men who would not complain unduly , to create an initial good impression that later might be erased with difficulty . Pfc . Pedro Aviles of New York City , for example , considered his treatment fair . But one time the Communists threatened to kill him , he says , when he refused to answer questions seeking information . His punishment , instead , was one month of solitary confinement  --  but " that was misery , " Pedro remembers . His tiny cubicle had no light , and dirt floor , and he received only two small meals daily . No Forced Teaching Pedro , however , declared he was not forced to attend Communist indoctrination lectures , although they were held regularly . He said he knows of no Allied prisoners to be left behind after this exchange . Moreover , so far @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the April exchange . In short , Pedro and others only told what they knew to be so . British Lt. Anthony P. D. Perrins of Bedfordshire , England , was a member of the Royal Northumberland Fusiliers and was captured in April , 1951 . He said he was put in a camp of mixed British and American officers , and the Chinese made every effort to set the two groups against each other , without success . The tactic was recognized , and they would not cooperate . Nor would they cooperate when the Chinese urged them to celebrate the armistice signing .                     