@@714679

txt ALLIES ACCUSE FOE OF OUTRIGHT LYING AT TRUCE SESSIONS Admiral Joy Charges Nam If Was Well Aware of Plans to Screen War Prisoners PROMISE BY REDS IS CITED U. N. Aide Points Out Captives Oppose Repatriation Despite Enemy Amnesty Pledge By LINDESAY PAB , ROTT Special to TILE IlEw Yoax TIMES . TOKYO , Monday , May 19 ? Vice Admiral Charles Turner Joy , senior United Nations delegate , accused Lieut . Gen. Nam II , chief Communist negotiator , today of " out-andout lying " at the conferences on an armistice in Korea . Admiral Joy pointed out that the enemy representatives were well aware last month that the United Nations meant to screen prisoners of war to determine how many wished to return home after the start of the truce  --  a process the enemy now describes as " unilateral " and " illegal . " " Only when the result was not to your liking and expectation did you decide to object to it , " the admiral said . The result of the poll was that more than half of the prisoners @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if the Allies decided to return them to their former Communist masters . Nam Protests Statement " Had the result been to your liking , you would have enthusiastically welcomed the product of our screening , " Admiral Joy told the North Korean general . Today 's was the second successive session at which the chief United Nations delegate struck back at the long tirades delivered by General Nam during the last fortnight . Two weeks ago the Communists announced they would " never " sign an armistice on the United Nations ' terms , but would keep the meetings going to tell the " truth " to the world . ? When General Nam protested Admiral Joy 's statement that the Communists had agreed to the poll , the admiral told him that not only had such an agreement been made , but that " you knew you would encounter trouble getting some of your people to accept unenforced repatriation , because you furnished our side , for use in the screening process , with a statement of amnesty from your official sources . " The Communist command 's statement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would be welcomed on their return to the Communist states of China and North Korea . " It is clear that your complaint that the screening of prisoners was illegal is a hypocritical complaint based on your unwillingness to publicly acknowledge the truth , " Admiral Joy said . Charges Hate Campaign At yesterday 's session , Admiral Joy rebuked the Communists for turning the armistice negotiations into an anti-American propaganda campaign , with charges of war atrocities and inhumanity to prisoners . In what a communiqu ? called a " stinging " talk , the admiral told the Chinese and North Korean delegates they themselves did not believe their own accusations . " It would be a reflection on your intelligence if you did , " he said . The results of a poll of the prisoners , Admiral Joy said , " forever shattered " thee " myth " that Chinese troops had volunteered to fight in Korea . The Chinese Communist Government has insisted its troops in Korea are volunteer contingents and officially calls them the Chinese People 's Volunteer Army . Brig . Gen. William P. Nuckols @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the truce meetings at Panmunjom , said Lieut . Gen. Pien Changwu , a Chinese truce delegate , had " glowered " as Admiral Joy spoke , " It is a peculiar characteristic of your ideology that , in order to gain your ends , you deny the existence of fac s and truth when these are unfavorable to you , " Admiral Joy said . " In these negotiatigns , you have overreached yourselves , and your recriminations over the past two weeks are devoid of any foundation in fact ; have denied the truth , and have consisted solely of a series of trumped-up charges so fantastic and ridiculous that they defeated their own purpose . " The acts with which you have charged the United Nations Coin // mand are so completely out of character and so foreign to the known historical character and practices of the nations represented by the United Nations Command that no informed person anywhere could place the slightest credence in your charges . " Nevertheless , you mouth this nonsense in the hope your own mist guided subjects will thereby be de ceived @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and world into more bloodshed and destruction . " Meanwhile , the Peiping radio charged that United Nations planes were undertaking " reprisal attacks " on prisoner-of-war camps in North Korea because of " confessions " by some prisoners that they had been instructed in germ warfare . " The Americans are putting on ' this demonstration to terrorize the prisoners into silence on what they know of germ warfare , and probably in the wild hope of wiping out key witnesses and evidence , " Peiping said .                     