@@719122

txt Soviet Russia 's recent claim to have won the first round in the international missile race raises several questions of great importance to our national future . The first and most important question is : Are we penny-wise and pound-foolish in cutting military expenditures severely at a time of world instability when Russia is making great technological strides ? There can now be no doubt that the reductions and limitations imposed upon the armed forces are cutting into bone and sinew . There have been reductions in research and development expenditures and appropriations , and even the guided missile programs have now had ceilings put on overtime and labor force . The Navy 's solid propellant Polaris missile , a weapon of tremendous strategical importance ; the Army 's Jupiter , which is almost ready for production , and even the intercontinental ballistic missile programs have thus been handicapped . Even if we allow for the propaganda exaggerations of the Russian announcement , Washington should still ask itself the second question : Are we ahead of the Russians , behind them or abreast of them in guided @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the basic " know-how " and fundamental knowledge of our experts is greater , cumulatively , in the missile field than that of the Russians , and that our entire missile " family " is more flexible and varied . On the other hand , the facts available to the public seem to indicate that the Russians are ahead of the United States in the actual development of intermediate and long-range ballistic missiles . The answer to this second question may not be of such imminent military importance as has been stressed , for the ballistic missile represents only one delivery system ; its advent does not automatically make all others obsolete . Moreover , it is likely that no matter who now leads in the race for giant ocean-spanning rockets other nations will in time achieve this semiconquest of space ; what one has the other will have . But in a political and psychological sense the fact of the Russian lead  --  if it is a lead ? is of great importance . The third question modifies the second . If the Russians do not really have the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to indicate , why were they permitted to convey successfully a false impression  --  an impression which has certainly worried the world and depressed our allies ? This question goes to the heart of our psychological warfare effort and casts doubt on the Government 's policy of super-secrecy . There is not much doubt that the Russians have fired a long-range rocket a long distance  --  probably about 4,000 miles . There is doubt about the accuracy of the rocket . There is doubt that more than one has been fired . There are no rockets in full-scale production . There have been accomplishments , but Moscow does not deserve the world-wide excitement its , announcement caused . We , too , have missile accomplishments . A year ago the Army 's Jupiter C  --  a test vehicle without guidance  --  flew about 3,600 miles , the longest distance flown alp to that time by a ballistic mis- ; sile . This was a creditable performance , though it was hidden under a veil of stupid and Unnecessary secrecy . The firing leaked out slowly in technical magazines ; our allies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it at a press conference . Our Government knew , too , of the Russian test long before Moscow announced it . Again , Washington might have taken some of the steam from the Soviet propaganda had we announced the Soviet test  --  as we have done intermittently in the case of Russian nuclear tests instead of permitting Moscow a " time and place and impact of its own choosing . " There are some serious , lessons to be learned in Washington from the Moscow announcement . If we take them to heart we need have no great cause for future worry . But if we do .. not , we face more nightmare " surprises . "                     