@@714045

txt Further Comments on West Point Issue Example Held Lacking To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : It is heartening to read in the letters from your readers the almost unanimous condemnation of the cheating at West Point . Cheating in scholastic competition never should be tolerated . But a slackening of ethical standards in a Government institution which turns out the leaders of our nation in time of strife is indeed cause for deep anxiety . Our wrath should , however , not be directed against the unfortunate cadets who have been dismissed , but rather against those in Government who , by condoning irregular activities on the part of high ranking individuals , have set a sorry example to the youth of our country . ARTHUR BLISS LANE . Washington , Aug. 9 , 1951 . Honor Code at Work To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : This , writer has the honor of being an alumnus of the University of Virginia . To the time of his entry , 1902 , there had been just two cases of cheating at examination @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : a delegation , in each case , went to the cheater 's room , told him to pack his trunk , waited until he did so , drove him to the railway station , handed him a ticket to his home town , put him on the train and ordered him never to return . HARVEY DENTON . New York , Aug. 10 , 1951 . Re-examining Subject-Matter To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Like so many others who have followed the circumstances at West Point which surrounded the cases of dishonesty in examinations , I , too , decry the conditions that have made such happenings possible . We have read in the press of " inefficient , administration , " of " placing academic ability secondary to athletic prowess , " etc . It does not seem likely that there is any one factor alone responsible for the cases in question . But it is my belief that the following observation plays some part in the matter . For many years educators throughout the country have been urging a type of education in which the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ detectable and discernible by everyone concerned , most particularly the student . A great deal of the content of the curriculum of our secondary schools and our institutions of higher learning today is so filled with the deadwood of traditional matter that its value is not apparent to those who have to cope with it . I submit , without any attempt to excuse or condone cheating , that in many cases it is , conscious or otherwise , a revolt against the authoritarianism of a timeworn , poorly conceived and ill-understood curriculum . Undoubtedly , there is a great deal of worthwhile content in the curriculum of our educational institutions today . It seems equally certain to me that much of the subject-matter could be reexamined in the light of the purpose it is designed to serve . I believe that West Point officials and all those concerned with its course of study have an excellent opportunity to perform an outstanding service for the whole field of education by giving this point of view serious consideration . CHARLES F. TAYLOR . Chappaqua , N. Y. , Aug. 6 , 1951 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ NEW YORK TIMES : I wish to commend you for your statement regarding the treatment of the West Point cadets as carried in THE NEW Yon : TIMES editorial page on Tuesday , Aug. 7 . There has been little or no call for a return to a high moral standard in this particular instance  --  rather a condoning of a practice that has become all too prevalent in all phases of our national'life . It was heartening to read in THE NEw YORK TIMES that it was time to take drastic action in an effort to stem what the public knows to be really wrong . I hope that many more people will take up your challenge and follow it through to its natural conclusion . ELIZABETH S. MICHAELS . Media , Pa. , Aug. 10 , 1951 . Offering Temptation Protested To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : It is incredible that West Point should use the ridiculous system under which classes meet in sections and then hold identical classwork on successive days . No such temptation to give information or ask questions should be given to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ D. COTTON. , New York , Aug. 7 , 1951 . Changing Selection System TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : The West Point scandal may , in the long view , prove a blessing . Evidently during the past decade considerable number of prospective Army ( and probably Navy ) bfficers have been selected on the basis of football prowess . In the country-wide scramble for gridiron virtuosity the Academy enjoys unusual advantages . Hundreds of Congressional districts , plus thousands of West Point alumni stationed throughout the nation , constitute a unique set-up for talent scouting . Apparently , the players having once been secured , the chief problem is to keep them in the Academy . Apparently this was initially undertaken by enthusiastic classmates passing on information concerning examinations and what was thus theughtlessly conceived grew into a system under which the cadets generally began to ride the gravy train . The suggested remedy of abolishing football is purely negative and does not go to the core of the matter . Furthermore , it would unnecessarily sacrifice real values inherent in the disciplines of tough athletic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the system of initial selection of entrants by doing away with appointments either by Congressmen or Army authorities . From scholastically qualified lists all applicants should be subjected to highly competitive examinations and from the top grades thus obtained final selection , based upon aptitude , character and personality fitness , could be made by a top-level Army board . With a proper method of selection football ability would not enter the picture  --  certainly it could not be the dominant factor . Doubtless , the Point would no longer enjoy a succession of champion football teams . On the other hand the level of intellectual and professional attainment should be considerably raised . The game would continue to be played but the emphasis would be shifted to the basic purposes of the Academy . WINTHROP TAYLOR , St. James , N. Y. , Aug. 10 , 1951 . Restoration of Code Asked To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Having been both a cadet and an instructor at West Point , I can not , unfortunately , believe that ninety cadets could become involved without other cadets having @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ failing to report the matter to the Honor Committee . The published statement of one cadet that he knew of the cheating and of his obligation to report it but that his friendships meant more to him than the honor system certainly indicates a point of view that undermines the basic precept on which West Point is founded : that the cadet and officer owes first allegiance to something above and beyond personal benefit , family , and friends . That precept must be re-established . It is essential to military leadership , Possibly more , not less , stringent measures than the discharge of ninety cadets may be required . Lastly , I want to comment on the criticism of West Point for giving identical examinations to different groups of cadets . This is done to equalize the conditions under which cadets compete for class standing , which in turn determines their choice of branches on graduation and their relative rank as officers . The system worked for years . Cadets simply as a matter of course did not discuss an examination directly or indirectly until all men had taken @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ add other safeguards against cheating , like monitoring examinations , would negate the principle that cadets must develop an honesty that comes from an inner strength of character and not from an outward compulsion . R. R. RAYMOND JR. , Colonel U. S. Army , Retired . New Preston , Conn. , Aug. 7 , 1951 . Discussions With Authorities To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Knowing nothing about the cribbing at West Point until the news burst into print last week , I have wondered what attempt , if any , has been made by the cadets of the football teams to remedy the situation during the past ten years . Have the men at any time indicated to the authorities of the Academy that it was almost humanly impossible to create such superb teams and have sufficient time for study necessary to meet the requirements of the high academic standards ? If such an attempt or attempts have been made were they given consideration or disregarded by the authorities ? Youth is not the only age that makes mistakes . I do not in any way @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ must be fairness on both sides if neither is to suffer . RUTH H. DAN-1E1Am Brooklyn , Conn. , Aug. 11 , 1951 , Excuse of Temptation To THE EDITOR OF THE NEw YORK TIMES : It is profoundly disturbing to read in many of the letters which you published regarding the West Point disgrace that their authors suggest that the students should not be exposed to the " temptation " of taking examinations previously presented to other students . I note also that at least one Congressman has made the same comment . In other words , this type of thinking believes that the only way to prevent dishonor is to remove the temptations . What a slough of immorality are we in ! If we are to have officers in our forces that can not be trusted to be truthful when exposed to " temptation " our entire defense structure becomes termite-ridden at its very heart and core . A. A. Bum . New Vernon , N. J. , Aug. 10 , 1951 . Investigation Proposed To THE EDITOR OP ' THE NEW YORK TIMES : Although the exact @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ few West Point graduates , if indeed any , would condone a violation of that code . Few , if indeed any , graduates desire a West Point athletic team to win , or even enter a contest , with the help of men who have maintained their academic standings by violations of the honor code . : few , if indeed any , graduates desire thr. : any cadet maintain his grades by viol tions of the honor code or graduate by such means . ( I know many graduates whose sons are or have been cadets . The fathers would immeasurably prefer that their sons fail to graduate for academic reasons rather than violate the honor code . ) From the viewpoint of West Point graduates , therefore , there can be no compromise on the following principles : 1 . No violation of the honor code can be condoned . 2 . No West Point athletic team must benefit from the presence of men who have maintained their academic standing by violations of the honor code . 3 . No ' man must be permitted to qualify for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ foregoing principles can be preserved without closing our eyes to the facts in the present case . That some ninety cadets have suddenly developed moral myopia , or that such a large number of moral reprobates were admitted in any one or two years seems highly improbable . Fellow graduates with whom I have discussed the matter agree that what has occurred must have developed over a period of years . Painful as the admission must be to ' all graduates , I do not see how we can escape some measure of the blame for what has occurred . Just how , when and where we have failed these young men I do not know , but that we or at least many among us have failed them I feel sure . In view of the foregoing ; my question is : Is it just to give these young men the drastic punishment indicated , to place on their shoulders the entire burden in so far as it lies within the powers of the authorities at West Point to do so ? Summary removal of all cadets concerned from further @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their wrongdoing and would satisfy all graduates who feel , as I am sure all do , that they do not want men kept on West Point teams who have maintained academic eligibility by violation of the honor code . Turning back to a subsequent clh.ss any of the ninety cadets whose academic eligibility is in doubt ( perhaps after giving special comprehensive examinations to all ) would insure that none would graduate who did not actually meet the academic requirements . ( The superintendent himself has said that he thinks " they are basically honorable , most of them . " ) Then it would seem to be the responsibility of the graduates of West Point , with the help of a Congressional committee if necessary , to investigate the matter further . Let us ascertain how , when and where we have failed and take the corrective action needed at whatever expense of ' time , effort and public humiliation that may be required . E. C. HARWOOD , U. S. M. A. , 1920 . Great Barrington , Mass. , Aug. 8 , 1951 . Football Overemphasis Blamed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tragic situation at West Point has naturally been a source of great dismay to all us graduates . There is nothing that any of us can do or say that will overcome the temporary loss of stature that our alma mater has suffered . Our fervent hope is that time will restore its lost honor and prestige . This restoration can not , in my opinion , even begin until the individuals guilty of honor violations have been summarily discharged . There has been considerable comment about the legality of the actions taken in connection with this matter . As far as West Point is concerned , there is little or no relationship between honor and legality . Historically , if a cadet did not possess the moral fortitude to cherish and obey the Academy 's clear-cut honor system , the cadets themselves saw to it that the guilty cadet resigned . Because such instances were rare , no particularly difficult problem was posed . Actually , I believe that the honor system began being pulled away from the cadets ten years ago . It was then that a high salaried @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is a man of obviously high professional ability , integrity and personal honor . There is no question about that . But his natural and primary interest was the development of a football team . When he arrived at the Academy , he was confronted with an average hunch of college football players , of which I was one . With a few very minor exceptions , our lives were the same as those of all other cadets  --  a few more privileges , but a feW more headaches . But the coach , in collaboration with a number of the faculty members , succeeded in effecting many drastic changes . Athletes lost their afternoon study periods , special additional instruction seminars were conducted by faculty members for football players , football practice periods became longer , etc . Football players became more and more separate from the Corps of Cadets . I believe the beginning of football overemphasis at West Point and its attendant changes in the lives of football players had a strong influence on engendering a situation that ultimately led to mass violation of the honor code . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , I can not believe that each guilty cadet is to be personally condemned . So many decent young men just do n't suddenly go had all at once . I am convinced that these fellows simply succumbed to a temptation that was fostered by a breakdown in the age-old West Point system . I feel that in their minds they were engaging in a more or less accepted practice  --  something akin to tearing up parking tickets . JERE W. MAUPIN , Colonel , U. S. A. F. , Class of 1942 , U. S. M. A. Arlington , Va. , Aug. 11 , 1951 , Further reproduction prohibited without permission .                     