@@715658

txt The Eisenhower administration is being forced again into a position on farm policy with which it is not in political agreement . Wheat quotas , or any substantial curbs on production , are not in line with general Republican views that the government should keep hands off when it comes to telling the farmer how much he shall plant . The vote represents no desire on the part of the farmer to be told how much he shall plant , but registers rather his desire to accept such restriction than forfeit price support at 90 per cent of parity . Incomplete but conclusive returns show that growers gave a top-heavy vote in the Aug. 14 referendum , 338,751 to 51,487 , for marketing quotas on the 1954 wheat crop . Wheat Piles Up The farmer , of course , could have voted against the government imposition of quotas had he desired and - have grown all the wheat he wished . But then he would be eligible for only 50 per cent of parity price support from the government . The crisis in the farm program as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ surplus commodities piling up in government warehouses ? arises from consecutive years of abundant . crops , declining exports , and falling prices . With the price of wheat in . the marketplace lower than the government support price , farmers who have obtained government loans on . their wheat crop ' simply leave it in government hands . There is prospect that at the present rate of accumulating , the government may have a record-breaking supply of more than 600,000,000 bushels by 1954 . Storage has been so much of a problem that the government has had to stash away some of its surplus supplies in the holds of idle ships . While the case of wheat has been dramatized by the referendum on wheat quotas , it is only one of numerous commodities in which the government is involved in acquiring under the present farm price-support law . It is an activity in which the present administration is engaging with the greatest reluctance and only because it must do so until a new farm program is formulated . That new program which will reflect the new administration 's policies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ outlined only in the vaguest terms so far . To Fulfill Mandate It will be based on the theory that the farmer first should make every effort to help himself before the government lends a hand , if the views voiced by Secretary of Agriculture Ezra Taft Benson are to be taken as a guide . It will operate on the theory of a sliding scale for price supports in which supply and demand will determine the level rather than on the present basis of high , rigid supports , if the views of Senator George D. Aiken ( R ) of Vermont , chairman of the Senate Agriculture Committee , are to prevail . There is by no means unanimity among Republicans on the subject , and a real battle is expected . Senator Milton R. Young ( R ) of the wheat-growing state of North Dakota , already has served warning that he will be no party to any cut in federal . price supports for farmers . It will be hard to take away the government price props at a time when the farmers appear to need them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But at the same time , , the Administration he s no taste for a farm program that ties up billions of dollars in surplus farm products for which there is no market . The answer , many feel , is for the farmer gradually to cut back his planting to the point where such surpluses will not accumulate . But from the farmer 's point of view , that means cutting back his income at a time when it already is being pared down by the higher costs of the things which , he has to buy .                     