@@716636

txt senator from Oregon , and not for nearly two decades had the Oregon minority party captured electoral prizes comparable to those that fell to them in the wake of the Neuberger triumph . Even if a recount should give the victory to Senator Cordon , Democratic victories cracked the solidly Republican delegation in the United States House of Representatives , went a long way toward overcoming the GOP margin in the State Legislature , and swept all important offices in Multnomah County ( Portland ) , the state 's only metropolitan center . 1IcCall Defeated Mrs. Edith Green , Portland housewife and former educator , is the new Democratic congresswoman from the 3d Oregon District ( Multnomah County ) . She defeated Tom Lawson McCall , the Republican who had previously defeated the incumbent , Representative I-Joiner D. Angell , in the May primaries . Multnomah County registration is normally pro-Democratic , but the Republican , Mr. Angell , had represented the district in Congress since January , 1939 . Governor Wins A casualty of the unexpected Democratic surge was Representative David Baum of Union County , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the Speaker of the House , in the direct line of succession to the Governor 's chair . The one bright spot in the Oregon vote , as far as the Republican Party was concerned , was the contest for Governor . Republican Gov . Paul L. Patterson , who has been a popular executive since he succeeded , as President of the State Senate , to the vacancy left by the appointment to the Eisenhower Cabinet of Interior Secretary Douglas , won by a comfortable margin over the Democratic nominee , Joseph K. Carson , former Mayor of Portland . But Democrats captured the only other statewide office on the ballot , that of State Commissioner of Labor . A political unknown , Norman 0 . Nilsen , won this post in an upset victory over Republican State Senator S. Eugene Allen . But it was the last-minute Neuberger victory tHat set off the Democratic celebrations some 24 hours after the polls closed . Almost Conceded Mr. Neuberger , himself , had been on the point of conceding to Senator Cordon late in the evening of Election Day @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by as much as 13,000 votes , a considerable margin in sparsely settled Oregon , But the early count included only those who had voted during the daylight hours . And when the tabulators reached the ballots of the " workingmen " who went to the polls after 5 p.m. , the Neuberger columns began to fill rapidly . Thus , the element of time demonstrated the source of the Neuberger strength  --  the workingman , Organized labor , strong only in the Portland metropolitan area , has never been more united in supporting a congressional candidate than it was in this instance . There was ample evidence , also , that the power issue was instrumental in the Senate upset , Mr. Neuberger , who counted on populous Multnomah County to offset the traditional Republican margin downstate , captured a majority in Wallowa , Union , Umatilla , and Baker Counties , surrounding the Hells Canyon Dam site , which had become a symbol of the public power vs. private power issue . Many Oregonians have little doubt that Senator-elect Neuberger will before long play a congressional role even more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ house in Congress . For two decades  --  with time out for three years of service in World War II  --  he has played a controversial part in state politics . Since 1948 , he has been a member of the State Senate . A facile speaker and indefatigable worker , he has been an outspoken advocate of a return to the policies of Franklin D. Roosevelt 's New Deal . Wife in Polities His name has , therefore , been enough to raise the hackles of conservative Republicans . But even these have never doubted his ability . The independent Republican Portland Oregonian , which firmly opposed Mr. Neuberger 's election , editorialized after his victory was indicated : " We know he has the intelligence to grow into a truly great senator . " It appears certain from this viewpoint that Mr. Neuberger will not be content to reside in the shadows of Oregon 's other senator , Wayne Morse . And he has 4much older claim to the label of " liberal . " Mr. Neuberger , who ? is a prominent writer on political and other subjects @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the latter was holding to the Republican cause and campaigning for Republican colleagues , such as Harry Cain of Washington . ships at stake ? with many of the new Governors supporters of Adlai E. Stevenson ? is a factor which , by enabling the Democrats to build stronger state organizations , can enable the Democrats to work steadily toward a larger Democratic and liberal , triumph in 1956 . Deal ' Viewpoint The victories of New DealFair Deal Governors G. Mennen Williams in Michigan and Harriman in New York , have inserted that particular political viewpoint strongly in high Democratic councils from here on . New Deal-Fair Deal proponents in Washington readily tick off the strongly liberal victories in Congress on the Democratic side , which add up to an impressive total . They include , in the Senate , of Michigan , O'Mahoney of Wyoming , Murray of Montana , Humphrey ( as usual ) in Minnesota , Neuberger of Oregon . But in terms of practical politics , and getting measures passed through Congress , control will remain , as it did during the past session , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the southern Democrats , who will staff the powerful Senate and House chairmanships which determine the choice and the pace of legislaLn. ioiberal Tendency ' George Meetly , president of the American Federation of Labor , a realist In these matters , discerns a " liberal tendency " in Congress . But he also stresses that " anti-labor " majorities still control both houses and that no clear and consistent pro-labor majority is possible until the Democrats make use of their state organization and investigative opportunities to build for a more strongly liberal Congress in 1956 M. Meany estimates that the elections brought a net gain of four pro-labor senators and 40 pro-labor representatives . Not a single outstanding liberal was defeated , he adds . Under Democratic organization , Congress will be able to proceed more readily with such " liberal " measures as investigations into alleged GOP " giveaway " programs , a more effective housing bill , larger public works , including the western reclamation program advocated by the Democratic leadership , and foreign trade program . But revision of the Taft-Hartley Act to conform to labor leadership @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ medicine ? these will be ruled out by the " center " coalition which , at base , will dictate the new congressional outlook .                     