@@716085

txt A member of the soviet espionage ring which operated in the nation 's capital in the late ' 30s tonight confessed his role to Chairman McCarthy IR. , Wis. of the senate permanent investigating subcommittee . Breaking a silence of 15 years , the former spy described his connection with the . underground conspiracy which ' involved Alger Hiss and . Whittaker Chambers in the most celebrated spy trial of the century , He revealed for the first time the part he played in the theft and reproduction of secret state department dom . ments . Public Airing Today The story , told in secret session , will be given at a public hearing tomorrow when the witness , a round faced , bespectacled man of mild appearance , takes the witness stand before the subcommittee in the federal building . He has been living in obscurity in a small town near here . McCarthy has been investigating communist infiltration of the General Electric company at Schenectady . At an open session today , an undercover FBI informant identified six workers in the vast defense plant as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ audience staged a demonstration which approached the proportions of a riot at one point as the six accused men defied the subcommittee when asked if ' they were Communist party members . Served in G. E. Probe Among a number of witnerses upon whom subpenas were served last week for questioning in the investigation was a former General Electric company employe . He had been named in 1948 by Chambers , the confessed soviet spy whose testimony sent Hiss to jail for five years for perjury to conceal espionage . But he had consistently refused to talk to the federal bureau of investigation or congressional investigators . Summoned as a witness in the Hiss trial , he invoked the privilege against self-incrimination of the ? fifth amendment to the Constitution . His interrogation at a closed session this evening was therefore expected to be routine . The expectation was that he would follow the example set by numerous other witnesses and plead possible involvement in prosecution for a crime if he answered questions . He Decides to Talk But when Roy M. Cohn , chief counsel , began asking questions , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to a decision to talk . He said he had gone to the FBI three days ago and given a full account of his service in the pay of Russian soviet , agents from 1935 to 1939 . The open session of the subcommittee was featured by the testimony of Jean Arsenault , former correspondent for the New York Daily Worker , official communist journal . He disclosed that he had been reporting for the FBI on subverReproduced with permission of the copyright owner . Further reproduction prohibited without permission . sion in the General Electric plant since he broke with the Communist party a year ago . The six employes named by Arsenault are working . on.de ? tense contracts , some of them confidential and secret , which are financed by the government . Call City Police The jammed hearing room in the federal building was largely occupied by friends of the accused men : As the hearing proceeded , . the audience became increasingly disorderly until a fiery denunciation of McCarthy by the third defiant witness caused an uproar . Six United States marshals tried vainly to quell @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and shaking their fists . Several minutes passed before the tumult died . City police were sent for and , as a precaution , two detectives were assigned to accompany McCarthy during t h e remainder of his two day stay here . The testimony of Arsenault obviously was a shock to many in the audience . He had been a G. E. employe , who , according to his testimony , was a trusted representative of the Communist party in the plant . He said that he personally knew 15 disciplined Communists at G. E. , instructed to obey party orders up to and including espionage and sabotage . Two of the men named by Arsenault were shop stewards of the independent United Electrical Workers which claims to represent about half the 40,000 workers at G. E. despite its expulsion from the CIO because of communist domination . The six who defied the subcommittee , after identification as Communists by Arsenault , wpre Sidney Friedlander , Robert Northrop , Arthur L. Owens , Joseph Gebhardt , Emanuel Fernandez , and Gordon Belgrave . Wife Joins in Din . As Northrop @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to avoid testimony , his wife , clutching a small child in her arms , arose and shrieked : " You 're so busy smearing people , senator , do n't you ever think of their families ? " A man beside her shouted : " Do you want him to lose his job ? " After a closed McCarthy hearing last November , General Electric suspended several employes who used the 5th amendment to avoid answering communism charges and. , announced a policy of suspend-I ing all " 5th amendment employes " for 90 days pending an inquiry . McCarthy waited until the shouting had subsided , then 1 , addressed the woman who had ' called out to him . " Think of Dead in Korea " " This committee does not . enjoy this task , " he said , " but we must think also of the families of boys who died in Korea because of the actions of Communists . A Communist employed on American defense work should lose his job because he is in position to sabotage that work in case of war with Russia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which broke a few ? linutes later when Owens was summoned to the stand . A tall powerful man with a big voice , he immediately began shouting at " this Ku Klux Klan committee which is going to get me fired . " " This is n't an American , democratic committee , " b el - lowed Owens . " If it was , I 'd explain this charge as a damnable lie . " McCarthy immediately offered to send the witness before any committe he should choose cr before a grand jury . Owens refused to answer this challenge . When Owens yelled that McCarthy should suhpena " fascists like Gov . Byrnes and Gov . Talmadge , " the audience erupted in a noisy demonstration . Owens finished his appearance , waving his arms at McCarthy and his staff and shout-ing : " What a fascist bunch of bums you are . "                     