@@718342

txt Dwight Eisenhower has been reelected President of the United States on the tide of a great vote of public satisfaction with his record and confidence in his leadership . At this hour we do not know just how the new Congress will be divided . It is already clear , however , that again this year , as in 1952 , the President has run far ahead of the rest of the Republican ticket . Confidence in Mr. Eisenhower himself , rather than confidence in the Republican party , emerges as the dominant factor in this election . The course of the campaign has clearly shown the elements of strength and of weakness in the Republican party at the end of the first Eisenhower Administration . The chief element of strength , amply demonstrated in yesterday 's voting , is the great personal popularity of the President and the wide measure of public confidence which he commands . Inevitably , too , the Republican party has profited from the boom which many industries are currently enjoying and the present high level of earnings and employment . On @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ election figures seem likely to demonstrate when they are in , is the lackluster record of the Republicans in Congress , the clearly revealed division within the party itself between lib erals and reactionaries , and the continued presence in responsible Congressional positions of Republican die-hards who are opposed to just about everything , either at home or abroad , for which the President himself stands . Should the Democratic party manage to hold control of Congress , the President will need in his second term , as in his first , help from the liberal Democrats . He had such help , often in generous measure , on some of the most important measures of his first Administration , and fortunately there are large areas of public policy in wh ' . ch liberal Democrats and liberal Republicans think enough alike to warrant hope of cooperative action across party lines . Whatever the final count of seats in the Senate and the House , some degree of coalition government must be achiev'td in Washington if the public business is to go forward . The responsibilities resting directly on the President @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ great . Fortunately , the campaign itself ? a grueling test  --  gave convincing proof of his strong recovery to good health . His naturally high spirits can not fail to benefit from this renewed demonstration of public approval . We congratulate him on his victory , and pledge him our support in every step that he may take to wield wisely the great power of the United States in international affairs and to achieve at home a continuation of an era of goodwill and confidence in which the American system of private enterprise can prosper to full advantage . To the loser too in this election we offer our congratulations on a hard-fought campaign . If it is the business of a Presidential candidate to focus attention on the great issues of the day , and to help illuminate those issues for the public 's benefit , Adlai Stevenson lids performed that function well . Certainly no candidate ever worked harder to win , or carried his appeal so eagerly and tirelessly to all sections of the country . So the campaign ends . The electorate has spoken . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ man chosen by the American people to serve for another term as their Chief Executive . Let us arm ourselves with a renewed sense of our national unity for the unfinished tasks that lie ahead .                     