@@714372

txt BRITISH PRESS SAYS A COOL RECEPTION AWAITS CHURCHILL Correspondents in Washington Intimate That Ijis Parley . With Truman Will Fail LONDON REACTION BITTER But Opinion in U. S. Capital Dismisses All Conjecture as Journalistic Enterprise ' By RAYMOND DANIELL Special to TRZ NEW Yoxx Trams . LONDON , Jan. ** impression is being created here by responsible British journalists in Washington that the welcome mat definitely is not out for Prime Minister Churchill and Foreign Secretary Anthony Eden at Blair House or the State Department . In fact , it has been suggested in such respected dailies as The Times of London that various officials in Washington are busy pulling the rug from under the two British statesmen even before they arrive . " Hardly a day goes by , " wrote IThe London Times Washington correspondent yesterday , " without one department or another providing a little about something it expects Mr. . Churchill to demand and which he is not going to get , about some stiff questions he is going to be asked , or some policy that is going to be thrust down @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that he was referring to the Army 's " prematurely " unveiling of the new improved American rifle , State Department suggestions that Britain accept King Farouk 's sovereignty over the Sudan , and the Defense Department 's assertions that the United States will " never consent to a new Combined Chiefs of Staff . " In Washington these preconference conjectures were dismissed as representing very little more than the usual journalistic enterprise ot trying to anticipate events . The controversy over whether the United States Army rifle or the new British .280 shall become the standard equipment of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization forces is one that Mr. Churchill intends to bring up during his Washington talks . He has conceded that the problems of production and ammunition make the manufacture of the British rifle // impracticable now but there is no evidence that he has decided to abandon it for all time . ? While the Foreign Office has no quarrel with American policy in the Near East  --  neither in Iran nor in Egypt  --  the . newspapers seem less well-informed about United States aims in those countries @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no pressure on Britain to hand over Sudo and that the intervention of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development in the oil dispute with Iran is a well-intentioned effort to bring about a satisfactory ' solution . Nevertheless , the conservative Daily Telegraph said today that " nothing could be more misguided " than to suggest that Britain hand over the Sudan to the " corrupt , greedy and reactionary oligarchy which rules Cairo " in exchange for Egyptian participation in a Middle East command . In an editorial headed " Middle East Meddle , " Lord Beaverbrook 's Daily Express attacked the intervention of the World Bank in the Iranian oil dispute as a piece of American interference in British affairs . The suggestion that the Abadan refinery be taken over by the World Bank , the newspaper said , was " quite unpalatable " to the British people . The United States , the editorial continued , is concerned lest the Communists should take over if Ithe Mossadegh Government fell and feels that the easiest way to sustain " Persia 's bed-borne boss " is to urge Britain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " which would allow him to scuttle to economic safety . " " But it is intolerable , " the paper . said , that ' reasonableness ' should go to the length of expecting Brit taro to surrender ? 350,000,000 worth of assets built up by the skill and enterprise of British engineers . " Story Called Inspired , The Express and The Telegraph confined their comments to their editorial page but the dispatch of the correspondent of The London Times appeared on that paper 's main news page where readers are accustomed to look for more or less objective reporting . The correspondent . told of an " obviously inspired story " that the President " saw no reason for ? Mr. Churchill 's visit at all , was really Mather annoyed at the prospect of it , and had told the Britsh Embassy that he was going to bed at o'clock regardless of the Prime Minister . " .. These stories , " the dispatch contiinied , " come from so many Sources that it is hard to find their origin-Lor origins , for there must be more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the top , ' but equally they do not come from very far down . It is easy to see that some in the White House who are preoccupied with domestic matters look upon the visitors - as an unwelcome diversion and fear that any agreement may be used by the opposition as proof that Truman has been ' bamboozled ' by the great man . " The London Times correspondent concluded his dispatch by saying that it would be " bad manners for the strongest power in the West to welcome the leading European statesman in such ? a surly way . "                     