@@716107

txt Three hundred eighty-three persons were included today in a broadly defined " subversive " category among 2,427 security risk separations from Government ' employment during the final seven months of 1953 . . Philip Young , chairman of the Civil Service Commission , explained to a Senate committee , however , that he could not say any or all of the 383 were either Communists or subversives . He ' Said they had " derogatory material of a substantial nature " in their personnel files . But he could not say whether allegations of subversive association had been a controlling factor in their separation from Government . He did not know hew many had , been dismissed , how many had - resigned , or how many had received written notice that such , " subversive " allegations were on file against them . Democratic Senators said that at future hearings they would ask Mr. Young if there had been any investigation or considered evaluation whether the allegations of " subversive " associations in the files of the 383 persons were true or , false . This issue @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it has been brought out that socalled loyalty files on Federal employes contain all manner of hearsay evidence , grudge letters and other uncorroborated material as well as sworn testimony . These " files " are classified " se-1 cret , " however , and may not be produced excepteby Presidential order . Mr. Young appeared under oath before the Senate Post Office and Civil Service Committee for nearly two hours in a repetition of what Washington has come to call " the numbers game . " His breakdown of " security risk " separations , authorized by President Eisenhower , did not satisfy protesting Democrats . They contended the truth still was being withheld on the actual number of disloyal persons weeded out of Government . The breakdown did not support the claims of Republican leaders , such as Senator Joseph R. Mc1Carthy of Wisconsin , either . They have contended that more than 90 per cent of those removed from Government under the se- curity program were either subversives or sexual perverts . Mr. Young 's total of those removed , however , was 227 higher than the figure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the State of the Union in January . The Young Breakdown Reporting a total of 1,074 dismissals and 1,353 resignations under the security program between May 28 and Dec. 31 last year , Mr. Young gave this breakdown : q383 " whose files contained information indicating , in varying degrees , subversive activities , subversive associations or membership in subversive organizations . " 9194 " whose files contained information indicating sex perversion . " 9605 " whose files contained information indicating ? conviction of felonies or misdemeanors. " 111,045 whose files contained other derogatory information that might form a basis for security risk separations . These included alcoholics , gossips and numerous other categories of undesirables . The figures Mr. Young gave to the Senate committee today were even higher than those he had furnished yesterday afternoon to the similar committee of the House of Representatives . He explained the increase by the inclusion of new figures and category breakdowns from the Department of the Army . But he said he did not have , as any breakdown on 426 persons separated from the Navy , the Air Force and ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Young Democratic Senators , angered by Republican contentions that the Truman Administration was 1 " crawling with Communists , " questioned Mr. Young vigorously but got little new information . The questioning had not been concluded at noon when the Senate met and the committee had to recess . Senator Frank Carlson , ' Kansas Republican and committee chairman , said the ? questioning would be resumed next week . On Thursday , Mr .. Young is scheduled to appear ? before the House Post Office and Civil Service Cpmmittee , headed by Representative Edward H. Rees , also a Kansas Republican . Mr. ' Young was challenged --  on discrepancies in the ' figures furnished by him and by various departmental agencies to various subcommittees of the House Appropriations Committee since Jan. 1 . He said he could not account for the differences . The State Department , for example , informed the House Appropriations subcommittee that it had handled 590 " security risk " dismissals or resignations , including 291 persons transferred to other agencies . It listed eleven " loyalty " cases . Mr. Young , however , reported @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 117 " security risk " cases , including five dismissals and na resignations . He said forty-three State Department employes were ' included in the broad category , with some sort or subversive allegations in their files , and forty-nine persons were'accused of sexual perversion . All Are Off Payroll He emphasized that all the 2,427 persons handled as " security risks " now were off the Fed-1 eral payroll . His figures , lie said , included no cases of persons transferred from one agency to another and reported by the previous agency to have derogatory information in their files . Reporters also asked Mr. Young about the Justice . Department , which had informed the House Appropriations subcommitttee it had handled only eight " security risk " cases , including one admitted former Communist party merger . Mr. Young 's figures today listed 156 Justice Department cases , including fifty-three dismissals and 103 resignations , of whom forty-one were in the " subversive " , category and three were called sexual perverts . On the same basis , the Treasury Department had told the House Appropriations Subcommittee it had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ four involved loyalty . Today Mr. Young listed thirty-nine dismissals and thirteen resignations at the Treasury , including ten in the " subversive " category and two sexual perverts . Commerce Department officials had told the House group it handled 132 " security risks , " including twenty-three loyalty cases . Mr. Young 's new figures listed twenty-nine dismissals and twenty-nine resignations , with eight in the " subversive " category and nine among the sexual perverts . To all questions about the accuracy of his- figures , Mr. Young replied that they had been " certified " to him as correct by the ' responsible departmental and agency . heads and had been checked carefully for duplications . Senators A. S. Mike Monroney of Oklahoma , John 0 . Pastore of Rhode Island and Olin D. Johnston of South Carolina led the Democratic effort to get more information out of Mr. Young . They tried to strike at Republican contentions that previous Democratic Administrations had left behind large numbers of subversives and other unreliable persons . The Democrats ; wanted to know why none of the persons listed in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at least for perjury , if they had falsified their Governmental employment forms denying member-I ship in proscribed groups . Mr. ' Young did not agree that prosecutions should necessarily be based on the type of information available to the Government . Senator'Pastore was alternately amused and angry at Mr. Young 's unwillingness to answer questions directly . At one point , Mr. Pastore said the " matter would not be so amusing if it was n't so confusing . " ' Later , he charged a " deliberate effort " by the Administration to keep the facts about the security risks from reaching the public . Senator John Sherman Cooper , Kentucky Republican , protested he could not agree with Senator Pastore 's charge . " It 's a fact , " Senator Pastore responded . " They are giving the impression all these people are disloyal . They keep beating around the bush and we are not getting the facts . " It was an unusual procbdure but Senator Johnston insisted that Mr. Young be sworn as a witness . He asked few questions today , but indicated ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ resumed .                     