@@715909

txt ' Senator John F. Kennedy ( D ) of Massachusetts today invaded hostile territory seeking to induce the South to forfeit one of its principal weapons in the North-South struggle for industry . Riding an issue he has made his own in the past several months , Senator Kennedy , in a ? Rotary Club speech , sought to prove to southerners they should support his drive to subject to federal taxation tax-free municipal and county revenue bonds floated to erect buildings and acquire sites as inducements to new industry . The Massachusetts senator , who has seen many northern industries , particularly from New England , lured to the South through tax advantages , contended such advantages constitute " unfair competition , " and will not aid the south in the long run . The bold Kennedy move in a state which has a statute authorizing municipalities and counties to float such state and federal tax-free bonds is certain to feed additional fuel to the North-South controversy over industrial inducements . Senator Rides Issue Senator Kennedy is riding an issue of considerable interest to New England @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to attract new ones in the face- of competition from the South . It is a safe and popular subject in New England , a controversial issue to explore in the South . The Bay State senator charged the Tennessee municipal and county bond statute constitutes " unfair competition to the private companies which must pay higher interest rates to finance taxable bonds for a nos plant . " Indeed , in effect , the taxpayers of Massachusetts and every other state are handing a subsidy to Tennessee and the industry moving ' into Tennessee and other southern states to take advantage of this subsidy . " Textile , apparel , machine , leather , abrasive , paper , and other important industries have been lured to these states at least partly through the use of industrial development revenue bonds . " Shrewd Approach Senator Kennedy is politically shrewd enough to realize that the South will not give up voluntarily ' or without a fight any competitive advantages it may have . So he endeavored to show that in the long run tax-free revenue bonds will prove an unstable foundation for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " he said , " fair competition is just as important to the South as it is to any other section . " There are places in Tennessee and the Southeast which already share New England 's troubles of surplus labor areas , a declining textile industry , one-industry towns , and the out-migration of industries to take advantage of unfair inducements elsewhere . " There are all problems , in fact , that exist now in many parts of the country and which will multiply as the economies of those regions mature ; and which will particularly trouble the Southeast because of your dependence on textiles , already hit by the impact of synthetic fibers , foreign competition , and migration . Chattanooga , Knoxville , Memphis , and Nashville have all experienced some labor surplus . " Shaky Foundation Senator Kennedy argued that . " tax subsidies are no foundation on which to build stable industries . Virginia repealed its tax-exemption law in 1946 , on the grounds that it meant unstable industry and an unstable tax base . Although six southern states besides Tennessee have statutes offering tax @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Building up his case the senator said : " Industries thus attracted are migrants , not new enterprises . Their home offices are generally not in Tennessee , but in New York , Boston , or elsewhere , Once having accepted your tax benefits and a few years of heavy profits , they may again move . leaving your community as well with empty building , stranded workers , and a heavy bond issue . " As such use of public credit spreads , no community can be sure of the stability of the enterprises on which its citizens depend for their livelihood . I am told that your town of Elizabeth-ton , with only 10.000 people , had 26 million dollars in municipal bonds for private industrial plants in February , 1952 , and was planning another issue to bring this total to 51 million dollars , or an additional debt load of more than $5.000 plus interest for every man , woman , and child in the town ! What happens when their new-found benefactors leave for another bargain elsewhere ? Contrast . With TVA " This is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ concerning the stability and integrity of our entire national economy . The competitive struggle for industry will and must go on . but it must be a fair struggle based on natural advantages and natural resources , not exploiting conditions and circumstances that tend to depress rather than elevate the economic welfare of the nation . " The Massachusetts Senator contrasted the tax ac/vAntage competition with that offered by the Tennessee Valley Authority . " The TVA , " he said , " is not creeping socialism because it attracts industry which might otherwise locate . remain , or expand in New England . It is a challenge to us to seek fur'her utilization of our own resources . "                     