@@715075

txt A dogged Federal grand jury brushed aside attempted restraints by the Department of Justice to return yesterday a presentment castigating- the State Department for clearing " disloyal Americans " for key jobs at the United Nations . Angrily denouncing Department of Justice representatives for trying to block publication of its findings , the panel . said that within the last ten days it had received evidence that two Americans holding top-ranking positions in one of the most powerful specialized agencies of the United Nations were members of a Soviet spy ring . The grand jury urged that its investigation be continued and requested that another panel con ' cider three possible perjury cases " which time has not permitted us to act on . " In the last nine months the jury has questioned 100 witnesses , most . ly United Nations personnel . Al . though no indictments were returned on evidence presented by Roy M. Cohn , assistant to the Attorney General , the jobs of many of the Americans questioned were terminated . Wrangle Lasts 2 Hours Two months ago , it was learned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ began a program to get the grand jury to drop its United Nations inquiry . The panel resisted strongly , It insisted on its right to continue the investigation , unhampered . The panel met at 11 A. M. yesterday , ready to hand up the presentment to Federal Judge David N. Edelstein . For two Ours the members of the jury wrangled with Justice Department representatives , who asked the jurors to have the presentment impounded so it would not be made public or to hold it up for one day . Max M. Zimmerman , one of the jurors , a publisher , of 67 West Forty-fourth Street , said : " For some unknown reason this morning Washington began to intercede . We 've been sitting for nine months and it came like a bombshell . We became very indignant . We unanimously insisted on making the presentation , come hell or high water . We decided not to brook interference from anybody , even Washington . " We think the State and Justice Departments were working together . We did n't want this thing thrown out . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . That meant we would be discharged and the presentment pigeon-holed . " The jury said it was its duty to advise the court that " startling evidence had disclosed infiltration into the United Nations of an overwhelmingly large group of disloyal United States citizens , many of whom are closely associated with the international Communist movement . " Contempt Charge Sought " We have established , " the presentment declared , " that in some of the most flagrant and obvious cases df disloyalty , the State Department gave the disloyal officials a clean bill of health in the United Nations . " Our attempt to discover the reason for these misleading evalu- , ations made by the State Depart . ment was stymied by the position taken by the State Department that it must refuse to furnish the grand jury with the names of the State Department personnel responsible for the faulty evalu. tions . " Two weeks ago the panel subpeonaed Adrian Fisher , Assistant Secretary of State and legal adviser to the State Department , When Mr. Fisher refused to revell the names of State Department of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' asked that he be cited for contempt No final ruling was ever made . - The presentment asserted that an arrangement between the State Department and the United Nations te exchange information to prevent employment of disloyal Americans " failed miserably . " This is demonstrated , the panel said , by the " continuous presence of so many disloyal Americans in the United Nations some three years after this procedure was put into effect . " Many of these Americans , the presentment said , moved from one United States Government post to another and finally landed in the international organization as part of a " definite planned pattern . " The panel 's investigation disclosed that a score of Americans refused to answer questions concerning past and present Communist party membership , and in some instances past and present espionage activity against the United States . Some other witnesses admitted past and heretofore unrevealed Communist party membership . One admitted involvement in the . party 's underground movement . Still others admitted continuing sympathy with the Communist movement . There were others , the panel explained , who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ highly placed official admitted he had been convicted on 6. morals charge . At least two had been arrested for participating in demonstrations under the sponsorship of Communists , the presentment said . The grand jury found that the employment of " so many disloyal nationals in the Secretariat and in the ' - specialized branches of the United Nations constitutes a menace to our Government . " The panes made the following recommendations. ; JNo citizen of the United States Shall hereafter be permitted to accept employment with the United Nations or any of its divisions.and departments  --  or specialized agencies without prior clearance by a designated body of our own Government . ( 1That before a citizen may accept such employment he should be required to answer whether he had a criminal record ; submit to fingerprinting ; tell whether he ever was a member of a subversive organization ; whether he was known by any other name ; tell whether a passport had ever been denied to him , and whether he had ever been discharged or resigned from a Government position . Finally the jury commended Mr. Cohn @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " The presentment was handed up to Judge Edelstein at 2 P. M. by the foreman , Joseph P. Kelly , vice president of a Bronx coal corporation . In asking the court to discharge the panel , which began its subversive activities investigation in June , 1951 , United States Attorney Myles J. Lane said that Attorney General James " reserved the right to comment on the presentment after he has had an opportunity to review and study the document . " Mr. Lane added that the Department of ? Justice had never attempted to intercede or block the panel 's investigation . Mr. Kelly asked that the presentment not be impounded and Judge Edelstein said he would not do so . Mr. Cohn told the court that this was " probably the most important investigation ever conducted in the entire histury of the United States . " " Its practical results , " he asserted , " are in the betterment of security for the Government . " Later , at a session of a Senate Internal Security subcommittee , Senator Herbert R. O'Conor emphasized the importance of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lead ' where it may , " he declared .                     