@@717590

txt California 's flood waters , swelling from fresh rains , surged again tonight on stricken Yuba City , 120 miles northeast of here . They were expected to reflood the town early tomorrow morning . The water rolling across the flat central valley and draining into the Pacific left a death toll estimated at forty-one . Nine were dead in Oregon . Damage estimates totaled more than $150,000,000 . A report from Marysville , sister city of Yuba City on the Feather River , reported tonight that the Civil Defense office in Yuba City had warned the Feather would crest at 6 A. M. and would flow through the same cut that had flooded the town of 8,500 last week . Joe W. Sanderson , councilman and Civil Defense Coordinator , announced the town probably would be flooded at about the same depth as the previous high level of six feet . Some residents returned temporarily on special passes to wade through their mud-soaked homes and attempt salvage . Mr , Sanderson said his announcement was based on an estimate of the Feather River level received from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Health Hazard Stressed Dr. F. P. Wisner , health service director for the city civil defense system , declared : " We have to keep these people out of town lest a runaway health hazard be invited . " Water is contaminated and the sewage system wrecked . Dr. Wisner said there had been no outbreak of disease but that typhoid inoculations probably would begin tomorrow . Civilian defense officials said new crests would not race through Yuba City as they did Friday when the levee broke . This time , they predicted , the rise would be slower . The worst remaining danger area was in the Sacramento-San Joaquin River delta , a rich flat ' farming region east of San Francisco Bay and the last stretch before flood water reaches the sea . The 3,708-acre Empire Tract Island and the 822-acre Quinby Island were flooded there this afternoon . Island in the delta , surrounded by levees , are mostly farmlands . Some residents were warned they might have to evacuate if the rivers continued rising . The Contra Costa County Sher- , iff 's office this afternoon said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Sacramento-San Joaquin River delta and the situation was as " critical as it can get . " The Sheriff 's office said dikes had broken on both islands in the rich agricultural area . In the north large areas of southwestern Oregon were flooded again after heavy week-end " rains . The state police said scores of persons were evacuated from the low-lying Coquille River , The Coquille was expected to surpass its high stages of earlier this week , but most major Oregon streams were within their banks or just slightly over . Meanwhile , thousands of ' Californians who fled their homes ' were going back today , some to find silt-littered rooms . Others found only mud flats where their houses once stood . In California 's battered northwestern corner of Humboldt and Del Norte Counties more than 400 homes were destroyed . " It 's a mop-up operation now , " an Associated Press correspondent said . " But there are still more than 1,000 people homeless . " He gave the details in the first direct telephone communication with that area since the floods began @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Francisco on the coast , had only a five-day water supply . Engineers were trying to get a pumping plant back into operation . The vast clean-up operation extended from Oregon through the big Central Valley to its lower Send at Visalia . Ground travel improved . Highways were open north to Oregon and south from San Francisco . One road across the Sierra to Nevastia was opened for part of the , day but closed again because of poor visibility . U. S. 101 along the coast north of SP ' S Francisco remained cut slides in Del Norte and Humboldt Counties . Rail traffic returned almost to normal , with Western Pacific and Southern Pacific opening all their regular lines , eliminating the deep detour through southern California . Valley . However , no drovrnings had been reported , they said . ?                     