@@719774

txt Samuel Alphonsus Cardinal Stritch died here at 1:35 A , M. today . The Roman Catholic Archbishop of Chicago was 70 years old . The Cardinal suffered a stroke eight days ago , following amputation , of his right arm three weeks earlier because of a blood clot . He had been in the Sanatrix Clinic here since April 26 , the day , after he reached Rome from the United States to take up his new duties as ProPrefect of the Vatican 's Sacred Congregation for the Propagation of the Faith . In this capacity Cardinal Stritch was to act as head of Roman Catholic missions throughout the world . No American churchman had ever before been assigned to the Roman Curia , the church 's central administrative body , let alone such an important post . The Cardinal was lucid almost to his end . During the last days before his death he received extreme unction and repeatedly took holy communion . Pope Pius XII again ' and again sent special apostolic blessings . In the tragedy of Cardinal Stritch 's last journey to Rome @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ see the Pope . When he arrived here the Cardinal appeared eager to have an audience with the Pontiff to express his thanks for the appointment , which he felt honored the entire Catholic Church in the United States . While his grave illness prevented Cardinal // Stritch from seeing the Pope , the latter several times brushed aside Vatican etiquette and telephoned to the Cardinal . Immediately after news of Cardinal Stritch 's death had reached the Vatican , the Pontiff was informed . He was reported to have been deeply moved and to have exclaimed : " This is a grave loss to the church and a particular loss to the missions . " Dawn found the Pope praying for Cardinal Stritch 's soul in his private chapel on the top floor of the Vatican apostolic palace . Cardinal Stritch 's death has reduced the Sacred College of Cardinals to fifty-five members ? fifteen short of its full complement of seventy . The church in the United States is left with three cardinals : namely , Edward Cardinal Mooney , Archbishop of Detroit ; Francis Cardinal Spellman , Archbishop @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Archbishop of Los Angeles . As always after the death of a Cardinal , speculation is likely to spring up in ecclesiastical quarters here whether the Pope will soon call a consistory for the creation of new Cardinals to fill the vacancies . The last consistory in which new Cardinals were elevated was held in January , 1953 . Pius XII nominated Cardinal Stritch Pro-Prefect of the Sacred Congregation for the Propagation of the Faith in March with the understanding that he should take up most of the duties of Pietro Cardinal Fumasoni Biondi , Prefect of the Congregation . The 85-year-old Cardinal Fumasoni Biondi is nearly blind and ailing . During his sea journey , from New York to Naples , Cardinal Stritch developed a painful condition in his right arm . After his arrival in Rome the condition was diagnosed as a blood clot clogging the main artery of the arm . On April 28 the arm was amputated . Had Rapid Advance Cardinal Stritch 's rise in the Roman Catholic hierarchy was one of the most rapid in the church 's history in this country . A brilliant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dispensation a year before reaching the canonical age of 24 . He became a Bishop at 34 , an Archbishop at 43 and a Cardinal at 59 . He was known best for his work in the cause of world peace , Catholic charities and the Catholic Youth Movement , a group open to all races and faiths . American liberals of various faiths considered hiri an outstanding liberal . Cardinal Stritch was deeply concerned about the problems of labor and was friendly to labor organizations ; he condemned as morally wrong interference with Negroes seeking to use the rights they enjoy under the Constitution and he established a policy of helping Puerto Ricans to " integrate themselves religiously , socially and economically " into the life of their city . Cardinal Stritch was born in Nashville , Tenn. , on Aug. 17 , 1887 , of Irish-American parents . He was one of eigt children . He completed high sbhool at 14 , won his Bachelor of Arts degree two years later at St. Gregory 's Preparatory School , Cincinnati , went to North American College in Rome and was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , in 1921 , Archbishop of Milwaukee in 1930 and was transferred to Chicago to fill the vacancy caused by the death of his old friend , George Cardinal Mundelein , in 1939 . Attracted National Attention National attention was focused on him in 1954 , when Bishop Bernard J. Shell , senior Auxiliary Bishop of the Chicago archdiocese , criticized the late Senator Joseph R. McCarthy , Republican of Wisconsin , as a headline - hunting " noisy antiCommunist . " Earlier Bishop Shell had not mentioned Senator McCarthy by name but had referred to him as " the junior Senator from Wisconsin " and as " a city slicker from Appleton . " The Bishop said the public had been made the " victims in the last few years of a kind of shell game and have been treated like country rubes . " Cardinal Stritch made no public comment . When his subordinate subsequently resigned ' as director of the Catholic Youth Organization , the Cardinal cordially put an arm around the Bishop 's shoulders while the two were interviewed by the press . The Cardinal said the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and president of the board of the youth group . The Cardinal was also forthright with his views . He was critical of the romance between the Duke of Windsor , then King Edward VIII , and Mrs. Wallis Warfield Simpson , before the King abdicated to marry the American woman . In 1938 he had warned that the German Nazi leaders were " tyrannous and savage " and were " trying , to impose on a great people the barbarianism of the past . " Cardinal Stritch appealed to the motion picture industry to elevate its standing as a social force and appealed to women to establish a high moral code , adding that men would follow their example . Permitted Mass on TV He permitted his Christmas Eve solemn pontifical mass in 1948 to be televised . Church spokesmen said it was the first mass televised in the Midwest and the first solemn pontifical mass ever seen on television . In 1955 he banned the Wagner and Mendelssohn Wedding Marches , eight versions of the " Ave Maria " and " I Love You Truly , " " 0 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ churches as unliturgical music . With other leaders of the church , he warned against moral laxity in government , sex education in schools , atheistic materialism at home or abroad , " deification of the flesh " and lamented the move to prevent teaching of religion in public schools . He was one of four Americans created a Cardinal on Feb. 18 , 1946 , by Pope Pius XII , whom he had known as a student in Rome . Thirty-one other prelates , including Cardinal Spellman , were elevated at that time . It was the largest number of Cardinals created at a single consistory and gave the Sacred College a m'a jority of non-Italian Cardinals for the first time in six centuries . Under Cardinal Stritch 's spiritual guidance and temporal administration ; the Chicago archdiocese continued the notable growth that had marked it under his predecessor , Cardinal Mundelein . It became one of the largest and wealthiest sees in the world , involving a jurisdiction consisting , by recent count , of 2,270 priests , 8,766 nuns , 529 institutions and nearly 2,000,000 communicants . Promoted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Stritch administered his see attracted wide attention and was noticed in Rome . This led to a further promotion in the government of the church . Early in 1958 , the Pontiff decided that Cardinal Fumasoni Biondi , Prefect of the Congregation for the Propagation of the Faith , needed an assistant with vast powers . The congregation is one of twelve departments of the church 's central administrative machinery . It supervises a jurisdiction covering 25,000 missionary priests , nearly 10,000 missionary lay brothers and more than 60,000 missionary nuns , serving 30,000,000 laymen and more than 3,000,000 aspirants to baptism under instruction . ? The jurisdiction covers areas in five continents . This administration , it was felt , required reorganization . The Prefect required a proprefect to carry it out . This led to Cardinal Stritch 's appointment . He became the second nonItalian Cardinal to be called to Rome to fill such a post . Eugene Cardinal Tisserant , Dean of the Sacred College and Secretary of the Congregation for the Eastern Church , is a native of France . Cardinal Stritch became the fifteenth Cardinal of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ aid the Pope in the government of the church . ? ?                     