@@716406

txt John Foster Dulles left for Washington tonight convinced that in two days of talks here he had done much to establish something like a Western united front on Indochina . The Secretary of ' State , who discussed the subject in two telephone calls with President Eisenhower today , announced that the Under Secretary . of State , Gen. Walter Bedell Smith , would return to Geneva within a few days to represent the United States in the final stages of negotiations for a cessation of hostilities inI Indochina . Both the French ' Premier , Pierre Mendes-France , and the British Foreign Secretary , Anthony Eden , who flew to Paris to meet Mr. Dulles , had urged that the United States again be represented in Geneva " at the ministerial level . " Washington had been more or less dissociating itself from the desperate effort by the French to get a cease-fire while they saved as much of Indochina as possible from Communist control . Now that the hastily called conference here of the three Western foreign ministers has dispersed as suddenly as it was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fly to Paris , these facts , and conclusions appear clear : ( 11The United States will not oppose the terms the French expect to get for a truce , nor will it decline to guarantee  --  under a collective defense treaty  --  whatever parts of Indochina remain outside Communist hands after its partition by the truce or a future political settlement . CI-laving flown to Paris to dispel the impression that the United States was deserting the French , Mr. Dulles sought to in // sure against any clash between the guiding doctrines of United States foreign policy and the concessions the French are compelled to make in . Indochina . He thus believes he has narrowed the danger of a split in the Western ranks at Geneva . 91Mr . Dulles had a long argument with M. Mendes-France as to whether there was a majority for the European army treaty in the French National Assembly ? that is , whether the United States-British rplan to restore West German sovereignty in August may yet be made unnecessary by French ratification of the defense treaty . On this point Mr. Dulles @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Dulles ' belief that the central problem of the " cold war " was in Europe and that the United States Congress seemed bent upon getting the European army treaty in its present form . It also underlined the incompleteness of the unity of the three Western powers on the army question . Dulles Gives Limitations ciMr . Dulles left Paris with a favorable impression of Premier Mendes-France , whom he found clear , frank and determined . The Secretary does not share the view , published in the United States , that M. Mendes-France is bent upon a " sell-out " in Indochina or seeks peace at any price . The communiqu ? issued by the three foreign ministers tonight said Mr : Dulles had explained the attitude of his Government toward the negotiations on Indochina and " the limitations which that Government desired to observe as not itself having a primary responsibility in the Indochina war . " Mr. Dulles , who contended that the war was the primary responsibility of France and the three Indochinese states , made it plain that the United States did not intend @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ settle the war , though Washington would give its views on how far it could help if the French desired them . This seemed to be a different attitude from that Mr. Dulles had taken before coming to Paris , when he appeared to the French to hold strictly aloof from the truce negotiations on the ground that he could not approve the concessions the military situation imposed upon the French . It now appears to be not so much a question of United States approval of the truce terms as of United States recognition of their necessity . Mr. Dulles apparently agrees that M. Mendes-France will do as well as he can , the military odds being what they are , and that it is not for Washington to reproach him or to withhold its support  --  whatever may be the territorial concessions and however great the United States ' disappointment at the failure of earlier French plans to win the war with United States financial aid . Dulles Would Build Dike Thus Mr. Dulles seems to have made a reluctant compromise between United States principles and French necessities . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ transfer of states or people to Communist rule . On the other hand was the inability of the French to avoid a de facto partition of Vietnam , under which part would fall under Communist control . The first impulse of some United States officials seems to have been to wash their hands of all such French surrenders and to hold aloof from the consequences . The second impulse seems to be to acknowledge that the French can do nothing else and that it would be better to save what can be saved of Indochina than write it all off . Mr. Dulles ' view is that the important thing now is to build a dike , so to speak , at whatever line of demarcation the Geneva negotiations establishes between Communist and non-Communist territory in Indochina , and to safeguard this line with a collective guarantee .                     