@@714874

txt Church bickering between  --  denominations was described today as having been " a stumbling block to the gospel of Christ throughout the centuries . " by the Most Rev. and Flight Hon. Geoffrey Francis Fisher . Archbishop of t anterbury , . at a press conference at the Box ford summer home of the Rt . Rev. Henry Knox Sherrill , The Archbishop said that the principal value of the new and growing cooperation and unity ' among denominations of the Christian world was that it would put a stop to this bickering . " And I could use an- even more forceful word than bickering , " he said . Here- for Convention Asked whether by this cooperation the Christian world was building . strength against communism , the Archbishop said . " They are gathering strength against their old foes : the world , the flesh , and the devil . " As to what category communism belongs in , I leave that to you . " The Archbishop and Mrs. Fisher have been guests of Bishop and Mrs. Sherrill since their arrival a week @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their visit is to attend the 57th general convention of the Episcopal Church . to be held in Boston Sept. 7 to 19. although the Archbishop described his visit as a holiday . Never in history have the ties between the Church of England and the Episcopal Church in the United States been so close and strong , he said . Archbishop Fisher is one of the five presidents of the World Council of Churches . He commented , " Nobody has yet found the way forward toward unity between the demoninations in the field of constitutional relations , but in fellowship and closeness of spirit there has been a remarkable change in England in the last 50 years . " Asked for comment on reports that church attendance in Eng land has fallen seriously low , the Archbishop declared that there are too many people who sav they are all in favor of Christianity and the Christian way of life but decline to do anything about it . - The trouble is mostly with those people who are very goodhearted and wish the church well but are n't prepared to do @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would back you in anything with their good will , but not in the discipline of their lives . I do n't want to be too severe on them , but I say they are parasitic . " Calls Them Parasites The Archbishop said that in his view the answer to the problem of bringing people to the worship of Christ lies in the sincerity in which Christ is preached . The Church of England . the Archbishop reported , does not contemplate relaxing its stand against divorce . He explained : " The church is distressed whenever man and wife fall out . They are further distressed if the two go to the point of a divorce . which registering and finalizing a spiritual failure , a sin , a breakdown of obligations , This is the principle on which the Church of England bases its position concerning divorce , and there is no prospect of our changing it . " As yet , he said , there has been no further action to report on the investigation by a committee or council appointed by-him. at the request of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ spirit and the results , if any , on the healing of the body . " However , appointment of the investigating body will be accomplished soon , he said . Service Being Revised The coronation of Queen Elizabeth II , the Archbishop said , is one of his large concerns at preSent . " The ceremony can not be a short one ; you ca n't shorten grave and great ceremonies like that ; they demand space and amplitude , " But , as far as possible , one wants to save the Queen as much strain as can be done , and to that end we are revising and adjusting the service somewhat . " Archbishop Fisher will wear , as part of his coronation robe , the " morse " of Archbishop Howley worn at the coronation of Queen Victoria in 1837 . The morse is a strip of cloth worn across the breast and fastened to the edges of the robe . This particular morse contains two large amethysts . Although Archbishop Fisher customarily wears an ordinary sack suit , for his press conference today and for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Burdett Nash which followed in Boston , he wore a short cassock , a frock coat , knee breeches , and ' black gaiters . Around his neck hung the gold pectoral cross set with one polished amethyst ,  --  which was given him by the masters of Repton School when he became Bishop of Chester . The Archbishop was once master of Rep-ton School himself , .                     