@@714036

txt WASHINGTON , Friday , July 27 ? Senate-House conferees labored early today over controversial price-control features of the Defense Production Bill as they drove to complete action on a compromise bill before daybreak . Central point of the haggling was over whether there should be an across-the-board ban on price rollbacks or one applying only to agricultural products . The conferees settled down for an allnight session at midnight . They had started work at 10:30 o'clock yesterday morning . The conference began rolling toward agreement after breaking a deadlock over credit curbs on new housing . After hours of discussion , a provision prevailed that directed relaxation of credit curbs in all areas where the Administration took the initiative in establishing rent control . This can be done only in parts of the country certified as critical defense areas . House conferees had argued that under these circumstances Regulation X , restricting real estate construction credit , should be suspended entirely as the House ' bill provided . They also fought for softening this regulation at other points . Battling this argument all afternoon and into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on housing should be dealt with in a Defense Housing Bill . The Senate passed such a bill earlier this // year , but the House rejected it for consideration . Bargaining to get even a limited relaxation of Regulation X , House conferees , all members of the Banking and Currency Committee , promised that the committee would consider the housing bill again . This will be done Monday . Agreement on Rent Rise This hurdle passed , the conference agreed to include rent control in the Defense Production Bill with provision , as provided in both House and Senate bills , for an increase of 20 per cent above the ' level of June 30 , 1947 . Most controversial features of this rent sec ' don had been ironed out earlier in the conference . Then the conferees agreed on a plants administration operating under a $50,000,000 revolving fund to I help small business get a fair share of defense contracts . The agency , which would operate independently , would have power to recommend loans to the Reconstruction Finance Corporation . This agency also would have authority @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ small business but would have no construction authority . In other actions , the conference rejected one House proposal , to make price regulation apply to common . carriers not subject to Federal , state or local regulation , and adopted another barring regulation of natural gas under the act , where this now is regulated by a public agency . The conference was working against a deadline , the stop-gap extension of the 1950 Defense Production Act expires Tuesday . A compromise bill must be worked out , passed and signed by the President by then . Rent Curbs in Defense Areas Three major decisions on rent control were reached in committee yesterday morning as follows : 1 . Rent ceilings set in critical defense areas shall reflect rents prevailing for the same or like units during the month before the outbreak of hostilities in Korea . 2 . Local government , while retaining authority to decontrol rents at any time , is , barred from balking Federal efforts to reimpose regulation in critical defense areas . Once such control is reimposed , local government must wait thirty days before @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Flint , Mich. , which now control rents locally , are authorized to continue to do so as long as the rent component of the Consumers ' Index for each area does not increase ' over the national average within a period of six months . While continuing local option on decontrol , the rent sections approved also give local governments ! the right to ask for restoration of regulation , a power they have not had . The committee 's action on rents was in line with the strong recommendation of Eric Johnston , Economic Stabilization Administrator . He had denounced bitterly provi1sions of the House bill , written in ' on amendments by Representative Gordon L. , Republican of California , that hamstrung Federal authority to recontrol rentals and , where it was done , required that ceilings reflect current rent levels . No Vote on Slaughtering Quotas No effort was made during the day to bring up for a vote a pro posal to restore authority for slaughtering quotas on livestock , prohibited in identical language in both the House and Senate bills . ' The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an equitable distribution of meat through the country and thus pre-1 venting black markets . Senator Burnet R. Maybank of South Carolina , conference chairman , was confident that the proposal would carry when put to a vote . House conferees , doubtful of their authority to act in the mat-1 ter , hinted that the proposal might ' never be brought to a vote .                     