@@719770

txt The United States has served notice on the Soviet Union that Seiviet threats and bluster will not stop it from going to Lebanon 's support if help should be requested and considered necessary imuttaneousiy , at nis press conference , May 20 , Secretary of State John Foster Dulles disclosed that the so-called Eisenhower Doctrine to help the Middle East is broader in scope than generally has been understood . In other words , the congressional resolution that was believed to apply only to armed assistance , if requested , and as shown clearly such a top-leVel conference would serve an impo  --  tant purpose that could not be attained otherwise . 2 . The expectation that the French people will find a solution to their present trouble in line with their great traditions . 3 . An opinion that if the United States had foreseen the violence of demonstrations against Vice-President Richard M. Nixon do his South American tour he probably would not have gone , but that on the basis of advance information , it was correct for Mr. Nixon to visit Caracas , Venezuela @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made by the secretary at his weekly exchange with the press  --  including : 1 . An estimate that it is more certain than ever that a summit meeting will be held only if it is crisis . The secretary touched on half a dozen other points in his near-hour meeting with the press . But his emphatic assertion that the United States would not be deterred anywhere in the world from doing what it believes is right and proper because of Soviet threatcrs was the day 's high light . He said it with considerable emotion and some heat . Over the weekend the Soviets had announced that it could not stand idly by if the West intervened in Lebanon . Secretary Dulles ' comment was in direct reply to that Soviet warning . But the most significant part of his exchange with the press concerned the Eisenhower Doctrine and it simplications  --  for Mr. Dulles ' interpretation definitely went beyond the general understanding to date . To understand what has been added , or possibly better re vealed , the pertinent part of the resolution bears quoting : " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ area of the Middle East , military assistance programs with any nation or group of nations of that area desiring such assistance . " Furthermore , the United States regards as vital to the national interest and world peace the preservation of the independence and integrity of the nations of the Middle East . Armed Aid Promised " To this end , if the President determines the necessity thereof , the United States is prepared to use armed forces to assist any such nation or group of such nations requesting assistance against armed aggression from any country controlled by international communism : providee , that such . employment shall be consonant with the treaty obligations of the United States and with the Constitution of the United States . " Paragraph three has heretofore received most , if not all , of the attention of the diplomats with its prospect of armed force being used under specific conditions . Now comes Secretary Dulles , with his suggestion that the press look at the second paragraph . He points out that this particular sentence was not in the resolution as proposed by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he referred to it as the Mansfield Amendment . It is the third sentence which has the provisos ; the second has none . And Secretary Dulles , being the international lawyer that he is , has pointed up the distinction  --  with its implication that the President already has congressional authority to use military force in the Lebanese crisis , for example , and without the qualifications written into sentence three , In other words his interpretation apparently is that Congress gave the President more than he wanted in his Eisenhowe ? Doctrine , and now If the occasion arises the President may decide to use this additional authority ,                     