@@715445

txt Governor Herter has launched a major , drive for establishment of a privately financed business  --  development corporation , to provide a possible $20 ; 000,000 or more in risk capital for business expansions and organization of new industries . Backed by a large group of leading businessmen and finana tiers at a meeting with the Governor , the plan constitutes the second major move by Mr. Herter to - aid Bay State industry . The first move was toward establishment of a department of commerce to provide planning , development , and research facilities for Bay State business and Industry . The enabling legislature is awaiting final Senate action . While the Herter-proposed development corporation would be set in motion by state legislation , it would be privately operated and privately controlled . The Governor plans to send the proposal to the Legislature in a week Or SO , Other States Active Thi company would be modeled after similar organizations in 1%1aine , New Hampshire , Rhode Island , and Vermont . The Maine unit was established in 1949 , to lead the field . However , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the other four New . England states . It would provide credit facilities for businesses not now available through regular channels . Loan funds would be provided by banks and insurance companies which become members of the system . As members , commercial banks and trust companies would be required to lend up to 2 per cent of their capital and surplus , savings banks 1 per cent of their guaranty fund and profit and loss , cooperative banks and savings and loan associations , 1 per cent of the guaranty fund and surplus , stock insurance companies 1 per cent of capital and surplus , and mutual insurance companies 1 per cent of guaranty fund or surplus , whichever is applicable . Stock Issue Planned The corporation would be authorized to sell up to 4,000,000 shares of S1 par capital stock to any person , trust , or corporation and to any financial institution becoming a corporation . In the past , several similar proposals have been rejected by the Massachusetts Legislature due to lack of interest on the part of financial institutions . However , this year the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ support of a sizable number of business and financial leaders . A committee of seven business leaders , headed by Irwin L. Moore , president of the Nev. - England Electric System , is now determining the extent to which financial institutions will sup ' port the plan . Other members of the committee are Leland J. Kalmbach , president of the Massachusetts Mutual Life Insurance Compally of Springfield ; Kurtz M. Hanson , president of the Champion International Company of Lawrence ; Harry G. Stoddard of the Wyman-Gordon Cbmpany of Worcester ; Robert C. Sprague , chairman of the board of the Sprague Electric Company of North Adams ; Seabury Stanton . president and treasurer of the Hathaway Manufacturing Company of New Bedford . and Lloyd Brace , president of the First National Bank of Boston . The committee is due to report to the Governor next week . Cooperation Needed Governor Herter , in announcing the plan , said " success depends on the willingness of business to invest in it and the cooperation of Massachusetts financial institutions in making loans to it . " It would " provide @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ minimum risk that such venture entails : : he said . " Shoul ' all the eligible financial institutions become members . total funds available to the corporation , including a reasonable amount of equity capital , might exceed 20 million dollars . " He pointed out that only $700 , - 000 is now available and being used by the Maine corporation , while ** is estimated to be " available to the Rhode Island company being activated . " The Governor added : " Based on the experience in the last two years in Maine , where by judicious and skillful use of available funds in conjunction with other sources of capital the credit corporation has created additional industrial activity out of all proportion to the corporation 's loans , the proposed Massachusetts business development corporation should be a vital stimulant to the Massachusetts economy . " Organization Setup under the plan , a large number of leaders in all fields would be named in the proposed statute as incorporators . They , in turn , would organize the corporation and elect the first officers . A board of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , two - thirds elected by member groups and one-third by the stockholders . The corporation would be exempt from the Massachusetts corporation exise tax or any other Bay State tax based on income . It would be established for a period of 50 years , unless sooner dissolved by a vote of two-thirds of the stockholders and two-thirds of the members .                     