@@717405

txt EISENHOWER TO GET REPORT ON BUDGET Humphrey Expected to Tell Him That Tax Cut Would Bar Balance Next Year By EDWIN 1 ... ' DALE Jr . SPeCiel to The New York Times . WASHINGTON , Oct. 14 ? The Secretary of the Treasury will take some unpleasant , though familiar , news to President Eisenhower in Denver tomorrow . George M. Humphrey probably will report that the Administration will be able next year to propose a worthwhile tax cut or a balanced budget , but not both . This report will be based on preliminary indications of spending in the next budget . These show that outlays will be little , if any , less ' than in the current fiscal year , which began July 1 . On the more cheerful side , Mr. Humphrey can report that the nation 's economy has shown no signs so far of being upset by the President 's illness , other than the stock-market shakedown . This is generally viewed here as healthy . He will tell the President that up to now the Government has been sticking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Humphrey 's report to the President was discussed in detail at the two-and-one-half-hour Cabinet meeting this morning at the White House . The Secretary will fly to Denver with Sherman Adams , The Assistant to the President , who returned to Washington for the meeting . Vice President Richard M. Nixon presided at the Cabinet session . It was the third since the , President was stricken Sept. 24 with a moderate heart attack . The only Cabinet member absent was Postmaster General Arthur E. Summeffield . It is taken for granted that Congress will insist on some sort of tax cut in 1956 , a Presidential election year , although both Democrats and Republicans are said to be aware that it ? should not be too great . Another problem that Mr. Humphrey presumably will discuss with the President is the connection of tax reduction and the business situation . Assuming that spending can be reduced little if at all , as seems likely , about the only hope for any tax cut would arise from an economic boom . This would drive up receipts and allow a reduction @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tax reduction bad economics , in the view of Administration econ // omists . They believe that it would stimulate further an already potentially inflationary situation . If the economy is not boomling and tax reduction becomes " good economics , " then such a , reduction would increase the deficit in a budget already in the red . The spending outlook is made up of three main factors : 1 . Defense spending will be about the same as this year . The Administration last year virtually guaranteed that no further major reductions in forces would be made . Several of its spokesmen said that the *34,000,000,000 level of spending probably would last for several years . 2 . The regular , continuing and uncontrollable programs such as veterans ' benefits and interest on the national debt , can not be reduced by conscious decision by the Administration , Many of them are showing rising expenses . 3 . Some new programs adopted by this Administration or accepted by it from Congress will start next year to increase spending . The spending estimate for the current year is *63,800,000,000 . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the indefinite future spending will not be able to go much below this point , barring such an unlikely event as world disarmament . Only the stock market and a few commodities such as rubber and copper have suffered any marked setback since the President became ill . Strong inflationary pressures continue elsewhere . The Federal Reserve determined last week not to change its policy of relatively " tight " money . Only today banks in New York raised their prime lending rate to 31/2 per cent from 3% per cent . This would indicate their belief that a return to easier money is not imminent . The prime rate is the interest rate charged by banks to their most favored business borrowers ? those whose credit standing is the best .                     