@@713937

txt The Senate Banking Committee late yesterday took a long step toward approving a bill to extend the Defense Production Act with few changes . A bloc of lawmakers , led by Sen. Robertson ( D. , Va. ) . took charge of the late afternoon session . They went nearly through the Administration version of the extension measure , beating down all proposals to toughen the law as recommended by the Government . At the same time , the Robertson group rejected proposals by critics of the existing set-up to tone down the present economic controls scheme . Earlier yesterday , the Administration was hinting compromise in hopes of getting Congress to pass a new controls measure before the present act expires June 30-Defense Mobilizer Charles E. Wilson admitted for the first time the Administration may have to give in on some of its proposals for a new law , in the interest of speed . " I 've got to consider what we can or should do about it ( compromise ) . " Mr. Wilson told newsmen after meeting with Democratic congressional leaders . Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " with Congress . But Senate committee members said it looks now like they may wind up with a " compromise " under which the present act would be extended for nine months to March 31. 1952 . Price , Wage Curbs In addition to the Administration amendments defeated en masse , the committee rejected a proposal by Sen. Dirksen ( R. , Ill. ) to strip the existing law of its price and wage controls section . The Dirksen scheme was turned down by a straight party vote . 8 to 4 . Another amendment , proposed by Sen. Schoeppel ( R .. Han. ) would have advanced the base period used in setting price controls from the present May-June. 1950. period to the January ** 24. 1951. period . The Shoeppel amendment was described as having the effect of barring the scheduled beef price rollbacks as well as allowing higher ceilings on some farm commodities . This plan was rejected by a slim 7 to 5 vote , with committee Chairman Maybank ( D. , S. C. ) siding with a solid G.O.P. bloc . Committee members said several @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ issues still to be settled are proposals for commodity subsidy powers asked by the Administration , possible writing into law of a provision relaxing consumer credit regulations , a proposal to allow the Office of Price Stabilization to control the quality of goods under price ceilings , and a proposal to set up a small defense plants corporation to help small businesses to get a greater share of Government contracts . During its discussion of price and wage controls yesterday the committee also turned down several proposals to change the wage section of the act . Sen. Dirksen lost in a move to prohibit the Wage Stabilization Board from handling any disputes in conflict with the existing powers of the Taft-Hartley law . Meeting with President The key lawmakers met with President Truman at the White House and agreed , for A second time , that they would strive to get through a bill prolonging controls at least another year . About the same time . Chairman Maybank of the Senate Banking Committee sent Mr. Wilson and other Government officials a memo indicating they would n't get all they 'd sought @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 30 . It 's the basis of wage and price ceilings , allocations of materials . controls over consumer and real estate credit , and defense loans . Mr. Maybank and Mr. Wilson did not make public what concessions the Administration may expect to make . No formal change in the Administration 's new control bill is likely to be sent to Congress . Rather , the strategy will be for Democrats to sacrifice the bureaucrats ' proposals whenever they see a lot of time would be lost in fighting for them . If no new law is put through by June 30 , all controls would lapse at least temporarily . For instance . President Truman proposed a two-year extension of the expiring law . The Democrats in Congress will not be urged to fight for more than one year . No bitter battle is likely to be waged for the power to license all businesses , as requested by the O.P.S. Commercial rent controls , proposed for the first time , will be forgotten , along with requested powers over commodity market margins , public utility rates , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is especially anxious to get a clear-cut go-ahead from Congress on subsidies . But he probably will accept a. provision that would limit these to payments on high-cost mines and imported raw materials . His suggestion that payments be made to farm producers drew fire in congressional hearings . He 's anxious to get more authority for the Government to build its own plants , whenever private companies wo n't invest the necessary funds . He 'd probably accept a proviso limiting such construction to materials needed by the armed services . Over at the 0 . P.S. , officials talk about giving up still another major section of the Administration bill : The one that would let them use " parity " at the start of the marketing season as the basis for price ceilings on farm crops . ' Under present law . they 're not allowed to impose a ceiling at less than parity , as recomputed monthly by the Department of Agriculture . Though this proviso requires frequent changes in the ceilings , the price controllers say privately , " The present law is a pretty good @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Committee , meanwhile , in an important step , voted to add to the Administration 's mobilization powers the authority to subsidize high cost producers , including farmers , and to build defense plants . Both would be new grants of authority to the Truman Administration . The lawmakers apparently are still clinging to the hope they can jam through a revised law by the end of next week without having to temporize with a 30-day or 60-day extension measure . But there was no certainty they could succeed . Mr. Truman 's Capitol Hill lieutenants told him , ? however , they 'll do their best . " Thirty days is no good , " said House Speaker Sam Rayburn ( D. , Tex. ) after leaving the White House pow-wow . He said a 30-day extension would put Congress " right back where we are now . " Chairman Maybank ( D. , S. C. ) of the Senate group warned , meanwhile , that controls legislation must reach House and Senate floors by Friday if Congress expects to get a final measure through by June 30 . Even @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ initial passage of their measures and to compromise any differences between House and Senate versions . The Administration 's request for power to subsidize high-cost producers barely squeezed through the House committee . A GOP move to strip the measure of this provision lost by a tie vote , 11 to 11 . The Administration won more easily , by a 14 to 8 roll call . on the provision proposing power for Government-owned defense plants . The Republicans almost certainly will carry their fights on these schemes to the House floor . They appear to have a fair chance to succeed . The Administration 's request for subsidy powers would authorize subsidy payments undW certain conditions on any domestically prodliced materials " on such terms and conditions " as the President finds necessary to get continued supplies or maximum production of these items at stable prices . One condition justifying subsidies under the bill would be if ceiling prices will cut production from high-cost producers and continued supplies from these producers is necessary " to carry out the objectives of the Act . " Another occasion for subsidies would be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ farm commodities , including livestock . are too low to enable certain high-cost producers to maintain production . A final justification for subsidies would be if an increase in cost of production , distribution or transportation is temporary in character and threatens to impair maximum production or supply " in any area at stable prices of any materials . " The other power which the committee voted would.give the President power to erect and construct plants , factories and other industrial facilities , to manufacture , produce and process materials necessary to the defense effort and to engage in marketings. transportation , and storage of these materials . These plants could be operated by the Government or leased to private business . In another vote , the committee approved the Administration 's request to use new Government-owned corporations to carry out the loan and purchase programs authorized by the act .                     