@@720702

txt Premier Nikita S. Khrushchev has laid down three conditions for " peaceful coexistence " between the United States and the Soviet Union . An article by the Premier , published here today , gives these conditions as the end of any thought of " rolling back " corn mimism. acceptance of the Soviet demands regarding Germany , including West Berlin , and the removal of all barriers to trade with the Soviet Union . Written for the magazine Foreign Affairs , the Premier 's article was received here by cable Aug. 14 . It appeared to be a summation of the position the Soviet leader will take later this month in his talks with President Eisenhower , which Mr. Khrushchev said will give the " possibility for a useful exchange of opinions . " Only Two Ways Seen " In our day there are only two ways : peaceful coexistence ' or the most destructive war in history , " the Premier declared . " There is no third choice . " Premier Khrushchev tempered this declaration by stating that " if the Soviet Union and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ never use any weapons either against the United States or against any other countries . " He also implied that he knew the Soviet Union would suffer seriously in any new world war . He wrote that if such a war broke out , " no country will be able to shut itself off from a crushing blow . " Reiterates Pledge The Soviet leader reiterated his pledge that the Soviet Union did not intend to impose communism on any other nation . But he said the " ideological struggle " between communism and capitalism would continue even if agreement was reached on political issues . He chided Vice President Richard M. Nixon for " confusing the problem of ideological struggle with the question of relations between states " when ' the Vice President spoke in ' Moscow last month . The article in whirl ? Mr. Khrushchev presented his views was requested by Hamilton Fish ! Armstrong , editor of Foreign Affairs , a quarterly magazine published by the Council on Foreign Relations here . Accord-I ing to a spokesman yesterday , Mr. Armstrong suggested the article in conversation with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ during his visit here last January . Last June before the exchange of visits between the Soviet Premier and President Eisenhower was announced , the magazine was informed it would have an article for its October issue and the article arrived Aug. 14 , after the exchange plan had been made public . Publication of the magazine was advanced about two weeks so that the Premier 's statement could be made available before his scheduled arrival Sept. 15 . In the article Premier Khrushchev reiterated his plea for , a summit conference and expressed some optimism that the progress already achieved toward banning nuclear weapons tests would shortly permit full agreement . He regarded such an accord as progress toward solution of the entire disarmament issue . but accused the Western nations of being unwilling to meet the Soviet Union " halfway " in negotiations . Position on ' Roll-Back ' On the three key issues discussed in his article , Premier Khrushchev takes the following positions : The West must " understand the irrevocable fact that the historical process is irreversible , and that the Socialist system.1 in spite of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , hasi developed into such a force , as . to make any return to the past impossible , " He implied that any thought ' of " liberating " Eastern Europe . or ending Communist rule in , China must be abandoned since ' " the policy of ' rolling back ' communism can only poison the international atmosphere . heighten the tension between states and work in favor of the cold war . " In this connection he returned to a denunciation of the " captive nations " resolution adopted by Congress earlier this year , pretesting particularly the inclusion of various Soviet areas such as the Baltic States , the Ukraine . and Central Asian republics . He declared : " It would be interesting to see , incidentally , how the authors of this resolution would have reacted if the parliament of Mexico , for instance , had passed a resolution demanding that Texas , Arizona and California be ' liberated from American slavery . ' " Sense of Resolution The Congressional resolution called on Americans to conduct observances in memory of nations " made captive by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Eisenhower signed the resolution and declared the week of July 19 Captive Nations Wee : : . Premier Khrushchev called the issue of Germany " the question of questions . " He de- ! manded the conclusion of a : peace treaty with West Germany ! and East Germany and the conversion of West Berlin into a , free city . He denied that the Soviet Union intended to seize West Berlin or change Its way of life . The Soviet leader made no mention of past threats to sign a separate peace treaty with East Germany and to withdraw Soviet forces that now control the West 's access routes to West Berlin . On this issue Mr. Khrushchev made several attacks on West Germany and its Government . He said the North Atlantic alliance was being " gradually converted into an instrument of the German militarists " and added : " It is not at all impossible , therefore . that Western Germany ? might provoke hos-1 tilities in order to draw her ! allies into it and plunge the ! whole world into the chasm of a devastating war @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ West Germany of pursuing a policy of revenge that " may ultimately end in irreparable disaster for Western Germany . " Last Sunday Premier Khrushchev said he had a favorable reaction to a recent note from Dr. Adenauer , replying to a previous letter from Mr. Khrushchev . The article published today was written before this latest exchange on Soviet-West German relations . On the issue of trade , Premier Khrushchev declared : " It can be said without fear of exaggeration that there is no good basis for improvement of relations between our countries other than development of international trade . " The Soviet leader implied that the Soviet position was still the one given in a letter of June , 1958 , to President Eisenhower when Mr. Khrushchev requested large American credits for Soviet purchase of machinery and other goods . Present SovietAmerican trade is small , in part because of lack of Soviet dollars to buy goods here and in part because of United States restrictions on strategic exports to the Soviet Union . The Soviet Premier 's sole explicit reference to his scheduled meetings with President Eisenhower @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ my trip to the United States and the subsequent visit of President Eisenhower to the Soviet T ' nion will afford the possibilit. , 7 , : r a useful exchange of opinions , for finding a common tongue and a common understanding of the ! questions that should be settled . "                     