@@720775

txt Britons now are drawing up their conclusions from the general ' election that saw the Conservative Party swept back into office with an increased majority of more than 100 seats . This was Prime Minister Harold Macmillan 's iirst election win as leader of the party  --  an office to which he succeeded without election upon Sir Anthony Eden 's resignation in January , 1957 . And Mr. Macmillan , speaking to the nation over television the night of Oct. 9 , called for a resumption of " the fundamental unity of our people " and a setting aside of " the differences which divide us . " Class Held Obsolete The election , he declared , " has shown that the class war is obsolete " and he termed this " a great gain for the future . " This very point has struck other observers . They believe they can perceive a lessening of the traditional British way of thinking that made one man a member of one class from birth  --  and ever thereafter at odds with members of another class . The election @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ revealed a profound breakup of the automatic divisions of the people of Britain that have bedeviled politics for the past few decades . " It is pointed out that where once the electorate divided in terms of class or occupation this election has demonstrated a readiness on the part of the British people to consider the political choice rationally and on merit  --  rather than on the basis of class . Gaitskell Praised " Because labor failed to notice this change in the public mood , " The Times suggests , " they collapsed at the polls , and some of those electors who in the past voted Labor gave their support to the Liberals . " Labor Party leader Hugh Gaitskell and his cohorts , meanwhile , faced a searching reassessment of their own political future . The expectation was that , 1 a thorough , outspoken inquest would be held at the party 's Transport House headquarters in , London to determine the reason I for their Oct. 8 setback . But Mr. Gaitskell 's personal conduct since his defeat  --  his dignity , honesty , and control  --  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ some of the people who before the election would not have hesitated to label him unfit to lead the country now take a more tolerant view . He , nevertheless , may face some savage attacks within his party from disappointed followers . Labor Lost 23 Seats Commenting on the election result , Mr. Gaitskell said : " We have suffered neither a landslide nor a disaster but a setback . We hoped to win by 40 or 50 seats . Instead we have lost 23 . " Claiming the swing against Labor was very small , he said " only three people in every 200 have been sufficient to produce it . " He told his supporters " we still represent nearly half the nation . We are a great party and a great power for good in the world . Our ranks are unbroken . " Labor 's losses . he declared , can be recovered . " If a small swing makes a big change in the majority , so will a small swing toward us eventually restore our position . " Policy to Continue His philosophic acceptance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by more action-minded members of the party . Some of them already were demanding that the party reorient itself further to the left . The outside world , meanwhile , saw the Conservative victory as a guarantee that Britain would continue its present policy in East-West affairs . Britain , moreover , has continued the pattern that has seen right-wing governments installed in recent years in the United States , Canada , France , and Australia . The Macmillan triumph also continued the series of setbacks for socialist parties in Europe . Considered certain ? to be among the Prime Minister 's first moves were consultations with Washington on a date for a summit meeting for which Mr. Macmillan has been so eager for so long . Cabinet Shifts Loom Likewise a matter for immediate post-eledtion speculation was what changes in his Cabinet Mr. Macmillan would make . The feeling is that no drastic changes in his team are in sight at present . Selwyn Lloyd Is expected to retain his post as Foreign Secretary at least until after summit talks have taken place . But Viscount Hailsham , who is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ man during the election campaign , and Colonial Secretary A. T. Lennox-Boyd , and Minister of Power Lord Mills are generally mentioned as possibilities in a Cabinet reshuffle . All are reported anxious to be freed of their present responsibilities .                     