@@714555

txt There is no doubt that the voters of the United States would like to nominate their nresidential candidates . In recent weeks I have had the opportunity to put the issue of a national preconvention primary to large groups of people . The approval has been overwhelming . It is a political reform which stirs real enthusiasm , because it means putting political power in the hands of the voters where it can be visibly and positively used . There is resistance to the idea by some professional politicians . They do n't like change , and they do n't like to lose power they have long used . There is also apathy about the prospects of bringing about a national primary to replace the present diluted hodgepodge of separate primaries which now are held in only 16 of the 48 states . The feeling persists that it just wo n't happen , that we 'll talk about it now that another election is on us and then forget about it for another four years . But it can happen , and this is the year to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time the voters shall be without the means of seeing that their choice of presidential nominees is deliberate and decisive , not accidental or incidental . A A A In order that support for a national presidential primary may be as substantial as possible , we ought to examine very faithfully the thoughtful objections which occasionally are advanced against it . There are four such objections , and it seems to me there are persuasive answers to each of them . They are these : Objection ? The relatively small vote which has ' almostinvariably marked the state presidential primaries suggests that enough voters would not participate in a national primary to make it representative or meaningful . If the vote were too small , it could be misleading . Answer  --  The same argument could apply with equal force to the presidential election itself , but no one is suggesting that the people should not be allowed to elect their presidents because fewer than 50 per cent of the voters go to the . polls . Furthermore , one probable reason why there is a relatively small vote in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ taking part in a definitive choice of the presidential nominee . When the vote is nationwide and significant bordering on conclusive , as it would be in a national primary , there would be a good prospect that voter participation would greatly increase . The only way to find out is to do it . Objection  --  Millions of independent voters not affiliated with either party will have no voice in determining the nominees through a national primary . Answer  --  A national primary would not decrease and could increase the voice of the independent voters in choosing the presidential nominees . They would be able to vote in the states which now permit voters to register in one party or the other for purposes of the primary , and this provision might- be extended more widely . But should n't independent voters be encouraged to align themselves with one party or another  --  knowing that Such alignment can be changed  --  for purposes of participating in the choice of the presidential nominee ? What makes a voter independent isthe independence of his thinking and voting once he has the secret @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in one party or the other at a given time . Objection ? Could the minority party conduct an effective primary in states where one-party control has prevailed for so long ? Would a Republican primary be effective in the South or a Democratic primary be effective in Maine or Vermont ? Answer  --  The size of the party vote in the previous presidential election in any state largely determines the number of party delegates to the convention . Similarly , a small Republican vote in Alabama , say , in a national primary would mean that Alabama Republicans would exert a proportionate influence in the national result . There would be nothing unbalanced in such a situation . Objection ? The principal presidential contenders would not have time to conduct a nationwide preconvention campaign . And it would cost too much . Answer  --  For the past 12 years Governor Dewey , Senator Taft , Harold Stassen , and others have devoted many months every four years to campaigning for the presidential nomination . A national primary campaign would take no longer than they already have been devoting to preconvention @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more  --  and might cost less  --  to campaign to the nation by radio and television and some travel than it now costs to devote weeks of on-the-spot campaigning in the numerous separate but indecisive state primaries . A A A. The defense rests  --  but not for long .                     