@@715830

txt President Eisenhower today asserted new farm programs are in the making which will help farmers secure " their fair share " of the national income and will " work for the good of all . " The prediction was made in a White House statement after the chief executive had conferred an hour and 10 minutes with the national agricultural advisory commission : In a cheery mood , the President asserted the decline in farm prices " seems pretty well behind us . " He said he " sensed " a conviction that the outlook for business activity is generally reassuring , which is " a factor so essential to good markets for farm products . " Raises ' G. 0 . P. Hopes The President 's statement raised G. 0 . P. political hopes for the 1954 congressional campaign , which have sagged following a special election in Wisconsin where Democrats scored their first victory in a Republican district in what was generally iterpreted as a protest against declining farm prices . The statement also was seen as assuring the continuance of Agriculture Secretary Benson in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's resignation as a sacrifice to farm unrest at his news conference Wednesday , but there was still murmuring against the Utah agricultural expert and ' Mormon religious leader . Meeting Since Thursday The national advisory commission , which is made up of farmers , farm industry leaders and agricultural educators , had been meeting since Thursday . The members advised Mr. Eisenhower their recommendations for a new program are well under way and promised final recommendations in December . Congress , which will draft farm programs , meets in January . The commission ' , which has been meeting with . Benson , has said present farm programs can be improved . Benson promised that a better , but not a revolutionary , program will be presented which will certainly contain price supports . The present program guaranteeing 90 per cent of parity price supports on six basic crops expires at the end of 1954 . Program Changes for Corn The commission said " special attention " is being given wheat and cotton with the aim of expanding domestic and foreign consumption so that acreage reductions may be " less @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ report continued , are being designed to " protect incomes of corn producers and stabilize the feed supply for livestock men , dairy men , and poultry men , while permitting maximum consumption of our corn supplies . " The commission reportedly is considering a new flexible system of price supports for corn as well as a two-price support s5/stern for wheat and cotton . Members did not go into details of plans under consideration . OK 's Cattle Buying The commission has given its major attention to cattle markets , which have suffered a series of sharp price setbacks over the last 12 months . It reported " unanimous approval " of Benson 's plan to buy 750,000 head of cattle for the govern . ment-sponsored school lunc program and for shipment abroad . The farm leaders came to the White House as the administration was being taxed with responsibility for failure to deal with falling agricultural prices , ' surpluses ; and the drouth . In vain , administration leaders attempted to quiet the storm by saying farm difficulties were inherited from failures of the Truman administration . Other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Mont. challenged Mr. Eisenho we r 's Wednesday press conference assertion that he had never made a 1952 campaign promise to support 100 per cent parity for ma- jor crops . " At Kasson , Minn. , last year the President promised at least 90 per cent parity and , as soon as possible , full parity , " Mansfield said . " If he now denies the full import of that promise he knows as little about the farm problem now as he did then . " Asserts Farmers Disturbed 2 . Sen. George CD. , Ga. said tie believes farmers generally are greatly disturbed by " price declines " and " feel now that the Republicans have been in power too long . " 3 . Herschel D. Newsom , master of the National Grange , suggested the present farm support price program be extended for a year while a new program based on expanding markets is perfected . 4 . Sen. Aiken R. , Vt. , chairman of the senate agriculture committee , defended Benson and said there " is n't a chance " he will be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Washington in a " caravan " to demand immediate drouth aid and a federal pledge to boost prices of cattle and sheep .                     