@@716211

txt Britain has pledged an armored ' division to service in the proposed European army and has declared her forces will be stationed on the Continent as long as the Soviet Union threatens the security of the Western world . Royal Air Force units are to be included in a European air force at the request of the Supreme Allied Commander and British tactical air formations now on the Continent will be integrated with the European ' force in air groups of the North I Atlantic Treaty Organization .. The British Government will consult the European Defense Community on the strength of the British forces in Europe , including specifically any substantial change in their numbers or composition . To provide political s.s well as military integration , a British minister will attend meetings of the Council of Ministers of the defense community . and . a . permanent British representative will maintain day - to - day relations with the community 's Board of Commissions . Eden Advises Commons The establishment of this intimate and powerful alliance between the United Kingdom and the defense community was announced @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ statement to the House of Commons , which received substantial support from the moderate wing of the Labor party . In a White Paper issued today the Government , published a " declaration of Her Majesty 's Government , laying down the broad outlines of British support , a statement of common policy on military , association between the forces of the kingdom and the European Defense Community and Ian agreement regarding cooperation between the kingdom ' and the European Defense Community . " The documents represent Britain 's final effort to encourage ratification of the defense community treaty by the French Na .. tional Assembly . This treaty , signed May 27 , 1952 , establishes la defense community comprising France , West Germany , Italy , the ' Netherlands , Belgium and Luxembourg to which West Germany will contribute twelve divisions , a tactical air force of approximately 1,000 planes and light forces . Britain 's current action is the limit of this country 's support for the ' defense community , an authoritative source said . Mr. Eden told the Commons that " intimate relations " with Britain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ treaties of Dunkirk and Brussels , were now " extended and reinforced . " " To her old and new partners alike the United Kingdom will be a loyal and resolute ally , " the Foreign Secretary concluded . Involvement of British forces on the Continent may not go so far as some French supporters of the defense community treaty desire . But both political and military authorities- here know the announcement finally breaks with Britain 's old policy of insular strategy under which the Royal Navy was the " sure shield . " The shield . has been transferred from the Channel and the North Sea to the plains of North Germany : Mr. Eden reminded Parliament that Britain signed the treaty with the defense ' community in 1952 and that the purpose of the documents was to make the The Government has undertaken " to continue to maintain on the mainland of Europe , including Germany , such armed formes as may be necessary and appropriate to contribute a fair share of the forces needed for the joint defense of the North Atlantic area , " Mr. Eden said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mot after any aggression begins , " Mr. Eden said . Britain regards the Atlantic alliance as of " indefinite duration " and the partnership between the Kingdom forces and the defense community will lie within the wider framework of the Atlantic alliance , the Foreign Secretary said . As long as the Soviet threat remains , Britain and her partners must be prepared to keep in being " over a period of ? years , forces ' and weapons capable- . of deterring aggression and of providing effective securityA ' Mr. Eden declared . Mr. Eden said the United States shared with Britain all common Atlantic affiance commitments and a full statement of the United States position ' might be expected shortly . The agreement on military association establishes the intention of Britain and the defense community to seek a " common military outlook " on tactical doctrine and staff methods , logistics , including the harmonisation of supply and maintenance systems and standardization of equipment , and training , which at ; far as possible shall be on " similar lines . " The agreement regarding cooperation between the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ principles for military association previously outlined and also , specifies the type of political collaboration . He reminded the commons that Britain could not join the defense community since that project was part of the planning for a European federation . But the Government " has done the next best thing " and " drawn as closely as it could " to the Continental organization , Mr. Eden explained . The document also stipulates various measures for " practical collaboration " between the Royal Air Force , the Army and the Royal Navy anctthe forces of the defense community . These cover the formative period of a European army , Air Force and Navy and the period after these forces have been established .                     