@@716712

txt Old allies split in bitterness this afternoon when Greece made its explosive bid before the United Nations to end British rule over the strategic Mediterranean island of Cyprus . Cypriot population is predominantly Grecian in origin . Ambassador Alexis Kyrou of the Greek delegation , speaking before the U. N. 's main political committee , moved for adoption of a resolution stating the U. N. 's charter principle of " self-determination " be applied to Cyprus . Greeks hope to annex the island . " Cypriots are asking for freedom and self-determination , " stated Kyrou . " They do n't like British colonial rule . After living under such a rule for more than three-quarters of a century , there is no chance at all of seeing them change their minds . It would be inconceivable to prolong the conditions of arbitrary foreign domination forcefully imposed upon a highly civilized people . " Briton Hits Resolution Britain 's delegate , Anthony Nutting , maneuvered immediately to defeat the Greek resolution . With the loss of the Suez canal zone to the Egyptians , the British are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ athwart air and sea lanes . He insisted a shift in sovereignty could only hamper orderly process toward self-government for Greeks as well as the Turkish minority on Cyprus . Nutting asserted the U. N was " playing with fire , " hinting that the Communists were behind the plot to free the Cypriots . " I do not have to remind my colleagues that there are on the island of Cyprus elements ho seek such purposes , " said the British spokesman . " It is they who will profit by a debate on this item . Their mo tives are not the motives or nationalism . Their hopes and purposes are disruptive and destructive , for they are but the tools a world-wide conspiracy . " Urges U. N. Drop Issue New Zealand was called on to carry the ball for the British Leslie Munro of the commonwealth delegation proposed a counter-resolution suggesting the U. N. general assembly decide not to consider the Cyprus issue any further . Henry Cabot Lodge Jr . United States delegate , broire a three months silence on the issue with the announcement he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ proposal . " After very searching and deliberate thought and lengthy consultations with those di rectly concerned , " stated Lodge , " we in the United States government have reached the conclusion that the course of wisdom is that proposed by the representative of New Zealand . Soviet Delegate Georgi N. Zarubin lined communist Russia up behind the royal Hellenic Greek demand for Cypriot freedom . He declared the U. N. could not ignor , . " the legitimate aspirations " of the people of Cyprus . The political committee adjourned until tomorrow .                     