@@714479

txt An eight-point program governing football , including the abolition of spring practice and post-season games , was announced simultaneously yesterday by the presidents of eight Ivy League colleges ? Brown , Columbia , Cornell , Dartmouth , Harvard , Pennsylvania , Princeton and Yale . The joint statement said that spring practice was being elirainated because of the peculiar pres-1 sures on football and -a desire to avoid intensity of athletic specialization in a single sport . The new program was patterned after the policiesadopted recently by the American Council of Eduli cation . Under the new program coaches and players in the Ivy League are barred from participating in football games that settle sectional or other championships . This includes , according to an official of the circuit , such contests as the North-South in Miami , Fla. , and the East-West at San Francisco . Players and coaches from the Ivy loop have been active in these annual post-season games down through the years . Yale 's Herman Hickman coached the North team at Miami last December and Tuss of Dartmouth was one of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the All-America back from Princeton , played in the last East-West game . Ivy League teams have not participated in post-season games in a number of years . While many of the coaches preferred limitation , rather than abolishment of spring training , . Ivy League officials generally decided to go along with the stricter controls in the interests of keeping football " in the proper academic perspective . " The Ivy League presidents agreed : 1 . To abolish ' so-called football clinics , that is , the practice of assembling high school coaches to explain and demonstrate coaching methods of the staff . 2 . To abolish spring football prac- // tics because of ' the peculiar pressures on football and their desire to avoid intensity of athletic specialization in a single sport . In taking this action the- conimittee recognizes that the same evils may exist in other major sports , and they are proceeding with a study of this matter . 3 . To start fall football practice for all institutions on Thursday , September 4 , 1952. 4 . That beginning with the fall of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the group at least once every five , years . 5 . To study ways and means of reducing the number of games ' scheduled . ' 6 . To reaffirm the principle of the control of athletics by the academic authorities , this control to include scheduling policy , eligibility , the award of scholarships and student . aid . 7 . To amend the eligibility rule in the present agreement by including the following : " Beginning in 1954 no student shall be eligible whose secondary school education was subsidized or whose post-college education is promised by an individual or group of individuals not closely related to the family as a consideration for his attending the college which he now attends . " 8 . To amend the rule in regard to post-season football contests to read as follows : " The subscribing institutions shall not engage in post-season football contests or any contests designed to settle sectional or other championship , and no player representing these institutions shall participate in such contests , and no coach shall undertake to coach teams entered for such contests . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ play every other institution in the group at least once every five years begins ning in 1953 would automatically ' restore Penn to the schedules of those who had voiced reluctance at one time or another to meet the Philadelphians on the gridiron . No Criticism Involved Dr. Grayson Kirk , vice president and acting head of Columbia University , said the group viewed the decisions as " not involving any criticism or admission of guilt on the part of the schools in the league , but rather as a policy reaffirming their position on these matters , which will help the Ivy League to maintain its leadership in the area of football ethics . " He said also : " I think it is a good thing for the Ivy League to set the standards . " At Princeton , Dr. Harold Dodds , president , said Princeton will go along with the Ivy group although many connected with football here , including Head Coach Charlie Caldwell , were in favor of the extra practice sessions . He said : " Although Princeton believes that the four weeks of spring @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ restrictions that have prevailed since the war have not distorted the real values of the sport , we shall abandon the practive in accordance with the prevailing opinion of the Ivy group . " In eliminating this period of voluntary practice , which has had the unanimous support of the members of our varsity football squad for the past three years , we reaffirm Princeton 's conviction that only through cooperative effort is it possible to establish and maintain football as part of a sound college eeducational program . " At Ithaca , N. Y. , Cornell President Deane W. Malott said , according to The Associated Press : " While from the point of view of Cornell athletic policies some of these steps are of comparatively little significance , it seemed important to support the ' Ivy League ' in its effort to maintain football in proper academic perspective . " Harold E. Stassen , president of the University of Pennsylvania , said he was " pleased with the constructive step which the unanimous agreement represents . " put into effect " the code will have real teeth in it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ do that . The dode looks a little rough to Me . ' We'nlay have created another Volstead ' Act : " The Volstead Act was passed in 1919 in au ' ; . effort to , enforce the Eighteentn , Amendment . to the Consittuticess Which prohibited the sale Of alcoholic liquors . Arthur S. Adams of Washington , president of the council , said that it ' was true they had no power to enforce tire code , but that he hoped regional accrediting agencies would withhold academic recognition from ' schools failing to observe it . " It is a. standard of , parformance which all schools , photild observe , " Mr. Adams said . Hugh Willett , president : of the National Collegiate ' Athletic Association , said he thought the code would not bring about any changes in College athletics until after January of 1953 , when the next N. C. A. A. convention will be held . On that basis there would be ? a , full schedule of New Year 's Day bowl games next season and spring football practice would be eliminated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Needed " Policies of our organization can be changed only by vote of our 343 member universities and colleges and the twelve allied conferences , " Mr. Willett said . Asa Bushnell , commissioner of the Eastern . College Athletic Conference , said he opposed only the elimination of spring football practice . He thought it would be more practical merely to curtail it . Bernie Moore , commissioner of the Southeastern Conference , said except for the bans on bowl football and spring practice " everything else is in line with what we already are doing . " Reeves Peters , secretary of the Big Seven , said his conference would make a thorough study of the plan and discuss putting it into effect in the meeting of athletic directors at Kansas City on Feb. 28-29 . Artie Eilers , commissioner of the Missouri Valley Conference , said his schools would cooperate 100 per cent with N. C. A. A. policy on the matter . Commissioner Dick Romney of the Rocky Mountain Skyline Conference said , " Sentiment has been expressed which confirms my feeling we will go along with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Bradley University dropped plans for the 1952 National Campus Basketball tournament .                     