@@720503

txt Custody of Three Given to Brother of Accused Kilter They Still Do n't Know Mother Was Slain Three small children , who are unaware that their mother was murdered and their father is accused of slaying her , w ill remain with a paternal uncle until the father is cleared or convicted , Superior Judge Harry G. Hershenson ruled Tuesday . While the children played in a sun lit back yard on the south side , their temporary fate was decided in a hushed , but crowded County building courtroom . The children are Nancy Hansen , 6 ; her brother , ' Charles , 4 , and her sister , Laura , 2 . Their mother , Susan , was slain May 24 in her home at 1221 E. 54th st . Their father , Duncan Hansen , 28 , a school teacher , is ' being held without bond . The Hansen 's were divorced . Court Names Guardian Judge Hershenson ruled that the children would remain with their f ather 's brother , Richard , until the father 's fate - is decided . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ former Chicago Bar association adoption committee head , to watch out for them . Judge Hershenson also granted visiting rights to the children 's grandparents , Mrs. Marietta Long and Dr. George , E. Shambaugh Jr . It was Dr. Shambaugh who petitioned the court to have the children removed from the Hansen home to some " neutral " environment pending the murder trial ' of their father . They have been with Richard Hansen 's f a mily since the day of the slaying . Guards Against Influence Judge Hershenson ruled , however , that the children are to be protected from outside influence . They are not to be questioned by anyone or examined by any medical authorities without a court order , he added . Shambaugh 's attorneys had ? contended that because Nancy is the only child old enough to furnish information on what transpired in the Hansen home the morning of the murder , she should not be exposed to the influence of Duncan Hansen 's family Susan Hansen was divorced last April from Duncan on ground-of cruelty . Death Home to Be Sold Capt . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that his men are ready to relinquish guard over the death home now that the inquest has ended . The court instructed Richard Hansen , who said that sale of the house is pending , to arrange for a real estate firm to assume caretaker duties until the transaction is completed .. A police guard will be kept at the house , where Susan died of a broken neck in a struggle with her murderer , is lone .                     