@@715651

txt The threat of an unlimited general strike in public services , railroads , mines and other nationalized sectors hung over this country today . The Government 's first set of decrees on economies and reforms in France 's public and private sectors , which unleashed Wide labor protests and a paralyzing strike Friday , before they even had been approved by the Cabinet , were published yesterday and failed to ease the troubled situation . Coupled with labor 's fight against the Government of Premier Joseph Laniel was an increasing demand that the National Assembly , in recess  --  until Oct. 12 , be reconvened for a policy debate . The latest bid for such a recall came from- the Socialist party , which urged its deputies to send individual telegrams to Edouard Herriot , Assembly President , demanding that Parliament be reconvened . The Communists also have been demanding such a move . Under French law , if 209 deputies , or two-thirds of the Assembly membership , request such a recall , the Assembly must reconvene . Together the Socialists and Communists have 205 deputies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Roman Catholic labor unions , is a likely source of the four other requests needed . Today is expected to be the day of decision for all big unions . Sentiment among the rank and file was strong for a strike of unlimited duration , whose double objective would be to force the Government to annul its decrees and to obtain wage increases . The Communist-led General Federation of Labor 's Railroad Federation , which controls a majority of the 400,000 workers on the Government-owned railways issued orders to " organize a work stoppage " in cooperation with other unions . It was not a clear strike order but its effect may be the same . The Socialist Workers Force leaders scheduled a meeting for this afternoon , and it was expected to be decisive in determining future events . Other unions seemed ' to be waiting for the Socialists to make up their minds . The only exception was the Communist railway union , but that organization 's action , too , was to some extent contingent on the Workers Force and Roman Catholic sentiment . The Communists were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be content to allow events to proceed with their encouragement and aid until their principal aim ? the re-establishment of the Popular Front  --  had been achieved . This was the organization that r , uled France from 11936 to 1938 . Rapprochement Held Unlikely The decrees affecting public employes as they finally emerged in Official Journal did not appear to be as drastic as the unions had made them to appear last week . Nevertheless Socialist and Catholic labor leaders and their followers had swung so far and so fast away from the Government that it would be difficult now for them to seek a rapprochement . Edgar Faure , Minister of Fimance , vigorously denied at a news conference that the Government was trying to " persecute " people through its decrees . He said the measures had been taken in the interest of essential economies and efficiency in the Government 's operations and as an answer in part to a serious population problem by which those of working age were becoming more and more burdened by the increases in the numbers of old persons living on publicly-supported pensions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ years for both categories of Government workers " active " and " sedentary . " In addition the personnel of nationalized industries whose individual retirement systems date from the time when they were in private hands will be brought under the new program . Unions Complain on Pensions The unions complained that younger workers would advance less rapidly . M. Faure said many persons now retiring on Government pensions still were young enough to work and were competing on private labor markets with younger men . The postal unions , whose strike movement began last Wednesday and led to agitation in other sectors , stuck to their positions . Some workers went back to their jobs but many defied the Government 's requisition orders . There was some improvement , however , in mail and telephone service . The soldiers and Government policemen were used in some cases to move the mails and a trickle of letters reached their addresses . Some cross-country telephone calls also went through . The government said that those who refused to obey their- sumingnses to work would be suspended . In the provinces there were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Friday 's strike . Many miners in the North still were not working . And those who had returned to work were described as eager . to start their fight again .                     