@@720621

txt WASHINGTON , Aug. 2 ? The first session of the Eighty-sixth Congress opens the long drive toward adjournment this week with Democratic hopes for a record of accomplishment riding on four major bills . The issues expected to dominate this climactic month of the session are housint , highway construction , civil rights and labor reform . All four issues are rich in political controversy . The Democratic leadership is committed by political necessity to produce legislation that will meet with a considerable degree of public approval . The lines of political debate between the parties , however , have already been drawn . Republicans on Attack With the bills they expect to pass in these closing weeks of Congress , plus those produced over the last seven months , the Democrats are preparing to hit hard on one theme . This will assert that the party , while cooperating responsibly with the Republican White House , has worked out the best record of achievement it is possible to attain when the Government is divided between the parties . The Republicans have opened their attack with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in twenty years , have created only a " won't-do " record while trying to harass and embarrass President Eisenhower . In fact , clear-cut triumphs for either party seem to have been few thus far , although each professes to have scored on various issues . On the dominant issue of the session , the President 's insistence on a balanced budget , the fighting is all but over and the Republicans have had their way . Johnson Predicts Cuts Whether this is the victory for the Republicans that it seemed a month ago is now open to question . It occurred principally because the moderate Democratic leadership , believing that the President had hit upon a politically popular cause , elected to join him rather than fight him , and even to outdo him in zeal for holding down spending . Lyndon R Johnson of Texas , the Democratic Senate leader , now predicts that Congress will cut the President 's appropriations requests by " several hundred millions " of dollars . With most of the appropriation bills for running the Government now passed , it appears that Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ regarded at the Treasury as a triumph for Republicanism. // However , many of the party 's political figures are beginning to wonder , for the polls continue to show the G. 0 . P. popularity declining while the Democrats advance . The one visible benefit to Republicans has been the violent criticism of the Congressional leadership by liberal Democrats disgruntled ' over the decision to help the President balance the budget . Even this intra-party bickering is now being curtailed , however , as the party 's record nears completion and both factions face up to the political necessity of living with it . Senator Johnson 's liberal critics in the Senate have ceased their public attacks on the Senate floor and confined themselves recently to private complaint . Senator Johnson and Speaker Sam Rayburn of Texas , the Democratic leader in the House , are now concentrating on four major bills to validate Demo , cratic claims to a distinguished legislative record . The most difficult of all is the labor-reform bill , which passed the Senate after a rousing battle in the spring . Two weeks ago it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . From individual members ' points of view , this is perhaps the most explosive bill - now before the Congress . At work under the surface are powerful and conflicting political currents . Under Intense Pressure On one hand the Democratic party is under intense pressure to respond to the record of corruption and labor abuses exposed by the Senate Select Committee on Improper Activities in the Labor or Management Field . On the other , individual members are under intense pressure from powerful and respectable labor unions to permit nothing that might imperil the security of legitimate unions . In addition , certain segments of the industrial community ( feel more restrictive labor legislation is needed and would prefer to see no bill this year rather than a mild one . The thinking in this group is that if there is no legislation this year , rising public clamor over the Senate committee 's findings will create the climate for a tough , restrictive bill later . Finally , some Republicans would like to see a failure on the bill this year that could be used as ammunition in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " In this political morass , most observers believe the House Democratic leadership will have a difficult time controlling the ( membership when the bill reaches the floor later this month . The assumption is that the pressure on individual members ' is so strong that many will cast their votes according to personal political necessity rather than over-all party need . At this point , prospects for getting any bill are in great doubt . The other highly controversial issue is civil rights legislation . The Senate Judiciary Committee meets tomorrow in an attempt to start working on it . The House Judiciary Committee is expected to report a bill this week . In its present shape , the House bill is much less offensive to Southern Democrats than the 1957 bill . The Senate version , in its present form . is accurately described as a " skeleton " bill . Both have been stripped of their most controversial provision , a section that would have empowered the Attorney General to seek injunctions in cases where individual citizens complained that they were being denied civil rights . The President @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ supporting it this ' year . In both Senate and House committees it was killed by a combination of votes of Republicans and Southern Democrats , Board Extension Sought The minimum hope of the leadership is for a two-year extension of the Civil Rights Commission , due to expire this fall , and a requirement that state officials preserve Federal election records for a temporary period and make them available to Federal authorities upon request . Senator Johnson is also expected to make a fight for his proposed conciliation commission to provide " cooling-off " mediation services in communities where racial tension runs high . Beyond these points , there is little sentiment for measures this year that would unduly provoke Southern members . Moreover , there is some evidence that influential House Republicans are not enthusiastic about passing a bill this year . They would prefer , it appears , to delay a fight over the issue until the 1960 election year when it would dramatize the division in the Democratic party . The housing bill is an echo of the earlier budget fight . A bill passed by Congress @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that , among other things , it made for excessive spending . After considerable Democratic oratory aimed at depicting the President . as a foe of slum clearance and public housing , hearings have reopened in the Senate . Senator Johnson predicts passage of a bill " similar in scope and quality " to the one the President vetoed . Although the President found many offensive features in the bill , it contained mortgage insurance authority for the Federal Housing Administration . This is essential to the Administration . The present prospect is for passage of a bill containing some of the features the President opposed . Road Program Under Study Ways to continue financing of the Federal highway program are now under study in the House Ways and Means Committee after- the rejection of the President 's request for a 1%-cent rise in the gasoline tax to finance the program . Last week the committee recommended that a $1,000,000,000 revenue bond issue be substituted and the pace of the program be slowed . In 1955 , the Administration proposed the bond system of financing and the Democrats rejected it . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is general agreement among Democrats that , having rejected the gasoline tax increase , they must not leave Washington without providing for continuing the program . Among major Administration proposals , the one seeking to remove the 4% per cent interest rate ceiling on long-term Government bonds is stalled in the Ways and Means Committee . Last week efforts were under way in the House to work out another compromise that the Federal Reserve System would accept . However , the ultimate outcome is in some doubt . The other major bill pending  --  the Foreign aid appropriation ? is in comparatively sound shape . It is expected to provide the Administration with sufficient funds to continue the program at about the same level of the last few years . As passed by the House , the bill carries $3,186,000,000 , or about $700,000,000 less than the President requested . The Senate is expected to follow tradition and restore some of the funds cut by the House .                     