@@716439

txt Two drastic measures dealing with witnesses who refuse to testify before congressional committees in the investigation of communism and other subversive activities today won overwhelming house approval . The first measure , passed 293 to 55 on a roll call , would empower congressional committees and the courts to grant immunity from prosecution to witnesses in investigations and criminal proceedings involving national defense or security where the witnesses might otherwise refuse to testify under the 5th amendment plea of possible self-incrimination . The second bill , passed by voice vote , would authorize congressional committees and subcommittees to invoke the aid of federal courts in compelling witnesses to testify and produce subpenaed evidence . Upon issuance of such a court order the witnesses then could be held in contempt of court if they refused to comply . 1 Year Maximum Penalty This could involve much more drastic penalties than the present procedure where committees get contempt of Congress citations from the senate or house and refer them to the justice department for prosecution . The maximum penalties for contempt of Congress are only 1 year in prison @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ procedure for suspension of the house rules and debate limited to 40 minutes ; with two-thirds approval required for passage . They are part of the anti-communist legislative program outlined for this session of Congress . Returned to Senate Previously , the house voted to impose the death penalty for peace time as well as war time espionage , to permit wiretapping in defense and security cases , to stiffen the penalties against bail jumpers and those harboring fugitives from justice , and to require registration of spies and saboteurs and prosecution for failure to register when caught . The immunity bill was returned to the senate for a possible conference on adjustment of differences between it and a senate version passed on July 9 , 1953 . Atty . Gen. Brownell requested the legislation but in different form . Under the administration 's plan the attorney general would have been given authority to decide whether the granting of immunity by a congressional committee was in the public interest . Could n't . Be Prosecuted The senate bill gave the attorney general one week within which to voice approval , else @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The house version merely provides that the attorney general be notified of the intent of either chamber or congressional committees to obtain a court order for . such immunity and a direction to the witness to . testify . Under the immunity procedure the witness could not be prosecuted on compelled testimony in connection with criminal proceedings except on contempt or perjury charges . The house version also extends the immunity protection to grand jury and court proceedings , which the senate bill omitted .                     