@@712918

txt A thunderous Democratic appeal to get out the vote  --  amplified against the sounding board of the Jefferson Jubilee-Democratic rally  --  has sent a fresh wave of hope through Midwestern Republican ranks . The note of urgency in the Democratic call  --  despite President Truman 's successful whistle-stop swing across the country  --  is looked upon by Republicans here as a heartening straw in the political winds . Crescendoing political activities preceding President Truman 's climactic address at the Jubilee pageant in the Chicago Stadium have indicated that the term " rally " much more benefits the three-day affair than the frequently used " strategy meeting . " One high-placed Democrat went so tar as to admit this is a get-together to demonstrate the party 's power rather than a meeting to formulate election tactics . Strategy Disclosed The one bit of strategy that has been evident has been the candid admittance by party bigwigs from Vice-President Alben B. Barkley on down : That the party of Thomas Jeff ferson , whose election to the presidency 150 years ago is being celebrated , has not been inclined @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the only acceptable strategy for vote-getting this fall must hinge on the simple formula of " work , work , and more work " if there is to be another Democratic victory like that in 1948 . Such a wai sing is uncomfortably pertinent to the situation here in politically potent Illinois where the Senate Democratic majority leader , Senator Scott W. Lucas . is being challenged by a formidable campaigner . hardworking former Republican Representative Everett M. Dirksen . The Dirksen forces have been viewing with elation the Democratic political extravaganza with the full-dress turnout of the party hierarchy including President Truman and his cabinet , 145 congressmen , and 14 governors , It has given them more confidence than ever in their long-espoused contention that they have the Democrats on the run . Help for Lucas The Democrats ' open acknowledgment of the need for giving Senator Lucas all the support they can muster was shown in a speech by much-respected Senator Paul H. Douglas ( D ) of Illinois extolling his - senatorial colleague 's virtues . It has been noticed , however , that Senator Lucas 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to run against President Truman than against the senator . This is partially because Senator Lucas has not gone along with the Truman program of socialized medicine nor the Brannan Plan which Mr. Dirksen is attacking . It will be difficult , some . say , for Senator Lucas , as Senate majority leader , to disassociate in the voters ' thoughts the fact that he is not for the full Truman program . Republican , observing the rally here , grudgingly admitted that the sheer magnitude and masterful handling of the spec tacle had shaken his confidence . That is , until he heard about the half-filled Civic Opera Auditorium that greeted the cabinet 's " report to the people . " Political Issue Democratic spokesmen say the political issue in Illinois will be isolationism versus internationalism . They take heart in this because they believe , with many here , that the Midwest mood is more internationalist than it was a few years ago . Republicans contend that such a viewpoint beclouds the real issues which apply not only in Illinois but in Connecticut . Pennsylvania , Ohio , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hot fall campaigns are expected . The points of contention , they say , are government deficit spending and " creeping socialism . " They point out that the Democrats carefully have omitted mentioning the Brannan Plan , as a campaign issue . In Illinois some are firmly convinced that farmer opposition to the plan downstate could well insure a Republican victory . Other helps to a GOP victory seen here include expected support from the medical people aroused over , compulsory health insurance , assistance from certain religious groups , that have been deeply stirred by the Alger Hiss affair , and support from labor unions " which oppose socialism and have not received credit from the President for his debt to them . " Off-Year Elections It also has been pointed out here that Illinois has been Republican in off-year elections , The Democrats have left no political stones unturned to carry their party message to all groups of voters . They put on a fashion show for the women . Attention was given to organizing racial groups . and to enlisting the support of the young people . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Vice-President Barkley. in a rousing speech . claimed that those who have put on the rally are " lineal descendants " of Thomas Jefferson . But Republicans are citing book and verse to show the Democrats ' wide divergence from the Jeffersonian philosophy to the now-accepted party standards . On one thing both parties appear to be in agreement , and it has given those of all party affiliations cause for rejoicing . They are scoring the apathy which has settled upon the people in the fulfillment of their citizenship responsibilities . They are urging all Americans to find out what the issues are and to exercise the privilege of voting to insure a sound democracy .                     