@@713280

txt Ancher M. Bangs , 49 , chief of the federal narcotics bureau for the Minneapolis district , was shot to death here today in a gun battle with a Chinese during a raid on an opium den in an apartment building . The Chinese , John Wong , 49 , was seriously wounded , as was Narcotics Agent Joseph Winberg , 27 . The wounded Chinese and three other Chinese , who did not take part in the gun battle , were arrested . The apartment house is on the edge of the business district , only a few blocks from the state capitol . At least 13 shots were fired during the struggle between the two narcotics agents and Wong . Most of the battle took place in a small closet , from which Wong produced two .38 caliber revolvers after he had surrendered a jar of opium hidden in the closet . Agent Tells of Battle Winberg 's account of the battle , beginning with Wong 's surrender of the drug , follows : " Bang asked Wong if he , had any more in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and whipped out this gun . Bangs and I jumped him . Wong shot me first , and I fell , and the three of us were in the closet and wrestling . He shot Bangs , too . " I grabbed hold of Wong to keep him from shooting any more , and Bangs finally pulled his gun and shot him . " Then we tried to make toward the door because Bangs ' gun was empty and we did n't know how many shots Wong had left . We both had crawled out of the apartment into the hall , and I heard a couple more shots . I do n't know who was shooting . " Four ? Vongs Not Related Winberg was unarmed during the battle , having surrendered his own .38 to another narcotics agent , Virgil Magnuson , 30 , who accompanied them on the raid . During the shooting , Magnuson was on the floor above guarding the other three Chinese seized . James Wong , 43 ; Ye Wong , 47 ; and Leo Wong , 45 . The four Wongs are not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Wong 's third floor apartment and found all four men there , plus a quantity of drugs and equipment for processing opium , police said . The gun battle occurred when Bangs and Winberg took John Wong to his own apartment on the second floor to search for more opium . Two Taken to Hospital Winberg and John Wong were taken to Ancker city and county hospital , and the other three Chinese were held in the city jail . No charges were placed against the Chinese immediately , but federal bureau of investigation agents said John Wong will he prosecuted under a federal statute which provides the death penalty for killing a federal officer . If prosecuted under the law of Minnesota , which has no capital punishment , the most he could get would be life imprisonment .                     