@@718087

txt The United States Government must make an extremely difficult decision , possibly within a matter of days , on the politically touchy question- of - the Aswan - High Dam in Egypt . Ahmed Hussein , Egyptian Ambassador , - will arrive in Washington Monday from Cairo . He is prepared ' to accept the Western offer for help in building the dam , which will be the basis of extensive power and irrigation facilities along the Nile Valley . The question is whether the United States , the key to the whole deal , can go ahead with its original offer of assistance . If it does , the deal probably will go through quickly . In addition to a grant of $56 , - 000,000 by the United States , there are pending a grant of $14,000,000 by Britain and a loan of $200.000,000 by the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development , a United Nations agency . This would cover more than half the foreign-exchange costs of the $1,300,000 , - 000 project . There are two major reasons why Secretary of State Dulles may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hussein on the deal . First , the funds set aside in the United States foreign aid program for the original offer would have run out June 30 , the end of the fiscal year , so they ( were spent elsewhere . The Egyptians were fully informed of this . The question is whether funds can be found in the new foreign aid bill . The matter is extremely complex . For the deal to go through as planned , the money must be a grant , not a loan . The World Bank 's conditions for its loan assumed that Egypt would not have to pay off other large loans as well . Such other obligations , in the opinion of the bank , might put too much strain on Egypt 's future foreign exchange earnings . But the foreign aid bill requires that 80 per cent ' of all " development assistance " aid be in the form of loans . Experts here agreed today that $56,000 , - 000 in grant money probably could be found in the bill , but only at the expense of other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whole idea of the Aswan project . The opposition stems from several sources , among them those segments that-are strongly pro-Israel and those that fear Increases in Egyptian cotton production . These ' problems have arisen at a time when the deal , once considered almost dead , has suddenly revived . Diplomatic sources here and in Cairo have reported that President Gamal Abdel Nasser of Egypt has decided to turn to the West , not the Soviet Union ; for help on the dam . There is another possible problem . There have been unconfirmed reports here that when Dmitri T. Shepilov , Soviet For-1 eign  --  Minister , was in Egypt last month , he offered loans on favorable. terms for the construction of industrial plants . These reports said Mr. Shepilov had been cool to the idea of assistance for the Aswan project . If President Nasser should accept Soviet loans for industrialization , that too could cause the World Bank to re-examine its offer .                     