@@719102

txt Letters to The Times Deciding Algeria 's Fate French Arguments for Extended Rule Are Criticized To THE EDITOR OF THE . NEW YORK TIMES : With the United Nations meeting impending , the campaign to extend " the last quarter hour " in Algeria is in full swing . Some of the arguments meant to influence the discussion are fantastic . In order to convince foreigners that France merits an extension of time , after 127 years , spurious comparisons of French with American aid to underdeveloped countries are being reported in the French press and echoed in the American press . French expenditures in national possessions overseas are placed on a par with American aid to independent countries . Foreign Minister Pineau , on a propagandist tour of South America , recently stated in Santiago , Chile , that France 's aid to Algeria , Tunisia and Morocco amounted to more than half that of the United States to the Middle East under the Eisenhower Plan . A pamphlet of thirty-nine pages , issued recently by the Government General in Algiers , has another set of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ times the percentage of national income for economic development and civil expenses in the French Union that the United States does in the whole world , exclusive of military aid . It is argued further that the United States could afford a larger fraction of per capita income because this is twice as high as in France . Linked With French Rule The exclusion of military aid from the comparisons does not make sense . M. Pineau himself links the defense of Africa against commu ' nism with the preservation of French rule in Algeria . American aid is frankly related to anticommunism , not wholly for the purpose of doing good to disinherited peoples . French aid to overseas possessions of France has been made possible to a considerable extent by American civil and military aid to the home country , a fact neglected in these pejorative comparisons . Moreover , if assistance to parts of French national territory is to be placed on a par with foreign aid , contributions of our Federal Government to our poorer states and outlying territories for education , roads and the like should @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ propaganda is as striking as the peculiar arithmetic . . Obviously the basic issues before the United Nations are whether Algerians should be and wish to be Frenchmen . On the second , we are asked to accept the mere assertion of one interested party . As to the first , the claim that areas and peoples should belong to the nations which can make the largest use of them is neither new nor specifically French . The kindest thing to say about it is that it is out of date . The problem of minorities in North Africa is not a simple one , but a solution is not furthered by loose statements and incorrect figures . Minister Pineau stated before the United Nations last February that there were " 1,200,000 individuals of European origin " in Algeria . The 1954 census , as corrected in 1956 , gave the number of nonMoslems as 1,042,049 . Of these , some 140,000 were Algerian Jews and 59,000 were foreigners . Thus there were roughly 900,000 individuals of European origin , fewer than 850,000 of these French citizens , in a total @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ agreed that less than half cf the European immigrants came from France . No Reason to Leave Some of the original French , the neo-French and the indigenous Jews will doubtless find it to their interest or taste to leave if Algeria is accorded democratic self-determination , with equal voting rights . There is no reason why many of them should , none for supposing that Algeria would fall into either bolrshevism or anarchy . We have the cases of Tunisia and Morocco before us . I have just traveled over these two countries for leight months , and found public order as sound as in any of the thirty years that I have known them , the police notably politer than those in French times . What communism existed was an import from France , and has largely disappeared . If there is danger of it in Algeria , the reason must be that a beleaguered people will accept the only help that is available . M , M. KNIGHT , Professor of Economics , University of California . Rabat , Morocco , Sept. 3 , 1957 . Shortage of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ TIMES : The New York Times published an editorial on Sept. 4 in which the advantages of a New York City policeman were stated for the purpose of encouraging more eligible young men to try for appointment . The lure would be greater if the policeman were afforded a greater degree of respect by the courts , the politician and the public . At present the policeman is deprived of the most effective weapon to curb juvenile delinquency  --  the nightstick . A timely whack across the rump would dissuade the " punks " more effectively than any other means that could be devised . And the courts must uphold the policemen , too . Many policemen become discouraged with the lack of support from superiors , courts and politicians . They resign from the force . Others react by shirking duty  --  neglect tours or absent themselves from their beats by hiding out in bars , theatres and elsewhere , because they know that arrests can mean loss of time  --  criticism by superiors or release by the courts . The sincere policeman makes an arrest . A lawyer is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ political influence obtains the release of the accused . It has become so easy to " beat raps " that criminals are encouraged to continue in illegal pursuits . The vast majority of policemen are sincere and willing . Of course there are some who are venal and goldbrickers . But the good policeman must be backed up by all of us who respect laws . Do-gooders and professional weepers must be ignored for the general welfare of the community . NATHAN GROPPER New York , Sept. 7 , 1957. - Use of National Guard ? Supreme Court Decision on State 's Limitations Is Cited To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : ArthA Krock in his column in The New York Times of Sept. 10 while defending the action of Governor Faubus of Arkansas in calling out the National Guard bases his entire column on what he considers tio be legal reasoning . It is to be regretted that Mr. Krock is completely wrong in his thesis . The whole basis for his argument in defense of Governor Faubus is that the United States Supreme Court in the case of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a Governor to use National Guard troops where he acts " in good faith " to preserve peace . Mr. KrocleS legal advisers completely overlook the later case of Sterling v. Constantin , 287 U. S. 378 ( 1932 ) , in which case Chief Justice Hughes condemned the use of the National Guard in Texas involving an oil dispute . In the Constantin case Chief Justice Hughes had the following comment en the Moyer case cited by Mr. Krock : that case the Moyer case it appeared that the action of the Governor had direct relation to the subduing of the insurrection by the temporary detention of one believed to be a participant , and the general language of the opinion must be taken in connection with the point actually decided . " Justice Hughes Quoted In commenting upon the action of the Governor of Texas in calling out the National Guard Chief Justice Hughes stated : " If this extreme position could be deemed to be well taken , it is manifest that the fiat of a state Governor , and not the Constitution of the United States , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the restrictions of the Federal Constitution upon the exercise of state power would be but impotent phrases , the futility of which the state may at any time disclose by the simple process of transferring powers of legislation to the Governor to be exercised by him , beyond control , upon his assertion of necessity . Under our system of government such a conclusion is obviously untenable . There is no such avenue of escape from the pa ramount authority of the Federal Constitution . " Finally , this decision in the Constantin case stated : " If it he assumed that the Governor was entitled to declare a state of insurrection and to bring military force to the aid of civil authority , the proper use of that power in this instance was to maintain the Federal court in the exercise of its jurisdiction and not to attempt to override it ; to aid in making its process effective and not to nullify it , to remove , and not to create , obstructions to the exercise by the complainants of their rights as judicially declared . " While I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Krock 's basks theories of state and Federal rights , I think we shoukl keep the record straight as to the law on this point as decided by the United States Supreme Court . Tilt:IMOD MARSHALL , Director-Counsel , N. A. A. C. P. Legal Defense and Educational Fund , Inc . New York , Sept. 10 , 1957 . American Classics in Old Russia To THE EDITuR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Eric A. Starbuck in his letter printed Sept. 5 takes Prof. Albert Parry of Colgate University to task for " es pressing doubts whether Longfe ! low is known in the Soviet Union eecept as a name for propaganda purposes . " " That may have been true in Czarist Russia , " concludes his statement . It might be of interest to stress the fact that American classics , never editorially mutilated to suit " ideological lines , " were more than popular in Russia under the Czars . Longfellow 's works were published in Russia for the first time in 1861 , reprinted in 1869 and at intervals up to 1914 . The works of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ read and reached enormous popularity in old Russia . No less popular were the books of Fenimore Cooper , Washington Irving , Edgar Allan Poe , Harriet Beecher Stowe , Louisa M. Alcott and Bret Harte . ALEXANDRE TARSAIDZE . New York , Sept. 5 , : 1957.                     