@@718813

txt King Hussein 's refusal to join his " brother " Arab monarchs for talks beneath ' a colored canopy in Iraq need not dishearten Jordan 's friends in the West . Almost certainly the sympathies of the young Jordanian King lie with the Iraqi and Saudi Arabian monarchs , now concerting a new anti-Communist Arab alliance in Baghdad . Apparently , however , King Hussein felt that a trip by him to Iraq ' at this time might anger pro-Egyptian Jordanians to the point that the King 's present uneasy control of Jordan might be threatened . Jordan still is under martial law and partial curfew , and all political parties in the country remain banned , following King Hussein 's mid-April drive against leftist and pro-Egyptian elements in his kingdom . This security factor , it is believed , dictated King Hussein 's May 14 refusal of the invitation tendered by King Faisal of Iraq and King Saud of Saudi Arabia . The two nonarchs had invited King Hussein to join them in Iraq . presumably to put the finishing touches on an anti-Communist alliance excluding @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the invitation said in part : ' ' As much as it would give King Hussein pleasure to meet with his two royal brothers , present conditions , however , do not enable His Majesty to make this visit at the present moment . " At a May 14 press conference in Amman , capital of Jordan , Jordanian Foreign Minister Samir Rifai said that Jordan was pressing Egypt and Syria to implement their promise to join Saudi Arabia in replacing the annual financial subsidy which Jordan formerly received from Britain . So far only Saudi Arabia has made good its pledge of S14 , - 000,000 yearly to Jordan . Egypt pledged a like amount , while Syria promised about S7,000,000 . Neither Egypt nor Syria has given indication of fulfilling its promise since events took an antiEgyptian turn in King Hussein 's barren little country . Other speculation , meanwhile , centered on Israel 's announcement that soon it would attempt to send one of its ships through the Suez Canal , as a means of testing Egyptian President Nasser 's adherence to the 1888 Constantinople Convention . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has pledged himself , guarantees free passage ! through the Suez Canal to all ' ships in peace and war . Egypt has refused to allow Israeli shipping to transit the canal , on the grounds that Egypt has the right to insure its own defense . Egypt , in common with other Arab states , considers itself still at war with Israel . In making the Israeli announcement concerning a test ship , Moshe Leshem , Israeli Foreign Ministry spokesman , said no dat.e nad been set for the projected trial run . He said Israel would consider it an " act of ' war " if Egypt stopped the ship . It is scarcely conceivable that Colonel Nasser would allow an Israeli ship to enter the canal unchallenged . Observers wonder , therefore , what Israel would do should its vessel be stopped . It is believed highly unlikely that Israel would take military action against Egypt , so soon after the United Nations , including the United States , forced Israel to liquidate its Sinai campaign of last fall . Court Action Shunned Israel also has expressed disapproval @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ World Court . Thus some observers speculate that Israel may have no immediate intention of putting its announced plan into action , but may be using the announcement to keep the disputed issue alive . In Paris , meanwhile , French Premier Guy Mallet conferred May 15 with Israeli Ambassador Jacob Tsur . It was assumed the two men discussed Suez . Earlier Mr. Leshem had declared in Jerusalem that France endorsed Israel 's plan and that the two nations were coordinating their policy on the canal . Consistently since last fall France has sided with Israel in the latter 's troubled relations with Egypt . France is the only member of the Suez Canal Users Association which still refuses to send its ships through the canal on Colonel Nasser 's terms .                     