@@719535

txt Richard A. Mack of the Federal Communications Commission rejected today charges that he had accepted a pay-off for his vote in a Miami television case . He demanded an " early opportunity " to answer " unsubstantiated " charges against him laid before a House subcommittee yesterday by its former chief counsel . Representative Oren Harris , subcommittee chairman , announced this afternoon that Mr. Mack would be " invited " to appear Wednesday or Thursday , and to bring his financial records . Mr. Harris , an Arkansas Democrat , said the subcommittee was calling four Florida men involved in the case for testimony earlier next week . Following a meeting of the subcommittee , the chairman also disclosed that agents of the Federal Bureau of Investigation were already examining committee files . " The subcommittee voted unanimously to give the Federal Bureau of Investigation every cooperation , " Mr. Harris said . Mr. Mack said he had assured the F. B. I. of his desire to do the same thing . These were the principal developments it subcommittee plans to follow up dramatic disclosures in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ subcommittee 's former chief counsel . Dr. Schwartz testified yesterday that subcommittee files contained evidence that Mr. Mack , while a commission memiber , had accepted payments totaling $2,650 from a lawyer acting in behalf of the successful contestant for Miami 's profitable Channel 10 . In a letter to Mr. Harris , Commissioner Mack requested an opportunity to testify on the " unsubstantiated charges , accu'sations , innuendoes and diston : tions so recklessly made by Bernard Schwartz . " " I am confident that . when all the facts are presented to your committee you will conclude that the accusations of ' Bernard Schwartz are without foundation , " Mr. Mack wrote . Last week Mr. Mack joined other members of the commission in reading signed statements before the House subcommittee denying that they had ever received gifts or favors of substantial value from the industry they regulate . Mr. Mack 's statement , which had been written in the form of a letter dated Dec. 30 , 1957 , to the chairman of the subcommittee , read : " Neither I nor any member of my immediate family @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ payment , directly or indirectly , from the time of my appointment to the F. C. C. , ' July 1 , 1955 , to the present by or on behalf of any person , firm , corporation , association , organization or group having any interest , direct or indirect , , in any matters subject at any time to the jurisdiction of the commission . " Mr. Harris said " invitations " to appear at a public hearing on Tuesday went out by telegram this afternoon to Judge Robert Anderson , Paul R. Scott , Thurman A. Whiteside and Perrier Palmer , all in Florida . Mr. Whiteside was named by Dr. Schwartz as the lawyer , working in behalf of Public Service Television , Inc. , in Miami , who had made the payments to Commissioner Mack . According to Dr. Schwartz , Mr. Palmer entered the case as a close friend of Mr. Mack . Judge Anderson was identifid in the Schwartz testimony as a former member of the law firm that represented Public Service , winner of the television channel . Mr. Scott was named as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a director of Public Service . The subcommittee plans to hear Dr. Schwartz again Monday to obtain whatever information he has on information in the files about the Miami case and related matters . Dr. Schwartz was discharged as subcommittee counsel last Monday in a flare-up over his methods and tactics in the subcommittee 's investigation of regulatory agencies . Mr. Harris said the staff was still looking for two letters missing from the files . He indicated that they might be the photo copies of letters from Sherman Adams , the Assistant to President Eisenhower , to Murray M. Chotiner , one-time campaign director for Vice President Richard M. Nixon . It was learned that one of the letters to Mr. Chotiner from Mr. Adams concerned a case before the Civil Aeronautics Board in 1954.                     