@@712912

txt PreSident Truman 's " nonpolitical " western tour got genuinely nonpolitical when he announced in Laramie , Wyo. , that efforts are being made to get American food into China for famine relief . The move comes under the heading of an attempt to combat communism by positive as well as negative methods , and is the product of careful bipartisan preparations and thinking . The theory behind it is that American bullets in the hands of Chinese Nationalists are making poor American propaganda inside China , and that American food would make good American propaganda if it can be passed through the Red curtain  --  will make good propaganda even if its passage is blocked by the Communist government . Offer Is Genuine The offer is genuine . The Senate already has ' acted to authorize expenditure of existing funds earmarked for the Asiatic area for this specific purpose . The funds would be used to buy surplus food from the Commodity Credit Corporation . The food then would be turned over for distribution to American religious , educational , and charitable organizations which still have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ flow of American food to famine areas in China is the Communist Government of China itself . The surplus food and the funds for buying it exist . So do the organizations which could handle and distribute it . The first step , of course , would have to be an admission by the Chinese Government that a famine exists in China . Whether the Chinese Communists will permit the distribution is questionable . But great care has been taken to protect the American position from the charge of insincerity . A first step is a new major effort to get the American position on a positive basis . Truman Sets Goals Mr. Truman is meeting the Republican charge of " socialism " by telling his Wyorning audiences that a New York magazine once called Wyoming 's pioneer suffrage for women " female socialism . " Whether he is convincing his listeners that the modern cry of " socialism " , is unreasonable remains to be seen . You ca n't be sure of reaction from the friendly faces of the crowds . Those who do come to look do not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of trade can raise standards of living in our own country and every other country , " Mr. Truman said in Laramie . " This is the purpose of our reciprocal trade agreements program , and it is the purpose of the proposed international trade organization . Excerpts from President 's Laramie , Wyo. , speech : Page 11 . Truman Set to Act By the United Pi'exs Aboard President Truman 's . Special Train President Truman said that he would order use of the atomic bomb again if necessary . Traveling through the Northwest , which is atomic conscious because of the big atomic plants on the Columbia River , the President emphasized the peacetime development of atomic energy .                     