@@720578

txt The Administration is having second thoughts on whether to accept a compromise bill that would empower the President to remove interest rate ceilings on new Government bonds . Here is the question before the White House and the Treasury : Should the Administration reluctantly go along with amendments they do not like as a necessary price for additional freedom to manage the public debt ? The *answer that Treasury Secretary Anderson soon will report to Congress is in doubt . " It could go either way . " says one high official . If the answer is " yes , " it would clear the way for House passage of the Interest rate measure , though its Senate fate would remain in doubt Ma Junk Trea.liWs Proposal If the answer is " no . " Congress might decide to junk the Treasury 's original proposal and pass no measure at all This would leave the Treasury , as it is now , faced with the prospect of concentrating more and more of the public debt in short-term issues because the law does n't allow payment of today @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of more than five year 's maturity Current ceilings on the interest rates the Government can pay  --  the limits that the Administration originally asked Congress to remove  --  are 41 , i% on new Government bonds and 3.26% on new E and H savings bonds There is no legal interest rate limit on new securities that come due in than five years after Issuance When Democratic Congressional leaders rejected the Administration 's original proposal , they began negotiating with Mr Anderson for an acceptable compromise . Last Wednesday , it appeared a settlement had been reached . The House Ways and Means Committee tentatively a ppi oved a bill that would authorize the President , with a twoyear time limit , to remove the interest rate limits . He would only have to find that removal of the limits was in " the national interest . " This indirect device w as designed to place on the G.0 P. Administration. , instead of a Democratic Congress . the political responsibility for letting the Treasury pay higher interest rates . But the Ways and Means group also wrote in another provision @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ amendment would express the " sense of Congress , " without carrying the force of law , that where feasible the Federal Reserve System should buy Government bonds to expand the money supply , rather than use other monetary tools . Intended for Democrats This proposal , though full of contradictions , was intended to help satisfy Democrats who wanted to be credited with " taking a stand against high interest rates " Since last week , however , Federal Reserve pat tisans have shown glowing , concern that the amendment would be a step toward weakening the F R B independence of political control There was also growing fear that the amendment might he taken both at home and abroad as a sign that the U S is not really determined to fight inflation President Eisenhower met yesterday , as he occasionally does , with Mr Anderson and F R B Chairman Martin . It was understood the Administration 's dilemma was discussed , without any conclusion . The scheme was sponsored by Rep Metcalf ( D. , Mont . ) . Its present from closely resembles a bill originally @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , unlike Mr. Metcalf , is not a member of the Ways and Means group . Before tentatively adopting the Metcalf plan , the committee ? at Mr. Anderson 's Insistence rejected another scheme that would have spertfically called on the Federal Reserve to buy ernment bonds to the extent necessary to maintain interest rates at so long as this could be done and still be " consistent with sound monetary policy " The present Metcalf amendment expresses " the sense of Congress that the Federal Reseme System , while pursuing its primary mission of administering a sound monetary policy , should , to the maximum extent consistent therewith , utilize such means as will assist in the economical and efficient management of the public debt , and that the system , where practicable , should bring about needed future monetary expansion by purchases of United States secutities , ' of varying maturities . " Full of Loopholes This language , though concededly full of loopholes , has raised concern for a variety of reasons . Federal Reserve partisans fear it would mean the beginning of political control of the F.R.B @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it has been in many years : and it is also true that the Metcalf amendment was designed as a concession to the reserve system 's critics . These critics , generally speaking , want the system to make low interest rates for the Treasury a goal of monetary policy . . The fear of some Administration people is that foreigners might take the suggestion to the F R B. as a step toward inflationary financing . This is because when the reserve system stands ready to buy Government bonds at a price higher than they might otherwise sell in the open market , holders of such bonds tendto offer them to the reserve system in large quantities , thus turning them into cash . This cash constitutes a large potential addition to the money supply , and most economists regard any big addition to the money supply as in itself inflationary . If people abroad became convinced of such a possibility , the Administration is being told . they would hurry to turn their bank deposits and other cash assets now in this country into gold in order to protect @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ action by foreigners might easily then turn into something resembling a " run " on the gold supply of the United States , those who fear this sequence of events argue . With all these doubts , there was still no certainty as to how the White House and the Treasury would resolve the dilemma over the Metcalf scheme . Officials agree there is , no easy way out . " Whatever the decision , " says one official , " It 's a Hobson 's choice " ( a choice without an alternative ) .                     