@@718234

txt Secretary of State Dulles worked hard in London today to hold together the eighteen-nation group that had united in favor of international operation of the Suez Canal . The eighteen nations endorsed a proposal to this end in a conference here in August . This proposal having been rejected by Gamal Abdel Nasser , President of Egypt , the same nations will be asked in a second conference beginning tomorrow to endorse Mr. Dulles ' new plan for a canal users ' association . This , too , has been rejected by Egypt . The leaders of Britain , France and the United States , who had already accepted the plan , agreed at hearings here today that Mr. Dulles should propose it to the fifteen other nations in the - group . In these meetings Mr. Dulles discussed the question with Prime Minister Eden , Selwyn Lloyd , British Foreign Secretary , and Christian Pineau , French Foreign Minister . Meanwhile , representatives of the other nations began arriving , some indicating they were waiting to learn precisely what the users ' association would be . Plan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ test of the intentions of President Nasser , to be made by offering to send ships through the canal with Egypt 's permission , yet largely independently of the nationalized Suez Canal Company . The ships would carry their own pilots and pay tolls not to Egypt but into a users ' association fund . It appeared tonight that at least two of the eighteen nations might drop out of the group . One was Pakistan . The other was Spain , whose Foreign Minister , Alberto Martin Artajo , said his Government hoped to persuade the other nations to accept Egypt 's recent invitation to another conference to discuss a revision of the 1888 convention Providing free passage for all ships through the canal . Italy was reported to be restless , while West Germany , with large economic interests in the Middle and Far East , was understood to be worried by the prospect of prolonged tension over the canal . The Scandinavians apparently have lacked enthusiasm for the new plan . It was considered indispensable to keep these nations in the users ' group , which might otherwise @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It was thought desirable , also , to retain the Asian nations so the group would not become exclusively Western . For these reasons Mr. Dulles was expected to present his plan in a highly tentative form and to invite amendments from nations not content with it . Not only have the lesser nations not yet caught up with the // new proposal of Mr. Dulles for uniting canal users , but members of Prime Minister Eden 's Conservative party have expressed disquietude regarding what they consider the lessthan-complete unity of view between the Prime Minister and Secretary Dulles on policy regarding the Suez Canal and the Middle East . The problem was to allay fears of both military war and an economic war . Just as the international operation plan was designed as a way of avoiding British and French military action by negotiation the new plan is designed to bring about this negotiation by economic pressure . Behind the users ' association , which is at best only a provisional device , lies the possibility of a boycott of the canal . To some nations this looks like @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ war . Even the British , who have accepted the users ' association plan , have done so with the realization that a boycott of the canal , followed by other economic sanctions , might injure them more than President Nasser . Britain is highly sensitive to any loss of foreign trade . As a reminder that the risk of military war was still rated as above normal for insurance purposes , the Institute of London Underwriters announced today a second increase in rates for insurance against war and civil commotion on shipping through the Suez Canal or to or from Egyptian ports . The first increase was made Friday . Meanwhile , the basic assumption of both the first and the second Dulles plan , which was that Egypt would be unable to operate the canal , still awaited practical confirmation . Reports from Egypt indicated that traffic was moving through the canal smoothly under the guidance of Egyptian pilots . This fact seemed to deprive the proposed users ' association of its justification , or at least of its urgency . If Egypt could keep the canal running , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it would be more difficult to persuade all eighteen nations that they must act on their own to obtain some other system for the canal , observers here predicted , The purpose of the users ' association would be to improve the negotiating position of those nations seeking another system . Western diplomats agreed tonight that Egypt seemed so far to maintain physical operation of the canal . But they contended this did not affect the basic long-range issue  --  that the world could not feel confident that Egypt 's national system would be both efficient and impartial in the sense of being non-political and non-discriminatory . Three Topics Are on Agenda Three topics are on the agenda for the conference here . They are : ' 1 . Report of committee of five headed by Robert Gordon MenMenzies , Australian Prime Minister that sought in vain on behalf of the eighteen nations to prepare a negotiation with President Nasser for international operation . 2 . Egypt 's subsequent - proposal for an enlarged conference to discuss a revision of the Con-I stantinople Convention of 1888 . The Soviet Union accepted this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ association , which was made by Mr. Dulles ten days ago and accepted by Britain and France and from Egyptian ports . The new rates are : Cargoes to , from , or transhipped at Egyptian ports , is ( 98 cents ) per each f100 ( T280 ) worth of shipping . Before nationalization of the old Suez Canal company the rate was 2s . Cargoes through the canal , 5 , 9d for each ? 100 . Before nationalization this rate was 9d.                     