@@715454

txt Allied and Communist delegates argued their way through another session at Panmunjom today with no indication of a closer approach to an armistice in the Korean war . . The meeting was held under the shadow of United Nations charges that the Communists , in violation of the Geneva Convention and other international agreements . had transported war prisoners to " reform camps " in Manchuria for in doctrination in Marxian philosophy and possible enlistment on the enemy side . About 2,000 Chinese Communists hit United Nations outposts in a western sector with the heaviest attack in a month . Turkish troops threw back the attack at dawn Friday , inflicting 350 Red casualties , The Associated Press reported . ) The accusation was made by Lieut . Gen. William K. Harrison Jr. , senior United Nations negotiator in the armistice talks , following the ' ejection yesterday by the Chinese and North Korean delegation of an Allied plan to reach an armistice by permitting a neutral commission to dispose of prisoners unwilling to return to communism . The Communists contended the eventual fate of such captives @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ procedure that United Nations representatives , said would condemn the men to indefinite detention . Again raising the question of Al'lied soldiers who disappeared after capture in Korea , General Harrison made his charge in reply to the ' chief enemy delegate , Gen. Nam II of North Korea . Sick and wounded prisoners who returned in Operation Little Switch said some captives had been impressed as troops or laborers for North Korea . " What steps does your side intend to take to restore to 50,000 ' missing prisoners their right to be repatriated ? " General Harrison tartly inquired . " What about ' awakened patriots ' serving in your military forces ? What about personnel sent to peace camps in Manchuria ? What about personnel sent to reform camps in Manchuria ? Are these men to be free to , return to our side after the armistice becomes effective ? " At today 's session , General Harrison told the Communists that the Allied plan for settling the issue of disposal of war prisoners unwilling to return to their former command after a truce had adopted " most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ program to permit an international conference to settle the fate of the captives had been " adequately discussed by both sides . " A communiqu ? issued in Tokyo disclosed that the United Nations Command felt that General Her7ison had answered at least ' some " of the questions put to the Allied delegation before the Communists yesterday rejected the United Nations proposals . Emerging from the roadside conference house at Panmunjom , Cetieral Harrison told correspondents that the Communists had delivered a " long blast " against the Allied proposal that prisoners unwilling to return to their homes behind the Iron Curtain should immediately be set free . He add , ed that the Chinese and North ' Korean group " did not show much interest in our proposal , except to condemn it . " New Meeting Is Set However . a new meeting- was 1. - , eilecluled for 11 A. M. tomorrow 110 P. M. Friday , Eastern Day ! light time . and it appealed that debate would continue while a posisible compromise solution was hunted . General Hatrison said parts of the United Nations plan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Korea and at headquarters of the , United Nations Command here ! were evidently " misunderstood oil deliberately misinterpreted " by the ; Communists . Meanwhile the United Nations ' Command revealed that fighting was still going on among Communist and anti-Communist soldiers held in United Nations prisoner camps . It announced that three days ago two North Korean prisoners had been killed by fellow inmates in a compound on Cheju Island , off the Korean south coast . The men had been beaten to death with stones . investigation revealed , and when questioned two prisoners admitted they had been ordered by , unidentified leaders to perform the slayings . Yesterday General Harrison had said there was " irrefutable evidence " of illegal and inhumane use of prisoners by the enemy . It has long been known that United Nations officers ? despite formal denials by the Chinese ? believe that prisoners have been taken across the Yalu River into Manchuria . The Communists themselves admitted that South Korea captives had been indoctrinated in communism and then released north of the Thirty-eighth Parallel . These South Koreans constitute the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , reperted a far smaller number of other United Nations troops as prisoners than were either listed as missing at Eighth Army headquarters or claimed as captives by enemy publications and radio broadcasts . The Communists since the start of the war have not permitted verification of the prisoners ' condition or whereabouts by the International Committee of the Red Cross or other neutral organization . Therefore it could not be established whether some nonKorean United Nations captives might have been sent to China to " reform " camps for indoctrination : n communism .                     