@@719152

txt Only a fervent appeal from President Rend Coty prevented the French Cabinet from breaking up today over the Algerian issue . A new political crisis was narrowly averted when , after hours of heated discussion , the Cabinet accepted a suggestion from the President that a new attempt be made at agreement on a bill to reorganize Algeria 's political structure . Cabinet Ministers will meet Friday with the heads of all the political groups except the Communists . There is a strong possibility that Premier Maurice BourgesMaunoury will resign if there is no accord . He was said to prefer this course to the risk of either defeat or the smallest of majorities in the National Assembly for a bill that is supposed to express France 's united will to revise her Algerian policy . Premier Sounds Warning An authoritative source said the Premier had warned that failure to surmount the divergencies would be interpreted in the world as meaning that France had no policy for Algeria . The Government also was having its troubles over farm questions . A debate that opened yesterday droned on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the atmosphere was one of hostility . Deputies complained that the Government 's efforts to hold down food prices weighed unjustly against the farmers . The Deputies said the farmers . were having trouble making ends meet and nothing in return was being offered for sacrifices requested . ' Censure Move Threatened The conservative Independent group , where most of the Rightist opposition on Algeria is centered , threatened the Government with a motion of censure if it did not make good on its plans for a four-year program of price supports . The major Algerian issue was proposed provisions for a federative executive and assembly that would be formed in Algiers when a majority of the projected semi-autonomous regional assemblies agreed to delegate some , of their powers . Andre Morice , Minister of Defense , led the opposition within the Cabinet to these provisions on the ground that they laid the basis for an Algerian state that might try to break away from France . M. Morice spoke for a considerable part of the French Right . Robert Lacoste , Minister for Algeria , was said to have expressed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ M. Lacoste is one of the principal authors of the present Algerian plan . M. Morice went to see the Premier last night with the intention of resigning . During the conversation M. Lacoste was said to have telephoned the Premier . When M. Lacoste leaned that M. Morice was ready to quit the Cabinet , he was reported to have made the same threat on the ground that his position in Algeria would become untenable . The Premier urged that no decision be taken until this morning 's , meeting of the Cabinet at the Elys6e Palace . If anything the meeting aggravated the divisions , and talk of resignation filled the air . When it looked as if the end had been reached , President Coty broke in to warn of the consequences that a political rupture would have on France 's position in the United Nations , where a General Assembly debate on Algeria is in the offing , and on Moslem opinion in North Africa . Socialists Discuss Issue The attempt for agreement was put off until Friday be ? cause of the meeting today and tomorrow @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Cabinet 's mainstay . The party is to take a position on the bill , although it has already indicated it would not accept a weaker draft . Inasmuch as the central organs are not to be formed until two years after the regional assembly , it has been suggested as a compromise solution that references to the organization and work of the executive might be kept out of the text and left for a later decree . Christian Pineal ! , the Foreign Minister , a Socialist , told his party 's NationalCouncil that the law must define the various institutions , provide for universal suffrage and single voting roles without discrimination between Moslem and European , and leave room for evolution . He said that the United Nations debate would be more difficult if the French delegation could not ' show that France had a reform plan . The Interior Committee of the Assembly , which is handling the Algeria bill , named as the man to report the bill to the Assembly Marcel Roclore , an Independent , who is hostile to the bill as it now stands @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , received the next highest number of votes . The voting demonstrated a clear majority in the committee against the bill for totally contradictory reasons . Because of the prospect of further change in the text , the committee probably will not start discussing the bill until the week-end . It tints appeared that a debate on the moor , if the bill ever gets that far , would not begin Monday , as scheduled .                     