@@716033

txt This country is undergoing a " rolling readjustment , " according to George M. Humphrey , Secretary of the Treasury . He defined this as a situation in which the temporary effects of the transition from a defense to a peacetime economy were felt first in one industry or community , then in another . " There is nothing about a ' rolling readjustment ' to be disturbed about , " he told the Joint Committee on the Economic Report today , adding : " It is only when the adjustment hits all parts of the economy at once  --  becomes an acrossthe-board affair  --  that there is reason for worry . So long as the public keeps on buying , and I think they will , we will work out of this readjustment in a comparatively short time . " The committee is holding public hearings on President Eisenhower 's Economic Report , which he sent to Congress last week . The Secretary 's appearance before the group provided an opportunity for political exchanges . Senators Paul H. Douglas of Illinois , J. W. Fuibright of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Representative Wright Patman of Texas , all Democrats , were active in questioning Mr. Humphrey . The Democrats asserted that the Administration 's tax reduction program was loaded in favor of business enterprises and shareholders in industry and against the taxpayer in the lowest income brackets . Political Talks Charged Representative George H. Bender , Republican of Ohio , defended the Administration 's tax aims and appealed to Representative Jesse P. Wolcott , Republican of Michigan and chairman df the committee , to " give this Republican side of the committee a chance to answer the political speeches being made by the Democrats . " Mr. Humphrey insisted that corporations must receive some tax relief to encourage them to make investments in equipment and plants for an expanding economy . Senator Fuibright interrupted to declare that the problem was to expand consumption rather than production . He said that tax relief for individuals , particularly low income groups , was the way to accomplish that . " We ca n't consume what we are producing now , " Mr. Fulbright Continued . " We have huge ' farm surpluses and now @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It seems to me that the emphasis in your program is wrong . We need to put more spending power into the hands of consumers in low income brackets by way of tax reductions and more lioeral exemptions rather than encourage more production just now . " " Production is the goose that lays the golden egg , " Mr. Humphrey replied . " Payrolls make consumers . " Senator Douglas said that the tax reductions of about 10 per cent that went into effect Jan. 1 were offset for the low income group by increases in Social Security taxes . Senators Fulbright and Douglas then became involved in an exchange with Representative Richard M. Simpson , Republican of Pennsylvania . At issue was the number of persons- who would benefit as stockholders from the Administration-sponsored plan to grant taxpayers a credit up to 15 per cent on dividends received from shares held in corporations . The Democrats insisted the total affected would be comparatively small , whereas Mr. Simpson argued that millions of families and individuals holding stock would benefit . Mr. Humphrey testified that " this nation can make @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ without serious interruption in our economic growth . " The tax revision program , he said , will help the economy to grow and will benefit every citizen with steadier employment and higher standards of living . " In this connection , " the Secretary added , " the proposal for some relief from the double taxation of dividends may not be well understood . Under present law , earnings of a corporation are taxed twice  --  once as corporation income and again as individual income when they are paid out in dividends to the millions of shareholders in American industry . " This has restricted the market for shares of a stock in companies which want to expand and has forced them to borrow money instead of selling shares in their future . In the past ten years better than 75 per cent of private industry financing has been . done by going in debt instead of selling shares . " What does this mean ? It means simply that we have enterprise heavily in debt so that it does n't develop as well or as quickly as it would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ down , a company in heavy debt is of course , easily drawn into trouble . " The House Ways and Means Committee rejected today a proposal to tax undistributed earnings of cooperatives . Representative Noah M. Mason , Republican of Illinois , offered the prposal . He said that the Government could obtain $800,000 , - 000 more in annual revenue by taxing cooperatives and other tax exempt institutions .                     