@@717470

txt Can the Hynes-type of administration be extended beyond the upcoming four-year term awarded Mayor Hynes in Tuesday 's election ? In light of the narrow margin of victory  --  where a change of less than 7,000 votes could have defeated him  --  some political observers are answering this question in the negative . They point to the Hynes background and how he was elected six years ago by a great surge of citizen activity in opposition to the machine-type politics practiced by former Mayor Curley . There is no one on the current scene nor on the horizon who could represent the same nonpolitically minded citizen who gave Mayor Hynes his third term . The mayor is not expected to seek another term . At the same time , Senator John E. Powers proved that he could regiment the voters who for years kept Mr. Curley as a political boss in Boston . Senator Posters strongest support comes from wards once dominated by Curley supporters , Citizen Action Needed If the voters of Boston want to retain the type of administration they have beyond Mayor Hynes 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ citizens organization , it is generally considered . Without it personal machine politics is expected to again dominate the city . Boston citizens have four years before they have to face this problem on the mayoralty level if Mayor Hynes serves out his full term . There is a possibility , however , that Mayor Hynes might be drafted to run for governor or the United States Senate if Governor Herter in 1956 or Senator John F. Kennedy ( 0 ) of Massachusetts in 1958 , are not candidates for re-electionIn two years Boston will have another election for city council and school committee . Dependable guidance from citizen groups is seriously lacking in these contests . Few voters are sufficiently aware of the records or reputations of nine candidates for the council and live for the school committee . Pie for Politicians This is the type of situation the professional politician desires . It is not what the average en ic-minded citizen prefers . Without a citizens ' organization . Boston with more than 000,000 citizens was unable to muster more than 8 candidates to run for the 10 nominations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ evaluating candidates , a citizens ' organization would encourage the bestqualified citizens to run for office , The recent failure and demise of the New Boston Committee makes the job a much tougher one . Any move to organize the citizens in Boston will be taunted by the professional politicians who will cite the New Boston Committee as a " terrible example . " The New Boston Committee did not fail because it was a citizens ' organization . It failed because it ceased to represent the citizens , those who favor such organizations point out . It failed because a handful of its key people adopted the ways of the political machines and began to use the organization for personal gain and prestige . Goals Abandoned If the NBC had stuck to its original goals and precepts , it still would be a powerful influence in Boston . The professional politicians in Boston recognized the power of the NBC and were relieved when some of its key workers bowed to the temptations of political patronage and personal power . Resumption of a citizens ' organization in Boston would result in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the element which made up the main support of former Mayor Curley . Senator Powers illustrated in the recent campaign that he is heir-apparent to this vote . The philosophy of this group is that every election means a opportunity to take care of all one 's friends and supporters . Special influence is the key . Such a philosophy cements relationships and builds a dependable political machine that nm , er misses an opportunity to grant special favors to the few at the expense of the majority . It is much easier to build such an organization rather than one devoted to unselfish ends . To be successful , a citizens ' organization must aim at equal treatment for all . No special favors . No influence peddling . No shortcuts for a friend at the expense of the taxpayers . Many of Boston 's professional politicians do not believe that people can work for such a cause . Failure of the NBC convinces them that " everybody has an angle , everybody has a price . " If prominent citizens do fight back , they often are exposed to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and to discourage others from raising their soices . Boston , however , is faced with the challenge of organizing such a citizens ' organization or returning to the political-machine type politics of the Curley regime .                     