@@714113

txt Letters to The Times 3 . J. VAN HEUVEN GOEDHART , ALEXANDER S. LIPSETT.H . MICHAELYAN.BENJAMIN KAMINSKY. ) g. 14 Letters to The Times Definition In Statute In the latter part of his letter Mr. Grossmann refers to the definition of refugees in the statute of my office under the heading of " legal wrangle . " There is no wrangle . The definition of the statute of my Office does not refer to Article 1 of the convention . In countries which are parties to the convention the conventional definition will apply to refugees who come within its scope . The definition in the statute is in some respects wider and will be applied , first , to refugees who reside in the territories of states which are parties to the convention but do not satisfy the definition contained in the convention and , secondly , to refugees in the territories of states which are not pa , r- , ties to the convention , provided they satisfy the requirements of the definition . The legal position is clear . In the present tense international situation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it ' would have been unrealistic to expect that the final text of the convention would be extremely liberal . However , any impartial person who studies the text must recognize that the convention marks a decisive step toward the establishment of reasonable average standards for the rights of refugees . G. J. VAN HEUVEN GOEDHART , United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees . Genova , Sept. 5 , 1951 . Obligations of Trade ' Unionism To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : On the eve of the seventieth convention of the American Federation of Labor at San Francisco the 8,000,000 A. F .. L. unionists and their families will do well to ponder two momentous developments . The one is the break-up of the United Labor Policy Committee which began with such high hopes nine months ago . The other is Labor 's League for . Political Education 's blunt notice to " professional Democrats " not to take labor political support for granted . If dissolution of the A. F. L.-C . I. 0 . partnership means a return to organic unity and the union fundamentals preached @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ good . Indeed , this tie-up for essentially political purposed has always seemed to the writer unsound and contrary to the best interests of the American labor movement . It has now been recognized as such by the A. F. L. leadership . Similarly , the warning of the L.L.P.E. to the Democratic party is most pertinent . But there is a catch to it . The A. F. L. 's political instrument recommends in the same breath that ' labor sit out the elections if the Democrats wo n't come up with decent candidates . " It is somewhat difficult to reconcile that attitude with the-pleas of A. F. L. Secretary-Treasurer George Meany and other labor leaders for greater nonpartisan political action . Moreover , heartbreaking work and millions of dollars . have , been poured into the effort to make labor politically conscious . Are we to assume that just because the L. L. P. E. has seemingly no place to go labor must sulk ? Shall working men and women , in the absence of organizational endorsement , refrain from voting their political preferences ? The answer is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to exercise his individual judgment , regardless of union approval or disapprobation . Finally , is n't it about time organized labor recognized more - fully the interrelationship between its own well-being and future and that of the national community ? The forthcoming A. F. L. conference would contribute greatly to a better public understanding of labor 's goals if it were to stress both the re . sponsibility and obligations incumbent upon American trade unionism as a great force and big business in its own right . ALEXANDER s . Lresurr . New York , Sept. 12 , 1951 . International Relations A Return to Old-Time Diplomacy . Urged in Affairs of Nations of mankind . They say there is only one way to answer a man with a gun . As to shooting , there are also others who think that might have been prevented with the timely ministration of 0 . T. D. , mutually applied . Students of history tell us of fears and suspicions dispelled , international amity restored , armed conflicts avoided in just this way . . Lately our warplanes bombed some Chinese coastal towns @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Moscow assure the Russian Government that the bombing was a military necessity , devoid of any hostile design toward Russia ? That is what old-time diplomacy would have done . 0 . T. D. is not a . cure-all , " to be sure , but there is abundant testimony to its efficacy in the past as an anti-tension device . It is to be preferred to the mutual name callings , retort , rancor and recrimination currently blowing from East and West . The fate of millions hangs in the balance today by the attitude , words and action of half a dozen men . Nevertheless , these half dozen key men are human beings like you and me . They will have ? their lucid moments ' when they will show purely human reactions to events ; when they will find discretion to be the better part of valor . When that moment arrives , and may God hasten it , let us hope the record of what some have said , and how they have said it , will not make reconciliation difficult . A dash of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them more savory , less rancid in flavor . It was one of our Presidents ( Theo . dore Roosevelt ) who said : " Every expansion of civilization makes for peace . " Let us hope another American Presi ? dent will make this possible by pouring the oil of old-time diplomacy over the troubled waters of the world . H. MICHAELYAN . New York , Sept. 3 , 1951 . Program Asked of Mayor To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Ypur editorial of Sept. 3 on " The Mayor 's New Year " deserves praise for your fine presentation of facts . I was one of those who voted for Mr. Impellitteri , as I thought he would be another La Guardia , who gave us the best city administration we ever had . But he is a great disappointment to me . However , the Mayor has a Iot of time yet to serve and I believe that it is not too late for him to awaken to the real needs of our city and to come forward with a program as outlined in your @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , 1951 Rights of Refugees Signing of Convention Discussed , Its Features Upheld To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : In connection with Kurt Grossmann 's letter on the status of refugees in THE TIMES of Aug. 28 I would like to make the following points : Although it is true that at the present time only fourteen states have signed the- new Convention on the Status of Refugees , it seems to me to be ? somewhat unrealistic to compare that number with the total membership of the United Nations , and to conclude from this comparison that there- is no hope " for a workable internationally recognized bill of rights for refugees . " In estimating the value of the ' convention the decisive question is whether or not those states in the territories of which great numbers of . refugees reside have signed ( or are likely to sign ) / the convention or not . I would point out that the convention has already been signed by fourteen states , members and non-members of the United Nations ( Austria , Belgium , Colombia , Denmark @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Sweden , Switzerland , Turkey , United Kingdom and Yugoslavia ) . In the ' territories of these states alone thereare half a million or more refugees who will benefit from the convention . The signature of Austria ( with over 300,000 refugees ) is of particular significance . Equally important is the indication that the Federal Republic of Germany , with 150,000 refugees who come within the scope of the convention , intends to sign the convention . It would seem to me that Mr. Grossmann 's pessimism is not well founded . No RestlOvations Mr. Grossmann refers to the inconsistencies of the majority of Governments in their laudable declarations of intent with their less laudable action of implementation , which he attributes to " a fear to give up certain rights of their sovereignty , or to be supervised in the treatment of refugees by an international body . " In this connection I would point out that the states which have signed the convention have , in one of the articles , undertaken to coTo THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORE TIMES : We often sing the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ us old timers the past has preferences the present sadly lacks . This is true in the realm of international diplomacy , a para . mount issue today . Years ago Czars ruled ' . Russia . Their ways were not our . ways , yet old-time diplomacy absorbed the tension . Today operate with the Office of the United Nations High Comissioner for Refugees Communist China , Communist Russia and its Communist bloc act contrary to in the exercise of its functions , and facilitate " to " particular in agreed have our ideals of comity of nations . In fact , in. the opinion of smile , they have for . its duty of supervising the application reited the right to be co-workers in the of the provisions of the convention . " urgent plan for promoting the welfare Although it is true that this article is open to reservations , none of the signatory states has so far made any reservation to this particular article . Without going into all the details , I would point out that one of the most important features of the convention is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as treatment at least as favorable as that accorded to nationals in respect to freedom to practice their religion . The convention also assures for refugees the same rights as nationals in respect to elementary education and public relief and gives them in general the same rights as nationals in respect to social security . Moreover , it guarantees for refugees that they should not be subject to restrictive measures imposed on other aliens in respect of the right to undertake any wage-earning employment , provided they have completed three years ' residence . It also insures that every refugee will be provided with the necessary identity papers and travel documents and protects him frym arbitrary expulsion . These are merely illustrations of some of the more important rights which are guaranteed to refugees .                     