@@718911

txt The daily dispatches from Washington more and more refer to Mr. Eisenhower 's increased wooings of mornbers of his own party . The purpose of this personal campaign of getting to know more about the Republicans in Congress is to increase the chances of passage of the President 's legislative program . How successful all this will turn out so far as legislation goes is anybody 's guess . But the means Mr. Eisenhower is now using to gain his legislative ends can not help but he fruitful to the nation 's business . . There was a time not so far back when Mr. Eisenhower seemed in some danger of isolation from . the Congress and the country . The complaint was that he did not see enough Congressmen often enough . Nor is he a very industrious reader of the nation 's press . Further , concern about over-taxing his strength led his advisers to shelter him as much as was possible . The effect of all of this was that Mr. Eisenhower could not possibly get the broadest view of what the public felt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for example , of the need for a Federal school building program and the two or three newspapers Mr. Eisenhower depends on for public reaction were equally enthusiastic about the proposal , it was only natural that he would believe : le had embarked on a sound and acceptable program . But it was not until Mr. Eisenhower met some House members at breakfast at the White House that he learned at first hand how strong are other views . A Congressman told the President outright that if the Ohio delegation voted for the school building program the people of Ohio would hang them all . The President has almost always been in weekly contact with his House and Senate leaders , as any good general keeps in Vuuch with his neatenants . But Mr. Eisenhower was also general enough to know he could not long forget that the privates in the front lines are the ones he must count on in the end . And Congressmen who will report to the President that the people of any state arc as opposed to a certain program as Mr. Brown says the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would do well to acknowledge . For the House members who now attend in groups of 40 MT . Eisenhower 's breakfasts and - the Senators who confer with him , three or four at a time , must represent their constituencies in Congress regardless of the Administration views on issues . It is good politics for Mr. Eisenhower to confer with these men and give them his views on how the legislative matters before them will affect the general public in both domestic and foreign affairs . It could lead to more of the unity in the party he seeks . And it is good politics in the finest meaning of that word for Mr. Eisenhower to get their views on the issues that affect the general public . For it is the business of the Congressmen to know what the people back home want their Government to do for them and what they want their Government not to do . And since that , actually , is what Government is all about , we hope Mr. Eisenhower will continue throughout his term these meetings with Congress . The President , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ For he has returned to his high office that sense of honor and responsibility that creates the respect the Presidency deserves , and the public knows him for the kind of man he is . But the greatest success in governing requires also that a President know the public , too . And no man who is isolated from Congress , for whatever reasons , can hope to know his people .                     