@@716666

txt The House of.Commons tonight approved by 264 . votes to 4 the Paris . accords arming West Germany . Government hopes of an emphatic bipartisan vote in favor of the pacts were dashed when , after a two-clay debate , the vast majority of the Labor party , including followers of both Clement R. Attlee and Aneurin Bevan , abstained from voting . Four Laborite members , impelled by pacifist principles and stirred by a rousing speech by Mr. Bevan , voted against the Government 's motion approving the accords . The Conservative majority represents only 41 per cent of the total membership of 625 in the House of Commons . The Government had hoped , and Sir Anthony Eden had asked in the final speech of the debate , that Labor would vote with the Conservatives on the accords and thus provide an example that the French and West German ParliaIntents would follow when the accords come before them for ratification . Mr. Attlee , the leader of the Labor party , and Hugh Gaitskell , former Chancellor of the Exchequer , both supported the accords @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the pacts and for this reason their leaders decided on abstention . It may be that Mr. Bevan emerging from the shadows with a long , bitter speech against the accords and the government and demanding negotiations with the Soviet Union turned some minor reservations into major ones and contributed to this decision . The British position on negotiations with the Soviet Union , urged by both Conservative and Labor members , was staked out by Sir Winston Churchill in answer to a question before the debate was resumed . Government policy , the Prime Minister said , is to procure ratification of the agreements and after that to " look forward to a further development of understanding with the Soviet Government . " Bevan Shatters Decorum The second day of what Sir Anthony described as the most memorable debate . since World War II began with courteous fencing between Mr. Gaitskell and Harold Macmillan , the Minister of Defense . The decorum of the debate was shattered by Mr. Bevan 's speech and the House was shocked when , during the Foreign Secretary 's final speech , three young men @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ House with leaflets and shouted , " No arms for the Germans ! " Proclaiming himself a supportet .. of good British-United States relations , Mr. Bevan charged that the commitments Britain had undertaken in the Paris agreements were so great that they would have to be paid for in part by the United States . This ; he charged , will turn British soldiers into mercenaries and means " annual pressure by Congress " on Britain 's policies , But the argument that seemed to carry greater weight , to judge by the Laborites ' response , was Mr. Bevan 's assertion that the arming of twelve German divisions would destroy the present balance of power that , he said , has reduced international tension and favored negotiations with the Soviet Union . Earlier Mr. Macmillan had said that although West Germany could not make atomic or hydrogen bombs , under the pacts , its forces could receive them from the United States . " Do you think the people of this country will be safer against the prospectq of war if German armies and their Nazi officers have atom @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ accompaniment of Labor cheers . Sir Anthony Eden , he charged , I was squeezed into committing British forces to the Continent by Secretary of State John Foster Dulles and French Premier Pierre Mend  --  s-France because " the United States told us and France that they would not go on any longer unless Western Germany ' was rearmed . " The effects of this speech were not entirely dispelled by Mr. Attlee 's summation of the reasons why Labor supported the pacts or by the Foreign Secretary 's careful denial of Mr. Bevan 's charges . When the Speaker put the motion a few Labor members shouted " No ! " and a division was called . United States politics and policies played a major role in the debate 's final stages . Sir Anthony , answering Mr. Bevan 's charges , told the House that if there had been no attempt to recreate the Western European Union after the collapse of the European Defense Community , the United States would have retired into " Fortress America . " Britain may have gone further than the United States in its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is that necessarily wrong ? " he asked . Neither France nor the United States has asked for a British declaration stationing forces in Europe , Sir Anthony added , but only through such a commitment could French-German suspicion be allayed . Denying Mr. Bevan 's assertion that West German armament would harm the prospects of negotiation with the Soviet Union , the Foreign Secretary said that if this were true it would apply to every division Moscow has armed in East Germany and in the satellites " in defiance of the peace treaties " that the Soviet Union had signed . Dealing with Mr. Bevan 's suggestion about supplementary American financial assistance for support of British troops on the ' Continent , Sir Anthony said " we never asked for nor made any suggestion that we expected financial assistance from anyone else . "                     