@@716994

txt The Supreme Court took under advisement today the question of the decrees it should issue to end racial segregation in the public schools . No forecast of how or when the court might rule can be authentic . A decision was expected , however , before May 31 when the present term of the court will end . That would be about one year after the tribunal , ruled last May 17 that state laws imposing or permitting segregated school systems were unconstitutional . Since Monday the court has been hearing arguments on how it should carry out its decision . The arguments ended with the impression prevalent that the tribunal faced a more complex problem in devising enforcement procedures than it did in settling the constitutional issue . The court was told today by the Negro side that it should frame decrees that would end segregation by next September , or in any case not later than September , 1956 . States-Urge Gradual End Lawyers for ten states and the District 0 Columbia urged a gradual end to the separation of white and Negro pupils . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ deadline . The Eisenhower Administratiop urged the court not to order segregation ended " forthwith . " It proposed that states and local communities receive a reasonable time to integrate their public schools under conditions that would not permit officials in reluctant areas to " drag , their feet . " Simon E. Sobeloff ; Solicitor General , said that lower Federal courts should get broad discretion to work out desegregation plans , but that " discretion must not be used to accomplish frustration . " This was the plan Mr. Sobeloff proposed : 9The court 's decree should make clear that state laws in conflict with last May 's decision were invalid . The five pending cases should be remanded to the lower courts with instructions to request local authorities to submit within ninety days a plan to end segregation " as soon as feasible . " siThe courts should issue , if no , satisfactory plan were offered , " appropriate orders " recting an end to segregation at the beginning of the next school term . 11Court hearings should be held , when a plan was offered , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ school system as expeditiously as local conditions permitted . The judge would decide whether the plan was offered in good faith and would fix the earliest practical date for Its completion . 9The District Courts would require progress reports from time to time to make sure that there was no unnecessary delay in the execution of the program . SIThe lower courts would be required to submit periodic reports to the Supreme Court , which would retain jurisdiction to issue any further orders it deemed necessary to carry out its decree . Asked to Prepare Decree Chief Justice Earl Warren asked Mr. Sobeloff to prepare for the court a formal decree that would embody these suggestions . An order making clear that segregation laws were unconstitutional would strengthen the hands of the Federal district judges , Mr. Sobeloff said in his final arguments . On the other hand , he added , a " flexible " decree leaving details of enforcement to the discretion of the lower courts would not tie the hands of judges in their efforts to meet local conditions . It was acknowledged that the Federal courts had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ plans . Mr. Sobeloff said he did not believe , however , that they would ignore such a request from a Federal court , knowing that contempt actions could be brought against them if they continued practices outlawed by the May 17 deci- , sions . Mr. Sobeloff maintained that the Justice Department 's plan would make it clear to all state and local authorities that a " bona fide advance toward the goal of desegregation " was expected . It was a " middle course , " he said , that would not " ride roughshod " over the people of the communities affected . Thurgood Marshall , counsel for the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People , , rejected Mr. Sobeloff 's argument , and those of attorneys who spoke for the states . Mr. Marshall , who ended the arguments , said that a time limit was the core of the effective enforcement of the court 's decision . Throughout the South he asserted , the people had been told that the anti-segregation ruling meant nothing until a time limit was set . " This court @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the enforcement of a constitutional right , " Mr. Marshall said . The argument never before had been advanced that the court should postpone constitutional rights , he declared . " It is never made until Negroes are involved . " The enforcement of constitutional rights , he argued , should be uniform through the country and should not " mean one thing in one state and another thing in another state . " " That is not the way our constitution is applied , " he asserted . Mr. Marshall said that the court 's " statement on time should be just as forthright as it was on constitutionality . " Throughout the arguments , lawyers for the Southern states maintained that their position did not involve race prejudice or hatred . The Southern attorneys , Mr. Marshall asserted , had said that desegregation would be no problem in areas where only a few Negroes were involved , " but where large numbers were involved that was horrible . " " If that is not race , " he declared , " I do n't know what race is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a discussion of whether the decrees would apply only to the areas involved in the five cases before the court from South Carolina , Virginia , Kansas , Delaware and the District of Columbia . Lawyers agreed that no people in other districts could be bound by decrees in specific cases . Mr. Sobeloff said , however , that the Supreme Court had never decided the procedure by which persons other than those named parties to the lawsuits could benefit by the decrees . This was a matter he believed the court might determine .                     