@@719286

txt Forty years separate us today from the time when the Bolsheviks under Lenin first seized power in the capital of the nation then called Russia . When that event occurred its full consequences for the future were little understood either by the Bolsheviks themselves , by their friends , or by their enemies . Perhaps John Reed came closest to divining the event 's significance when he wrote of " ten days that shook the world , " but even he had little insight into the many ways in which the Bolshevik Revolution would actually alter the shape of the world in the decades to come . And Lenin , who thought his coup would ignite a conflagration of world revolution , certainly had little prescience of the fact that forty years afterward the " capitalist " world would be stronger and more prosperous than ever before in history . Moscow 's celebration today is keyed to the sputniks now revolving about our planet . The immense scientific and technical achievement which these sputniks represent is being offered to the world as proof of 1 the " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the " inevitability " of world communism . This is " pie in the sky " propaganda with a vengeance , and one need not be a professor to know that social and political systems are not created , solely to accomplish technical feats , nor can they be judged by any such particular feat . Rather , a human society must be judged by the quality of everyday life it brings to its inhabitants . It was not sputniks that Lenin promised the people of Russia forty years ago , but peace , land and bread . But the Soviet people have had little real tranquillity in these forty years ; the peasants long ago lost their land to the state , and there have been extended periods when even bread has been a scarce commodity . Lenin spoke of a glorious future classless society in which the state had withered away . Yet no ruling class in history has ever had the power concentrated in the Soviet ruling clique today , while the Soviet state has grown into a bloated bureaucratic behemoth far more oppressive than Qven the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of forty years of Soviet power . Backward , peasant Russia has been made into the second strongest industrial-nation on earth . Education , especially education in science and technology , has been brought to millions . ' Great new cities and giant new factories have been built . But these achievements are not unique , and similar things have been done elsewhere without anything like the enormous cost that the Soviet People have had to pay for such accomplishments . Industrialization in countries like Canada and Australia has been achieved without secret police terror and slave labor camps . Agriculture has been mechanized in many lands without the forced collectivization and the great toll in property and lives that collectivization required . Science has flourished in our country  --  let us remember that the Salk vaccine has contributed much more to human happiness than can any number of space satellites  --  without the forced conformity that is the hall , mark of Soviet society . Everywhere in Western Europe and in this country the standard of living , of the ordinary worker has risen remarkably these past four decades , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ developed heavy industry and a low living standard is a central contradiction . If the history of the , past forty years teaches us that the Soviet model is one way - by which human societies can break the shackles of backwardness and harness modern techniques of science and industry , then that same history tells us that there are other ways by which other nations have successfully accomplished the task without anything like the huge cost , spiritually and materially , that the Soviet people have had to pay .                     