@@719940

txt The nation 's largest state school s ' stem will start teaching by television broadcasts from a commercial station in New York City this month . The broadcasts will be used to ' supplement rather . than replace the classroom teacher , to add materials , people and techniques that otherwise would not be available . State Education Commissioner , James E. Allen Jr . has said that the twenty-five hours of instruction a. week which ' will be offered starting Sept. 22 can be received within a 100-mile radius , or by about twothirds of all elementary and secondary public school students in the state . Just how many students actually will view them is not yet known . In New York City , as of the end of school in June , there were only 218 television sets in the city 's more than 900 school buildings , If used in a room where two or more classes could see the broadcasts , one set conceivably could be made to do for a school , it was said , since only one program will be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ schools are expected to get sets soon . Outside the city , James F. , director of the educational television program for the state , said fewer than 50 per cent of the schools have receiving sets . But he expects this percentage to rise rapidly . The students who do get the programs will not feel any great wrench with the past . The course of study will be unchanged in content , but given with added staging . The classroom teacher will still be boss . He will give the tests and lead discussion before and after the broadcast programs . No Extra Pay The thirteen television teachers , who will receive no extra pay , are being chosen primarily because they are good teachers . The secondary consideration is vitality of personality which makes them able to communicate through television . Only one of the classroom courses will be offered five days a week . That will be an experimental Spanish course that has been worked out at Hicksville , L. I. The other broadcasts will be two and three times weekly . They will include twenty-minute @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . For secondary schools there will be thirty-five or forty-minute programs in matehmatics , science , English , citizenship and arts and crafts . All of the science courses and some of the others as yet undetermined will be provided by the New York city school system . This will be done to make available to state school children the cultural resources of the nation 's largest city . Each television teacher will make his or her own arrangements to exploit the city 's resources . Teacher 's Problem The programs are meant to be an enrichment rather than a facsimile of classroom teaching . Lesson material will be approved by a curriculum official from the State Education Department in Albany to insure its conforming with the state syllabus . The television instructor will also prepare outline guides for the benefit of the classroom teacher . But the television teacher 's presentation and staging will be his own problem . While he will have the help of one of three professional television director ? on the project staff , Mr. said each teacher will be encouraged to be himself . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to " play it by ear , " but ultimately they expect to have a general guide for television teaching written out of experience . Likewise , new and different course material may be evolved for the television classes . This television teaching venture is a modest start in search of answers , and one that faces some big problems . It has only one camera ar which means that each program will go on the air with only e. dryrun rehearsal without benefit of camera . It also means that the staging must be kept simple . Yet the project must be good enough to win the support of the classroom teacher or it is doomed . This type of broadcast program does not permit , as does the closedcircuit type which is being tried in Cortland , a two-way audio hook-up for exchange of questions and answers . In this operation , the teacher , out of his experience , must anticipate the points that will bring questions and deal with them . The teacher in front of the camera is also largely on his own in the matter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ offer . Bringing to the student in the classroom this unplumbed wealth is - one of the chief purposes of the venture , but so far there has been no organized effort to give the dozen instructors the help they need to make the most rewarding choices .                     