@@717380

txt American foreign ? policy is getting along nicely , thank you , without supervision by President Eisenhower . At least that is the opinion of Secretary of State John roster Dulles , who sees no immediate need for him to fly out to Denver and discuss foreign policy with the President . There are two pertinent comments that . are being made ' about this reassuring observation by the secretary : one , that while it may be true today it is not necessarily true for tomorrow ; two , that what makes constant presidential supervision unnecessary is the existing organizational conduct of foreign policy . and formulation of policies . Trio of ' Hot Spots ' There , are roughly and broadly three major foreign policy " hot spots " facing the United States today : one is Germany and involves the coming Ge- , neva meeting of foreign ministers ; a second is the Far East and Formosa ; the third is the Middle East ' and Mediterranean . There is no crisis over Germany today , even though ' there may be no agreement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ three Western foreign ministers have coordinated their German positions among themselves and with the West German Government . The Soviets have made ? their German position clear . Both sides are saying for the record they expect much progress at Geneva  --  but the ring of conviction is missing . As for the Far East , last year 's crisis there that almost touched off a war over Formosa has simmered down to such an extent that one hears practically nothing today about events there or negotiations in Geneva . It is the Middle East and the Mediterranean that today are the ? new powder kegs in world affairs ; The Czechs are selling arms to Egypt . The Arab-Israel feud is heating up .. Cyprus has nearly dissolved the Greek-TurkishYugoslav pact . Events in Algeria have embittered ? France and stirred the Arab world . ' Affairs in the Near East and Mediterranean area are distinctly " out of joint . " Council Anticipates So far Secretary Dulles has been able to handle these matters alone  --  that is , without constant presidential supervision or consultation . Of his own @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , to Cairti to try to stop the Czech-Egyptian arms deal . He supported France on the Algerian vote in the United Nations without consulting the President . He put out a statement with the British deploring Communist arms deals with Arab nations . He did all these things and more ? on his own . The reason he could do them , as he ' explains it ; is that the President has so organized and prepared policy directives that his constant supervision of implementation and direction is not necessary . There is ' the National Security Council , over which the President presides , which in these last two years has drawn up a whole filing cabinet full of policy papers and directives . This body has anticipated a variety of developments , has provided for many emergencies , so that to date most anything that happens in the world  --  even the Middle East and the Mediterranean ? is covered by an " Eisenhower-approved " position paper . That , then . explains why Secretary Dulles feels he does not have to rush out to Denver to see @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the last fortnight . Eyes on Near East It is no secret among Washington observers that the Allen mission to Cairo failed  --  that the U.S.S.R. has been able to make contact with the Arab world and is on the way to supplying them with the arms they want . Such a development can not but have the most profound repercussions on American and Western policy and would surely require- direct consideration by the President . For what it would mean is that the Soviets , who were stopped by the Truman Doctrine from breaking out into the Mediterranean , . from extending their influence info the Near and Middle East will . have done so by arms deals and diplomacy . That could pose as great a threat to Western security as  --  the anticipated loss of Greece and Turkey to'the Soviet blocanh force a presidential review of American policy in that critical area . To date at least , the State Department has been able to function and direct foreign policy without bothering the President . The administration is set up so that it can do just that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dramatic events upset established policies and a wholesale review under presidential authority is needed . That time could come shortly in the Near East . But until it does Secretary Dulles shows no inclination or interest in flying to Denver to occupy the President with foreign policy matters that he feels do not actually need the President 's attention .                     