@@718797

txt The decision Dwight D. Eisenhower has made to defend his budget must have been by far the hardest he has had to make since he became President of the United States . This was truly a choice between the primrose path and the straight , narrow , and very rocky way . It is not surprising that it took him a long time to reach his decision . A A It would have been more than politically expedient to have taken the other road . The road of budget and tax cuts would have been popular with almost everybody , but particularly with his own Republican Party . He is surrounded , besieged , beset by people and influences pushing him in that direction . George M. Humphrey , his Secretary of the Treasury , says that money spent for military weapons does not " build up the capital needed to help create the new jobs , to build the new schools and the countless other improvements needed in this growing country of ours . " If Mr. Eisenhower could in conscience have taken the path of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and plowed the savings into the development of the American economy . he could have gained popularity , delighted his party , and stimulated and encouraged the economy . Every domestic consideration pushed him in that direction . There are , of course , substantially supporting effects on the economy of military spending and foreign aid . Personal considerations are involved . George Humphrey is his closest and most respected personal friend in the Cabinet and the one on whom he has most relied for advice . The price of choosing the stony road of defending the budget is cruelly high . It takes Mr. Eisenhower away from Mr. Humphrey . It makes the road of " modern Republicanism " even harder than it is already . Heaviest of all is the fact that there is no assurance that the wisdom of the decision will become apparent during the time he is in office . He spent his first four years largely on the task of bringing the Republican Party up to date with the times . His intimate friends tell us that his decision to run for a sec- Hard @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ largely in the hope that he could during his second four years establish a safe and sound peace with the Soviet Union . To have modernized his party and established the peace would have been a vast achievement , for a presidential career . Budget and tax cuts would have been the natural sequel to the establishment of the peace . They in turn would have consolidated the political position of the new party he labored so hard to form . But as he looks out now from the lofty and lonely pinnacle of the presidency  --  the loneliest place on earth , it has been called  --  he can see no clear prospect of achieving that peace . He doubts that another " summit " meeting with the Soviets would be productive . Yet he has accepted the hard conclusion that if his country is ever to reach that peace which is his goal , it must retain its armed strength and its world position . In his mind , plainly , the big budget with its billions for arms and for foreign aid is the only possible path to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ domestic interests of " modern Republicanism , " for it lays upon that cause the heavy burden of present unpopularity inside the Republican Party and with the public at large . Thus in making his decision he has had to face the possibility that it might fatally damage " modern Republicanism " and fail to prove itself while he is still in presidential office . His vindication , his true reward , might come when another man is in the White ' House . Perhaps for the first time since he entered that mansion , Mr. Eisenhower faced the realization that sometimes the highest duty of a President is to pave the way for those who come after him . A A The man in the White House changes , yet in an awesome way the office is continuous . President Truman terribly damaged his own Democratic Party when he led his country into the Korean war . Yet that act has been a tower of strength to his successor . Moscow learned from it that the United States could fight and has been more respectful of it ever since . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ - has been the use his successor has made of it . A President sometimes must sacrifice the interests of his party , the advice of his dearest friends , and easily achievable popularity for what seems to him the greater long-term interests of the coun try . Only a very vain man indeed would assume to himself an ability to judge such matters better than the lonely figure in the White House .                     