@@717057

txt The Eisenhower administration has won a major legislative victory in getting the reciprocal trade agreements act through the , Senate , 75 to 13. although at the cost of some concessions to protectionists . When the Senate bill is reconciled with the version already passed by the House , 295 to 110 , on Feb. 18. the measure will extend the 20-year Tariff Act another three years , with authority to The President to cut tariffs 5 per cent a year in exchange for similar concessions from other countries . The White House accepted the Senate version before the final vote with the declaration 1 ) 3 James C. Hagerty , the President 's press secretary , that it " preserves the principle of reciprocal trade which the President has so ardently advocated in the past two years . " Vital Concessions ? With another apparent administration victory shaping in Congress on the farm bill , where the brilliant legislative maneuvering of Republican Whip Charles A , Halleck of Indiana split the farm bloc , the day 's developments stirred a time of rejoicing for Eisenhower legislative @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ controversial tariff bill passed , it was difficult to say at this point how important the new concessions are . Ardent free trade advocates called the measure " a sell-out to protectionists , " and left-of-center senators like Paul H. Douglas ( D ) of Illinois and Estes Kefauver ( D ) of Tennessee termed it a " weak and watered-down version . " On the other hand , protectionists took just as ardent a view on the opposite side , and de- plored possible ruin to favored local industries . The uncertainty of the bill depends in part on a gentlemen 's agreement reached with the White House a fortnight ago with an implied promise that Mr , Eisenhower would use a new discretionary clause written into the bill to protect certain threatened industries , like coal and oil . This clause is vague in itself . But with the understanding worked out with the White House , Senator Harry Flood Byrd ( D ) of Virginia , Finance Committee chairman , threw himself behind the measure and the fight of all but a few last-ditch protectionists collapsed . Major @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ central fact that the bill , despite new qualifying clauses , still preserves the key feature of preserving final discretion with the President . The victory is the more satisfying because it comes on the first of a series of related administration measures , all affecting international affairs  --  American ratification of the new organization of trade cooperation , the question of overseas dumping in the farm bill , and the big new $3.5 billion foreign aid measure . The tariff measure seemed in jeopardy until a fortnight ago . Back in February , in a critical test vote in the House , the administration squeaked through by a majority of only one , and more Republicans voted against the President than voted with him . As the Senate passed the measure , however , the Byrd Finance Committee version won out with only one minor amendment from the floor , a provision giving cherry growers in the Northwest the right to make an appeal to the Tariff Commission . Even here , final discretion is with the President . Subject to Change Here are some of the concessions to tariff @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may be changed in Senate-House conference : 1 . The " gentlemen 's agreement " provisions , authorizing the President to impose quota or other restrictions where imports threaten an . industry essential to national security . This new provision replaces proposals for a series of specific amendments to give relief for individual industries , particularly oil . The President retains authority , and the amendment means much or little depending on his action . 2 . Rephrasing the so-called " escape-clause " of the present law to make it substantially easier for domestic industries to prove injury . For industries threatened with tariff cuts , the escape-clause provides appeal machinery to the United ' States Tariff Commission . Free traders attacked this change particularly . Even so . final discretion still lies with the President . Publicity Slated 3 . As another concession to protectionist pressure , the Tariff Commission is required to make public its recommendations in escape-clause procedure , a change which will certainly add to pressure upon the President . 4 . A concession designed to aid the textile and other industries , changing the date at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , 1955 , back to January 1 , 1955 . The effect of this technical change is to prevent adding a cumulative 15 per cent tariff cut on top of a proposed 50 per cent cut in the pending Japanese trade treaty . The ancient tariff issue has been a political touchstone in many was for the Eisenhower administration . The President came to office pledged to lowering world trade barriers , but the first two years of his administration were inconclusive . Then , in his State of the Union Message last January , he called for the threr-year extension as " essential " and added , " If we fail in our trade policy , we may fail in all . " Minority in Opposition The Senate climax came in a session that started at 10 a.m. and continued to 10:25 p.m . It soon became evident that those trying to change the Finance Committee version were in a minority , and on opposite sides . In a long , listless day , most senators stayed off the floor , and supporters of the committee version generally did not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ protectionists and from free-traders . A substantial number of amendments were offered , but all but that dealing with cherries were defeated . High light of the day probably was an impassioned attack on the bill by Senator Douglas as too protectionist . But just as impassioned an answer came from Senator Matthew M. Neely ( D ) of West Virginia , calling for protectionist quotas on oil imports .                     