@@719029

txt Letters to The Times PAUL A. FREUND.JOHN HENDERSON.MILTON D. GRAHAM , NIKITA D. ROODKOWSKY. pg . 148 Letters to The Times For the Senate Rights Bill ? TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : As one of those who have maintained that there is no constitutional right to a jury trial in contempt cases , may I now urge that the Senate compromise , drawing a line between civil and criminal contempt , be accepted if limited to voting cases . The point of view expressed in some quarters that it would be better to let the ' legislationgo by default exaggerates the limitations of civil contempt and underrates the resourcefulness of the judicial process . It is argued that an order requiring registration of voters could not be enforced by civil contempt once the voting day has passed , since compliance would then have become moot . But there is no reason why an order for registration need be limited in the first place to a particular election ; certainly this is so where the usual long-term or permanent system of registration prevails . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who is sentenced to jail until he obeys can avoid the force of this civil contempt decree by resigning . Apart from the dubious assumption that public officeholders are so lightly attached to their jobs , there is no reason why an injunction order can not run from the beginning against a registrar and his successors , each of whom would then be faced with civil contempt sanctions for disobedience . It is contended that an injunction negative in form , for example , one ordering the defendants to cease and desist from intimidation or acts of violence , can not provide the basis for civil contempt , since if the defendants were imprisoned there is no definite act which would suffice to purge them of their contempt . But in lieu of imprisonment they could be required in civil contempt to give a bond which would be forfeited if they renewed their threats or violence . No doubt in some cases the civil contempt remedy may be impractical . But to write off the bill for this reason is to make a double assumption : that a judge 's order @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and that a jury in criminal contempt will be sure to acquit . Support for Enforcement Before yielding to these assumptions we should remember several facts . Unlike desegregation , the principle of equality of voting rights has been part of our constitutional law for generations . The enforcement procedure adopted by the Senate was supported by the spokesmen for the states chiefly concerned . What is at stake ( as Judge Taylor admirably explained to the jury in the Clinton , Tenn. , case ) is the orderly processes of law , the issue whether the legal and moral authority of a Federal judge may be flouted with impunity . If juries , put to the test , carry out their responsibilities , there will be a positive gain in the self-education that comes from sharing in the administration of justice . If the results should turn out otherwise , the climate of national opinion will be clarified by the experiment . Party politics aside , is there any reason why Congress should deny to itself and the country the benefit of a judgment from experience rather than from speculation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 5 , 1957 , Hay Fever in Britain To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Some of your remarks about hay fever in your Topics of Aug. 6 would indicate that your knowledge is based upon American experience only . In England the " season " commences in early May and ends about mid-July  --  approximately at haygathering time , which lends credence to its name , if only erroneously . As an inherited sufferer for years in that country , I also recall much distress was caused from the pollen of certain flowers currently blooming , - particularly the common pink , which grows in profusion . JOHN HENDERSON . New York , Aug. 7 , 1957 . To Accept National Differences To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Paul Comly French says in his letter published Aug. 4 that in our travels and work abroad we must understand better what other nations consider proper and improper . He mentions our inter-university organization based at Yale and our collection of materials on foreign areas and peoples . Since 1949 we have selected some 3,000 books and articles @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ activity . We now have 105 files . By 1959 we will have 160 files , each on the activities of a different area or people . We are also in our fourth year of writing for the Government background studies on the **25;352;TOOLONG life of over sixty areas . Mr. French as executive director of CARE must have found out that no one chooses to be hungry . We have found out that no nation chooses to be different , exotic , inscrutable , etc. , however odd to Americans its behavior . Mao and Hirohito write poetry . Nehru smiles at Russians . ( But then , Nishi plays golf , the King of Thailand enjoys a hot lick with Benny Goodman , Sukarno likes Jef ? ferson , Gandhi was influenced by Thoreau , and Communists acknowledge deep debt to Madison Avenue 's big sell . ) Americans in blue jeans in the Festspielhaus at Oberammergau are no less odd to Europeans . No people  --  Americans included -- are deliberately strange or quaint . There are good reasons for differences . We must learn them , respect them in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ We can be accepted as more than Mr. Moneybags if we try . MILTON D. GRAHAM , Research Coordinator , Human Relay tions Area . New Haven , Conn. , Aug. 8 , 1957 . Denouncing Communism Djilas ' Attack Said to Resemble Pre-Revolutionary Criticisms The writer of the following letter is a member of the faculty of the Institute of Contemporary Russia* Studies , Fordham University . To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : In your editorial of July 28 you discuss Milovan Djilas ' book , in which he indicts Communist rule , as a tyranny exercised by a relatively small group which " feeds parasitically upon the fruits of the labor of the great mass of the citizenry in each Communist country . " It is interesting to note that this denunciation of communism by a former comrade of Stalin and Tito bears a striking resemblance to the excoriating and penetrating criticisms leveled at Marxism years before its implementation in Russia since the Bolshevik Revolution of 1917 . It is significant that the ma , jority of these criticisms emanated from men who either , like @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the European revolutionary movement . That Marxism , if it had been put into practice , would result in despotism was observed more than a century ago at the beginning of Marx ' career as a revolutionary . Marx ' ertswhile friend , Arnold Ruge , who with him edited the German French Yearbook in 1844 , said that what Marx proposed could lead to " a police and slave state . " In the Eighteen Forties the French anarchist Proudhon warned Marx not to be an apostle of a new religion and new intolerance . A. few decades later the Russian anarchist Bakunin accused Marx of being desirous of subjecting people to regimentation and authoritarian rule . Marxists as Exploiters From the side of the conservatives it was Bismarck who pointed out in his speech before the German Reichstag on Sept. 17 , 1878 , that realization of Marxist objectives would mean rule by implacable tyrants who would make slaves of the rest of the population . Members of the Russian revolutionary underground during the Czarist regime frequently argued about the potential dangers of Marxism , Thus at the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he expounded the idea that the social order established by Marxists would imply that the bureaucrats , politicians , engineers and economists would take the place of the capitalists as exploiters of labor . It remained for a group of former Russian leading theoreticians of Marxism such as Bulgakov , Struve and Berdyaev to demonstrate that Marxism leads to disaster not only politically but also spiritually and culturally . In " Signposts , " published in 1909 , they pointed out that the atheism and materialism of Marx creates a chasm between the Russian intelligentsia and the masses . And this chasm could be spanned only by a return to religion and spiritual traditions , From the above we see that despotism , inequality and exploitation are ingrained in the Marxist system , as was fully realized by a number of the critics on the subject during the seven decades preceding Lenin 's victory in 1917 in Russia . Unfortunately , this organic link between the theory and practice of communism is often forgotten and views are expressed to the effect that the latter has very little relationship to the former @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the ideological struggle with the totalitarian world is considerably diminished . NIKITA D. ROODKOWSKY . New York , Aug. 5 , 1957.                     