@@713518

txt A new 3 billion dollar federal housing program aimed primarily at meeting defense needs was announced Ion Capitol hill today . Chairman Maybank D. , S. C. of the senate banking committee and Chairman Spence D. , Ky. of the house banking committee said bills for the administrationspon-sored program will be introduced in congress next week . Maybank said senate hearings on the legislation will begin Jan. 15 . He said he hoped to get the bill before the senate . by Feb. 5 or 6 . Government 's Program The program provides for construction of community facilities in defense areas , government purchases of land and construction of houses where required to do the job , and new aid for the prefabricated housing industry . It also includes government insurance for virtually all types of housing , but with emphasis or housing nee.isd  --  in defense areas . Maybank emphasized that it is the intent of the bill to leave the actual construction and operations of the program to states , cities , local communities and private enterprises wherever possible . But he made it clear @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , build houses for later resale , and take whatever steps are necessary to insure housing in critical defense areas . Provisions of Bill The final draft of the bill has not been completed , but generally it provides : 1 . A new 3 billion authorization to carry on the federal housing administration FHA mortgage insurance program . President Truman would determine how much of this would be allocated solely for defense purposes . Maybank left no doubt that defense housing would get the lion 's share . 2 . Community facilities in de . fense areas . These would fall into direct government construction . two types  --  First , loans to commu ? nities and private enterprises in areas where defense needs require extension of existing facilities to service new housing areas ; second , limited to areas where communities are unable to do the job . Assistance for Businesses 3 . The government to acquire land and sites in connection with defense areas , either existing or contemplated . It was understood this would be done only in cases of an isolated community , where the government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ facilities . 4 .. Assistance up to 15 million dollars for business enterprises with a " demonstrated capacity for the production and marketing of prefabricated houses and housing components , " including distribution .                     