@@719752

txt Commenting on the riots in Lebanon , Secretary of State Dulles said that " with sufficient propaganda and sufficient money you can put on an antiAmerican demonstration anywhere . " Mr. Dulles did n't specify the origin of the propaganda and money in this case , but yesterday the Lebanese cabinet appealed to the West for help against outside interference . It is generally thought the agitation comes from President Nasser 's United Arab Republic with or without the help of Communist agents . So here is traditionally pro-Western Lebanon now in some danger of being taken over by Mr. Nasser  --  or , if not that , of being disintegrated , with the Moslem portions of the mixed MoslemChristian nation annexing themselves to Mr. Nasser 's republic . And Mr. Nasser , who wants to run all the Arab nations , has strong ties with the Communist world . It is doubtless easy to exaggerate the dangers . Perhaps Lebanon will somehow manage to remain independent . Or even if Mr. Nasser succeeds inuniting the Arab world , that would not necessarily mean a Communist triumph @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Communists . In any case the trend toward Arab unity is plainly something that can not be stopped over the long term , however much the West might prefer to see the unity take place under someone other than Mr. Nasser . But however much outside money and propaganda may be behind the Lebanese riots , it is interesting to note that the prime targets were American propaganda arms  --  the U.S. Information Agency libraries in Tripoli and Beirut , which were sacked and burned . As for American money , foreign aid has caused great bitterness in Lebanon . The government of this nation about half the size of New Jersey feels that some $38 million so far is n't nearly enough . If one thing is clear , then , it is that American money and propaganda ? despite the constant contentions of the foreign aid people in Washington  --  are no guarantee that a nation will stay pro-Western or even stay in one piece .                     