@@719782

txt " I take note in the name of France ( of the revival and fraternity ) and declare that from today France considers that in all Algeria there is only one category of inhabitants . There arc only Frenchmen , wholly French with the same rights and the same duties . " Thus it seemed that without direct use of the Algerian slogan , " We are French and will remain so , " General de Gaulle had plumped for the ' policy of complete assimilation which until the past weeks most of the French settlers have always been unwilling to see applied , But later in his speech it appeared that the general had not , in fact , given any indication of a definite solution for Algeria . He defined his statement about " only one category of inhabitants " as meaning " that ways must be opened which until now have been closed to many . . . The means of livelihood must be given to those who have not had it , . . Dignity must be granted to those whose dignity was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who doubted they had one . " This was in the nature of a warning to settlers that certain methods of treating Moslems as second-class citizens i must end now . Several Roads . Open Then General de Gaulle went on in a manner indicating that he had left several roads open . in the future . search for a solution for Algeria . After stressing that Algeria now must have " a single electoral college " ( in place of the settlers ' past support of the old white and Moslem separate electoral colleges ) , he promised that ' ten million Algerians shall show in not more than three months that their votes will count as much as the votes of all other Frenchmen , " adding they " will have to decide on their own destiny . " The general was apparently referring to the part the Algerians , including Moslems , will be called on to play when the constitutional referendum is held in the early autumn . He also mentioned that the ten million " will have to designate , to elect , in a single @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Frenchmen will do . " But then significantly General de Gaulle added : " Once these representatives are elected we shall see how to do what remains . " This may be taken to indicate that the general does not intend taking any immediate decision on Algeria 's ultimate future . Full Voting Rights Reuters reported that on June 5 , when addressing a crowd of some 75,000 French settlers and Moslems in Constantine , General de Gaulle said that Europeans and Moslems alike would vote equally in a referendum to reform the constitution and later in an election to choose their representatives . The vague sketch of what the next few months may hold for Algeria was the subject of much comment in the French press . Some right-wing papers asserted that General de Gaulle has come out for complete integration forever . Others gave a much more qualified view . Thicrry Maulnier in Le Figaro commented : " After affirming their French citizenship by taking part in the referendum and ultimately in the election of parliamentary representatives , the Algerians . will be called on through there representatives to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Algeria . . They may have to choose between . . . total assimilation and . . . a federal type of integration . " General de Gaulle clearly was holding several doors open and plumping for no final decision on this , his first day in Algeria . On the other hand , his words                     