@@719238

txt Egyptian naval units visiting the Syrian port of Latakia have been instructed to stay there " until further notice , " a military spokesman said tonight . The length of stay of the war vessels , which accompanied the filial contingent of Egyptian troops to Syria five days ago , vill he determined " according to circumstances , " the spokesman added . The size of the Egyptian Navy contingent that went to Syria 's chief Mediterranean port has not been made public . The only information that has been made public is that it consisted of some destroyers along with the troopships that took the Egyptian ground forces . ' Basic Elements ' Sent When President Gamal Abdel Nasser announced last . Sunday he had sent ' ' basic elements " of the armed forces to help Syria defend herself , it was asserted that the naval units that accompanied the troops were to remain in Latakia harbor for a five-day courtesy visit . The units were under the command of Vice Admiral Mohammed Mahrnoud Nashed . The change in plans for the return of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Syria and Turkey . So far . Syria is not believed to have any appreciable naval power , although it was reported that her recent deal for more arms from the Soviet bloc included an order for torpedo boats and a submarine or two . As far as is known , these have not yet arrived . For that reason the Syrians would welcome the presence of a couple of friendly destroyers upon which they could count for defense of their sea approaches . Peace-Keeping Mission Meanwhile , sources close to President Nasser said today the Egyptian forces in Syria were specifically charged with helping to prevent any action  --  internally or on the borders  --  that might touch off a Middle East explosion . Although the size of the token force President Nasser has just sent to Syria was not believed to he great , it was said to have included highly trained specialists and other hand-picked troops . Informants , in close contact with the President , were careful to emphasize that the Egyptian forces had not been sent to help " control " the situation ! but were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Army and by an ample of good discipiline to exert a calming influence . Egyptian officials watched the situation anxiously as tension reached a fever pitch over charges and counter-charges by Syria and neighboring Turkey that each side was planning to attack the other . The Egyptians echoed the assertions of the Damascus Government that the Syrians had no intention of attacking Turkey on their own or under the goading of the So- viet Union . Such an adventure , it was said here , is considered suicidal . Nevertheless , because of the tension the Egyptians feared that an accidental shot fired by a Syrian soldier on the border or a possible attempt by anyone inside Syria to stage a coup might touch off a conflagration that would be difficult to keep front spreading . ? The action of President Nasser , who is immensely popular among the Syrian masses , in sending a token force to Syria and proclaiming his full ? support for his one stanch ally was considered a major effort to help stabilize the situation . Cairo newspapers continued to proclaim under sensational headlines the imminence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ new heavy concentrations of troops on Israel 's border with Syria and suggested that the Israelis might be tempted to take advantage of the crisis and attack . Officials in Cairo , however , were making no public statements about the situation . In private . they expressed the general belief that neither side really intended to attack the other , that war was not inevitable , and that the crisis was being fanned by the big powers in a bid for domination of the Middle East . To be sure , the Egyptians , whose avowed neutralism still has not permitted a word of criticism of the Soviet bloc , were more inclined to put all the blame for the situation on the United States . It was apparent that Egyptians at all levels hoped the United Nations would be able to act in time to prevent an ex- , Plosion.                     