@@714361

txt The real American tourist these days is not Mr. George Babbitt of Zenith , Midwest , but Mr. Congressman from Washington , D.C. ? in person . Apparently there is no spot so remote that an American congressman is n't likely to turn up any day and upon very little notice . Since Congress shut up shop last Oct. 20 , not to return until January , press dispatches have been reporting the activities of committees , subcommittees , and individual senators and representatives in such faraway places as Ankara , Cairo , New Delhi , Karachi , and Taipeh . An official delegation of 14 senators and representatives attended and spoke from the floor of the European Consultative Assembly at Strasbourg , two Senate and two House members were advisers to the American delegation to agricultural conference in Rome , and two representatives were United States delegates to the United Nations Assembly in Paris . The congressmen 's visiting list was long and varied . Nearly all of them wanted to see General Eisenhower and did , one reason being the anxious concerns of Congress over @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the effect of American economic and military aid . Others who were visited were President Auriol of France , Chancellor Adenauer at Bonn , Pope Pius in Rome , and a number of generalissimos Franco in Madrid , Tito in Belgrade , an Chiang Kai-shek on the island of Formosa . The congressmen did not get a chance to see Stalin at the Kremlin ; not that they were unwilling . A tour of Russia by a 50-member " committee of friendship from the American Congress " was proposed . It just did n't prove to be welcome or appropriate  --  or something . A A /-During the early 1940 's it used to be remarked that President Roosevelt never left the Wester Hemisphere ; he just took it with him . From my experience in Europe and with visiting delegations from Washington , it can be said that the senators and representatives never leave Congress ; in a very real sense they take it with them  --  and that is all to the good . Reports from Strasbourg confirm that the visiting American congressmen made a most favorable impression upon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ influence in behalf of lagging projects for European unification . They were much more outspoken than American diplomats can be and the freedom and vigor of American congressmen in exchanges on the floor  --  which in part comes from the fact that they are speaking for themselves and not for the United States Government  --  surprised some of the Europeans , but not unfavorably . They liked it , found it an invigorating tonic . These trips cost the taxpayers money , perhaps about amillion dollars to cover all the transportation and proper expenses of the many congressmen who have been viewing American interests abroad at first hand during the past several months . It is a sound investment . ? Congress has a right and a duty to check the use of its appropriations on the spot . It is a healthy influence upon the executive branch . Seventeen European countries are receiving American arms and economic assistance at present . " Point Four " projects are getting underway in different parts of the world . Congressmen ought to look at these undertakings , not merely through the pages of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ eyes . That 's what the congressmen are doing , in large part . They are also checking on some of the operations under the Export-Import Bank loans . One committee has been touring Latin America to examine the progress of the Inter-American Highway which looks like the only dubious junket on Congress 's whole travel budget . A A Now that the nation 's foreign policies require vast appropriations  --  not merely the occasional ratification of a technical treaty  --  full-bodied congressional participation in foreign policy , at every stage of development , is imperative . Wide congressional travel is a needed part of that participation . It will help make better congressmen and it will help make better policy .                     