@@719934

txt American business , which has largely made a success story of the free-enterprise system ( despite some glaring deficiencies ) , is confronted today with the crucial challenge of extending its acumen , prestige , and power to problems social and civic , national and international . This demand for involvement by the business community in the crucial issues of the day was echoed by the three major speakers at the 50th Anniversary Conference of the Harvard Business School Association , in its first day today . Speaking at the morning session were H. Gardiner Symonds , president of Tennessee Gas Transmission Company : Donald K. David , executive committee chairman of the Ford Foundation ; and Erwin D. Canham , editor of The Christian Science Monitor . Deficiencies Noted To accomplish its larger mission , Mr. Canham stated , the American business community must first solve some of its own pressing shortcomings . Some of 1 these deficiencies in the " new American capitalism " he defined as follows : 1 . The " most flagrant nu : - take " which American business has made @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stability . While this is not entirely the fault of business , with the constant press by labor for higher wages contributing its share , Mr. Canham charged that management , especially in heavy industry , could have done more to curb the spiral . 2 . American business has yielded to " a burst . of antifunctionalism which looks like materialism at its worst . " The editor charged that this has been evidenced in " an inflation ol goods , of ideas , of taste , of design , " evident in such things as longer , lower , flashier , costlier automobiles. 3 . Stating his doubts about the excessive use of consumer credit , Mr. Canham cautioned that to the degree that business , through sales techniques and pressures , artificially inflates the mountain of private debt , it will be held accountable . 4 . The " great unfinished business of American business today " Mr. Canham defined as the failure to solve the problem of genuine representative or democratic control of corporate business . He scored directorship that has either an inadequate system of accountability @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Values Inverted " The best system I know about is the election of the directorate of the Federal Reserve boards by a widespread membership , and their effective use of control over the officers , " he said . 5 . An inverted sense of values is perhaps the deepest and most difficult weakness in American business today , in which Americans appear to the outside world to had ? e " deified production for production 's sake , " Mr. Canham stated . He called for a new idealism that would acknowledge that " the only valid goal is improvement of the lot of man and the better relationship of men to one another and to God . " as a truer standard for businessmen . This by no means suggests a diminishing drive to improve man 's material lot , because " attainment of a better standard living is itself a spiritual victory insofar as it exemplifies man 's mastery 01 his physical environment , " Mr. Canham maintained . Theme Pressed Mr. David hammered on the same theme of the business community 's responsibility in lot Bing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ challenge posed by the Soviet Union is one which the American business community can and must help meet , if it is to be met . Mr. David stated Recalling the Marshall Plan ol economic aid to underdeveloped countries , which was presented by former Secretary of State George C. Marshall at a similar Harvard conference I I years ago , Mr. David said that the time is past when Marshall Plan aid is sufficient to meet the Soviet challenge . Today the Soviet Union , which because it controls its entire means of production , has an edge over the United States in which capital goods are under private control . To compensate for this essential difference , Mr. David proposed a plan by which " we mobilize , as in war , the full resources of our private-enterprise economy by having responsible government agencies contract with private companies and private management to do a massive and effective job of foreign economic development . " Plan Ott 1 i ned Under the David plan . economic aid abroad would involve not only setting up a plant , but organizing the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and construction of building plant , organizing management , developing its market , and training workets . Mr. Symonds , speaking on the " New American Capitalism . " noted that even tlu our present system has been tinkered with and modified ... and affected greatly by govei nment and importantly by organized labor ' , " it still imams basically capitalism . because ' ' it developed from peoples ' desires and needs . " Dean Stanley F. ' reek . of the liar  --  ard Business School discusses the future role business must play . Erwin D. Canham , editor of The Christian Science Monitor , lists points for business progress : Page 12 ,                     