@@717903

txt MAIL POUCH : THE PHILHARMONIC 'S PROBLEMS R.W. HAINES.RAOUL H. GERSTEN.RAYMOND SEAY.MRS . OSCAR C. FINK.MARKS LEVINE.WER ... MAIL POUCH : THE PHILHARMONIC 'S PROBLEMS CHORISTERS To theMusic Editor : THE New York Philharmonic-Symphony has been and will continue to be , to my , ears and way of thinking , ' the finest orchestra in the land . The diversified programs of Rodzinski , Cantelli , Stokowski , Monteux , Walter and Mitropoulous , to mention a few , plus the spirited playing of the men of the orchestra , have all helped to make the Philharmonic a thrilling experience , whether heard in concert or over the radio on Sunday afternoon . I agree that the repertory , could be improved upon . We ap-1 preciate the Mahler and Strauss 1 of Mitropoulos , the Mozart of Walter and the Verdi of Cantelli , and believe that more of the theatrical , spectacular in music , should be performed to attract the public from apathy . At the same time there is neglect of some beautiful pastoral music , especially for voice and orches- ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ performance in the near future " Das Paradies and die Peri " by Schumann , " La Vita Nuova " by Nabolcov , " The Death at Basle " by Conrad Beck . " Legend of St. Elizabeth " by Liszt , a concert version of " Die Frau ohne Schatten " by Richard Strauss , vocal excerpts from " SchwanAa. " of Weinberger , and various arias and opera selections . For the pastoral type music , how about some more Haydn , Gluck , and especially some Delius ? R. W. HAINES . Allentown , Pa . FOR MITROPOULOS To the Music Editor : The conclusion Mr. Taubman so thoroughly and forcefully argued for in his " agonizii.g reappraisal " of the PhilharmonicSymphony 's position was left diplomatically implicit , but it seems clear the " rededication to the highest artistic values " must start percussively with the roll- , ing of Mr. Mitropoulos ' head . I , for one , will be very sorry if this should happen . I think Mr. Mitropoulos is a musician of rare dedication , fervor and insight . He is not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ then those conductors Mr. Taubman suggests as possible alternatives have demonstrated on occasion that they have their failings . What impresses me most about Mr. Mitropoulos is that he understands the function of a large , virtuoso orchestra very well , and fulfills it . RAOUL H. GERSTEN " . Cambridge , Mass . FULL-TIME MANAGER To the Music Editor : The Philharmonic needs its own exclusive and full-time manager . It is impossible for those who are also involved in other full-scale concert managing activities to give the efficiency of an exclusive manager . Despite what might be said , the present management is prone to give preference to its own conductors and soloists . The Philharmonic manager should owe allegiance to no other agency than the Philharmonic itself . RAYMOND SEAT . Blackstone , Va . PREFERS PRIVACY To Ike Music Editor : I am one of Mr. Taubman 's readers who agrees with his point of view many times , but his article on the New York Philharmonic disturbed me a Comment on Programs , Conductors , Soloists and Drop in Attendance great deal . I feel , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have expressed his opinions to the " powers that be " of the Philharmonic . I do hope that he made an effort before this public denunciation to be heard privately . My personal fear is that Mr. Mitropoulos will be wooed away from the Philharmonic by the Metropolitan Opera , where he did such a wonderful job . MRS . OSCAR C. FINK . Long Beach , N. Y , FROM AN EX-MANAGER To the Music Editor : When it comes to soloists , I can speak from my thirty-five years of experience . During those years I managed at least 40 per cent of the world 's greatest artists and during the last twenty-five years the list included some of the most glamorous artists under the Hurok management . And yet my company has always been poorly represented on the Philharmonic list of soloists . I will not go so i'a ? as to say that there exists a " monopolistic " alliance between the Philharmonic and Columbia Artists Management . Maybe the Columbia executives " living " within hailing distance of the Philharmonic have greater and more frequent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " nepotist " relationship of the conductors exerts an " unholy " influence ; maybe among the board of directors , the management and the conductors there is such a shuffle of soloists that the Columbia list is always on top , while other artists land at the bottom of the available roster . The facts speak for themselves , and , since Mr. Taubman mentions names , I will relate a few cases . Alexander Brailowsky , acknowledged to be one of the great pianists of the day , was under my management for eighteen years . For at least fifteen years I could not get him into the Philharmonic . The pretext was always that " somebody " on the board of directors did not like him . Finally in desperation I quoted such a ridiculous fee for him that Bruno Zirato overcame the dislike of the member of the board . Now that Brailowsky is under Columbia management , I see he is announced again for next season and for four appearances . Coincidence ? Maybe , but a strange one . Moiseiwitsch , another great pianist , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ years , but the Philharmonic has ' consistently refused to consider him , while presenting pianists of much lesser stature . Luboshutz and Nemenoff are unquestionably one of the two or three greatest two-piano teams in the world today . What is more important , they command a repertory of at least three effective modern concertos . During the last twenty years they have ap-J peared repeatedly with every orchestra in the country , particularly with the Boston and Philadelphia , but the Philharmonic , with one exception , always found an excuse to dismiss them from consideration . As far as young artists are concerned , there is a definite policy . Any new artist under Columbia management gets a chance , any new artist under a competing management is either disregarded or is given a sop in the form of a Saturday night engagement . I agree with Mr. Taubman Much is made of the way professional musicians , traveling under the auspices of the American National Theatre and Academy , have served as goodwill ambassadors abroad . But the United States also has its amateur ambassadors , singing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will leave on June 20 . They are the All-America Chorus , a mixed ? group of about 100 voices , which will be led by Dr. James Allan Dash , and the Smith College Chamber Singers , a group of fifty young women led by Iva Dee Hiatt . A third group , the Massachusetts Institute of Technology Choral Society , under Klaus Liepmann , will leave on July 7. that the programs during the last season were anything but inspiring . Perhaps Mr. Mitropo ? - los ' engagement with the Metropolitan had something to do with it . One can not expect even a man of such talent and capacity to prepare two or three operas , to participate in many chamber music concerts and to think of a variety of symphonic programs at the same time . MARKS LEVINE . Ex-director of National Concerts and Artists Corporation , New York . FOR LONGER SEASON To the Music Editor : , Before blaming either an individual member or the orchestra , or the ensemble as a whole , or the music director , it would be better ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ work . There is much room for improvement . Additional time for rehearsals and a less crowded schedule of concerts should , in my opinion , be the first goal in order to try to remedy an existent situation . With a twenty-eight-week season and an insecure summer session , how can we expect an ideal result ? WERNER LA NDSHOFF . New York . SPIRITUAL RESPONSIBILITY To the Mu-sio Editor : May I express to Mr. Taubman my deep admiration for the brilliantly conceived article on our Philharmonic-Symphony , of which I was the official organist for nine years ? If the oldest symphony orchestra in our country will ever regain its preeminent position among the great orchestras in this world , and in this country in particular , it will be largely due to Mr. Taubman 's courage and honesty in regard to the spiritual responsibility that falls on those who administer music as an art to the people who have the right to expect integrity and perfection from all those who arc involved in the making and managing of music . EDOUARD NIES-BERGER . New York . TO @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ York PhilharmonicSymphony should advertise much in the same way as theatrical productions advertise . This type of advertisement is appealing , and will succeed in getting more people interested in the concerts . Second , the society should cater more to the individual than to a select group . DONALD T. MOLNAR . ' Wallington , N. J.                     