@@715514

txt In the Communists ' first dramatic gesture in Germany since Stalin 's death and the subsecpitent Moscow peace offensive , East Germany 's Politburo presented today a program of sweeping reform in the socialization of that region . Included were measures to aid private enterprise , ease travel reglulations ' between East and West Germany , lighten the load of crop quotas , revise the rationing system , restore property to refugees who return , and cease pressure on the church . The last named decision resulted in a conference today between a delegation of Evangelical Church leaders headed by Bishop Otto Dibelius , head of the Evangelical Church throughout Germany , and top Government officials , including Premier Otto Grotewohl . In a joint communique issued afterward , the Government agreed to end the drive on the church youth groups and to reduce the ' sentences of imprisoned churchmen . The Politburo decisions were made yesterday , according to the official news agency A. D. N. The leaders of Germany 's Socialist Unity ( Communist ) party said that in the past they had made " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rectify to improve the ' living conditions of the population . " The Politburo , in these decisions , has in mind the great goal of German unity , " the statement said . Unity Angle Stressed Thus , this appears to be Moscow 's first concrete move in the German phase of its peace offensive . Recent Soviet statements on Germany have emphasized the need for German reunification . Heretofore , the German Communists have been continuing full steam with their program to convert East Germany into a fullfledged " People 's Democracy . " This has led many observers to believe that Moscow did not really expect any early unification of Germany . Among other measures proposed were the ending of " coercive tax collection methods " with regard to private enterprise , the provision of short-term loans to retail and wholesale dealers as well as to private industry and transport concerns . The Communists , in effect , told he peasants who had fled to the West to " come home ; all is for- , given . " The statement reflected ' the admission that crop quotas @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( rich peasants ) were told that if they came back they ' ' would be given a fresh start with their old farms . In rare cases , where their land could not be re turned , they would be compensated . ? Much attention was given to the need for increasing trade with West Germany . An amnesty was recommended for prisoners serving terms of from one to three years for crimes against the " protection of state property . " SenItences for nondelivery of crop quotas or nonpayment of taxes should be reviewed , the statement said . The development of rural production cooperatives was not to be halted , it added . Production must be revised to produce more consumer goods , the Politburo said . In recent years the emphasis has been on making capital goods to speed industrial expansion . Refugee shopkeepers and former owners of industrial enterprises who returned should regain their property and resume business without any form of discrimination , the Politburo said . Under its decision West Berliners and West Germans will again be allowed to visit relatives in the Soviet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Otto G. Dibelius of the German Protestant Church . Germans will be able to make similar trips to West Germany . The prices of certain foods are to be reduced and rail fares cut 50 per cent for workers . The Politburo 's decisions on the church were reflected in the agreement published after today 's meeting of the churchmen and the Government leaders . The agreement said , in effect , that the state agreed to ease pressure on the church and the latter agreed not to seek to influence the economic or political life of the Soviet zone . It coincided with the official inauguration of the new Soviet High Command in East Germany . The new Soviet High Commissioner , Vladimir S. Semyenov , and his deputy , Pavel F. Yudin , called on the East German Government lead ers for the first time in their new capacities . Likewise Gen. Vassily I Chuikov bade his official fare-1 well as Soviet military commander ' in East Germany and introduced his successor , Col. Gen. Andrei A. Grechko . As stated in the communiqu ? , the church-state conference @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ invitation from Premier Grotewohl . The agreement provides that " no further steps " be taken against the Evangelical Youth groups known as Junge Gemeinde . Grade school students expelled because of membership in such groups are to be readmitted . Church officials a few days ago estimated that 3,000 students had been expelled . The cases of college students likewise expelled are to be reviewed by June 20 . The curtailment of religious classes in schools , which became effective Jan. 1 , is to be ended . Various confiscated church properties are to be returned . The Government retains the5tright to decide who will be allowed to spend vacations at church homes on the Baltic coast , " The verdicts of the courts are to be reviewed and unjustly severe punishments are to be rectified , " the agreement said . At least a dozen churchmen have been arrested in recent months and several given stiff prison terms . Regulations for registration of meetings are to be eased and state subsidies to the church to be paid " according to agreed regulations . "      @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @      