@@713324

txt Republian gains in the senate and the house in next month 's congressional elections are regarded as certain by Democrats and Republicans alike , but leaders disagree on the flow of the expected G. 0 . P. tide . Estimates of Republican gains In the senate range from ttvo to nine , and in the house from 30 to 55 seats . Republicans need seven seats to win control of the senate and 49 seats to win control of the house . Most Democrats expect G. 0 . P. gains . A few Democratic diehards predict Democratic gains , but no more than two or three in the house and two in the senate . Far and away the majority of party members expect losses in congress , but think Democrats will rule the 82d congress . 86 Senate Seats Contested Republicans are divided between those jubilantly counting on winning control of congress and those who will be happy to gain , but fall short of gaining control . These would be satisfied with a senate gain of four seats and a house gain of 30 . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ now . Of the 96 senate seats , 36 will be filled in the election . Of these 23 Militkin Vein and Taft are Democratic and 13 Republican . Control of the senate hinges on contests for 13 seats . There are 243 Democrats , 169 Republicans , one Democrat-Liberal and one American Labor representatives in the house . There are six vacancies . The normal complement of the house is 435 members . A house majority is 218 members . Of the six vacancies , three are of seats normally Republican and three are normally Democratic . Including these the party division would be 261 Democratic seats and 172 Republican seats . Need 46 In House Should the G. 0 . P. hold the three normally Republican seats now vacant , they would have to pick up 46 to win control of the house . House control hinges on 75 seats in 23 states . Republicans would have to pick up 46 of these , or almost two-thirds , to organize the next house . Of the 13 key senate contests , 11 are for Democratic seats and two for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at least seven of the 11 Democratic seats while holding on the two G. 0 . P. seats . The two close G. 0 . P. contests are in Ohio and Colorado . In Ohio , Sen. Taft R. is the target of a furious union drive because of his co-authorship of the Taft-Hartley labor law . Labor is spending huge sums and has organized legions of workers . Observers regard the race as close . While Republicans are concerned , Democrats concede the edge to Taft . Concede Edge to In Colorado the edge is conceded to Sen. Millikin R. , Taft supporter in the senate , who is a power in the regular G. 0 . P. wing . Of the 11 hottest contests for Democratic seats , Republicans are talking of victory in Illinois , California , Idaho , Pennsylvania , Utah , New York , Washington , Maryland , Oklahoma , and Connecticut , where two seats are at stake . Democrats are not prepared to concede the 11 . It is generally felt that Sen. Myers D. , Pa. will lose to popular Gov . James @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will win over Rep. Helen Gahagan Douglas D. , Ca . . Illinois Race Close The contest for Illinois is considered close . Senate Democratic Leader Lucas D. , Ill. is engaged in the battle of hi. ; life with former Rep. Dirksen R. , Ill . ) . Observers give Dirksen the lead , but Democrats are hoping Lucas may- ' overcome the short gap . In Idaho Republicans expect victory . Herman Walker R. , is believed to hold the edge over former Sen. Clark , who defeated Sen. Taylor D. , Henry Wallace 's Vice Presidential candidate on t h e communist infiltrated Progressive ticket . In Utah the edge is claimed by G. 0 . P. Wallace F. Bennett , hardware dealer and former president of the National Association of Manufacturers has Sen. Thomas D. on the ropes . In Connecticut , Democrats are frankly worried over two seats , but are fighting to retain one if not two . Sen. D. is being opposed for a full term by former Rep. Joseph E. Talbot R.. Sen. Benton D. is being opposed for a short term @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ generally has ousted Democratic senators . Tydings Has Advantage In Maryland Sen. Tydings D. ran up a two to one majority over two unknown opponents and polled more votes than two Republican candidates . Ordinarily victory would seem assured . However , T. ) dings and his senatorial opponents ran 150,000 votes behind the Democratic primary vote for governor . Republicans contend this difference represented 150,000 Democrats disgusted with Tydings ' part in the whitewash of the state department on charges of communism . If these Democrats would vote for John Butler , Baltimore lawyer and G. 0 . P. senatorial candidate , Tydings could be licked . In New York , Sen. Lehman ( DJ may suffer from splits in the Democratic organization upstate and in New York City . Republicans claim a strong chance for Lt. Gov . Hanley , his G. 0 . P. opponent . In Washington and Oklahoma , Republicans see only outside chances of victory in the event of a full G. 0 . P. tide . Sen. Magnuson D. , Wash. and Rep : Monroney D. , Okla. ) , who defeated Sen. Thomas @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the lead in the two states . Repulfficans are staking their bid for return to power on Democratic coddling of Communists in and out of the government ; Democratic blundering and incompetence ; Democratic responsibility for unpreparedness before Korea ; the general desire for a change in faces in Washington , and increase in taxes and threatened imposition of controls . Democrats are banking strongly on labor 's support . In many areas labor unions are the party 's best workers . Democrats also are counting on 2 million office holders to bring in millions of votes . Finally they are expecting votes from the millions who receive government checks such as farm benefits , veterans aid , social security , and other government largesse . 