@@713829

txt Is America 's British Ally really playing its full role in this world struggle against aggression ? Any answer , however brief , to the question of whether Great Britain really has its shoulder to the wheel must delve into such matters as public support for rearmament within Britain , the raw materials problem , the controversy , and British shipments of strategic materials to China . Let us study the broad problem in that order : The man in the street here is frankly not enthusiastic about Britain 's belt-tightening rearmament drive . But the public , by and large , has accepted the goal set by the government . Grimly Resigned to Task Speakers dispatched by several Whitehall ministries to address clubs and public gatherings thrOughout the country ? trade unions , middle-class organizaions , industrialists ? gauge from the questions put to them by their audiences that their countrymen have accepted the rearmament task , but with no delight . Audiences do not want to discuss rearmament . It is just a big unpleasant task which must be got through . And usually @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ settlement with Russia has been thoroughly explored . That , briefly , is the British mood of the moment . As to raw materials , British officials are greatly encouraged by assurances given by United States Defense Mobilizer Charles E. Wilson during ' his visit here this week . Thby noted his statement that " we have no desire to see the largest industrial mechanism in Western Europe ? That of the United Kingdom ? not fully employed for want of raw materials when every bit of it is so vitally necessary to produce arms and other essential goods . " Sees Priority on Tools The British believe that from here on , raw materials , such as sulphur and nonferrous metals , will be more equitably shared and pooled  --  and that a new priority system arranged by Washington will assure delivery of essential machine tools . All of which means that the British Government is less worried about former Labor Minister Aneurin Bevan who resigned from the Attlee cabinet with the slogan that " the rearmament program is overdrawn and hence dead already . " They believe Mr. Bevan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ drive and resentment against America . They believe that , if raw materials dci continue to arrive , Britain will avoid that serious unemployment which would give Mr. Bevan his chance . They feel the United States will not be disappointed in Britain 's production record . Regarding the controversy , Whitehall categorically denies any such charge as that the Foreign Office dictated Gen. Douglas 's dismissal . And of course the General himself has said he knows of no move " nationtlly or internationally " to deprive him of his command . The British openly disagreed with General 's proposals . They told Washington officials so . They are frankly glad H. Stringer of The Christian Science Monitor he has been dismissed . Their advocacy is for a strictly limited war , a war in Korea , not China . But they did not ask for General 's dismissal . As to the export of strategic materials , Britain 's record is not good . Only now , at long last , Prime Minister Clement R. Attlee ordered a full halt on shipments of rubber and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ compile a complete list showing what has been sold to China and Russia . Hong Kong Exports Cited Outside of rubber , the volume of war materials which have been allowed to reach China has not been as tremendous as some American ? critics have charged . And as Mr. Attlee has com-mented : " Everybody knows where China gets its arms , " meaning Russia . But the British Government has been . dismally slow in applying a full embargo . The international rubber study group in London shows that .115 , - 000 long tons of rubber have been exported from Malaya to China and 52,000 long tons to Russia since July 1 , 1950 ? since the Korean war started . In Hong Kong , often pictured as a veritable arms warehouse for China , a private analysis of exports in 1950 shows that textiles accounted for 28 per cent of the total shipments , chemicals and dyestuffs totaled under 10 per cent and , most important , the entire group of iron , steel , and nonferrous metals exports , including machinery , electrical goods and vehicles @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has undeniably been the major source of leakage . How does it all add up ? When British rearmament booms ahead , when the raw materials problem is progressively overcome , and when the British record on supplies to China is wholly clear , the present frictions will measurably subside . But frictionless alliances do not exist , and Americans should remember that the United States has nearly as much need for Allies in the present world situation as those Allies have need for America .                     