@@716304

txt The Indochina peace confer . ence is reported to have made " some progress " May 25 in what was described by western diplomatic sources as its " first real working session . " The session is believed to have dealt exclusively with the proposed cease fire and related military matters , and a reliable informant said the representatives of both the Indochinese Government of Vietnam and the Communist-led Vietminh spoke in the opening phase of the May 25 secret session . Earlier the Geneva talks had appeared to be caught in a new tangle due to Soviet Foreign Minister Vyacheslav M. Molotov 's request that military matters be directly negotiated by the two warring sides while the nine-delegation conference take up political questions . Western observers viewed this as a maneuver designed to circumvent the Allied demand that a cease fire must precede any political settlement . Mr. Molotov 's new proposal , while ostensibly separating the military and political discussion , would have them go on simultaneously , and thereby enable the Communists to use military pressure to back up their political claims . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the political settlement but also on taking them up in logical sequence  --  first you put down your guns , then you start talking politics . Molotov Turnabout Communist China rejected Indian Prime Minster Jawaharlal Nehru 's proposal for an immediate cease fire in Indochina the United Press quoted informed Geneva conference sources as saying . Communist Chinese Premier-Foreign Minister Chou En-lai personally turned down the two-point plan after it had been presented to him by V. K. Krishna Menon , India 's roving ambassador . The plan , according to the sources , called for : 1 . An immediate halt in the fighting ; 2 . Formation of a good offices committee composed of Asian neutralS to aid the two sides in working out a political settlement once the truce became effective . On May 21 , when Mr. Molotov produced his five-point plan for implementing a cease fire with no political items included , he appeared to have accepted the western viewpoint on procedure . But now to all intents and purposes he has re ? pudiated his own proposal . There is careful method in this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the most effective way to embarrass the French Government and undermine French will to resist is to suddenly erect new roadblocks at the Geneva con. ference whenever the French Assembly is scheduled to meet , thus assisting those deputies who clamor for a full-dress debate on Indochina . The Soviets hope this tactic may presently topple Premier Joseph Laniel and Foreign Minister Georges Bidault and clear the way for a cabinet pledged to peace at the Soviet price . To speed this process of disintegration , Communist propaganda machinery has swung into high gear . Day after day " peace " delegations from all over France continue to flock to Geneva to present petitions to all delegations . Bidault Proposals Earlier in the 41/2-hour restricted session of May 24 , delegates for Cambodia and Laos renewed demands for withdrawal of rebel Vietminh invaders from their territory , whereto Vietminh representative Pham Van Dong replied with his usual theme song in favor of the Communist puppet regimes Khmer and Pathet Lao . M. Bidault in a constructive effort had presented his own seven-point cease-fire proposal which covered the same ground as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of forces in determined areas , prevention of further reinforce . ments , supervision of the cease fire , and international guarantees . To these M. Bidault had added : disarming of irregulars and immediate release of war prisoners . The point on the irregulars was primarily designed to take care of the situation in Cambodia and Laos . Apart from producing the new Molotov surprise maneuver , the May 24 meeting was distin. guished by its first personal contact between M. Bidault and Communist China 's Chou En-lai . Chief French and Chinese delegates who had never exchanged a word previously conversed during the intermission . Meanwhile , Vietnam Premier Prince Buu Loc called on American Undersecretary of Stat. : Walter Bedell Smith , May 25 , presumably for the purpose of enlisting American support for his efforts to get a date set for the signing of the independence treaty with France . The inexplicable delay in the signature of this crucial document long after all essential points have been agreed has stymied all efforts of Prince Buu Loc and other serious-minded Vietnamese leaders to consolidate the regime and rally @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @              