@@718423

txt ? Classes at Clinton High School , shut down last Tuesday because of community violence resulting from classroom integration , were reopened to- day without incident . A racially mixed student body listened gravely to a lecture on the perils of misconduct under the terms of a Federal . court injunction forbidding interference with orderly integration . Meanwhile , attorneys for sixteen persons charged with contempt of Federal court in connection with Clinton 's turmoil last week declared that the Attorneys General of Texas , Georgia and Louisiana would " advise " them on the legal defense when trial begins on Jan. 28 . Thus a key aspect of the South 's controversy over compliance with Federal judiciary orders to desegregate public schools was set for community // and courtroom testing . The issue joined in this manner concerns that aspect of the compliance problem that deals with the activities of resistance groups that protest school integration in such vigorous fashion that local law enforcement and school authorities are unable to proceed with integration plans . Clinton has faced this problem for the last three months . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Deep South , where public officials . have declared that they would not enforce Federal court rulings for school integration and would even dismantle public school systems before complying . In Clinton the school authorities and town officials had urged compliance with the law . Intermittent outbreaks of community disorder , however , led the school board Of Anderson County , of which ( Clinton is the seat , to petition Attorney General Herbert Brownell Jr. , in Washington last Monday to help enforce racial integration at Clinton High School . Minister is Assaulted The following day , a Baptist minister was assaulted on a Clinton sidewalk a few minutes after he had escorted six Negro children into the school building . The Negro pupils had been absent four days because of " insults " they had been subjected to by about forty of the nearly 700 white students . The attack resulted in an order by D. J. Brittain Jr. , principal of the school , for 1a temporary closing of the school that morning . A few hours later a thirteen-member delegation of town and county leaders went @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ twenty miles away , and requested action against those they held responsible for the disruptions in ! Clinton . Federal Judge Robert L. Taylor , who had ordered the school integration last January and then on Aug. 29 , in response to disorders touched off by outside agitators , had issued the injunction restraining any and all persons from interfering with the integration process , ordered the arrest of sixteen Clinton residents . About the same time , Mr. Brownell announced in Washington that the Justice Department would prosecute any who obstructed school integration in Clinton . It was against this background that Clinton High School reopened today . Eight Negro students , four boys and four . girls , walked spiritedly from Foley Hill , the Negro settlement , to the high school building , a distance of about 1,200 yards . before in American history had there been an instance in which a Federal injunction was read to guide the conduct of a special assembly of students . " He said it was not a " pleasant task " for ! him to carry out . Mr. Britain then @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ senior , to play the piano while the students marched out in order of class standing . Smiling broadly , Luke hit a peppy rendition of " Roll Out the Barrel , " " Shoemaker 's Shop " and " I 'll Be Down to Get You in a Taxi , Honey . " The students gave prolonged applause to Mr. Brittain and Mr. Joyce before leaving the auditorium , Later , Mr. Brittain said he was pleased with today 's results and that he felt there was a far greater tightening of lines of support between him and town leaders than before . There were no crowd incidents outside the building at any time during the day . The local police , sheriff 's deputies and several F. B. I. agents moved about the area regularly . In Knoxville Federal court , where the sixteen racial segregationists were arraigned for a formal hearing , a general plea of not guilty was entered on the record for all of the defendants . The attorneys of record were Thomas P. Gore of Nashville , and Robert L. Dobbs , of Memphis . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Gore , who refused to join other Southern members of Congress in signing the Southern manifesto opposing the Supreme Court decision directing school desegregation , Separate Trials Asked The attorneys asked that each case be tried separately and before a jury . Judge Taylor told the lawyers to file written motions on these requests . Conf tempt cases can be and usually are tried only before a judge . Defense counsel said the attorneys general of Texas , Georgia and Louisiana would " advise " with them on legal defense in preparation for trial a0 therefor they needed perthe past some white students1 have stood at the same spot and ! jeered the Negroes , sometimes ! throwing eggs at them . Fifteen minutes after the ! students were all in school , Mr. Brittain summoned them to the auditorium . There were 591 students in attendance today against a total enrollment of 683 . Mr. Brittain strode to the stage and was greeted with loud applause and a few scattered boos . He has been backed overwhelmingly by the student body in his decision to comply with the integration order @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in a gay and laughing mood . Clinton is not an isolated town , and has a cosmopolitan outlook in many ways because of the influx of workers at Oak Ridge atomic energy installation and the Tennessee Valley Authority nearby . The children were cleessed in the latest teen-age styles . Restraining Order Read Mr. Brittain introduced Eugene L. Joyce , Anderson County attorney , who said he was " here in my official capacity to tell you how you must act as long as you are a student in this school , but not to ten you how to think or what to believe . " He then read Judge Taylor 's restraining order in full and explained to the students that it was an injunction he interpreted as " enforcible in unmistakable haps six weeks to meet the travel problems . They did not imply that the state law officers would actively participate in the trial itself . Judge Taylor set trial date for Jan. 28 . He had said last week he wanted to dispose of the case , in ten days . The defendants are all free @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Clinton and Knoxville there was a noticeable strengthening Of community leader support for the action of the town officials in carrying out the integration order . Several ministerial organizations in Knoxville went on record backing the Clinton authorities .                     