@@715181

txt One of the most important changes that will take place next Tuesday is in the direction of the State Department . Foreign affairs is a subject of first importance in this age of cold war and chronic international tension . The supreme decisions in this field are largely in the hands of the President . But the Secretary of State , by virtue of his office , makes the greatest contribution in shaping foreign policy . The outgoing Secretary , Dean G. Acheson , is one of the most controversial figures who have ever occupied the office . His admirers depict him as a great statesman who has checked the advance of Communism without precipitating America into all-out war and without losing the confidence of friendly and allied nations in Europe . His critics see in him a. symbol of softness toward persons of doubtful loyalty at home and of weakness and futility abroad . Brickbat , ' and Accolades One can find authentic citations that might seem to support each of these contradictory views . Mr. Acheson has received his full share of Soviet brickbats . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , has the following entry after Acheson 's name : " Reactionary state official of the I ; S A One of the chief inspirers of the armed intervention against the Korean people in June , 1950 . Carries on the preparation or war against the Soviet Union . " On the other hand , it is a matter of record that Mr. Acheson. then Under-Secretary of State , on November 14 , 1945 , spoke under the auspices of the Council of American-Soviet Friendship . which was subsequently placed on the list of subversive organizations published by the office of the Attorney-General . And on this occasion , when the presence of any official representative of the government was highly inappropriate . Mr. Acheson made a statement which was untrue historically . untrue at the time of delivery and fantastically untrue in the light of later developments : " Never in the past has there been any place on the globe where the vital interests of the American and Russian peoples have clashed or even been antagonistic . . and there is no objective reason to suppose that theze should @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to solve the riddle presented by Acheson. might find a clue in the assumption that there was a double division in Acheson a record , in terms of time . in terms of space Late Start In Discerning soy iet Intentions During the war and immediate after-v , ar period Acheson was riot distinguished by foresight as to the future policy of the Soviet Union Yet he seems to hay e expel tented a change of mind in 1946 and so far as he influenced or directed American policy in Europe and the United Nations , after that time , there does not seem to he much ground for criticism . But Asia and adequate maintenance of security in his own Department are another story . The following grave errors of judgment and tinting must be laid to the outgoing Secretary in his handling of Far Eastern affairs . He told the House Foreign Affairs Committee , nr March 20 1947 , that the Chinese N.-etionalist government was not threatened by defeat by the Communists The detailed White Paper on China , issued with his approval in August , 1949 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ existed in China and is full of omissions , half-truths and contradictions . Acheson instructed all diplomatic and consular personnel in December , 1949. that Formosa had no strategic value to the United Slates . But in May , 1951 , he recognized its strategic importance in testimony connected with the dismissal of General . Error in Judgment on Korea Perhaps the worst mistake of all was Acheson 's speech at the National Press Club on January 10 , 1950 , when he placed both Korea and Formosa , by implication , outside the United States " defensive perimeter . " Taken in connection with the withdrawal of American troops from Korea in 1949 , this was little short of an invitation to the invasion that took place in June , 1950 . It may be expected with reasonable confidence that John Foster Dulles will not suffer from the handicap of not realizing Communism in China is just as implacable an enemy as.Communism in the Soviet Union . Mr. Dulles ' most conspicuous individual diplomatic achievement was the negotiation of the peace treaty with Japan along lines with excluded artificial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or the piling on of reparations demands beyond the rapacity of the Japanese economy . The negotiation of this treaty , finally signed at San Francisco In the autumn of 1951 , in the face of considerable initial opposition from some of the other signatories , indicates that Mr. Dulles possesses qualities which will be most useful in dealing with the present grave crisis of European defense . These are firmness in big things , tact and flexibility in smaller matters and ability to distinguish between essentials and nonessentials . Dunce ' Views Communist Struggle In his book , War or Peace . published in 1950 , Mr. Dulles lays much stress on the use of moral and psychological methods in the struggle against Communism . His thinking on this subject is summarized in these sen-tences " Some may suggest that . if we took even a moral offensive in the ' cold war . ' we should precipitate a shooting war . I believe , on the contrary , that peace depends upon the growing internal difficulties of Soviet Communism and its inability to consolidate its present and prospective areas @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ould c ome if and when Soviet leadera successfully combined Eastern Eur ope and Asia into a v a.st politic al . industrial and military unity and completed the ' encirclement ' phase of their strategy They %% ould then be so strong that thp.7. might yell ratan to finish their conqiie , t by %%az " With his double bat.kground of e  --  perience as Ambassador to the Soviet Union and head of the Central Intelligence Agenc , Walter Bedell Smith as Under-Secretery of State should he of aid to Mr. Dulles in deciding what schemes of psychological W. erfare promise the best results . And the presence of a former CIA director in the important administrative post of Under-Secretary should be an assurance to the public mind that the climate in the State Department will not be healthy for subversives and infiltrators.                     