@@716717

txt Incongruously , perhaps , Peking 's demand for the repatriation of 35 Chinese students held now in the United States came as good news to western diplomats . It was taken to mean that Peking is willing to bargain for the release of United States citizens being held in China . This was good news because there had been some concern that Peking regarded the case of the 13 prisoners recently given prison sentences in China as being nonnegotiable because useful for domestic Chinese political reasons . No one expects a sudden or early release of the missing 13 , and there is greater hope for the 11 men in uniform than for the two civilians . In dealing with a Communist country for the release of hostages there is usually much time consumed . The cases of William Otis , Robert Vogeler , and others all took much time and much negotiation . However , when the Chinese answer to the United Nations demand for release of the 11 uniformed United States soldiers was a counterdemand for the return of the 35 Chinese students it seemed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ another reason for optimism about the missing persons . It is that while the Soviet delegate at the UN argued the Peking line during the UN debate , private Soviet assurances were given to several western diplomats that Moscow was distressed by the Peking action and would use its good offices to further a settlement . Such Soviet assurances have been reported both at the UN and in Washington . Moscow is ' preserving the surface appearance of unity with its Chinese ally , and Moscow may be talking out of two sides of its mouth on this matter , but there is also considerable evidence that the men in Moscow are not pleased that the Chinese tried to contend that men in uniform could be spies . The matter of the Chinese students held in the United States has long been regarded in Washington as negotiable , although Washington is not too eager to turn them loose . There were 124 Chinese students who at the time of the Geneva conference asked for repatriation to China . Of these , 27 have been released and some others have changed their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wish to return to China . Their return has been held up for what the State Department calls " security reasons . " This phrase is not defined publicly , but is understood to consist of two parts . Part one is that they represent bargaining power against those American citizens held in China . Part two is that they are technicians whose knowledge , gained in American universities , would be an asset to the Chinese Communist Government . Secretary General Dag Hamrnarskjold of the UN is authorized to negotiate , if he can , what would amount to an exchange of hostages . The idea of exchanging hostages may seem highly distasteful to westerners , but long experience has indicated that this is the only way , short of war , that such matters can be handled when dealing with the Communist countries . They deal in hos tages , and the western countries are learning to keep a supply on hand for trading purposes . The case of the 13 is unusual in that the Chinese chose to make such a public spectacle of the matter . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reasons . But in the process , fortunately for the West , they made the tactical mistake of putting Soviet diplomacy in an intolerable position . Moscow 's diplomats had either to break openly , or attempt to sustain the Peking contention that men in uniform can be spies , which is a contradiction in terms . A man in uniform can be , and often is , engaged in intelligence work , but he is never a spy because his identity is never concealed . It was on the above basis that Washington carried its case to the UN with such success , and also this feature of the case which put the Soviets in such an uncomfortable position . One of the more interesting by-products of the matter is that it has opened a new basis for private , as distinct from public and official , contact between Soviet and western diplomats . Some western experts on Soviet behavior have suspected that Moscow 's changed tactics toward the West are to be explained , in part at least , as a deliberate hedge against rising Chinese independence inside the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and the more bristling their behavior , the more Soviet diplomats seek bases of discussion with their western opposite numbers . This may be extremely temporary , but it is an interesting aspect of the present times that the British , who once thought it might be possible to woo China away from the Soviet Union , now see a greater possibility of performing the operation from the opposite direction . Certainly MoscoW 's relations with the West are notably less disturbed than are China's.                     