@@713742

txt Former Mayor William O'Dwyer 's current role  --  a witness before crime investigating bodies  --  took him yesterday to Brooklyn . For four and a half hours Mr. O'Dwyer , now Ambassador to Mexico , testified before the borough 's special grand jury studying organized gambling and its relationship to police corruption . He will return this morning at 10 o'clock for another questioning period before the panel . Although no official comments were offered on Mr. O'Dwyer 's testimony , the Brooklyn prosecutor 's office had indicated previously that it was interested in learning from the witness , who also is a former Kings County District Attorney , about police-protected gambling operations and his own investigation into Murder , Inc . In preparing for Mr. O'Dwyer 's appearance , investigators from District Attorney Miles F. 's staff have been looking into the financial affairs of the witness , it was learned . Accountants have been visiting banks in this and other states for leads to Mr. O'Dwyer 's funds and possible real estate holdings . The former Mayor arrived at the Central Court Building , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an automobile owned by his brother Paul and driven by James H. Furey , a former policeman who served as chauffeur when Mr. O'Dwyer was the city 's chief executive . He was taken to the grand jury 's suite on the fourth floor in a private elevator usually reserved for judges . Confronted by reporters and newspaper photographers , the Ambassador stopped briefly to pose for pictures but declined to comment on his appearance before the jury . The morning session lasted two and a half hours , with a tenminute recess at 11:30 . As Mr. O'Dwyer emerged an hour later for the luncheon recess , he again was the target of reporters . " Did you receive a financial questionnaire ? " he was asked . " No , I was n't asked , " he replied irritably . The questionnaire ? a twentythree-page form dealing with the financial affairs of witnesses over a six-rear period ? has been distributed by the Kings County District Attorney 's office to most witnesses . Earlier in the day , on leaving his hotel for Brooklyn , Mr. O'Dwyer had declared @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ asked . " What were you questioned about by the jury ? " the Ambassador was asked . " I wo n't discuss what I spoke about , " he answered . Mr. O'Dwyer was informed of the perjury indictment returned against James J. Moran , a longstanding friend and associate . " I have nothing to say , " the exMayor said . He returned wearily into the grand jury suite and left the building by a rear elevator . Comment by Helfand Assistant District Attorney Julius Helfand , who questioned the former Mayor before the panel , also was asked about the questionnaire . " The matter has not come up yet , " Mr. Helfand said . " I 'll announce it if and when I do it . " When the question was repeated at the end of the day 's session , Mr. Helfand replied : " We have n't reached that point yet . " Mr. Helfand then announced that the grand jury , which had met on Mondays , Wednesdays and Fridays , would convene this morning . Mr. Helfand refused to say whether @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " When will you be through with him Mr. O'Dwyer 7 " the prosecutor was asked . " I hope tomorrow , " Mr. Helfand said . Meanwhile Mr. O'Dwyer again took advantage of the rear elevator to avoid meeting reporters . In the course of the morning session District Attorney went into the hearing room . He left at 12:25 P. M. after nearly an hour with the jury . Mr. said he gave Mr. Helfand some information on Mr. O'Dwyer " and then remained as an observer . Yesterday was Mr. O'Dwyer 's second appearance before the grand jury . Last Aug. 7 he was questioned about his characterization of the panel 's activities as a " witch hunt . " He later retracted the statement . In the District Attorney 's investigation into the death of Abe Reles , a member of Murder , Inc. , Chief Assistant District Attorney Edward S. Silver questioned Burton B. Turkus , a former assistant prosecutor , Chief of Detectives Conrad Rothengast and Dr. E. Edward Marten , chief assistant medical examiner . Reles , a member of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a fall from a Brooklyn hotel while in protective custody . Mr. Silver said that the information he had gathered " does not lead me to believe that it is a murder , but there is no final determination . " Although Reles ' death was reported , as a suicide , the circumstances surrounding the incident never have been explained satisfactorily .                     