@@718580

txt Seriousness of Governor Furcolo 's drive for a 3 per cent limited sales tax is being reemphasived by his drafting of a top authority on state taxes to draw up a detailed sales tax bill or presentation to the Massachusetts Legislature . Until now the Governor has not announced his readiness to submit a bill of his own . But sources close to the chief executive reported that Joseph P. Healey of Boston . executive director of the former Special Commission on Taxation , is being drafted by the Governor for the task ol framing a bill . Although Mr. Healey would not confirm or deny the report , it is understood he is ready to go to work on the difficult and important task . Direct Backing Furthermore , it is reported he or the Governor 's proposed Commission on Audit of State Needs will frame legislation for distribution of $75,000.000 , or two thirds of the $112,500,000 yield , of the proposed sales tax to the cities and towns . The major problem involved is to surround the sales tax distribution with sufficient safeguards to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ revenue will go toward reducing the property tax rates . The Governor 's willingness to have a sales tax bill drafted for presentation to the Legislature will eliminate some of the adverse feeling among legislators over his earlier indication that he might leave that job up to the General Court . Many legislators , both Democrats and Republicans , have privately insisted it is tap to the Governor to present detailed legislation carrying out his sales tax ideas . They feel this is just as important as his planned tour around the state to sell the sales tax directly to the people . If a sales tax is to be adopted , a dual selling job is involved  --  legislative and public . Both must be done vigorously and . adroitly , experts agree , or the drive will fail . And specific legislation is part of the selling job . It is reported that the sales tax laws in the 33 states having sales taxes will be carefully studied , including their administration , so that Massachusetts may benefit by their experience in reporting and collection . In addition , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ present their ideas on the best method of reporting and collecting taxes . But as important as detailed legislation on the sales tax is , the drafting of proposals to control use of the municipal share of the anticipated revenue is regarded as even more important . Those business and civic groups strongly backing the sales tax as the solution to state and local revenue problems would turn against the plan swiftly , if no accompanying curbs were placed on local spending , it is pointed out by several private fiscal experts close to the whole subject Home Rule Problem . At the same time , such curbs would probably water down support from public employee groups looking to the sales tax-as a means of forcing new pay raises at the local level . How to draft effective expenditure controls without trampling hard on home rule and without placing municipalities in harmful financial straight jackets is a major problem facing the administration . It was recalled by one tax expert that when Republican Gov . Bradford proposed a sales tax 10 years ago a proposal was made that municipalities be barred @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Emergency Finance Board . Percentage Limit ? Another possibility advanced is placing of percentage limits on expenditure increases , with state reimbursements to be withheld from communities going ? over the limit . A straight tax rate limit is also proposed . Whatever the method proposed , the aim is to make certain by some direct means that the sales tax revenue is not consumed by pay increases and other expenditure hikes so that no property tax reduction can be made . Governor Furcolo has made it clear a major purpose of his sales tax proposal is such tax reduction at the local level . But many financial experts , surveying the whole field of local finance , are concerned lest mayors and city councils and town meetings push ahead with greater spending programs this year in anticipation of sales tax Passage . If they do , the sales tax revenue would be eaten up in advance , withno.expenfliture controls - possible.                     