@@720764

txt The drama of an air liner carrying 50 persons that left its course for a " needle in the haystack ' ' search for a lost student pilot and led him to safety thru thick clouds was unfolded here Sunday . " We could imagine the intense loneliness of the man in that tiny little plane , lost in a pocket of mountains , so we decided to go help him . " That was the way Walter Moran , 46 , captain of an American Airlines DC-6 , explained the decision of his crew of five to take their Boston - to - Chicago bound plane off its course Sunday near Albany , N. Y. , to find Guy L. Stultz , piloting a single engine Cessna 120 . Trapped in Clouds Moran of Hamilton , Mass. , and James Carner , 30 , of Greenland , N. H. , the copilot , recounted their hour long search and rescue of Carner ( left ) and Moran the Brockton , Mass. , student pilot on their arrival here . The story began as the DC-6 carrying 45 passengers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Stultz was trapped in the clouds in mountainous territory , unable to descend because he could not plot his location and determine what was below him . ? He had no instruments to guide him thru the weather on what was his third attempt to fill his final requirement for a priva t e pilot 's license . Radio Contact Blocked Mountains obstructed radio contact between Stultz and the Albany airport , so Moran 's plane became the relay point for messages . " Our decision to help him was tempered by the realization of what he was up against , " said Moran . " It really shook us up when we found he was only a student . Flying in overcast has killed , many a veteran . We were afraid he might panic . " Stultz was able to sight the name of a small town painted on a roof as he peered thru : a momentary opening in the clouds . The , town 's name was unfamiliar to the American crew or the Albany control tower , but state police fixed its location . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , which would lead him over the field , even tho - he would be unable to determine when he passed overhead because of the poor visibility . " Jim was flying the plane , and I began talking to him , " said Moran . " We decided to intercept his course , because it would be the only way to locate this one tiny plane in the 2,500 square mile area in which we were working . " We used a navigational radio , which : has a poor receiver , to talk with him , while our regular equipment kept us in contact with Albany , " said Moran . " We located his new course , and started to follow him . Then we realized we had beat him there , and were in front of him . " Moran told Stultz to turn his radio to the lowest volume possible where he could still receive , and then notify the American plane when their message came thru louder , indicating they were getting closer to him . For 30 minutes , the two played a serious game @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ area , Stultz finally spotted the plane . Lead Him to Mel . Stultz had only about 20 minutes fuel left as the American plane , slowed to 120 miles per hour so as not to lose him , led him toward the Schenectady airport , where landing visibility was reported . " He was a ' level headed guy , " said Moran . " He told us he was n't excited , only hungry . ? It was just - like a mother leading her chick home . The last thing he said before he touched down was , Thanks , fella . Moran said he told the passengers shortly after the search began of the reason for the circling and.delay and said " they cooperated beautifully . "                     