@@718341

txt What next , for Hungary and the Soviet empire ? This is the great question mark hanging over Central Europe in the wake of a ringing United Nations denunciation of what has been called one of the most wanton . massacres in human history . Is the Kremlin headed back , into the blackness of all-out Stalinism ? Or does it merely intend to guarantee that its empire does not slip beyond Tito- , ism to liberal democracy ? On the answers to these questions depends the immediate fate of Poland and the future fate of other . satellite countries . If Soviet Communist Party Secretary Nikita S. Khrushchev has lost his dominance within the Politburo and the Kremlin is turning back the clock to the Stalin era , Poland may coon be the scene of another tragedy on the Hungarian model . If , on the other hand , the crushing of the Hungarian revolt by Soviet tanks and planes is to ? be explained by the fact that the regime of Imre Nagy tried to go too fast and too far toward genuine freedom , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ process very much in the West 's interest ? may not have been halted. ? Diplomats and observers listened carefully to Soviet delegate Arkady A , Sobolev Nov. 4 as he tried to defend his government 's action before a special emergency General Assembly of the . United Nations  --  the second to be convened in three days . IKremlin Warned Between the lines , Mr. Sobolev appeared to suggest that it was liberal democracy , not Titoism , to which the Kremlin objected  --  in other words , that the basic Khrushchev policy had not been changed , but merely executed with the all-out brutality of a Stalin . Weitern diplomats ; taking the UN podium in a series- of eloquent , emotion-packed speeches , did what they could to warn the Kremlin-away from a-return-1 ' 6j Stalinism and to indict.it for - the- crimes committed in Hungary . ' ThO-Passed 50 to 8 with 15 abstentions and 3 oabsentees , a United States resolution which did these things : Condemned the use of Soviet armed might " to suppress the efforts of the Hungarian people to reassert their rights " and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ widespread bloodshed " which it said had resulted ; fCalled upon the Soviet Union " to desist forthwith from all armed attack on the peoples of Hungary " and to " withdraw all of its forces without delay from Hungarian territory " ; ' Directed Secretary - General Dag Hammarskjold to establish an investigating committee and try to send it into Hungary  --  a step which , however , few expect ' the new Hungarian regime will permit ; Asked Mr. Hammarskjold and the UN specialized agencies , along with governments and private humanitarian organizations , to go to Hungary 's aid with " food , medicine , and other similar supplies . " Soviet Action Scathed Sir Leslie Knox Munro of New Zealand acknowledged bitterly that the action may have come too late to save Hungary " for the time being . " But he added that it was useful for the world to voice its " anger " at the " ruthless exercise of Soviet power , " lest silence lead to the question ; " Who tomorrow ? And who the day after that ? " Selim Sarper @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he scarcely could speak , said , " Tanks and guns can open gates of cities , but they are powerless to conquer the hearts and minds of human beings . " He warned the Kremlin in effect that it was sowing the wind and would reap a whirlwind . Henry Cabot Lodge , Jr. , of the United ' States denounced what he called the " unutterable cyni cism " with which the Soviet delegate was " raising his hands in horror " over bloodshed in Egypt while the Soviets were committing " wholesale brutality " in Hungary . Mr. Lodge pointedly recited the so-called " Bandung principles " ? including nonintervention in the affairs of other states and peaceful coexistence . He recalled how Soviet Premier Nikolai A. Bulganin and Mr. Khrushchev had paid lip service to these principles on a tour of Asia and on other occasions . 13 Hold Aloof ? If this was a bid to Asia and Africa to join in the protest , it did not succeed . Of the 29 coupWrenahieh ' Sigliar the-Banda g declaration on April 24 , 1955. 23 are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 8 voted for the condemnation of Soviet action in Hungary . Thirteen refused to take a stand . They were Afghanistan , Burma , Ceylon , Egypt , India , Indonesia , Iraq , Jordan , Libya , Nepal , Saudi Arabia , Syria , and Yemen . Two were absent when the vote was taken . A number of these Bandung countries are sullen over what they regard as an effort to distract attention from the Egyptian crisis . They also resent United States resistance to sanctions against Britain , : ' rance , and Israel , and Washington 's effort to promote a lasting peace settlement with Israel .. Some wish to destroy . Israel , not negotiate with it . Ground Lost The ? aloofness of many Bandung countries was'also ascribed by numerous observers to a lack of moral courage often noted among this group when issues involving the Soviet Union are at stake . There was little doubt that the action in Egypt had had a tragic impact on Hungary , split ting the Western alliance as it did , giving the UN a major preoccupation , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ intense pressure of world opinion which the West had managed to build up . Many believed the Kremlin never would have sent its troops back into Hungary , after first withdrawing them , if world attention had been focused exclusively on Budapest . UN diplomacy Nov. 4 was an effort to restore the lost pressure , but few diplomats felt it had been successful . The studied indifference of the 13 Bandung powers was one measure of the ground that had been lost . ? The Assembly resolution setting up a UN command , however , called for withdrawal of Israeli and Egyptian forces behind their original armistice lines , with the imposition of a strong UN force to guarantee these lines . There was no immediate response from embattled Cairo , intent at the moment on repelling the Anglo-French invasion of Egypt which began in the dawn hours of ? Nov. 5 following round-the-clock aerial bombardment of Egyptian military bases and road convoys since Oct. 31 . London Cheers The Egyptian commander of Port Said has asked for a meeting with British and French commanders to arrange for suar render @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Anthony Eden told a cheering House of Commons that a cease-fire already was in effect in the Port Said arca . This news followed the dawn landing of at least 3,000 British and French paratroopers in an operation which returning pilots said went oft like clockwork . An Anglo-French invasion armada left Cyprus Nov. 4 , but there was no indication when or where it would land . Headquarters , on CyprUs announced that Egypt had sunk three ships at Suez to block the Suez Canal . Thus the ** at its southern ? terminus of Suez and also midway in its course at Lake Tirnsah , where British planes on Nov. 1 sank a vessel which the British later claimed the Egyptians were lowing with the purpose of sinking in the channel . In the Sinai Peninsula , meanwhile . Israel was in complete control . It appeared almost certain that Israeli forces had captured the two islands of Tiran and Sanafir at the mouth of the Gulf of Aqaba , from . which Egyptian guns had barred the gulf to Israeli shipping since 1949 . Resolution Passed 57-0 Back @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ passed 57-0 with 19 abstentions , appointed Maj. Gen. E. L. M. Burns , now chief of the UN truce machinery in Palestine , as commander of the force still to be raised . UN Secretary-General Dag Hammarskjold reported that Colombia , New Zealand , and Norway had agreed to take part in the force . Canada also was expected to do so . Mr. Hammarskjold will seek the necessary troops from among 71 of the UN ' s 76 members , barring only the big powers  --  Britain , France , the United States , the Soviet Union , and Nationalist China . Employment of the UN force , observers believed , would raise grave problems . Should . Israel refuse to accept . the force and should the UN persist in sending - it , it was possible that Israel would attack Jordan to stabilize its eastern frontier before a UN force blocked any move . Thus the UN resolution designed to end Mideast-fightingmight indirectly-cause its extension if Israel should decide that the experience of the past eight years had made its present boundaries intolerable . This was an immediate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ UN forces and agree to pull back to the original - armistice lines , the problem would merely have reverted to the old status qtio , which bred the nrescnt fighting . Tension Builds Up Thus tension might be expected to grow ' in the future , ready to explode ' " - When UN screening forces eventually were withdrawn . Meanwhile , the first evidence of expected Arab sabotage o4 Western oil iostallatiOns was announced . The British Foreign Office acknowledged ? that two pumping stations of the Iraq Petroleum Company had been sabotaged over the week end , halting the flow of pipeline oil from Iraq . Blaming the Syrian Army for the sabotage , the Foreign Office called on the Syrian Government to repair the damage and restore the line to use . The Syrian Government was not expected to comply . Indeed , the sabotage was merely the first of many incidents which might be expected to take place in the Arab world as Arab anger mounted over the Israeli-British-French invasion of Egypt . So far , the American - owned Trans - Arabian Pipeline Company , running from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be intact . ' Chis type of sabotage would not be expected to end in the event of Anglo-French conquest of Egypt . Some observers foresaw the eventual need of AngloF  --  ench occupation of nitich of the Arab world if widespread sabotage were not to disrupt or halt the flow of oil to Western Europe . The consequences throughout Asia and Africa of such occupation would be incalculable.                     