@@716102

txt Democrats and Republicans moved separately today to curb one-man investigations by Senator Joseph R. McCarthy . The Wisconsin Republican was in a generally conciliatory mood and did not object . He also said he had no further differences with the White House or with Robert T. Stevens , Secretary of the Army , with whom he has conducted a running battle for the past week . The Senator was asked for his reaction to President Eisenhower 's statement that he was 100 per cent behind Secretary Stevens . " Eisenhower said he was against browbeating witnesses ? I am too , " Senator McCarthy replied . The Senate Republican leadership set in motion a study aimed at curbing one-man inquiries by any Senator . The study was intended to give to committee majorities , rather than individual chairmen or staff members , control over the issuance of subpoenas for witnesses . A full study of investigating committee rules was voted unanimously by the Senate Republican Policy Committee at a hastily summoned session . New York Hearing Off On the Democratic side , Senators John L. McClellan of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Senate Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations , insisted successfully that ? Senator McCarthy call off a closed hearing he had scheduled for 10:30 A. M. tomorrow in New York . Senator McCarthy had summoned undisclosed " military personnel " for questioning there in a continuance of his long investigation as a one-man subcommittee of alleged subversion at the Army Signal Corps Base at Fort Monmouth , N. J. Senator McClellan , speaking for the Democrats , declared that the minority members had not received adequate notice . of the proposed hearing in New York . He said they were not able to adjust their schedules on such short notice . Senator McCarthy said the New York hearing involved only " a couple of witnesses . " ? Senator McClellan responded it would be cheaper to bring the witnesses to Washington than it would be to send the subcommittee to New York . Senator McCarthy thereupon agreed to cancel the New York inquiry and to hold it in Washington at 10 A. M. Monday .. Later Senator McClellan said the notice of the hearing had named the witnesses slated for questioning @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Army 's ( Murphy General Hospital in Waltham , Mass. , and Pvt . Sid Ruben- // stein of Fort Banks at Winthrop , Mass . He said the notice reported they would be asked whether they had signed or refused to sign loyalty oaths when . they entered the Army .. . Senator Charles E. Potter , Michigan Republican , expressed belief there would be greater participation in the future by the six other members of Senator McCarthy 's subcommittee , who often have allowed him to act alone . He did not rule out completely the possibility of one-man sessions , but he expressed the hope that as many other committee members as possible would take part in the inquiries . He also expressed the hope that fewer hearings would be held out of town , that most sessions would be in Washington . There were no new developments at the Pentagon today , but Secretary Stevens paid a surprise visit to the Senate ? office building in miaLafternoon . It was , understood he conferred with Senator Margaret Chase Smith , ' , Maine Republican , a ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ian investigation of ammunition problems . He did not see Senator McCarthy or other principals in the latest row . The White House also had no , news , other than to say it had received " lots of telegrams " concerning the controversy . James C. Hagerty , the White House press secretary , declined to indicate whether a majority favored or opposed the Administration stand . McCarthy is Agreeable At a news conference , Senator McCarthy himself brought up complaints about " one-man investigations . " He said A was his hope that at least one Democrat would join him or other Republicans in all future hearings to avoid possible " hazzles like the one we got into last week . " He said complainants " ought to cry " about the Senators who do not attend hearings rather than those who do attend , but he added hastily that he was not criticizing hit colleagues . Fully fifty reporters were on hand when Senator McCarthy agreed to pose for television and newsreel camera operators . They wished to record the statement they missed last night in which the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ statement was " completely false . " Today , however , he modified , that statement . He noted that Secretary Stevens had not contended he had received from Senator MdCarthy assurances , that witnesses would not be ' " browbeaten or humiliated in the future . " He said he could not have given such assurances because he would not agree that witnesses had been badly treated in the past . No Differences Now Senator McCarthy declared , in response to questions , that there no longer were any differences , between himself and either Sea ' retary Stevens or the White House . He volunteered the statement that no Republican leader , ' from President Eisenhower down , ever had suggested that he soft- ' pedal or call off any investigation of communism or corruption . He declared his intention to continue exposing communists and crooks " even if it embarrasses my own party . " The Senator stuck to his assertion that Secretary Stevens had been mistaken in his contention that Brig . Gen. Ralph W. Zwicker , the Camp Kilmer , N. J. , commandant , had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of counsel . He declared witnesses always had been and would be treated fairly , but he warned that he would subject to " vigorous cross examination " any witness who withheld facts from him . He insisted that General Zwicker had been called as a " friendly witness . " But he said the General had been less communicative when questioned by him than he had been when interviewed by a committee inves-1 tigator , James Julian . The latest row developed over ' the Army 's honorable discharge , of Major Peress Feb. 2 , after ha had invoked the Fifth Amendment to the Constitution and de-I dined to answer questions put by the McCarthy subcommittee about alleged Communist activities . The Fifth Amendment provides that a person need not be a witness against himself in a criminal case , and this has been construed to include Congressional hearings where the testimony given might provide the basis for a later criminal indictment . Although little information was released about it today , the I most significant action on Capitol Hill was the decision of the Republican leadership , as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rules that now govern Senate investigating committees and subcommittees . ' Abuse ' Possible Agenda Senator Homer Ferguson , Michigan Republican and chairman of , the Policy Committee , said - he had been authorized by a unanimous vote of his subcommittee to undertake the study and to submit possible rules revisions . He made no secret of the fact that the move had grown out of the latest Administration struggle with Senator McCarthy , although he would not say so directly . Asked if the study would include " abuse " of ' witneses , Senator Ferguson said , " If there has been any abuse I assume we will , look into it along with the other , matters . " Members of the Republican group present when the rules revision study was voted were : William F. Knowland of California , floor leader ; Robert C. Hendrickson of New Jersey ; Eugene D. Millikin of Colorado ; Leverett Saltonstall of Massachusetts ; Andrew F. Schoeppel of Kansas ; , Mrs ; Smith and Milton R. Young of North Dakota . Senator McCarthy modified his charge that Secretary Stevens ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ after two Republican members of his subcommittee had spoken in support of the Secretary 's statement . Both Senators Potter and Karl Mundt of South Dakota said they thought Secretary Stevens was correct in believing he had assurances from subcommittee members that Army witnesses would not be mistreated in the future . Senator Mundt said the general , understanding was that it was not necessary to subpuena Army officers , and that they would cooperate with the subcommittee when they appeared . In return , he said , it was made clear " they would be treated civilly and properly . " Senator McCarthy said he expected Secretary Stevens to live up fully to the agreement he had made Wednesday to provide the committee with the names of all those involved in any way in the promotion and subsequent honorable discharge o ' Major Peress . Secretary Stevens promised to make all these persons , including General Zwicker , available as witnesses if the subcommittee wished to question them . The Senator said one great source of his trouble with the Army and other Executive departments was the Truman order requiring @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that order now is under study at the Justice Department . Senator McCarthy expressed hope the Eisenhower Administration soon would modify it . " That would make it easier for this committee to get information the public is entitled to have , " he said . Meanwhile , the question was raised whether Secretary Stevens could carry out his promise to make Army officers involved in the study of Major Peress ' security available to Senator McCarthy 's committee without the specific sanction of the President . Under the Truman order , still in effect , the President must give " express authority " before secret information about the security program can be given to Congress . President Truman also forbade the giving to Congressional committees of the names and votes of loyalty review officers in a particular case . On another investigative front , Senator McCarthy said his committee was in possession of a " confirmed " telephone file from Washington Communist headquarters during 1948 , which included the names of many persons  --  with Government telephone numbers . He said he was checking , to see whether persons on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ n't mean , " he added , " that everyone listed there is a Communist . But it indicates they were called frequently from Communist headquarters . " . The list , he said , had been sent to the Civil Service Commission and to the Federal Bureau of Investigation to determine if any listed on it still were Federal employes . " The name of practically every well known Communist in the District of Columbia is there , " he Said .                     