@@714705

txt Reacting a few hours after yester-I day 's signature of the contractual ' agreement between the Allies and West Germany and the issuance of a Western declaration on Berlin , 1 the East German Government or- ' dered " strict measures " to close the East-West German border to " subversives . " Allied officials said there would I be no way to assess the import of this dramatically timed decree except in its application . Although it was not ostensibly retaliation against the contractual agree , ment it contained a provision for its own revocation if an understanding were reached regarding German unification elections . The declaration on Berlin , issued by the United States , Britain and 1France , was intended to maintain /the status quo of Berlin . It was paralleled by a statement issued by the Bonn Government pledging to help protect the approaches to Berlin . Eisler Warns Signatories The East German decree was issued last night after a special session of the Ministers Council . Earlier , Gerhart Eisler , who heads the East German Information Office , told a crowd @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would regret their action . " Today they can smile , they have signed , " said Herr Eisler . " Tomorrow they will weep when the general war contract explodes in their faces . " His prediction was interpreted to apply to the period after the implementation of the accords , rather than the immediate future . The operative part of last night 's decree read as follows : " The Ministry for State Security is instructed to take immediately strict measures for the reinforcement of the policing of the demarcation line between the east German Democratic Republic and the Western-occupied zones to prevent further infiltration of subversive elements , spies , terrorists and saboteurs into the territory of the German Democratic Republic . " Berlin Receives New Rights The Allied declaration on Berlin set the city apart from the documents signed in Bonn and widened the authority of the city government . A letter forwarding the declaration to the city government said it was " at present foreseen " that it would come into force simultaneously with the Bonn agreement . Some Allied officials hoped that if ratification of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be put into operation beforehand . The primary function of the // declaration was to underline the contention of the Western Allies that the contractual agreements had on the international character of this city . The East Germans have implied that the contractual arrangement nullified the Potsdam Agreement and associated pacts on which the four-power rule of Berlin is based . Some Western officials have feared that the Communists might later use this argument to try to squeeze the Allies out of Berlin , Old Arrangements Replaced The Berlin declaration will replace the statement of principles issued by the Western Allies in Berlin May 14 , 1949 and revised March 6 , 1951 . It is the fruit of eight months of negotiation - between the three Western powers and the West Berlin Government headed by Mayor Ernst Reuter . While Berlin is kept separate front the Federal Republic the declaration brings the treatment of some subjects here into conformity with that accorded by contractual arrangements . This includes the questions of restitution , reparations , decartelization , displaced persons and the disposition of prisoners in German prisons serving sentences imposed by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ latter proviso , according to Allied officials here , who say the only war criminals imprisoned in Berlin are the six top Nazis being held in Spandau Prison , which is under four-power control . In all these questions the Allies will interfere with the city authorities only " to an extent consistent with " the provisions of the Bonn documents . The declaration allows the West Berlin Government to take over legislation adopted in Bonn so long as this is done " under an appropriate procedure ' authorized by the Western commandants . This right I is to apply " in particular " to trade , financial and immigration matters . The Western Allies retain for themselves the all-embracing right to take " such measures as may be required to fulfill their international obligations , to insure public order and to maintain the status and security of Berlin and its economy , trade and communication . " The document said its provisions would be modified " as the situation in Berlin permits . " This in effect held out to the City Government the hope that the commandants would further @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's declaration , signed by Chancellor Konrad Adenauer , pledged sufficient continued financial support by the Federal Republic to " guarantee " the city a balanced budget . It pledged coopera-1 tion with the municipal authorities in obtaining the scarce raw materials needed by the city 's industries . This latter promise included the allocation to Berlin of foreign aid received by the Federal Republic . In addition Bonn promised the continued inclusion of West Berlin in the monetary system based on the Duetsche Mark as well as efforts to enlarge the city 's export trade . The Bonn Government also said it would seek to include Berlin in its international agreements " in so far as this is not excluded by the nature of the agreements concerned . " Finally , with an allusion to the possibility of a new Berlin blockade , the Bonn Government pledged " to cooperate in the protection or restoration " of traffic connections between Berlin and West Germany " ill accordance with the means at its disposal . " These connections lie across East Germany . Bonn also agreed to aid in maintaining sufficient @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 