@@716702

txt Public opinion may be the deciding factor in heading 1955 Bay State crime-and-punishment legislation in the direction of added harshness or farreaching reform . ' inc ' climate of opinion , in which Massachusetts lawmakers will make decisions in the coming session , has been important in previous years , of course . Issues involving penology rarely are fought out along party lines . Lawmakers can and do keep a weather eye on emotional clouds back home . This year the weather looks stormy . " This is not a bright-looking year , " was the way a worker in the field of prison legislation put it . " Not that any year ever looks particularly bright Newbury-port , and Revere , prison escapes in Boston and Norfolk  --  these happenings , given blazing prominence by the press , have kindled renewed , demands for harsher penalties for kidnaping and assault . Arrest of three . youths , aged 16 , 17 , and 18 , on charges of murder of a filling station operator in Revere in the course of an unsuccessful holdup this week , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Although no juvenile court bill has been filed , legislation will be sought for extension of the detention system to other parts of the state than Boston and for putting Youth Service Board prevention services on a mandatory basis in certain areas . Bills to increase penalties for assault on children and for kidnaping are already in the legislative hopper . They rest side-by-side with bills offering more time off for good behavior for inmates in the state prisons . They compete also with bills looking toward significant reforms . A bill providing for prison guard training is designed to meet a need that was stressed by the special legislative commission studying unrest in the prisons . Two bills have been filed to continue this commission 's work . Two ' Lifer ' Bills bled An out-of-the-ordinary bill concerning defective delinquents  --  persons deemed to be mentally deficient and possessing criminal or immoral tendencie .. ? has been filed in the House . It would set up a special commission " to investigate and study reimbursement of persons who have been illegally committed as defective delinquents . " . Other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pattern . Already filed are two " lifers " bills , which differ in details but aim at making inmates serving certain life sentences eligible for parole consideration after a stated number of years . At present , lifers are not parolable but may be released , usually under parole conditions  --  meaning supervision  --  if the Governor grants a pardon . There are two bills dealing with reduction of time served under a sentence . One would allow credit of one more day a month for satisfactory performance of work , leaving credits for good behavior unchanged . A second bill is more liberal and would do away with the present disparity of allowed credits on short and long sentences . It would give instead a flat 10 days a month credit for good behavior and satisfactory work , regardless of length of sentence . - Inmates at Charlestown also favor a bill under which time spent in jail before sentence would be deducted from the term of the maximum sentence imposed . At present , a person is given no " credit " for time spent in jail awaiting trial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a judge takes into account time spent in jail " when sentencing a prisoner , This official said the law " should stay as it is . " Supervised Release ? Other legislation includes a bill sponsored by Friends Framingham , a ' citizen group that backed Dr. Miriam Van Waters ' successful efforts to resist removal as superintendent of the Women 's Reformatory in 1949 . The group has again offered a " conditional placement " ' oil . This time , the bill incorporates changes suggested at legislative hearings during the last session . Its proponents expect the bill to come to a vote in 1955 , instead of being shelved as in 1954 . The bill provides for supervised release of women prisoners at the reformatory for periods longer than a day , for domestic work in Framingham and neighboring towns . The state Parole Board has not taken a stand on this bill , but it has opposed similar bills in the past on grounds that they would set up a " competing " releasing authority in the reformatory superintendent . The Friends of Framingham have defiled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ supplemental " to the board 's releasing power .                     