@@719579

txt The United States Army launched a second Explorer-type satellite with a Jupiter-C rocket March 5 . The launching came just 33 days after another Jupiter-C recaptured lost United States prestige by hurling the free world 's first satellite into an orbit . The 70-foot launching rockets were identical . The new satellite vehicle , like the one that ? preceded it , was a metal tube more than six feet long and six inches in diameter . It streaked skyward as a twin to the Explorer " moon " and as a traveling companion to the Soviet Sputnik II , both now orbiting the earth at about 18,000 m.p.h . As with the first Explorer , the Army planned to let the world know within two hours whether its newest space vehicle had attained the minimum of 200 miles of altitude and the speed it must have to stay aloft for long . The four-stage rocket , a slim and snow-white giant , roared away from its concrete launching stand at 1:28 p.m. , est . The rocket moved slowly at first , its tail emitting a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Sight Within 25 seconds it had climbed up into an overcast of about 5,000 feet and was out of sight . Even after it disappeared into the thick clouds the Jupiter could be heard roaring skyward , It appeared to be a fine launching , and signals from the rocket immediately after launching indicated it was flying smoothly and directly into space . The signal came from a piece of telemetery equipment called Doyen for Doppler Frequency and Position . This device produces a whine that is below the audible level at the start of the missile 's flight but could be heard as soon as the rocket picked up speed . The tone could be heard and its pitch rose as the missile 's speed increased . The sound was designed to build up in intensity until the Redstone 's first stage burned out , when it would end suddenly . The sound did end within 21/2 minutes , the burning time scheduled for the Redstone 's first stage . A few minutes , after the launching , the Defense Department announced that the Army had launched a " multistage @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ determine whether ' the satellite was in orbit . Newsmen and photographers watching the launching from a rooftop a mile and a half away cheered at the successful takeoff . The rocket 's main engine was burning a potent and still-secret new fuel called hydyne . This fuel also was used for the previous Jupiter-C launching . The first stage was scheduled to burn out 150 seconds after launching when it was 40 to 50 miles above the earth and climbing at the rate of 4,400 to 4,500 feet a second . The dead Redstone rocket was then supposed to coast on upward with the other stages for 240 more seconds to about 200 miles . Course South of East There the whole vehicle was to incline over to the horizontal on a course slightly south of east , much as in the case of the Explorer satellite . The Army waited respectfully to launch the new satellite more than 20 minutes after the Explorer had passed over this area . This delay was arranged so there would he no interference or confusion between the radio signals from the two satellites @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ signals no longer could be heard in this area , the new satellite was sent aloft . The Army was so confident of success that it not only adjusted its launching schedule to the times of the first satellite 's passage but also restricted itself to launchings between 12 noon and 3 p.m. , or 12 midnight and 3 a.m. , the periods in which the temperature changes which might affect the instruments were likely to be at a minimum !                     