@@713942

txt The Federal Bureau of Investigation has charged 21 members if the Communist Party 's secondary command with plotting violent overthrow of the United States Government . A sudden early-morning roundup netted 16 party officials in New York and one in Pittsburgh . Four were still being sought . The government moved against the lesser lights in the wake of this month 's Supreme Court 's decision unholding the conviction of the party 's 11 top leaders . Attorney General J. Howard and FBI Director J. Edgar Hoover said in a state-ment : " Some of the individuals an ? rested are members of the alternate national committee , recently formed by the Communist Party to serve as the top policy-making body in the absence of the present national committee members , now convicted . " The 11 leaders were convicted in New York in 1949 of conspiring to teach and advocate the violent overthrow of the United States Government . Although the Supreme Court upheld the conviction two weeks ago , a legal battle for a rehearing still is on . Each of those seized today @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ active functionary of the Communist Party , U.S.A. " Mr. Hoover added : " All have been in party work for many years , and today hold ranking positions in the party apparatus . They represent officials both of the national and New York State Communist Party . " A federal grand jury which has been investigating subversive activities immediately returned an indictment , in New York naming the 21 persons . All of those taken into custody were charged under the 1940 Smith Act . The Supreme Court upheld the constitutionality of this law , providing punishment for violent plotting , when it affirmed the convictions of the top 11 . That group received prison sentences ranging up to five years and each was fined $10,000 . Attorney General , in a statement , saluted his aides in the FBI and the Justice Department 's criminal division for their ability to act " promptly " against the party 's alternate leadership . Background of 21 Communists : Page 16.                     