@@715959

txt It is not hard to understand the Administration 's concern with unemployment , for the Ad-ministration is concerned with the health of the nation 's economy . Thus President Eisenhower'a order to divert some defense contracts to areas having jobless men will be viewed with some sympathy at first glance . But a second look will show how glaringly wrong it is . It is wrong because unemployment is one concern of the Administration and defense is quite a different one . The tax dollars that the Congress appropriated for defense ought to go for defense . and the most defense that can be got from those dollars is the particular concern of the Defense Department . There is a catchy phrase around Washington to describe what the Detense Department is trying to do in this regard . They call it " more bang for a buck . " But one does n't get more bang for a buck by saddling the Defense Department with directives wnich say chat certain areas with labor ' Surpluses ought to get preference in contracts over areas which have no labor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when faster tax write-offs are granted certain distressed areas for erection or improve- ment of plants which other areas are denied . At best , such a plan is only a shot in the arm which may for a time seem to ease the pain of unemployment in a particular locality . But it will not cure it , and conceivably it may help to spread it . For there are only a certain number of dollars which can be spent through these defense contracts . To give preferential treatment to one section because it has less people at work  --  than another place could result in unemployment in the locality which lost the contract . What does the government do then ? Designate another area as " distressed , " give it preferential treatment over other areas and thus create more economic distress ? But that would be spoonfeeding everyone on a merry-go-round . A case can be made for government concern about its jobless citizens , especially where it affects the national economy . But no case can be made for preferential treatment in defense contracts because of local @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cure for the troubled areas but which does contain potential danger for the nation . A littl- boondoggling with defense can lead to a lot of boondoggling and no defense at all .                     