@@716104

txt The Republican national chairman rebuked Senator Joseph R. McCarthy today after the Wisconsin Republican had broadened his fight with high Eisenhower Administration officials . Leonard W. Hall of New York chose the White House lobby as his forum after a conference with President Eisenhower at which the chairman said " the so-called McCarthy situation " was discussed . The chairman declared that Senator McCarthy 's quarrel last week with Robert T. Stevens , Secretary of the Army , had hurt the G. 0 . P. and diverted attention from the Administration 's legislative program . Mr. Hall , in the past , has called Senator McCarthy an asset to the Republican party campaign . But he said today he could not go along when the Wisconsin Senator , chairman of the Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations , attacked generals and others who were " fighting communism just as conscientiously as he is . " Seeks Explanation on This unexpected rebuke from the Republican chairman came after Senator McCarthy had said he would demand a full explanation from John Foster Dulles , the Secretary of State , on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Mr. , an old friend of Senator McCarthy , retained his authority as security officer of the . State Department , but lost supervision over personnel . He had said ' Ile two jobs were inseparable The new McCarthy demand , coupled with Mr. Hall 's statement , heightened interest in President Eisenhower 's news conference , scheduled for 10:30 A. M. tomorrow . Informed sources predicted the President also would take a firm line in discussing the McCarthy-Stevens quarrel and settlement . . The Administration has been disturbed because Secretary Stevens ' agreement with Republican members of Senator McCarthy 's subcommittee to provide Army witnesses previously withheld from the investigators was interpreted almost universally as a " surrender " or " capitulation " by the Army Secretary , who had been threatening a showdown . Mr. Stevens had complained that Senator McCarthy had " browbeaten and humiliated " Brig . Gen. Ralph W. Zwicker , Camp Kilmer , N. J. , commandant , when he was a witness before the Wisconsin Republican . Mr. Stevens later said he had received private assurances from subcommittee members thatArmy officers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ heels of the controversy over the treatment of officers , Senator McCarthy 's subcommittee yesterday offered evidence of " contradictions " in the Army 's system of handling alleged Communists and former Communists . Secretary Stevens had been invited to appear before the committee , at a closed ' session on Thursday or Monday to explain this policy but Senator McCarthy said tonight the meeting would be postponed for a few days . He said Senator Stuart ' Symington , Missouri Democrat now in Europe , had requested the delay until he returned to this country , probably early next week . Talking with reporters tonight , Senator McCarthy would not comment in any detail on the statement by Mr. Hall but he said he was " about ready to declare a moratorium " on exchanges of statements with his critics . He said it was obvious that he differed with Mr. Hall " on the handling of Communist infiltration in the Army over the last twenty years . " But the Senator added that " Len and I are good friends " and have a right to differ . Although @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ McCarthy followed a discussion of the issue with President Eisenhower , he would not say what the President 's attitude had been . To inquiries on the same subject , James C. Hagerty , White House press secretary , advised reporters to wait for the news conference tomorrow . Assurances by President The President already has given public assurances that he is 100 per cent behind Mr. Stevens in an Administration warning that future Army witnesses before the McCarthy subcommittee must not be mistreated . Representative HarrisonA . Williams Jr. , Democrat of Harrison , Jersey , in a letter to the President urged that he " publicly state in clear and unmistakable terms that you deplore the manner in which General Zwicker was treated and that you fully support Bob Stevens in the controversy . " Mr. Hall gave this summary of his own views : " My feeling about it is this : While Joe McCarthy is fighting communism I go along and we all go along . When he begins to attack persons who are fighting communism just as conscientiously as he is , I ca n't go @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was ' very disturbed about last week 's dispute , and declared that he could not see how anyone would say that " generals in our Army are not fighting communism . " Mr. Hall said that- while Senator McCarthy had aided the Republican campaign in the past , the present controversy was not helping the party . " Any internal bickering is harmful in a sense , " Mr. Hall said . " I think all these incidents throw a fog around the legislative program which is one of the finest ever presented by a President . I think that program will go through , and these little offshoots draw the people 's attention away from that program . " With Secretary Dulles in Caracas , Venezuela , for the InterAmerican Conference , there was no immediate reaction at the State Department to Senator McCarthy 's demand for an explanation . on why Mr. 's authority had been reduced . Mr. refused to see reporters . Mr. Dulles ' action on Mr. 's authority restores the system employed under preceding administrations . Under it , the security @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rulings on employment and dismissals . Senator McCarthy said the State Department 's reorganization concerned him very much , and he felt the new change would " make it infinitely harder " for Mr. to do a good job . He said Mr. Dulles ' action " does n't look good on the surface . " " Every lover of the old Acheson regime and every extreme left-winger has been using Scotty as a whipping boy , " Senator McCarthy declared . " The pitch of the screaming against hint was in direct proportion to the extent to which the critics were to the left of center . " Meanwhile , there were signs the Republican leaders of the Senate wire pushing ahead with proposed investigating committee rules changes . These would do away with one-man inquiries such as Senator McCarthy often conducts and vest more power over subpoenas in the committee majority , instead of in the chairman alone . Senator Homer Ferguson of Michigan said a Republican Polcy Coimnittee session made progress on the issue today . Charles E. Wilson , the Secretary of Defense , returned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to deprecate the importance of the dispute between Senator McCarthy and the armed services over the honorable discharge given last month to Maj. Irving Peress of New York , a dental officer who refused to say whether he was a Communist . But Senator Leverett M. Saltonstall , Republican of Massachusetts and chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee , said his committee wanted recommendations from Mr. Wilson on legislation to deal with armed forces personnel who are alleged Communists . He said there was " an immediate and pressing need " for clarification of present laws .                     