@@720983

txt Leading Democrats were pubIlicly canny but privately pleased ( tonight by Governor Rockefeller 's decision not to seek the Republican Presidential nomination . Adlai E. Stevenson of Illinois expressed regret that the Republicans had been left " with ' no other choice than Mr. Nixon " , las their Presidential candidate . Representative Sam Rayburn , the Democratic Speaker of the House of Representatives , who is an old friend of the New York Governor and who recently greeted the Governor in Dallas , said he " never commented on Republican candidates " though he " sometimes commented on Republican policies . " Senator Hubert H. Humphrey of Minnesota , the most loquacious member of his party , in the most surprising reaction of the day , said " no comment . " Private Opinions Given Nevertheless , the Democrats expressed in private these reasons for being pleased with Governor Rockefeller 's with-. drawal : ( IThey could beat Vice President Nixon more easily than Mr. Rockefeller because , they said , the New York Governor had more support among independent and Democratic voters . gThey now @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Presidential candidate before the Republicans , on July 11 in Los Angeles , and they could now assume in advance that Mr. Nixon would be their opponent . 9The Rockefeller announcement revived the conservativeliberal issue between the parties , because it gave the impression that the Republican party did not want ' ' competition " from a liberal candidate . Mr. Nixon , who is now expected to get the Republican nomination without a contest , issued the following statement after being notified of the Governor 's decision : " Governor Rockefeller has made an excellent impression in the states he has visited in the past few months . " People throughout the nation have recognized hint as a leader of national and international stature . " Regardless of the decision he has announced today , he is a man destined for continuing leadership in the Republican party and the nation in the years ahead . " Ir Mr. Stevenson , who was reached by The New York Times in Louisville , Ky. , said the withdrawal of Governor Rockefeller removed from the Republican race " a forwardlooking liberal " and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whether he is to be the ' new Nixon or the old Nixon , he remains the same Nixon . " This was a familiar reaction among the Democrats . They were emphasizing tonight that Governor Rockefeller 's decision had simplified their problem and given them a clear battle against their favorite antagoonist . All leading Democrats reached by The Times referred to this part of Governor Rockefeller 's statement : " These trips into the West , the Middle West and the South have made clear to me , as I believe they have to others , that the great majority of those who will control the Republican convention stand opposed to any contest for the nomination . " Freeze-Out Suggested This , plus Governor Rockefeller 's unequivocal statement against considering the VicePresidential nomination , suggested to the Democrats that he felt he had been frozen out by the G. 0 . P. organization , as Wendell L. Willkie was rejected in 1944 and Harold E. Stassen in 1948 and 1952 . Accordingly , it now seems clear that the Democrats will argue , on the basis of Governor Rockefeller @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ favored by the Republican Old Guard . Some of the Democrats , however , saw disadvantages for their party in the Rockefeller withdrawal . They pointed out , for example , that the Vice President was now free to concentrate on the final election ' campaign . Intraparty Fight Averted While the battalion of . Democratic candidates were using up all their ammunition , energy and campaign funds in the primary election battle against one another , Mr. Nixon would be able to conserve his energies for the campaign he planned to ' wage against the weary survivor of the Democratic conventionin Los Angeles . If Governor Rocxefeller had remained in the race , he and the Vice President would have been differing with each other publicly , and probably with the Administration . In the pre-convention debate , they would have been forced to take positions for and against what President Eisenhower had done in the past . , Now Mr. Nixon is free , according to this thesis , merely to defend the peace and prosperity policies pf a popular President . Instead of campaigning through the snows of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Dartmouth with the Taft Republicans on The Union Leader in Manchester , he is now able to concentrate on those lovely generalities of " peace and prosperity . " Stevenson Said to Gain One of the questions in debate in Washington tonight was : Whom among the Democratic candidates does Rockefeller 's withdrawal help ? There was , first of all , general agreement that it hurt Senator Humphrey . He was the Democrats ' " poor boy " candidate , the liberal country-boypharmacist  --  one of the best-informed candidates on the Democratic side  --  who could dramatize a battle against a rich Republican candidate named Rockefeller . So the thesis went . But with Mr. Rockefeller out of the race , the question now is : Who can tilt with the best political tactician in the Republican party , the young Vice President ? This , it is generally agreed here , is now going to be a rough campaign . In view of some , Mr. Stevenson gains because , if he is to come into the race at all , he will come in fresh , and has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ troubles the Vice President more than almost anything else . The Democratic majority leader in the Senate , Senator Lyndon B. Johnson of Texas , also gains , according to this thesis , because of his political skill . Of all the Democrats , Sen-1 ator Johnson was the most direct tonight in exploiting the political advantages of the Rockefeller withdrawal . In a statement from Austin . Tex. , he suggested that the Democrats , when they " win in November , " should give serious consideration to e. askin Mr. Rockefeller to serve the asking crate Administration in some high official position . " I am not surprised at Governor Rockefeller 's findings as stated today , " Senator Johnso said . " It has been obvious fo some time that there is no place in the national Republican party for the able and progressive Governor . " I think the Democratic President to be elected next November should give serious consideration to asking Governor Rockefeller to serve in the Democratic Administration in some high official position . " Senators John F. Kennedy of Massachusetts and Stuart Symington of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Democrats 10.1. ! in private ta.s never in public . This is that , while some of the Democratic leaders genuinely feared that they had nobody who could beat Mr. Rockefeller , many of them feel that the appeal of their party is great enough to beat Mr. Nixon , no matter which candidate they pick . This is not , by any means , a unanimous view among the democratic pros . Some of them have acquired an increasing respect , not only for the Vice President 's political skill , but , since his trip to the Soviet Union last summer , for his appeal to the independent voters . The majority of Democrats seem to believe in the original thesis about Mr. Nixon ; namely that , unlike President Eisenhower , he is essentially an unpopular candidate . Therefore , they are pleased by the withdrawal of Mr. Rockefeller , whom they regard as a more popular personality than anybody the Democrats had to offer . Though Governor Rockefeller reached his decision about the time former Gov . Thomas E. Dewey of New York visited Vice President @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not carry any message to the Vice President on the subject . Herbert Klein , the Vice President 's press secretary , was in Williamsburg , Va .  --  the old colonial capital restored by the Rockefeller family  --  when the news came in from Albany . He said it was a surprise to Mr. Nixon and his associates . It was somet time after Mr. Rockefeller 's statement this afternoon that the Vice President went to his office in the Capitol and issued his official comment .                     