@@715255

txt The coast guard received an SOS here early today and it /was believed to have originated aboard a National Airlines plane missing in the Gulf of Mexico with 46 persons aboard . The plane vanished Saturday on a flight from Miami and Tampa , Fla. , to New Orleans . The distress call was heard at 1:10 a. m . A similar SOS also was reported heard in Gulfport , Miss. , 65 miles east of here earlier . It was reported on the SOS frequency and aparently came from a handcranked Gibson girl transmitter , commonly carried aboard aircraft life rafts . Miami , Feb. 14 ( /P ) ? A National Airlines DC-6 with 41 passengers and five crew members was long overdue on a flight over the Gulf of glexico from Tampa to New Orleans tonight , and authorities organized an intensive search . Four coast guard PBYs seaplanes and three coast guard surface craft were sent to the area from New Orleans and gulf , coast bases . Another PBY left Jacksonville , Fla. , with two National Airlines pilots aboard to join @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ headquarters in Miami shortly after midnight with Capt . E. J. Kershaw , vice president in charge of operations , aboard . Military Bases to Aid The navy at Pensacola and the air force base planned to send search craft . The flight originated at Miami and after a stop in Tampa , where it picked up other passengers , took off on the 491 mile flight to New Orleans across the gulf . List of crew and passengers 07i page 3.1 The flight regularly requires an hour and 50 minutes between Tampa and New Orleans . National Airline headquarters said the plane had sufficient fuel to keep it aloft until about 9:30 p. m . Chicago time tonight . It was presumed to have gone down in the gulf . Piloted by Veteran Captain The DC-6 was piloted by Ernest Spring , veteran National Airlines captain , and the crew included two other men and two stewardesses , all of Miami . The plane left Tampa at 3:40 p. in. and the last report from it came at 5:12 p. m . At that time the plane gave its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ weather bureau reported rough weather along the route , including showers and thunderstorms . Small craft warnings flew along the Florida coast and a weather forecaster at Miami said , " It 's pretty rough out there in the gulf . " Previous Fatal Accidents National Airlines previously has had three fatal accidents in the company 's 18 year history . The most recent , and worst , was the crash of a four-engine plane at Elizabeth , N. J. , Feb. 11 , 1952 . The accident took 31 lives and , coming at the end of a series of crashes in Elizabeth , resulted temporarily in the closing of nearby Newark airport , which serves New York City . On Jan. 14 , 1951 , a National Airlines plane crashed after skidding on an icy runway at Philadelphia International airport . Seven persons were killed . In October , 1945 , one person was killed in a National Airlines accident at Lakeland , Fla.                     