@@715756

txt Illinois Supreme court orders Police Capt . Thomas Harrison restored to duty . Truck weight violator wins test case . Stories on page 5. 1 The Illinois Supreme court , Which last March upheld the Criminal court conviction and 17 year sentence of Richard Tamborski , 26 , in connection with the holdup murder of two Brink 's , Inc. , guards on June 25 , 1949 , reversed the lower court and its own previous ruling yesterday and ordered Tamborski freed from Stateville penitentiary . ? Trial Held In 1951 The basis for the reversal was the error of the trial court in failing to discharge the defendant for want of prosecution within four months of the date of commitment , as required by state law , the Supreme court ruled . Tamborski surrendered to the federal bureau of investigation In Alaska on Aug. 19 , 1949 , and was committed to the Cook county jail without bail on a charge of murder on Sept. 2 , 1949 . He was not tried and convicted until October , 1951 , despite demands for a trial , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ him , Tamborski will go free of implication in the shooting in which Guards Joseph Den and Bruno Koziol were slain when they resisted a holdup near the South Chicago Savings bank , 2959 E. 92d st . Expects Papers in Few Days Warden Joseph Ragen of Stateville prison said he expects three or four days to elapse before he receives papers from the Supreme court setting Tamborski free . The Criminal court trial which resulted in Tamborski 's conviction of ? killing Den was held before Judge Wilbert F. Crowley . John S. Boyle was the state 's attorney . There were delays in bringing the defendant to trial on the Den case indictment while the state tried unsuccessfully to convict him for the Koziol murder and the federal government tried without success to convict him on a charge of aggravated robbery for the bank holdup . Hold Prosecutor Privileged The Supreme court ruled in March that the state 's attorney 's privileges to seek extensions in trial time nullified the four months ' rule . Atty . Emmet S. Byrne , who represented Tamborski in the Den case and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ruling indicated that the court missed the chief point of his appeal . He asked a rehearing in May and it was granted . Yesterday 's ruling upheld Byrne 's contention that Tamborski 's rights were violated when the state refused his request for trial within the four months ' period .                     