@@719044

txt Growing need for a gigantic new state office building to house scores of state agencies around Boston now in rented quarters may soon be met through direct legislative action . By late this week Representative John J. Toomey ( D ) of Cambridge , chairman of . the House Committee on Ways and Means , expects his committee will report on legislation providing for immediate work on site selection and plan development . Few persons disagree that the state urgently needs a tremendous new building to centralize the agencies costing nearly a million dollars rental annually to maintain in private quarters . MajOr disagreements involve site location and whether or not the state . should float a 20 million-dollar bond issue or authorize a private group to build the structure and Pease it to the state for up to $3 a square foot for 27 years . Both plans are before the ways and means committee . 20-Year Catnpaign . If the state does embark on the project this year , it will mark culmination of a long campaign , dating back nearly 20 years . But @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ One of the two plans before the committee is based on Governor FurcLlo 's in ! augural message . It ? would set up a 15-member special commission to undertake site selection and construction . The other , filed by Francis X. Lang , State Commissioner of Administration , would authorize private construction and lease of a building to be erected on the site of the Hotel Bellevue . But the Bellevue site already has been criticized as leading to a building which would overshadow the historic , golden-domed State House . The proposed new building on that site would be a towering 25-story building and further aggravatean already serious traffic condition . Furthermore . while private construction and lease would avoid a further expansion of the state debt , which around one billion dollars in existing and authorized bond issues , many persons believe the least expensive . course , in the long run , would be a state bond issue . This 1atter course is favored by Boston business groups . Like many architects , business groups , and others , the business interests are opposed to the Bellevue @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ways and Means a group of them called for establishment of a seven-member commission to select a site for the building , to provide plans , and to contract for construction . Board Suggested As outlined by them , the commission would ? include the State Commissioner of Administration , the State Superintendent of Buildings , the chairman of the State Public Building Commission , the chairman of the Boston City Planning Board , and three appointees of the Governor from the fields of building construction , organized labor , and finance . The commission bill drafted by the Legislative Committee on State Administration provides for a 15-member commission , including three Senators and five Representatives , The business group urged a building within a half-mile of the State House . Regarding financing , the group argued that " deferment-payment plans for construction of state buildings are attractive only if the fiscal situation of the state borders on bankruptcy , or if there is a limit to state debt , as there is to the federal debt , subject to congressional limitation . " It appears advantageous to the commonwealth for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by means of a bond issue . " 