@@715593

txt Chinese Communist infantrymen poured southward across the Kumsong and Pukhan Rivers today after a new breakthrough on a 15-mile stretch of the central front . The enemy had committed upwards of 100,000 men to their biggest offensive in two years . They had scored gains of up to three miles and then had punctured the line again after it apparently had been stabilized . Tight security precautions blacked out details of the offensive , but , front-line dispatches disclosed its seriousness . By Henry S. Hayward Chief For Eastern . Correspondent of The Christian Science Monitor Seoul , Korea It is once again clearly up to the ' Chinese Communists to determine whether or not there will be an end to the war in Korea . The walkout of United Nations delegates from the Pan munjom talks July 15 has underscored this fact . For it is clear that the UN , for its part , has done all it can to pave the way for an armistice , particularly as regards the former intransigeance of Syngman Rhee , President of the Republic of Korea . Significant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Panmunjom July 16  --  the night of July 15 United States time , the United Press reports . This , the service adds , may well be the most crucial meeting . In Washington , the Associated Press quotes Assistant Secretary of State Walter S. Robertson as saying after a conference with President Eisenhower that an armistice in Korea now is squarely up to the Communists . Mr. Robertson made the statement to newsmen immediately after giving Mr. Eisenhower a personal report on his mission to win the support of Mr. Rhee for a truce . Mr. Robertson said Mr. Rhee " has ' not chanted his objections " to an armistice , " but has agreed to collaborate with us " in an effort to achieve unification of Korea by peaceful means . But at this particular moment in Korea , there is less optimism about a truce than there has been at times in the past , and less than there is apparently in Washington . The Communists often have taken a strong opposition stance in their propaganda broadcasts . But recent statements seem to bear possibly a bit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ view of Korean armistice prospects . Enemy broadcasts and unofficial Communist spokesmen at the Panmunjom truce site continue to complain over South Korea 's unilateral release of 27,000 anti-Communist North Korean prisoners of war last month . Their side . they assert , is dissatisfied with the UN contention that the released prisoners can not be recaptured ? and that a cease-fire , therefore , must be attained despite this release .. The Communists also are reported to be dissatisfied with Allied assurances that South Korea will not actively oppose an armistice from now on . This represents possibly a significant change of attitude on the part of the enemy toward an armistice , in the opinion of observers here . Optimism Flickers Both before and after " Operation Little Switch " in April , when disabled prisoners were exchanged , the Communists expressed confidence that a termination of hostilities would be arranged quickly . This attitude prevailed until late in June when the unauthorized release of prisoners took place . Then optimism flickered cut and was replaced with the somber warning : " This is a very serious development . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it is difficult to find any recent developments that indicate an armistice is practically attained . Not unless you regard the mission of Mr. Robertson , President Eisenhower 's personal envoy , to Korea as an unqualified triumph for American diplomacy ? which few unbiased observers in Korea are willing to admit yet . An armistice could be attained in a moment , any time the Communists are willing to accept explanations about South Korean actions . But there are no visible signs at this moment that the Communists are on the verge of such action . Indeed , most indications are just the opposite .                     