@@715327

txt President Eisenhower assured the American Medical Association today that the Administration would maintain a hands-off policy in the direction of the medical profession 's affairs rather than attempt to act as " the big Pooh-Bah . " He was applauded by 175 members of the association 's House of Delegates when he expressed dislike for such words as " socialized " and " compulsory . " He said that everything about these words seemed to be a step toward the overwhelming of the country by a force , power or idea " that leads us to foresake our traditional . system of free enterprise : " Text of the President 's talk is printed on Page 47 . The Medical Association has persistently opposed , during the past Democratic Administrations proposals for a system of compulsory health insurance , which were at : - tacked by the association as " socialized medicine . " The President was repeatedly applauded in an informal fiveminute talk to the delegates , who also were addressed by Senator Robert A. Taft of Ohio . General Eisenhower said that he understood the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Cooperation Is Stressed He added that the Administration was determined to meet the requirements of the population in the services that only the medical profession could provide , " But , " he continued , " we do have faith that Americans want to do the right thing , and the medical profession will provide the kind of services our country needs better , with the cooperation and the friendship of the Administration rather than its direction or any attempt on its part to be the big Pooh-Bah ' in this particular field . " The " Pooh-Bah " in Gilbert and Sullivan 's operetta , " The Mikado , " held a ludicrous number of incongruous public offices and gave the impression that he was a person of extraordinary importance , The Administration 's policy of cooperation rather than direction had been expressed many times before , President Eisenhower said , but he added : " I repeat them , and I tell you it is going to be the philosophy of this Administration for the next four years , or as long as the good Lord allows me @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ four years . " " That is our pledge , " the President continued , " and again . .1 express tie confidence that you people will be helpful , according 6 your judgment of what is good for the United States of America . " The House of Delegates , governing body of the association , held its meeting here today to determine association policy on President Eisenhower 's proposal to elevate the Federal Security Agency to Cabinet status . Senator Taft , Majority Leader in the Senate , urged support of the President 's proposal . Senator Taft was-on the speaker 's stand when General Eiseshow- er arrived in the hall at 10:32 A. M. The two opponents last summer for the Republican Presidential nomination greeted each other warmly . Senator Taft , who addressed the meeting immediately upon the departure of President Eisenhower , told the delegates they would be making a " real mistake " if they thought the proposed new department would " subordinate your particular interest and concern . " He said the new department would help , not hamper , the medical profession and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ profession for all time to come against intrusion of socialized medicine or anything else compulsory in the American free enterprise system . " The association 's board of trustees , in a report to the House of Delegates , said the plan was " a step in the right direction ; " but it recommended that the delegates retain the right to review the workings of the new department after a time to determine its effects on the medical phase . The House of Delegates following a brief discussion unanimously adopted the board of trustees ' report . It was emphasized , however , that acceptance of the report did not prejudice the House 's original preferment for a separate department of health and the body reserved the right to raise the question again if , in its judgment , it felt the new plan did not satisfy the considered needs of a separate health department . Senator Taft had called the . attendon of the delegates to the fact that while the plan called for a Secretary and an Under-Secretary , it also provided for a special assistant to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the , medical field with wide nongOernmental experience . " Pacifying . Influence Is Seen This provision in ' the proposed plan ; it is thought , pacified members of the association who heretofore had refused to accept the idea of a new department as proposed by President Eisenhower 's predecessor , President Truman . Members had contended that President ' Truman 's plan did not delegate sufficient authority to the representatives of the medical profession . Senator Taft , in the course of his talk , said that the Truman Administration holdovers whose jobs were protected by Civil Service rules were a " delaying , difficult and hampering influence " in the new Administration . He predicted , however , that the Administration would soon " clean house " by removing several hundred jobs from Civil Service protection . The Senator complimented the House of Delegates on its traditional opposition to compulsory ' health insurance . The doctors , he said , " should be thanked by everybody in this country who believes in the free economic system . " The meeting was presided over by Dr. James R. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ House of Delegates . President Eisenhower was introduced by Dr. Louis H. Bauer of Rockville Centre , N. Y. , president of the Medical Association .                     