@@712991

txt Congress has been advised by top military men that United States ' military strength still is not sufficient to fight a ' major war , and will not be even by the end of next year . This frank estimate of America 's present military muscle was given behind closed doors by Gen. Omar N. Bradley during the course of hearings , just now made public , on defense appropriations . It was tempered by repeated assurances of a defensive potential that eventually will be sufficient not only to prevent disaster in the case of attack , but to deal a retaliatory blow " that will be strong enough to slow down the aggressor while vie mobilize . " But as to the present state of military preparedness , General Bradley told Congress flatly that " our forces  --  ground , air , and navy ? are not sufficient now to fight a major war . Nor do we expect them to be sufficient for such a calamity by/ the end of fiscal 1951 . " Confident Attituch On the brighter side , he reported progress toward @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from crippling this nation , " and went on to forecast confidently that the United States , " together with the forces and potential of friendly nations , " eventually will be sufficient to win a war " if it comes , " This appraisal is consistent with more recent statements made this week before the Joint Armed Services Committee when General Bradley reported much progress in building up military preparedness during the past year in western Europe . But here again , he stressed the future tense , stating that the western nations of Europe , with United States help " will ? if given time ? be able to defend and hold western Europe , if our present rate of progress continues , .. " Publication of the closed session hearings also disclosed that major research efforts are being concentrated now on development of antisubmarine and antiaircraft warfare . High State of Readiness Defense Secretary Louis A. Johnson assured Congress in positive terms with respect to national security that " we are farther ahead today than ever , in our peacetime history . " Bearing in mind the economy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are getting more defense value out of every appropriated dollar than ever before . " But he also advised against spending " one nickel less than the $13,000,000,000 requested . " The army was pictured during these extended hearings as " stronger today than at any time since the end of the war . " The air force also was described as " in the highest state of combat readiness " since 1945 . Mr. Johnson called the cutbacks and economies carried out under unification as an efficient kind of " tailoring " to bring present defenses in line with today 's situation .                     