@@714157

txt A labor union economist told a Senate Banking subcommittee the Capehart Amendment to the controls law will " throttle business a year from now . " The subcommittee is considering revision of the amendment which allows anyone to ' apply for price ceilings based on their preKorean prices adjusted to changes in all reasonable costs from then until July 26 . The Administration has presented a substitute amendment which would throw out the provision allowing anyone to apply for price adjustments and restrict the Capehart Amendment to orders issued from now on . Basis of Prediction Nathanial Goldfinger , executive secretary of the C.I.O. Committee on Economic roliry , made his prediction about the Capehart Amendment on the basis of an interpretation by Sen. Capehart tR. , Ind. ) that the amendment bans any price adjustment to ieflect cost increases which occur after July 26 . Mr. Goldfinger predicted the immediate effect of the amendment would be to " permit increases in ceiling prices to new record peaks . " But , he said , the July 26 cut-off date on cost increases that might be included @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ strait jacket . " The C.1.0. representative also seemed to be giving business a pat on the back when he agreed with Sen. Capehart there seemed to be few prices that had been increased more than the costs that went into them . This is a direct denial of claims Goyearirneni. price fixers have been making since the first of the year that " price gaugers " have been taking advantage of higher demand to raise their prices much more than was warranted by increased costs . Mr. Goldfinger asked that the Capehart Amendment be repealed but he did n't particularly favor the Administration 's substitute . He said he thought business should be asked to absorb cost increases until their profits fell below ** of their average profits before taxes in the best three years between 1946 and 1949 . This is the Johnston earning standard which the Office of Price Stabilization intended to use as a guide in determining whether price ceilings should be boosted . Robertson in a Hurry At one point during the hearing Sen. Robertson ID. , Va. ) , chairman of the subcommittee , remarked @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ soon have . " The Virginia senator seemed to be in a hurry to get the hearings over with and gave the impression he did't think the Administration had put up a good case against the Capehart Amendment . In fact . Sen. Robertson was in such a hurry he tangled with Sen. Capehart when he tried to cut short the Indiana senator 's questioning of Mr. Goldfinger . At that point Sen. Capehart accused the Banking Committee and Congress of " not giving its serious consideration to the Capehart Amendment- " . , ' He contended that the hearings should take just as long as necessary to get the views of anyone who wanted to comment on the amendment . " We have no deadline , " he said . " We can stay here until December 1 if necessary . " The committee is supposed to wind up its hearings today and prepare a report to present to the full Banking Committee tomorrow . Another witness said O.P.S. price ceilings on groceries had put his company in the " red " for the first time since it was founded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Grocery Co. of , Tenn. , said his company has been losing 58-100 of 1t each month on each dollar of sales made as a result of margins set by Ceiling Price Regulation 15 issued by O.P.S. last spring . The Tennessee grocery man claimed that while some margins set by the order are too low , others are too high and must be marked down to fit his market- Thus , he indicated , the total return from all margins set by the order is n't sufficient to cover operations . Mr. King told the committee the O.P.S. used margins in C.P.R. 15 which were set by the C.P.A. during World War U and which do not allow for increases in operating costs since then . Spokesmen for cattle growers and meat packers joined in asking a Senate Banking subcommittee not to approve the Administration 's request for a restoration of its slaughter quota powers . F. E. Mollin , executive secretary of the American National Cattlemen 's Association submitted statistics designed to show that slaughter quotas do not have the effectiveness claimed for them by the Administration . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ larger numbers from their normal markets when slaughtering quotas were in effect .. than when quotas were lifted The O.P.S. contention that quotas help price compliance is not true . he added , producing statistics showing that prices for cattle while quotas were in effect were " so far above compliance levels that there seems to have been even no pretense of maintaining compliance . " Furthermore . he said , quotas do n't produce an equitable distribution of meat but in fact cause a maldistribution because of the unworkable rules and regulations of O.P.S. End of Ceilings Is Urged In addition to backing up the points raised by Mr. Mollin . Joe G. Montegue. of the Texas and Southwestern Cattle Raisers ' Association , told the lawmakers the situation in the meat industry would be helped if ceiling prices were taken off altogether " If the ceiling price was taken off there might be an immediate reaction higher fox a short while , " he predicted . " but then it would go . down . " He said the present 0 P.S. ceilings " actually tends to act as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ceiling on utility grade cattle " has been in violation of the law since the first day of August . " He said the legal ceiling price for this grade of cattle would he $24.75 per pound . according to the terms of the new controls law which went into effect August 1 . He reported the ceiling set by 0 P.S. Is $21 50 . Committee Chairman Slaybank ( D .. S. C ) said he has been informed that Price Chief DiSalle " is considering an adjustment " of the disputed ceiling price .                     