@@715564

txt In a note to be delivered tomorrow to the three states Of Indo-China , the French , Government will propose simultaneous but separate negotiations with them to revise the existing agreements between the states and France in order to broaden their independence . If King Norodom Sihanouk of Cambodia refuses these negotiations , the French Government will not use force against him but will withdraw French troops and French civilians from Cambodia and leave the King free to make any deal he can with the Communist-led rebels of the Vietminh . The other Indo-Chinese states are Vietnam and Laos . Such were the first decisions of the four-day-old French Cabinet . They were taken tonight after three long meetings to discuss the Indo-China crisis . These decisions are believed to Conform to the recommendations , being brought to Paris by Gen. Henri-Eugene Navarre , French ' commander in chief in Indo-China , ' ' who left Saigon , Vietnam , by plane today . General Navarre was reported ready to urge the French ' Government to avoid a violent ' clash with King Norodom and to , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as a prerequisite to a new offensive against the Vietminh rebels in October . But General Navarre will not be ' named Commissioner General for ' Indo-China as he had been re- , ported to desire . This civilian post will go to Maurice Dejean , a foreign service officer of ambassadorial rank , if the Indo-Chinese states reply favorably to the proposal that will be put to them tomorrow . It was decided that the Commissioner , who would play a ' leading role in the proposed po- ' litical negotiations , should be a civilian . The Cabinet also agreed that the complaints by the three states of their representation in the High Council of the French Union were justified , and that representation ( would be increased . The Government has not made clear , pending the negotiations , lhow far it is prepared to go in increasing the " internal sovereignty , " as it is called , that was granted to the three states by the accords of 1949 . But officials said tonight that the Government would go beyond those accords , although its note @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the state of war in IndoChina in determining the rate of the advance toward fuller sovereignty . The note is expected to say that the broader independence to be sought will be " within the framework of the French Union . " This phrase resolved , for the time being , at least , sharp debate that had taken place within the Cabinet . Likened to Commonwealth In taking a strong stand for conciliation of the states , along with Premier Joseph Laniel and Francois Mitterand , Minister of State , Paul . Reynaud , Vice Premier charged with Indo-Chinese affairs , was reported to have urged that France grant to the Indo-Chinese states a status like that of the independent members of the British Commonwealth . He was quoted as having said that if the present framework of the French Union was too narrow for this , another framework might be imagined . Indo-Chinese leaders have cited India and Ceylon as examples of the status they desired for Indo-China . Georges Bidault , Foreign Minister , who had Just received a letter from the Sultan of Morocco reflecting his desire @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ entire French Union . M. Bidault was said to have remarked that members of the British Commonwealth had the right to secede from it and that no such right could be recognized Within the French Union . It was reported that President Vincent Auriol supported M. Bidault 's argument . Thus two conceptions of the French Union , one influenced by the British example , clashed at the Cabinet meetings as the Ministers sought a way of dealing with King Norodom and at the same time with the two adjoining states . They feared that any concessions made now to Indo-China might appear to be in response ? to the King 's demands , although officials here had planned a " new deal " for Indo-China before the King withdrew with his troops into a corner of his realm and issued something like an ultimatum to Paris . On the other hand , there were compelling reasons for a conciliatory attitude as a means of limiting the damage the King might cause , and as a means of reinforcing the French Union that M. Bidault feared might be imperiled by conceding @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that complaints against French policy toward the overseas territories had been made in the United Nations and the United States , from which the French will probably be obliged soon to ask further aid for defense of Indo-China .                     