@@717119

txt I Halfway through the ballot counting in Sicilian assembly eke ! tions , pro-Western , middle of the road democracy was winning out over Communists and fellow travelers by a margin of nearly 2 to 1 . Premier Mario Scelba 's Christian Democrats had received 369,577 votes to 199,704 for the Communists and 87.346 for the Nenni Socialists . Prime Minister Nehru of India arrived in Prague for a 24-hou ? stopover visit on his way to " tension-lowering " talks in Moscow and a two-week state visit in the Soviet Union . He talked with the Czech Premier and President and toured Prague . A new French jet interceptor , the Trident SO-9000 , was reported to have reached a speed of between 750 and 1,000 miles an hour in horizontal flight over Melun-Villaroche airfield 30 , miles south of Paris . The prototype plane is powered by two wingtip jets and three tail rockets . New England : N.H. Governor Hits Lottery Plan Gov . Lane Dwinell of New Hampshire expressed his " most high disapproval " of proposed legislation to create a state lottery @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when he served in the House , was to fight against adoption of a state lottery bill . Hawaii : Three of Freed Fliers Leave Honolulu Three of the four United States jet fighter pilots freed by the Chinese Communists at . Hong Kong last Tuesday leave Honolulu for home today with their families aboard a special Air Force plane . Asia : Peking Says Nationalist Plane Shot Down Peking Radio elaimedthat Communist Chinese antiaircraft guns yesterday shot down one of four Nationalist propeller-driven tighter planes which raided the Swatow area opposite Formosa . Washington : Big 3 Ministers to Meet in N.Y . The Western Big Three foreign ministers will meet in New York June 16 to prepare for a later conference with the Soviet foreign minister . the State Department announces . The Senate confirmed today without debate or a dissenting vote the nomination of Admiral Arthur W. Radford for another term as chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff .. Other confirmations : Rear Admiral Arleigh A. Burke , Chief of Naval Operations : Gen. Maxwell D. Taylor , Army Chief of Staff , and Gen. Nathan F. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : Dulles Voices Hope for Meeting secretary of State Dulles said today he doubts the approaching j top level Big Four meeting alone will relax world tensions , but he voiced a hope it will be useful , and said the United States certainly will do all possible " to make it so . " President Eisenhower . accompanied by Mrs. Eisenhower , takes part today with his 1915 classmates in graduation week festivities at West Point , where he will give the commencement ad. dress tomorrow . Today also is the 11th anniversary of the Normandy invasion , which he led . Page 31                     