@@715130

txt ECONOMY PUT FIRST AS EISENHOWER SEES HIS HOUSE LEADERS Martin Asserts New Congress Will Eliminate ' Reckless ' Truman ' Extravagance ' HOPES FOR TAX REDUCTION Progressive Program Mapped ? Halleek and Arends Also Present at Conference By LEO EGAN Representative Joseph W. Martin Jr . of Massachusetts , prospective Speaker of the next House of Representatives , forecast yestere day , following a conference with ' ' , Gen. Dwight D. Eisenhower , the President-elect , that Government ' finance would be the main concern of the new Congress . The first objective of the Republicans , who will control both the Senate and House , will be to eliminate " some of the extravagance and reckless spending " of the Truman Administration , Mr. Martin said . " We hope it will be ' possible to have some tax reductions after this is ' done , " Mr. Martin added . Representative Martin was accompanied to the conference , which tobk place in General Eisenhower 's temporary headquarters at the Hotel Comomdore , by Representative Charles A. Relleck of Indiana , slated to be Majority @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Arends of Illinois , the prospective Majority Whip . Discussion Is General Maj. Gen. Wilton B. Persons , who will be a Presidential assistant assigned to liaison work with Congress in the new Administration , also sat in on the conference , which lasted for two hours and included a luncheon . Gov . Sherman Adams of New Hampshire , who will be assistant to the President , also was present . " We discussed a possible program and procedure in the next Congress , " Mr. Martin , acting as spokesman for the ? group , said when it broke up . " It will be a good , strong , progressive and constructive program . " He asserted that the conference had not taken up specific items but went over a general program . The question of tax reduction , he added , was not discussed directly . " The main objective is balancing the budget , " he went on . " In my own experience , however , I have found that sometimes the removal of a tax can stimulate the Government 's income . " Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ between the President and members of Congress in the new Administration . All matters will be talked over thoroughly in advance , he said . While no specific agreement was reached he was " inclined to think " there would be regular meetings between the new President and Congressional leaders . On only one measure was Mr. Martin Speeific . He predicted that Congress would extend for another year the law permitting the President to reorganize Federal departments and bureaus by mcecutive order , subject to a veto within sixty days by either the House or Senate . This law is due to expire March 31 , The prospective Speaker brushed // aside questions on extending wage . price and other controls because " I want to take a closer look ' at it . " Representative Halleck interpolated a remark that President Truman appeared to have " just about , destroyed " the entire stabilization plan by his recent action in overriding the decision of the Wage Stabilization Board to approve a pay increase for miners . Mr. Martin chimed in that it looked to him as if the whole @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ last few weeks . - Representative Martin said he ' expected no contest for any of the Republican leadership posts in the House , such as appears to be arising in the Senate . Key Senate leaders are Sched'uled to meet with General Eisen- : hower some time between Christ- ! Imas and New Year 's Day for their , own discussion of a legislative ' program for the new Congress . Mr. Arends told reporters that , , he thought " you 'll see the finest ! cooperation between the legislative ; and executive branches of the Gov-1 ernment that you 've seen in many. , many years , " when the new Ad- : ministration takes over . He added that this would be " refreshing for a change . " Mr. Martin reminded reporters that the budget that would be submitted to the new Congress had ' . been prepared by the outgoing ? Administration . He said he was sure the Republicans could trim it if it were " an honest budget . " Patronage Not Taken Up Asked to explain , Mr. Martin said that " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will have to put back . " The prospective Speaker said ' that the question of patronage had not arisen in the conference. , " No Congressman ever had much patronage and I 'm sure that patronage will flow through the usual channels , " he remarked , then added : " You know , we 're up on the intellectual heights . " Other visitors to the Eisenhower headquarters yesterday included William L. Pfeiffer and J. Russel Sprague , New York Republican State Chairman and National  --  Committeeman , respectively , and Assemblyman D. Mallory Stephens , retiring chairman of the Ways and Means Committee of the State Assembly . They did not see General Eisen ( hewer but talked with Thomas p , ( Stephens , who will be special counsel to the President , and others about the possibility of getting list of Federal offices that are filled on a political basis . General Eisenhower 's schedule for today , as announced last nigIA by James C. Hagerty , his press secretary , includes meetings with RObert Cutler , president of the Old Colony Trust Company of Boston @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ executive secretary of the Booker T. Washington-George Washington ; Carver Foundation of Washington , D. C. , at 9:43 A. M. ; Robert Neff of United Airlines , to present a Christmas cake baked by students of Chadsey High School in Detroit , .. ? at 10:15 A. M. Also Samuel W. Anderson of Washington , D. C. , who has been picked to be Assistant Secretary of Commerce- for International Affairs , at 10:30 A. M. : Herbert ' Warburton . chairman of the Nar tional Young Republican Federa . ! Hon. at 11 A. M. , and Walter William , who will be Under Secretary of Commerce , at 2:30 P. M.                     