@@715872

txt The United States today appealed for the second time to Canada for permission to question Igor Gouzenko about soviet espionage rings in the United States at the time of the Harry Dexter White case . - The state department sent a note to the Canadian embassy requesting that the former soviet embassy code clerk in Canada be made available to investigators of the senate internal security subcommittee . The action was asked by Chairman Jenner ER. , Ind. in the face of rejection of an earlier plea for permission to talk to Gouzenko who has been in hiding since he exposed the Canadian communist atomic spy ring . Revealed by The Tribune Jenner said he is convinced that Gouzenko could provide " vitally important " new information about the communist network , thru which White , Harold Glasser , V. Frank Coe , and others under committee investigation sped American secrets to Moscow . Gouzenko was revealed as willing to talk by Eugene Griffin , THE CHICAGO TRIBUNE 'S correspondent in Ottawa . The former code clerk , thru an intermediary , said he would like to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Jenner and Sen. McCarthy ER. , Wis . . " I think a talk would be worthwhile , " Gouzenko was reported as saying . Canadian officials , in turning down the first request two weeks ago , said Gouzenko 's story was fully told in the official government report on the Canadian spy ring . Appeals to Dulles Jenner asked State Secretary Dulles to do his utmost to get Canada to " reconsider and arrange a meeting with Gouzenko . " The second note resulted from this appeal . State Department Press Officer Suydam said the second request is an unusual diplomatic Procedure . He said that the fact the state department was transmitting a request for a second time to a government which had previously rejected . it " carries considerable weight " in itself . The subcommittee was laying extensive plans for documenting its case on the communist spy conspiracy in the United States , in the face of President Eisenhower 's statement yesterday that he hopes the issue of communism in government will be settled before the 1954 congressional elections . Outlines Lengthy Program Amid some confusion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ group outlined a program or investigation that will take weeks and possibly months . Some Republicans interpreted the Eisenhower statement as meaning that the issue will not figure in the campaign , a position with which they did not agree ; Others took it to mean that Communists will be weeded out of the government by next November . Ohio 's new senator , Thomas A. Burke , a Democrat , . said he saw nothing wrong with Republican exposure of the White case . He said he believes the American people are more concerned with getting rid of Communists in the ' government than they are with the past . However , he said he thinks people are entitled to know what happened in the past . Burke , former mayor of Cleveland , was named to the senate seat caused by the death of Sen. Taft R. , O.J. Asked if he thought Sen. McCarthy had rendered a service to the country , Burke replied : " I do n't know what he and his committee have done , but I think they have alerted the American people to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ strange words from a Democrat ? " a reporter asked . " If I 've given the inference I 'm praising McCarthy or McCarthyism , " Burke said , " then I have n't spoken clearly . "                     