@@714592

txt Prime Minister Churchill announced today that the government will present legislation to end state ownership of the steel industry and trucking in the present session of parliament . The sessions normally end in the fall . Britons had some cheer when Food Minister Gwilym Lloyd George announced the tea ration will be raised from two ounces to two and one-half on Aug. 10 and may be derationed by the end of the year . Churchill disclosed the plan to denationalize trucking in the house of commons . Later he reported on the steel industry to a private meeting of Conservative ( Tory ) legislators who asked why the government has not yet fulfilled election promises macke last October on these issues . Tories Show Worries Serious Tory losses to the Labor party in local elections this month have made many Conservatives anxious about the effect on popular opinion of Churchill 's policies . He was challenged by 48 Conservative members who signed a motion criticizing him and his ministers for failure to go ahead with denationalizing trucking and steel . A high Labor ' source said Churchill @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ industry because financial interests might be reluctant to buy back the steel shares in view of Labor 's victory in the local elections . Labor is pledged to nationalize the industry again if it is returned to power . The Tory private meeting was also understood to have discussed the government 's refusal to end the sales tax on clothing in British ' shops and so help the Lancashire textile industry , which was 75,000 unemployed mill workers . Labor Swing Continues The swing toward Labor continued strongly today in Britain 's local government elections . The Socialists recaptured control of the important Northumberland county council , in northeast England , and scored successes in 12 other counties . Labor made a big advance in Bedfordshire , where the party increased its representation from 10 to 29 seats . This does not give Labor control , but makes ft the biggest single group in a council containing opposition parties under various labels . In- the contests for 62 county councils of England and Wales , the last of which voted today , Labor so far had collected about 40 extra seats @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the county council of Lancashire , the county councils of Yorkshire , West Riding , Essex , and Northumberland , and the raising of Labor 's elected majority from one to 55 in London 's county council . Remove Subsidy for Tea News of the increase in tea ration sent a cheer ringing thru Britain , the biggest tea drinking country in the world , even tho the beverage has been rationed for almost 12 years . Lloyd George added that altho Britons likely will have all the tea they can drink in 10 months , they are going to have to pay more . Withdrawal of the government subsidy on tea will be effective June 15 . Tea rationing , was introduced in July , 1940 , at two ounces per person . For a weeic in December , 1940 , it was raised to four ounces . Later it was dropped back to two .                     