@@719343

txt To Slaughter Animals Humanely To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : About 200,000,000 food animals a year are being slaughtered in a most inhumane manner in the majority of our packing houses . All this cruelty is wholly unnecessary because of improved methods of slaughter making animals insensible to pain before they are shackled , hoisted and cut . These new methods are the captive-bolt pistol , electrical stunning devices and the use of carbon dioxide . They are not only more humane but good business , more efficient and economical , as has been proved by the few packing plants which already use them . Happily we Americans have the privilege of writing our Congressmen when we are in favor of a bill . The Humane Society of the United States , 1111 " E " Street , N. W. , Washington 4 , D. C. , has issued a free folder , " Facts About Your Meat , " giving accurate information on the subject . CATHERINE G. . ( Mrs. Frederick W .. ) Brooklyn , Nov. 27 , 1957 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ War To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : It is only natural and right that Americans , irrespective or party affiliation , should feel shame and anger over the spectacle presented by their Government since the launching of the first sputnik . The highly publicized Vanguard fiasco provided the finishing touch to what would be a comedy of errors if it were not a tragic demonstration of failure to understand the nature of the world crisis , wasteful incompetence , penny-pinching in the wrong places and sanctimonious complacency . Yet this unhappy experience can teach us an invaluable lesson if , at long last , we are willing to accept it . This is not merely that having staked our all on military ascendancy we have allowed ourselves to be overtaken in the arms race . The lesson is that the nuclear arms race is suicidal madness , no matter whether we are temporarily behind or ahead of the Russians . The lesson is that the arms race can not be won ; that it leads to war ; and that it can not be halted so long as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ remain unsolved . Alternative to War The lesson is that the sole alternative to the " unthinkable " but by no means improbable nuclear holocaust  --  or to a continued state of affairs which may at any moment explode into war  --  is give-and-take negotiations , no matter how difficult or distasteful such negotiations may be . No one has stated this case more eloquently than Canada 's former Foreign Minister , Lester Pearson . This is no plea for another " summit meeting . " It is a plea , first of all , for a willingness to negotiate ? which does not now exist in Washington . It is a plea for dropping our repeated demands for the unconditional surrender of our adversaries and for a careful determination of what actually are our irreducible requirements . It is a plea for the patient exploration of what seem to be the minimum demands of our adversaries and for a firm determination to reach settlements fair to all concerned . borne of the specific ideas for reaching negotiated settlements , put forward in these columns and elsewhere by the writer , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Europe . When George F. Kennan spoke the other day of mutual withdrawal from Germany and Central Europe his words echoed around the world . In England he was supported not only by the ) Faders of the Labor party but by the conservative London Times . In France , and even in Germany , his proposal was hailed by many influential , anti-Communist newspapers . Washington remains deaf to such suggestions . We have fallen behind in something far more important than the arms race . We have fallen behind in formulating a policy for peace . Russian Proposals Whatever their ultimate motives , the Russians have put forward repeated proposals for negotiation , such as that for an embargo on arms shipments to the Middle East . True , none of these bargaining . feelers were acceptable as a whole . But Mr. Dulles has been unwilling to examine them in order to see , whether they contained acceptable points upon which to begin a negotiation . He has denounced them as " insincere propaganda , " demanding that the Russians prove their good faith " by deeds @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the adversary make prior to negotiation precisely those concessions which might be obtained through . negotiatioa . The sputniks have shown up more than the shortcomings of our Defense Department . They have demonstrated the frozen immobility of our policy-making machinery and , above all , the bankruptcy of our diplomacy . JAMES P. WARBERG . Greenwich , Conn. , Dec. 9 , 1957 . To Keep Statues Here To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : With reference to Meyer Berger 's article in The Times of Dec. 2 , permit me to call attention to the probability that Karl Bitter 's three heroic-sized figures which are about to be taken down from the St. Paul building would constitute a notable monument in any one of the parks of Greater New York . It is hardly necessary to add that New York City is as poor in works of outdoor sculpture as Vienna is rich and that we should make every effort to save these stunning figures from the wrecker 's crowbar . No matter how generous our impulse way be to offer them to the Austrian Government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the city of Karl Bitter 's adoption and that only after that city refuses to accept his statues should they be allowed to go elsewhere . KNIGHT STURGES , Chairman , Committee on Historic Architecture , The Municipal Art Society . New York , Dec. 3 , 1957 . Israeli Land Bill Basic Provision of Proposal Said to Be Protection of Landowners TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : May I , as a member of the Knesset who participated in the parliamentary debate on the draft of the " Law of Limitation , " comment on the letter of Sami Hadawi published in The New York Times on Nov. 27 . His contention that the proposed law " required landowners who do not have a registered title deed to produce evidence that they and their fathers before them have been in continuous possession of their lands for fifty years or forfeit them to the Israeli Government " is based either on innocent ignorance or on willful misrepresentation . In any case the proposed law contains nothing which would have suchan effect , This is o clearly borne @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ No. 312 , published by the Government of Israel on June 13 , 1957 . The draft law which is now before the Legislative Committee of the Knesset has as its objective the consolidation and modernization of the large body of isolated rules concerning limitations of actions , scattered throughout a variety of texts . Some of them date from Ottoman times and are no longer in keeping with present-day requirements and conditions . Far from adversely affecting existing rights of ownership in land and the possibilities of asserting them , the basic provision of the proposed law insures additional protection for them . It does this by extending the period during which they may be validly pursued before the courts from the present ten to thirty-four years to a uniform period of fifty years . In other words , adverse possession for a shorter period by semeone else is no bar to a successful claim by the true owner . Rights of Ownership The law goes even further in protecting rights of ownership by providing in section 15 ( A ) that " In calculating the period of limitation there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the parties was in a country where , owing to the circumstances in which that party was placed involuntarily or because of the relations existing between that country and Israel , that party could not conduct the legal action . " There is " discrimination " in the bill , either in its actual provisions or in the imaginary motives ascribed to them by Mr. Hadawi . Its outstanding feature is the extremely generous preference given to the protection of legal ownerships as against other claims . It is instructive to note that similar statutes provide for a period of limitation of only twenty years in , Italy , thirty years in France , Austria , and Germany . In the United Kingdom the period , generally speaking , is thirty years , and in the State of New York the maximum period , I am told , is forty years . I have in fact criticized the bill in the Knesset on the ground that in our age fifty years is too long a period for a statute of limitation , The Minister of Justice , replying in the Knesset @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on July 1 , 1957 , stated that the Government would not insist on a period of lims station of fifty years . ' This has opened the way for further changes in the law before it ill finally en-acted , Mr. Hadawi would therefore be well advised to study the texts of Israel 's laws , instead of distorting them by misquotation , misinterpretation and the substitution of his bias for the true reasons of legislative measures designed to apply principles of justice and equity to all aspects of Israeli life . ISHAR HARARI , Israeli Delegation to the Twelfth Session of the General Assembly of the United Nations . New York , Dec. 4 , 1957.                     