@@718616

txt Letters to The Times RUSSELL STEVENSON Letters to The Times G.O.P. Bias Bill Opposed Impairment Feared of Operations of Present Commission To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Two measures now before the State Legislature vitally concern the State Commission Against Discrimination . One , proposed by Governor Harriman and known as the Zaretski-Baker bill , * would authorize SCAD to initiate proceedings without waiting upon complaints to be filed . An alternative measure ( S. P. 3816 ) , proffered by the Republican leadership , and passed by the Senate , would appropriate $100,000 for a Bureau of Civil Rights in the Attorney General 's office to " process and coordinate complaints " of discrimination . The Republican opposition ' to the Zaretski-Baker bill rests on the argument that institution of a complaint by SCAD itself would make the agency " both prosecutor anti jury . " This is the stock argument of fifty years ago raised ' against all regulatory agencies . The argument has been abandoned for the Licensing - Departments , the Banking , Agriculture and Insurance Departments , the Public @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a Fair Education Practices Act approved by the same legislative leadership which now refuses to grant SCAD similar power . Seven out of nine states with laws similar to SCAD 's authorize initiation of regulatory action . ? But New York , with the pioneer law , falters . Powers of Commission SCAD is neither a prosecutor nor juror , but a quasi-regulatory body with power to 1 ; receive and process complaints and , when necessary , enforce compliance through the courts . SCAD 's power , unlike other state departments , is  --  and under the Zaretski-Baker bill will continue to be  --  limited to requiring an employer or a publicly assisted housing project to employ or house a person found to have been discriminated against because of his race , religion or color . SCAD has no penal or contempt powers and will continue to have none . It can act against the discriminator only after a finding of " probable cause , " confidential efforts to effect conciliation and a public hearing . Thereafter its determinations are supervised by court review . Employers against whom complaints have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out for action while their competitors , against whom no complaints have been filed , are left free to discriminate . SCAD has made industry-wide agreements with such industries as the airlines , but in ' the absence of complaints they remain legally unenforceable . So , too , owners of F. H. A.-aided projects may openly flout the law , but can not be reached under present procedures . Republican Proposal Refusal to grant SCAD the power to institute proceedings is bad enough , but the Republican alternative is far more serious . SCAD is the very " Bureau of Civil Rights " which the Republican proposal seeks to create . The Attorney General under the law has always had the right to file complaints with SCAD , but in twelve years has filed not one . A Bureau of Civil Rights was announced by the Attorney General a year ago , but he filed not a single complaint . The main reason is that during . the twelve years of SCAD 's existence minorities have looked to SCAD as their source for relief . The new bureau proposed would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ feels should or should not be processed , compete with SCAD for complaints , confuse , complainants as to where to seek relief , and ultimately make a farce of the law . The Republican counter-proposal reveals its purpose when it objects to " militancy " in the enforcement of the law and counsels only " patient education " and " conference , conciliation and persuasion . " No doubt these are important , and SCAD has had few occasions to apply to the courts for restraining orders . But confinement of its powers to persuasion , education and conciliation , as contemplated under the new Republican policy statement , would seriously if not fatally affect SCAD 's operations . The example both parties set twelve years ago of bipartisan cooperation to end discrimination in New York State is being continued by the commission 's present bipartisan membership , which has unani-. moualy endorsed the principle of the Zaretski-Baker bill . That example should not be sullied by a quickly devised partisan maneuver striking at the heart of the agency and the progress it has been laboriously achieving . CHARLES ABRAMS @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , March 14 , 1957 . To Set Utility Rates To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES ; Your editorial " Fair Play to Utilities " published March 9 was an admirable example of vulgarization ? in its original meaning . The problem of making rates for Government-controlled utilities , and more particularly for telephone rates , is delightfully complicated . I wonder , however , if a legislative joint committee without further implementation can alone resolve the problem . The conflict between using as a base reproduction or original cost justifies , I should imagine , some leadership in order to garner a slight amount of thoughtful public concern . Maybe as a start our remarkable New York Telephone Company should abandon its present technique of persuasion by repetition ? the prevalent advertising technique of our culture . This technique is antithetical to thoughtful , rational men and even a legislative committee might be benefited if the telephone company relied on persuasion through thought rather than through repetition or titillating of glands . It may even be that all of our institutional advertising would benefit by some slight reappraisal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , March 11 , 1957 . Refugee Aid Crisis Noted Support of U. N. Agency Program for Arab D. P. 's Urged To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : You have performed a genuine public service by featuring the present need of the Arab refugees in your editorial of March 8 . The continuing plight of more than 900,000 refugees living out their days in idleness and bitterness within the camps in Syria , Lebanon , Jordan and Gaza is indeed " the heart of the matter . " It is important for the American people to be aware of the crisis faced by the United Nations Relief and Works Agency as it seeks to secure additional funds for the essential programs which are carried on in providing food , shelter , medical care , education and rehabilitation . The provision of these elemental services is an obligation which the United Nations can not treat lightly . What is needed , of course , is not only a full payment of pledges on the part of those governments now participating in the support of U. N. R. W. A. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than fifty , who do not at the moment contribute anything to the agency 's budget . Work of Agencies May I add one further word regarding the important contribution that has been made during the past nine years by private voluntary agencies . Agencies such as Catholic War Relief Services , Church World Service , Lutheran World Relief , the Mennonite Central Committee , American Middle East Relief , the Y. W. C. A. and the Y. M. C. A. have contributed funds , material and personnel , and have provided essential services that are a necessary supplement to what U. N. R. W. A. is doing . In the year 1956 these private agencies contributed a total of $8,000,000 toward meeting the needs of the Arab refugees , or an amount equal to nearly 30 per cent of the U. N. R. W. A. budget . Here is impressive evidence of the people-to-people effort wherein individual Americans have demonstrated their solidarity with the needy refugees in the Middle East . Much of this money and effort is used for projects aimed at the permanent rehabilitation of the refugees . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ A. , has repeatedly mentioned in his reports to the General Assembly the indispensable nature of this assistance . Furthermore , the voluntary agencies perform their work in full cooperation with the officers and staff of U. N. R. W. A. Recognizing , therefore , the continuing plight of the Arab refugees and the responsibility which is placed upon us as Americans who have concern for peace and stability in the Middle East , we can and must reinforce the efforts of our Government as it works through U. N. R. W. A and increase our support of the private voluntary agencies which command our confidence and allegiance . RUSSELL STEVENSON Director , Asia and Non-European Areas , Church World Service . New York , March 8 , 1957 . Residence Tax Deduction Queried To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : In the interest of correcting any unintended benefit to a certain class of income taxpayers , I suggest that the deduction ( on long form 1040 ) for interest on mortgage and real estate taxes be eliminated in so far as they apply to the taxpayer 's residence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by an apartment tenant . This rent is not permitted as a deduction by the tenant . Why should the interest on mortgage and real estate taxes be allowed to one who buys or rents a house ? HYMAN EDELMAN , C. P. A. New York , March 9. 1957 . Problems of Artists Group Protests Findings in Recent New York Survey To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK mast . We were interested to see the re ? port in The Times of Feb. 25 of Dr ? Bernard M. Myers ' survey of the problems of the artist in New York , As artists who have lived and worked in New York for a number of years , and who have exhibited. : here as well as in other parts of the ' country and abroad , we would like ' to take issue with Dr. Myers on a/ ? most every point he has made . Let 's start with his conclusion : . " What would seem to be indicated . now is a large-scale community art center for the metropolitan area , ' where some of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be brought together , . under one roof . " If such a center offered exhibi ? tion space for all styles and important creative efforts in the commu --  , nity every artist would give it hiSenergetic support . But what the. : artist does not need is another " City- , Hall "  --  a building staffed by art bureaucrats and managers offering : a situation which in no way aids ' , the artist , especially if it operates , . along the lines of biased taste and " random-selection " science revealed : in Dr. Myers ' report . Excluding Styles For example , his phrase " desired . elements " indicates a wish to ex .. " elude certain types of art which , in Dr. Myers ' case , would seem to bean undefined bundle of styles that he calls " Abstract-Expressionism . ' Any attempt to exclude a serious .. style , or officially to support one , . has distinct overtones of either totalitarianism or gross naivet ? . 2 The quantitative amount of ama. , teurism and " dilettantism " that br. , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made him suspect the relevancy of the sampling rather than to deplore a condi- : . tion among artists which , we can . affirm , does not exist. - - Contrary to the findings of the New York Area Research Council . of City College , under the supervi. ; sion of Dr. Myers , the shortage of exhibition space is no longer a cru- , cial issue for serious artists in New York . Artists who wish to exhibit have found many solutions to their problem . Some have formed their own cooperative galleries  --  among which one could cite the Jane Street Gallery , Tanager , Camino , Hansa ; Fleischman , James and , as of last Friday , the March Gallery . Or there are a number of " shoestring " galleries , none of which has made a living , but several of which have made history . In close sympathy with the artists , they provide , a vital and stimulating situation for : those who feel ready for exhibition .. We feel that an injustice has been . done to these and other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are used by the council to show that galleries put pressure on artists " to work in the Abstract-Expressionist field . " According to our count there are only twenty-five ( out of over 180 ) New ' York galleries that show " Abstract ! ' Expressionism . " It is difficult to conclude from this that such pressure exists , especially as all the twenty-five show other styles as well as " Abstract-Expressionism . " But , even this is hardly a " statistic . " Five of the 180 galleries handle more than half of the entire art market activity in terms of cash ; needless to say , none of them exhibits " Abstract-Expressionists . " The survey , as reported in The - Times , indicates an uninformed dis-. regard of available sources Of information . The list of art organizations approached was limited in number and one-sided in coverage . And since the survey took months , not days , the number of individual artists  --  fewer than 200 ? questioned is scarcely adequate . The result of this lack of scientific responsibility is a ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ If any foundation wants to aid the artist the simplest way is to buy his work ; anything else is secondary , WILFRID ZOGBAUM , ELAINE DH KOONING , JACK TWORKOV , ALFRED LESLIE , JAMES BROOKS , ESTEBAN VICENTE , ALBERT KOTIN , EARLE KERKAM , IBRAM LAS-4 SAW , HERMAN CHERRY and eighty-three others . New York , March 2 , 1957 , For Equitable Rent Control To THE ELITOR OF T RENEW YORK TIMES : No one acquainted with the housing situation in New York City can reasonably advocate an open and free market for medium and low rent housing at this time . Con ? trols are indispensable on this type of accommodation . But controls need to be revised to take into account and provide for reasonable return on investment with a current approach to increasing cost factors ; the present provision in the law is cumbersome , inadequate and unrealistic . There are at present inequities in rental spheres where old tenant are paying rents altogether out of line : with present prices for other services and commodities , and much , lower than is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the same building . Rent control administration and laws should take cognizance of the rights of landlords equally with those of tenants . A realistic , nonpartisan approach , including a care for the city as wel ' as for all interests immediately concerned , would be a first step . - ? MORRIS ZUCKER . New York , March 8 , 1957.                     