@@714854

txt Kim Il Sung , North Korean Premier and Commander in Chief , has told Parliament that North Korea would be prepared to sign an , armistice in the two-year-old war as a drawn battle , the Pyongyang radio said today . The Korean language broadcast , monitored here , gave excerpts from an hour 's speech delivered by the Communist leader on the eve of " Liberation Day , " Aug. 15 , the date that Koreans on both ' sides celebrate as the anniversary of their . independence from Japan after World War II . Quoting highlights from the address , the Pyongyang radio said Premier Kim had declared he was willing to sign a truce agreement that would make clear to the world that " the Americans are not the winners and the Koreans the losers in this war . " North Korea " does not consider It dishonorable to conclude an armistice in the Korean war after fighting against nineteen powers for three years , " General Kim said , according to the broadcast version . He warned , however , that the North @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the past year of the armi-. slice negotiations and were able to fight a protracted war should the United Nations fail to come to terms . Hint of War Weariness Seen Premier Kim 's statement , considerably less uncompromising in certain passages than many previous enemy utterances , raised some speculation here regarding possible war weariness in the north that might induce a genuine desire for a truce . There has been some belief that the North Koreans were not strictly in accord with the Chinese Communists . The Chinese have several hundred thousand troops quartered on Korean soil , and recently , according to some observers , apparently took over complete control of the armistice conversations . One of the principal stumbling blocks in the talks at Panmunjom has been a Chinese determination that all their prisoners must be returned . Premier Kim , however , offered no solution to the deadlock over the issue of captives . The Pyongyang radio said he had declared that North Korea could not accept the retention by the United Nations , after a truce , of Korean or Chinese prisoners . " We @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ General Kim said . " We will exert ourselves to this end . " In the same address , however , the Communist leader repeated all the old charges of bacteriological warfare , the use of poison gas and violations of international law by the United Nations . The tenor of his remarks could give rise to a belief that Premier Kim was practicing the familiar Communist tactic of raising hopes for a quick armistice in Korea , then appending conditions that the United Nations already had refused to accept . The truce talks have failed to date , the Premier said , because " the Americans do not want to solve the Korean problem peacefully . " " They are trying to obtain at the conference table what they could not obtain by war , " he asserted . " The Americans are preparing for a third world war and plotting a protracted war behind the scenes while negotiating for a truce . The Korean war was essential to them in order to rearm Japan and Western Germany for a third world war . " To avert such a conflict @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with " neither victor nor vanquished . " But he added that , " if the enemy will not abandon its plot for war , the Korean and Chinese peoples , counting on the support of the peace-loving democracies , will crush their plot , " saying . " we have strength for a protracted war . " Both General Kim 's address and the official slogans adopted for " Liberation Day " placed great stress on backing by the Soviet Union , which the Communists at Panmunjom once insisted ryas a neutral nation qualified to control the fulfillment of armistice terms . The Premier linked the Soviet Union with China in an expression of gratitude toward " our comrades who helped us in fighting this war . "                     