@@713788

txt Republicans in congress tonight were demanding release of military and diplomatic files in order to show Gen. was fired because he opposed communist appeasement in Asia . Top secret labels on the documents in the case serve to hide what House Republican Leader Martin R. , Mass. described as " appeasement policies " in dealings with the Chinese Communists . The demand came as Democrats were bowing to Republican insistence that tell congress his story . The general is expected to address congress Thursday or Friday . As San Francisco , New York City and Washington prepared to give a hero 's welcome , the general tentatively turned down an invitation to testify before the senate armed services committee and said he would welcome an opportunity to address a joint meeting of congress . Awaits deint Invitation In a cable from Tokyo . advised Chairman Russell D. , Ga. of the senate armed services committee that he wo'jld not make other plans until congress acts on the joint invitation . Russell had extended an invitation to to tell his story . Other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ assumed he would set these aside also , possibly finally but at least until congress votes on the invitation to address a joint meeting . Rep. Richards D. , S. C. announced he would ask the house foreign affairs committee to invite , and Sen. Smith R. , N. J. said he will propose the senate foreign relations committee also hear the general . 's message from Tokyo , relayed thru the Pentagon , read : " Please give Sen. Russell my personal regards and inform him that I am advised resolutions are pending in congress inviting me to address a joint session as was done in the cases of Generals Eisenhower and Clay and others when they first came from abroad and that until action has been taken on such resolutions I would deem it inappropriate to make any other plans . If such resolutions are approved , I would regard ? it a great honor and distinction to address the congress in general terms . " Reply by Russell Sen. Russell promptly sent this reply : " In so far as I am advised all members of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ you to address ; joint meeting of congress . Suggestion in my wire that committee was considering inviting all members of the congress to an open meeting to hear you was made before it became clear that a concurrent resolution might be adopted . Indications are this resolution will be approved on Tuesday the 17th . " My first message referred more especially to your appearance before the committee in executive session to discuss with us the matters referred to in that message . We of course realize that any invitation extended to you by concurrent congressional resolution will take precedence over committee hearings and understand why you might prefer that your address to the congress should be in general terms . " However , the members of the armed services committee , having definite responsibilities in the field of national defense , wish to discuss with you in executive session matters which might affect seWitY if.made public . " Please inform me as promptly as possible what dates subsequent to April 18 will be convenient for you to meet the committee . " May Televise Appearance The appearance before senators @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ next week , probably will be seen by mil= lions over television , but there may be objections to . televising question and answer sessions before congressional committees if accepts these invitations . While was packing for his journey home , Sen. Knowland R. , Cal. said he and other members of his party will insist upon stripping secret labels from documents dealing with Asia . Wants Wedemeyer Report One of the documents Knowland wants released is a report on Korea by Lt. Gen. Albert C. Wedemeyer . He also wants to inspect a report that 120,000 South Koreans were sent home when no arms and equipment were provided for them . Democratic opposition to 's appearance before a joint meeting of congress faded suddenly as the volume of protest mail against the firing of the general reached record proportions . Decomratic ranks were split as various party members openly pledged support of the G. 0 . P. invitation resolution . Leadership decided that opposition to 's appearance would harm the party . The White House hurriedly moved to issue a statement in which President Truman said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Senate 0 . H. Due Tuesday The senate is scheduled to approve the resolution Tuesday . The house rules committee will meet Tuesday morning to approve the resolution and call for house passage . Rep. Sabath D. , 111 .. 1 announced the summoning of the meeting , saying he was appreciative of the " political motives " which inspired the G. 0 . P. resolution . Rep. Allen I11.1 , ranking Re . I publican on the rules committee , assailed the firing of by the President while the White House has failed to clean up corruptions and scandals in the administration . " Scandals have been bursting In the air for six years of the Truman regime , " Allen said in a statement . " Them have been sordid explosions of vote frauds , ballot stealing , job selling , alliances with crime , dispensing of favors , bribery , home freezers , mink coats , free hotel bills , treason , Red spies , Communists in the government , influence peddling , and rank favoritism . " Habit of Firing Patriots " " Did Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Red spy , traitor , tax stealer , or correptionist ? No , he fired Douglas , our greatest general and cur greatest hero . " Mr. Truman has a habit of firing and turning his back on patriots . Last fall he fired Louis Johnson , former national commander of the American Legion , as defense secretary . Johnson clashed with State Secretary Acheson , the man who would not turn his back on Alger Hiss. clashed with Acheson over appeasement of the Reds . Now is martyrized . " On the day he fired , Mr. Truman called off a scheduled appointment with Erie Cocke Jr. , American Legion national commander , after the latter publicly backed 's stand . But the President scheduied an appointment the next day with Hiss ' pal , Acheson . " Favors Hero 's Welcome Cocke said today he feels Americans should give a hero 's welcome on his return . He said he did not want to involve the veterans organization in the matter because of its political implications , but he emphasized that he stands @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which drew him the White House rebuff . In New Haven , Corm. , Sen. Taft R .. O. said a congressional committee should examine " the general questiun of our far eastern policy " with , but added there is no particular reason for investigating the military aspects of the firing of the general . " There is no question of the President 's power to fire ; whatever you may think of the policy involved , " he said . Hurley Offers Home Patrick J. Hurley , former war secretary and former personal representative of President Roosevelt in China , offered his home here to his " old time friend " Gen. . The offer was made as the White House cleared the way for a hero 's welcome for the general . Remuval of Die block to a reception for marked Oro last Democratic opposition to 's return . The district board of ccmmissioners had announced that time was too short to give the welcome accorded such figures as Gen. Eisenhower and Adm . Nimitz . Do an About Face ? Today @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to accord a reception with or without approval . The commissioners said they had been advised that the White House " looks with pleasure upon plans of citizens of Washington " to welcome the-general . Nurley confirmed reports that he had been asked by Rep. Martin to provide accommodations for the general , Mrs. , and their son , Arthur , 13 . Hurley was war secretary when was chief of staff . During the war he was a major general and diplomat in the far east . Hurley has been an outspoken critic of administration policy in Asia                     