@@719982

txt The foreign ministers of Britain , France and the United States met here today to discuss the situation in the Taiwan Strait . Before leaving for London , Foreign Secretary Selwyn Lloyd , reported that he was " more hopeful " than when he arrived here ten days ago that a solution could be reached . Mr. Lloyd 's departure was the climax of a. day of close contacts in top diplomatic circles over the Taiwan Strait crisis . Some of the so-called " neutralist " powers also intervened in an attempt to get a non-explosive settlement . Dulles Talks With Lloyd The round of diplomatic conversations here was begun in the morning . when Mr. Dulles talked at some length with Mr. Lloyd . No announcement was made of the content of their conversation . There was no doubt here , however , that Mr. Lloyd related to Mr. Dulles the essence of the conversation he had held earlier with Andrei A. Gromyko , Soviet Foreign Minister . The British Foreign Secretary is understood to be attempting to arrange some form of ceasefire in the Taiwan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Britain recognizes the Communist regime while the United States does not . A tour of Quemoy showed that the Nationalist garrison felt it would be able to withstand the Chinese Communist bombardment for a long time . Damage to defense installations on the island appeared to be relatively light . Krishna Menon Active ? Later in the day , Mr. Dulles talked briefly with Maurice Couve de Murville , French Foreign Minister . A spokesman for the French delegation said many aspects of the Taiwan situation had been discussed . The French Foreign Minister was understood to have urged on Mr. Dulles a continuation " at least as long as possible " of the Warsaw conversation between the Ambassadors of the United States and Communist China . V. K. Krishna Menon , India 's Minister of Defense , has been active in the corridors here in an attempt to get a peaceful solution of the Chinese question . He said tonight , however , that India had no special solution for the Taiwan problem . India intends to introduce no special resolution , the Indian spokesman said . Whereas the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at without hostilities , " we do n't ourselves come // DULLES CONTINUES TALKS ON TAIWAN Confirmed From Page 1 , Col. 8 into this , " the spokesman remarked . Attention of the General Assembly in its debate today shifted largely from the Far Fast to so - called " colonial " problems . One new suggestion , however , was forthcoming from Momulu Dukuly , Foreign Secretary of Liberia . He told the eighty-onenation body that a commission might well be appointed to look into the various situations confronting the United Nations . In a new approach to the problem , Mr. Dukuly proposed that an investigatory group consider on a political and legal basis " ' questions relating to Quemoy and Korea , " as well as matters concerning the Middle East and Algeria . The United States , Britain and France came under sharp attack during the general debate by Nashim Jawed , chalrTan of the delegation of the new Republic of Iraq . : The United States and British landings in Lebanon and Jordan and French activities in Algeria are largely attempts to preserve an outworn @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prevails in Cyprus and along the border between the British protectorate of Aden and the territory of Oman in the southern Arabian Peninsula , he remarked . Diplomatic contacts on the crucial Far East situation continued during the evening . Some foreign ministers were present at a stag dinner given by Secretary General Dag Hammarskjold . Mr. Dulles was one of the guests . So was Mr. Gromyko . Mr. Lloyd , however , left for London at 5 P .. M. M. Henry Cabot Lodge , head of the United States delegation , returned here during the morning after having attended a Cabinet meeting in Washington . He was one of the guests at the monthly luncheon held by the members of the Security Council , of which the United States is a member . Although Mr. Dulles tad previously announced thee the issue of Taiwan might be brought before the United Nations in the event of a breakdown of the talks in Warsaw , a United States spokesman said no decision had been made on how this might be done . The Security Council has had the issue of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a result of the discussions early in 1955 , when Communist China declined an invitation to attend the sessions . If the issue were brought before the council again presumably it could be transferred to the General Assembly floor at the current session .                     