@@715385

txt John Foster Dulles , Secretary of , State , called on the Soviet Union tonight to accept President isenhower 's challenge and cooperate in a. program of peace that would close . In the meantime , Mr. Dulles declared in. a major foreign policy speech , the United States must assume that the apparent softening of the Soviet 's attitude toward the West represents merely a tactical shift rather than a/ basic change in that country 's attitude . He spoke at the annual dinner of the American Society of Newspaper Editors , closing its convention here . . The speech was the first in a series to be made by Administration spokesmen to press the initiative for ' - world. peace seized by President Eisenhower in addressing the same audience three days ago . Mr. Dulles described the pro , gram laid down by the President , as a " true peace offensive " and said it was in response to a " peace defensive " launched by the new Soviet Government of Georgi M. Malenkov . " It is gratifying that Soviet leaders appear now to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " he declared . " But we can not yet tell whether this represents a basic change , or merely a tactical shift . " It is prudent , for the present , to assume that we are witnessing a tactical move of the ? kind which Soviet communism has often practiced . " In serving notice that the free // world is awaiting deeds to show the good intentions of the Russians , Mr. Dulles said it now appeared that the enemy might want an armistice in Korea after evad-i ing it for nearly two years . Concessions are also being made in other quarters , he observed . He called them " all still minor , but not without significance . " Soviet leadership is now confronted with a challenge by President Eisenhower to go much further , Mr. Dulles noted . The President 's peace program not only calls for peace in Korea but also includes an Austrian treaty , a free Germany , closer unity of European nations and eventually general disarmament by enforceable agreements . To these and other proposals made by the President , Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ instant asw.ell:as in name , the Cominform. through which it endlessly conspires to overthrow , from within , every gen-. uinely free Government in the world . " The United States awaits ' the deeds that will ' answer the quesItions raised by himself and the President , Mr. Dulles said . . " We profoundly hope , " he added , " that these deeds will , in fact , end a black chapter of distrust and open a bright new chapter of peace and goodwill . " Mr. Dulles called the evidence given by Soviet leaders that they were changing their policies " one of the most perplexing problems of our time . " In withholding judgment on whether this meant merely a switch in. tactics or really a basic change , he quoted the treatise on 1 " Strategy and Tactics " by Premier Stalin . He noted that in it Stalin acknowledged the necessity of making concessions from time to time , to buy off a powerful enemy and gain a respite . The former Russian dictator went on to explain , Mr. Dulles observed , ** @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enemy with the ob-I jective , . of gaining time toncgumulate ' forces and later assume the Offensive , " Is the successor  --  or should I say , are the successors following this strategy of the dead Stalin ? " Mr. Dulles asked . In his speech Thursday President Eisenhower opened the door to the " mansion of peace " and invited the Soviet Union to come in , the Secretary said . The invitation , he added , was not mere rhetoric but " marked a planned stage in the evolution of the Eisenhower foreign policy . " He also stressed the timing of the President 's speech . He noted that the new Eisenhower Administration had felt it necessary first to demonstrate to the . world the will and capacity to develop foreign policies " so firm , so fair , so just , that the Soviet leaders might find it expedient to live with these policies rather than to live against them . " The Dulles speech was largely devoted to what the top Cabinet officer called a brief review of foreign policy developments in the , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the stage , he said , for the President 's dramatic peace bid of Thursday . The points made involved the following topics : ciThe European defense community  --  While the project seemed to be dying last January , it . has now been revived . Visits by Mr. Dulles and Harald E. Stassen , Mutual Security Director , to the six participating countries and Great Britain and return visits to the United States by several European leaders were credited with accomplishing ' the result . ' Mr. Dulles added , however , that success could , not yet be confidently predicted . ' ilThe North Atlantic Treaty alliance ? A " fresh approach " has been adopted , aimed at a strength that can be sustained for an indefinite period rather than a. more rapid build-up based on the assumption of . greatest danger at some early , predictable ' date . Nevertheless , he said , the forthcoming North Atlantic Treaty Organization council meeting at Paris will plant not greater weakness but greater strength . IlThe Far East ? A new order of priority .. and ... urgency has- @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fighting aggressive Communist aggression there face " a single hostile front " to be met with a common purpose and cooperation . Consequently , the Communists in the Far East can no. longer count on winning by shifting their strength and attacks from one nation to another . 4IThe Middle East and Latin America Goodwill missions to both areas are planned . The United States is determined to develop ' better understanding and more fellowship . cCaptive peoples  --  Although it failed to act on the Eisenhower anti-enslavement resolution , Congress nevertheless fully shares the President 's condemnation of the Soviet Union for stamping out freedom in satellite countries . SIState Department organization ? Machinery or coordination with the National Security . Council in policy planning is being developed . Fresh vision and new vigor is being injected into the department , the United Nations mission and foreign embassies by personnel changes .                     