@@717500

txt CITY HALL THRONG PRESSES DEMAND FOR NEW SCHOOLS Board of Estimate Urged to Approve Certain Projects Omitted by City Planners NO NEW PROMISES MADE But Parerit-Teacher Groups and Others Are Told 1956 Allocation Will Be Kept By PAUL CROWELL Parent-teacher groups from the city 's five boroughs swarmed to City Hall yesterday . Their purpose was to ask the Board of Estimate to authorize school construction and modernization projects omitted from the City Planning Commission 's proposed 1956 capital budget of $1,791 , - 736,036 . The board , with Mayor Wagner presiding at a session that lasted into the night , heard about 100 persons in the crowded chamber . The story was the familiar one of outdated , overcrowded schools lacking proper sanitary facilities , repairs that had been neglected , falling plaster and the lack of lunchroom and gymnasium ' space . Members of the city 's legisla- ' , tive delegation at Albany added their pleas to those of the parent-teacher groups . The Mayor and his colleagues made no commitments except to indicate clearly that projects covered by the City Planning Commission @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and modernizing an undetermined number of old buildings would be kept intact . The emphasis at this year 's hearing was on replacement of ancient Manhattan schools in congested areas with new and modern structures . There was also a strong demand for immediate repairs to time-worn schools whose immediate re-I was not possible . Zaretzki in Dramatic Plea State Senator Joseph Zaretzki , Democrat of the Twenty-third , Manhattan Senatorial District , supplied the dramatis highlight of the hearing . This was his plea for new schools to replace Public Schools 5 , 46 and 169 in his district , which covers Washington Heights and part of Harlem , Mr. Zaretzki concentrated on Public School 5 , a sixty-oneyear-old building at 122 Edgecombe Avenue with a school population almost 100 per cent Negro and Puerto Rican . The building is " almost falling apart , " he told the board members . Its walls and ceilings , he said , are " indescribably filthy . " " Give these Negro and Puerto Rican children a 50-50 chance , " he pleaded . The Mayor interrupted to remind the speaker that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ him by Jan. 1 steps to be taken to achieve racial integration in the city schools . Manhattan Borough President Hulan E. Jack praised the Mayor for his action and went on to criticize the Board of Education for neglecting necessary school repairs in Manhattan . Mr. Zaretzki told the board that two new electric refrigerators were delivered to P. S. 5 eight months ago but were still unused because the necessary electric outlets had not been provided , The result , he // said , was that pupils who paid 20 cents a day for their ration of milk had to go without it because the milk turned sour . The Mayor immediately or1 dered the Board of Education to submit a report on the matter within one week . Later he was told by Diedrich F. Lehnert , maintenance for the Board of ' Education , that the outlets would be supplied on Monday . Mr. Lehnert told the Mayor that contracts had been let for miscellaneous repairs to the building and work would begin next week . ' Ripe for Ashcan ' Mr. Zaretzki told the board that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Nicholas Avenue , was " ripe for the ashcan . " He also denounced conditions at P. S. 169 , a fiftyfive-year-old building at 62 Audubon Avenue . Conditions at these schools , he declared , indicated " almost unbelievable inefficiency " somewhere in the Board of Education . Mr. Lehnert , , rising from his seat on several occasions to defend the school repair program , told the board that a proper repair and modernization job would cost between $70,000,000 and $100,000,000 annually . The money now available , he said , is spent where it will do the most good , with all schools treated fairly and without discrimination against any minority groups . A large delegation from the Sheepshead Bay section of Brooklyn asked the board to ear-1 mark funds for a new school in that area , where many new apartment buildings and one and two-family houses have recently been constructed . Representative Sidney S. Fine , Bronx Democrat , who was recently elected to the Supreme Court , joined parent - teacher groups of that borough in a plea for inclusion in the 1956 budget of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was urged by State Senator Nathaniel T. Helman , Bronx Democrat . The Board of Estimate has until Dec. 4 to adopt its own capital budget for next-year . It will be guided to some extent by a report to be submitted on Monday by Budget Director Abraham D. Beame . The report is expected to recommend steps the board may take to make up for an $82,000 , - 000 deficiency caused by the defeat on Nov. 8 of Amendment 5 , which would have exempted that amount from the city 's debt limit . The $82,000,000 figure represents present and future debt incurred in connection with the city 's comprehensive pollution control program for sewage treatment .                     