@@717240

txt WASHINGTON , July 26 ? The danger of war between the East and the West has been pushed back by the Geneva conference , in the view of Secretary of State Dulles . Mr. Dulles said at his news conference today that the Big Four had given the statesmen of the world new elbow room to ' seek solutions of world problems without fear cf striking a spark that might ignite a war . Before Geneva , the danger of War existed , although perhaps not a great danger , Mr. Dulles said . Now the danger is less , he declared . He restated a fundamental United States principle of " nonrecourse to force " as a basis on which understanding between the East and the West should be sought . " That , of course , does not mean that early and easy solutions are in sight , " Mr. Dulles said . " It does mean that the war danger has further receded . " As did President Eisenhower in his radio and television broadcast last night , Mr , Dulles spoke about Geneva @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the United States , Britain , France and the Soviet Union had created for the first time in many years an atmosphere in which diplomats might work with profit . Mr. Dulles ' statement described the change in East-West // relations as " a certain transformation , " adding that relations were now " Tess brittle . " He indicated that relations were capable of greater stress and strain without arousing fear on one side or the other that war would be the result . The Secretary declared that if the principle of " non-recourse to force " was accepted by the East as well as the West , a progressive solution of world problems by diplomatic means would be made possible . The doctrine as stated by Mr. Dulles follows : " The United States believes that , whatever may be the differences which now divide countries , these differences should not be settled by recourse to force where this would be apt to provoke international war . We believe that the principle of nonrecourse to force is valid not merely for the United States and its allies but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of war as " an instrument of national policy in their relations with one another " was the core of the pact of Paris , better known as the Kellogg-Briand pact . This treaty , signed in August , 1928 , by fifteen nations was the fruit of truly diplomatic efforts by the late Frank B. Kellogg , then Secretary of State , and the late ' Aristide Briand of France . Mr. Dulles noted that the United States , in providing military assistance " to other Countries , explicitly specified that these resources-not be used for aggressive purposes. , The Secretary cited four examples of this principle . in action : the pledge of Chancellor Konrad Adenauer never to use force to reunite East , Germany to West ; a United States pledge contained in the Korean security treaty against use of force to reunite Korea ; a United States declaration in connection with the armistice in Indochina that it opposed aggression to bring about unification of that country and a proviso of the United States security treaty with Na- ' tionalist China against the use of force except by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ suggested that an initial test of the acceptance of this doctrine of nonrecourse to force by the East would come in the forthcoming conversations between the United States and China . A more comprehensive test of the principle will be afforded by the deliberations of the Big Four foreign ministers in Geneva in October , particularly with respect to German unity and European security . Mr. Dulles expressed his conviction that German unity would be achieved , perhaps not immediately , but surely . He made it clear that the West had accepted the Soviet contention that German unity could be attained more easily within the framework of European security . Howlever , on this problem Mr. Dulles underlined , as did President Eisenhower , that " real concessions " and " some giving " by both sides would be essential . Mr. Dulles said that initially some of the Soviet security demands might seem unreasonable. , Yet , he said , - if they are honestly held they should receive careful consideration and met where possible . ? . The Secretary sketched three possible types of guarantee that might be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ security fears .. The first would constitute a restatement of the guarantee against the use of force or threat of-force , similar to that provided by the United Nations Charter . Mr. Dulles noted that Germany , not being a member of , the United Nations , was not covered by the present charter . The same situation applies to some other East European countries ' that are not United Nations , members . Another proposal Mr. Dulles suggested was an agreement for the disposition of armed forces and their maintenance at mutually agreed levels in particular areas . A third possibility is the establishment of an inspection and control machinery to guarantee against surprise attack , Mr. Dulles declared . Mr. Dulles declined to say that failure to attain an agreement on Germany would produce a serious situation . He remarked that everyone was in agreement that the continued disunity of Germany was a source of serious insecurity and danger and that he hoped an atmosphere conducive to agreement on Germany had been achieved . The Secretary said that President Eisenhower and he had emphasized to the Soviet group at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ European satellite states and over the subversive and revolutionary activities of the international Communist movement . He said they had received no assurances on either of these points . He was hopeful tat " developments will in fact tend to eliminate these causes of tension . " Mr. Dulles declined to comment on Congressional reports that the Soviet leaders had indicated a desire to visit the United States but that he opposed . such a trip . He said he was not aware of any invitation by the Soviet leaders to President Eisenhower for a visit to the Soviet Union . Another report from Congressional quarters quoted Premier Nikolai A. Bulganin as having expressed hope to General Eisenhower that he would seek a second term in the White House . President Eisenhower was said to have smiled , at the Soviet Premier and let it go at that .                     