@@713289

txt The Ford Foundation dedicated itself and pledged its assets of nearly a quarter of a billiehn dollars today to the elimination of war and to the improvement in a peaceful atmosphere of the common lot of man . The foundation was said to be the largest public trust in the world . It will soon announce that the leadership in its comprehensive activities will be entrusted to Paul G. Hoffman , who resigned yesterday , effective Sept. 30 , as head of the Economic Cooperation Administration , a spokesman said . The administration ' supervises Marshall Plan foreign aid . With Mr. Hoffman as its . president , at a salary reported to be about $100,000 a year , the foundation will move about the first of the year to make available its vast resources in five generally defined " areas for action . " It may spend either the principal or the earnings from its holdings of nonvoting stock of the Ford Motor Company , with a book value of $238,166,175 . Its disbursements will be in the field of social sciences , with Mr. Hoffman @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the spokesman said . Trustees to Meet in November Confirmation of the selection of Mr. Hoffman as president of the foundation still was lacking tonight . It was learned that the trustees did not plan another meeting until November . At that time the appointment presumably will be announced . It was understood that Mr. Hoffman wished to have about a month 's time in which to make several addresses summing up his work with the Economic Cooperation Administration and to complete a trip to Europe before taking on his new duties . Mr. Hoffman denied in Washington yesterday that he had entered an agreement with the foundation but indicated deep interest in its aims , which are similar to steps he said must be taken to insure the preservation of democracy . He also indicated his willingness to con // sider accepting a post with the foundation . The announcement of the foundation 's aims and purposes was the first comprehensive statement of this kind by the organization since its establishment in 1936 by the late Edsel Ford with an original grant of $25,000 . Edsel Ford was the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ company . He and his father , together with the latter 's widow , Mrs. Clara J. Ford , and the company made continuing gifts and bequests that increased the assets nearly ten thousand fold . The trustees , in the report issued today by their chairman , Henry Ford 2d , son of Edsel Ford and now president of the company , summarized the foundation 's " five areas for action " in headings as follows : " The Ford Foundation will support activities that promise significant contributions to world peace and the establishment of a world order of law and justice . " The Ford Foundation will support activities designed to secure greater allegiance to the basic principles of freedom and democracy in the solution of the insistent problems of an ever-changing society . " The Ford Foundation will support activities designed to advance the economic well-being of people everywhere and to improve economic institutions for the better realization of democratic goals . " The Ford Foundation will support activities to strengthen , expand and improve educational facilities and methods to enable individuals more fully to realize their intellectual @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of educational opportunity ; and to conserve and increase knowledge and enrich our culture . " The Ford Foundation will support sdientifie activity designed to increase knowledge of factors which influence or determine human conduct , and to extend such knowledge for the maximum bene'fit of individuals and of society . " ' These " five areas for action , " a spokesman said , were set forth to serve as guide posts for the foundation president . They were made broad , vague and general , he stated , " so as not to tie the president 's hands . " The powers of the foundation president would be subject only to the eight-man board of .. rustees , the spokesman declared . As a departure from procedure usual in foundations , the spokesman noted , the trustees had directed that each trustee serve a term of only three years , with none to serve more than three terms . " Our objective was to find men at the peak of their life to serve as trustees and to avoid leeches looking fpr a sinecure " he added . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the trustees asserted , they were " leaving to others the continued exploration of such vitally important fields as the physical sciences , medicine and public health . " " This is a critical point in world history , " they went on . " At this crossroad we face:two great and related needs . The first is the establishment of a lasting peace . The second is the achievement of democratic strength , stability and vitality . " In this field also , it added , it would support moves to develop understanding and conditions essential to world peace and to improve the structure and procedures by which the United States Government , and private groups in the United States participated in world affairs . In the second " area for action , " the foundation said , it would support activities directed toward the elimination of restrictions on freedom of thought , inquiry and expression in the United States , " and the development of policies and procedures best adapted to protect these rights in the face of persistent international tension . " In discussing its aim to advance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ area for action , " the foundation declared that it sought " the achievement of a growing economy characterized by high output , the highest possible level of constructive employment , and a minimum of destructive instability . " In the fourth " area for action , " that of education , the foundation called for and pledged its support to projects , among others , seeking ' the clarification of the goals of education and the evaluation of current educational practices and facilities for the better realization of democratic goals . " As an example of the kind of scientific activity it would support , the foundation , in discussing its fifth " area for action , " promised aid for the " scientific study of man . . . of the process of development from infancy to old age ; of the interaction of biological , interpersonal , and cultural influences in human behavior ; and of the range of variations among individuals . " No funds have been earmarked for any specific purposes , it was said today , and the policy of the trustees will be to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ proved ability . In establishing the fund with his modest gift of $25,000 on January 15 , 1936 , Edsel Ford said the foundation would " receive and administer funds for scientific , educational and charitable purposes , all for the public welfare . " In addition to Henry Ford 2d , members of the present board of trustees are Benson Ford , his brother and vice president of the company ; James B. Webber Jr. , vice president of the J. L. Hudson Company , Detroit ; Burt J. Craig of Detroit ; Dr , Karl T. Compton , chairman of the board of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology ; Dr. Donald K. David , dean of the Harvard School of Business Administration ; John Cowles , President of the Minneapolis Star and Tribune Company , and Charles E. Wilson , president of the General Electric Company . H. Rowan Gaither Jr . of San Francisco , an attorney and member of the faculty of the University of California School of Law , served as chairman of the study committee whose work underlay the trustees ' announcement today . Other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dean of the School of Business , University of North Carolina ; Dr. William C. Devane , dean of Yale College ; Dr. T. Duckett Jones , chairman of the Division of Medicine of the Helen Hay Whitney Foundation ; Dr. Charles C. Lauritzon , chairman of the Division of Natural Science , California Institute of Technology . Also , Dr. Donald G. Marquis , chairman of the Division of Social Science , University of Michigan ; Dr. Peter H. Odegard , chairman of the Division ' of Political Science , University of California ; the late Dr. Francis T. Spaulding , chairman of the Division of Education and president of the University of the State of New York .                     