@@712952

txt The initiative petition pending before the Massachusetts Legislature calling for a statewide flat rate for compulsory automobile liability insurance was ruled valid today by the Supreme Judicial Court . The court was split four to three . Legality of the petition had been challenged on the ground that it violated the state constitution 's provision that " not more than one-fourth of the certified signatures on any petition shall be those of registered voters of any one county . " A total of 20,000 certified Voter signatures are necessary to file an initiative petition . On the flat-rate petition the number of signatures in Suffolk and Middlesex Counties exceeded the one-fourth limit . Some time ago Senator Newland H. Holmes ( R ) of Weymouth filed an order in the Senate asking for a ruling by the court . The Senate adopted the order and today 's decision is the result . How Judges Split The majority opinion was signed by Associate Justices Henry T. Lummus . Harold P. Williams , Raymond S. Wilkins , and Edward A. Counihan , Jr , The minority opinion was signed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ James J. Ronan and John V. Spalding . As a result of the Supreme Court opinion , the initiative petition will be taken off the table in the Senate next Wednesday and brought to a vote , Senate leaders said . The Senate is expected ject the initiative petition already has been rejected House . The sponsors , headed by Representative Harold W Canavan ( 13 ) of Revere , are expected to file the 5.000 additional voter signatures needed to place the issue on the November state ballot . This issue of flat-rate insurance has been before the Legislature for many years , Legislature Hostile Each year the Legislature has turned down bills to substitute a flat rate for the present rates set by zones , These rates are based on the accident records of drivers in each zone . Zone rates vary greatly , running from approximately S60 in Chelsea to S16 in many small towns . As a result of legislative refusal to pass a flat-rate bill , drivers from high-rate districts are submitting the Initiative petition so the issue can be placed on the ballvt this year @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Judicial Court stated that the one-fourth limitation in the constitution was intended to prevent an initiative petition from being " overweighed by any one county . " The majority , however , insisted the one-fourth limit should he read liberally while the minority said the limit should be read as to its " literal meaning . " The majority opinion held that the signatures in any one county beyond the one-fourth limit should be disregarded , but should not be used to invalidate the petition . E. M ,                     