@@719863

txt Tens of thousands of Moscow citizens vented their anger over United States action in the Middle East against the United States Embassy here today . For several hours the embassy building on Tchaikowsky Street was besieged by shouting , whistling Muscovites who threw stones , bricks , metal pellets and ink bottles . Inside the embassy , work was suspended and Precautions were taken to minimize the damage and danger . Two-thirds of the windows on the first floor of the building were broken and there was some damage to furniture and draperies . No one inside the building was injured . In Potsdam the offices of the United States and British military missions were at ! tacked by East Germans . I Soviet Police Watch Display Soviet policemen and soluiers stood by while some of the crowd tossed missiles and ink bottles at will at the embassy . Only after more than an hour did they force the crowd back from the embassy and beyond throwing range . Llewellyn E. Thompson Jr. , United States Ambassador , was expected to register a strong protest against the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Soviet Government . The day started quietly at the embassy . Several delegations arrived early to present petitions to Mr. Thompson urging the withdrawal of United States troops from Lebanon . The Ambassador received three representatives , answered their questions and remarked that the problem was being discussed at the United Nations , which he said was the " proper place " to consider such matters . Written Protests Presented Other petitioners handed in their written statements to embassy personnel at the gate on the first floor . But by mid-afternoon the atmosphere changed considerably . A speakers ' platform had been erected at a corner half a block from the embassy and loudspeakers were mounted along the street in preparation for the protest meeting . Groups with banners and placards denouncing the United States began converging on the area from all parts of the city , By 4 P. M. the entire wide boulevard was a mass of screaming , fist-shaking , jeering people reaching as far as the eye could see down Tchaikowsky Street . Twice embassy officials called the Soviet Foreign Ministry , asking for police reinforcements sufficient @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The summons were met but it still was necessary to close the iron gates and lock them . As speakers at the meeting preached their anti-United States doctrines and shouted their slogans ? " Get out of the Middle East , " " Hands off Lebanon and Jordan " and the like ? the mood of the crowd turned uglier . Every time the crowd noticed anyone standing at an embassy window , a crescendo of whistles went up and pieces of brick smashed against the side of the embassy building or through a window . Families living on the second , ) third and fourth floors of the ten-story building were moved to higher floors . Equipment and ) furniture in offices on the first floor were removed to corridors away from the street . It was not until 8 P. M. that traffic on the boulevard began moving again , although several hundred remained on the street in front of the embassy , whistling and shouting . The British Embassy here was the scene of a similar , though much smaller , manifestation of bitterness against British actions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ locked embassy gates , ' placed placards in front of the central building and shouted taunts and slogans . One group forced its way into a smaller side building in the compound occupied by the wife of a British Embassy official and their young child . The two were rescued and taken to the main embassy building by four British Embassy guards . The Moscow radio reported that protest meetings against Britain and the United States had been conducted throughout ' the Soviet Union during the day .                     