@@718301

txt About a week ago Mr. Eisenhower told newsmen that he saw " no reason on earth " for secrecy about expenditures by Congressmen who go abroad on official trips . Within a week of his remark the Panama Canal Company disclosed that three Senators and sixteen Representatives had travelled in the past year on its ships free of charge . In addition , six employes of Congressional committees rode on the cuff , and thirty , - five wives and children went along at one-fourth-prise . Now it would n't do at all to jump to the conclusion that these lawmakers were all off on a picnic and that some " big business " shipping company had given them all these free trips for the nefarious purpose of influencing legislation . The business of the Congress , involved as it is with foreign aid , treaties , troops and other matters that require legislation , often takes members and committee employes abroad . The taxpayers must pay for all these trips . Some of the members said they took the trip to Panama so they could inspect the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ need inspection in the considered view of the Congress , why of course somebody must inspect them ; that comes under official business . And if the inspecting Congressmen feel that for reasons of loneliness , or the education of their children , or merely for the vacation we feel pretty certain the families of Senators and Representatives fully earn , why no one has a right to criticize the lawmakers for taking their families along . Except , of course , the way they did it . Why should the taxpayers be required to pay three-fourths of the fare of the kinfolk of Congressmen on official business ? Well , one answer is obvious . The Government owns and operates the Panama Canal Company which operates the Panama Canal , three passenger vessels and a railroad . If the shipping line end of the company does n't make enough money to pay its way , the tolls other ships must pay to use the Canal can , of course , be made to support the line . The Hoover Commission reported that the steamship line has carried an average of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pay the full tariff . In fiscal 1950 only 3,544 passengers paid in full , while in 1954 6,866 met their full hills . At that , though , even in 1954  --  the last year the Hoover Commission compiled figures on the company  --  exactly 5,895 passengers either rode free of charge or paid less than full fare . There are , of course , a number of private companies which own ships on the same runs as the Governmentowned company . The Government ships are in competition with the private companies which must pay taxes on the money they earn . When private industry can not make money to pay taxes , the taxes must be met by other taxpayers for the Government must pay its bills or continue to go into debt . It is perfectly clear , then . that whenever people sail on a Government vessel at less than the price other people must pay on other lines , the taxpayers must foot the bill in the end . We hope that Mr. Eisenhower 's opposition to secrecy that induced this Government agency to open up @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other Government agencies as well as to Congress itself which is pretty adamant about keeping travel expense accounts of its members secret . There is certainly no reason on earth why the taxpayer is not entitled to know whose pleasure trip ho is helping to pay for , unless it be that junketing lawmakers do n't want to add to the crowds at the dock to see them off on their bonny voyages .                     