@@714488

txt The North Atlantic Council , in a fulldress session at Lisbon , has unanimously endorsed the creation of a European army of some 2,000,000 men to be provided by six nations , including Germany . This army , presumably bearing a single supra-national banner , will serve side by side with the forces of the United States , the British Commonwealth and the European allies not specifically included in it , under the Supreme Commander of Shape , to provide the main ground force of resistance to further SovAt aggression . The Council 's action , made possible by the compromises reached in the London conferences between the United States , Britain , France and Germany , represents a diplomatic triumph , and Mr. Acheson rightly hails it as a great and significant step . For the European army is more than a purely military undertaking . It provides the basis for a solution of the German problem by integrating Germany with the West and by utilizing its resources for Western defense . It also provides a further basis , in addition to the Schuman Plan , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the goal of American aid to Europe . It is necessary , of course , to note that what the Council has endorsed is thus far only a blueprint  --  a paper army which must still be converted into an army in being . Much remains to be done , and many pitfalls must be avoided before the European army , and all the hopes that are based on it , are realized . But the Council 's unanimous decision is both a repudiation of exaggerated pessimism about this project and a token of the deterinination of the Atlantic allies to accomplish what only a short time ago appeared to be impossible . The chief obstacles that must still be overcome are two ? one moral and one material . The character of the moral obstacle has been revealed by the outbursts of nationalistic rivalries , fears and suspicions in the Parliaments of France and Germany . The decision of the Council now enables the Governments of these countries to complete the treaty for the establishment of the European army ; but the treaty itself must then be ratified by all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ratification will depend largely on the final stand of the French and German Socialists . It would be an irony of history if the European Socialists , who boast of their internationalism , should become the instruments for the destruction of the most promising move toward peace and international solidarity on their continent . The second problem involves the financing of the project . This problem also has been brought nearer solution at Lisbon . But the solution continues to depend to a large extent on Amerk an aid , and it is evident that if the European army and , any European federation resulting from it are to be permanent Europe will have to prepare itself to finance its own defense . In the long run this will depend upon increased European production , for which European economic integration is a primary condition , But there is another method at hand , as pointed out by Belgium 's Foreign Minister van Zeeland , and this is a mobilization of Europe 's hoarded gold . Mr. van Zeeland estimates this hoard at three billion dollars at a minimum ; other authorities @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this capital is idle , though part of it is engaged in speculation which feeds inflation . Its mobilization , for ? better purposes could do much to . solve Europe 's problems . Whether the specific plan outlined by Mr. van Zeeland for the purpose is the best means to achieve the result 's a matter for consideration . But the opportunity is present , and the - Lisbon conference may fin.d a way to seize it .                     