@@712975

txt A new threat to enactment of a tax-adjustment bill this session arose today as the House Ways and Means Committee , in a stormy session behind closed doors , affirmed a previous tentative decision to give a tax reduction to " economy brand " cigarettes . The action raised the possibility that the chairman , Representative Robert L. Doughton , Democrat of North Carolina , would throw his influence against the entire measure now being framed by the committee . He has bitterly fought the cigarette tax proposal for years . He made it known , according to committee members , that he , at the least , would oppose House consideration of the bill under a " closed rule " procedure whereby amendments from the floor are prohibited . The confusion from a ban on a " closed rule , " it was said , would force recommittal of the measurel or cause it to be " loaded down " with so many amendments that President Truman would be certain to veto it .. Representative Walter A Lynch , Democrat of New York , who supported @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's decision on cigarettes , unless reversed , would " spell the doom of any relief in jewelry , furs , leather goods , toilet articles or any other excise taxes . " Earlier in today 's meeting the committee affirmed its previous tentative approval of more than $400,000,000 of reductions in the retail taxes on those articles and on admissions to motion pictures , sports events , plays and other public functions . The 20-per-cent rate on jewelry , furs , luggage and other leather goods and toilet articles would be cut to 10 per cent . On the cabaret tax , however , the committee voted to reduce the 20-per-cent rate to 15 per cent instead of to 10 per cent as in a tentative decision . The cigarette tax proposal , tentatively approved May 3 by a vote of 13 to 12 , was affirmed today by a vote of 12 to 11 . It is designed to enable " economy brands " to , undersell the standard makes by 15 cents a pack . The Federal tax of 7 cents a pack would be reduced to 4.9 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ exclusive of state or local taxes . Although the " economy " types now sell for two or three cents less than the ' standard makes , manufacturers of the " economy " brands have reported that they could cut their prices to 12 cents , exclusive of state and local taxes , if the proposed 2.1-cent cut in the Federal tax were enacted . Representative ? Doughton and his supporters contend that the result would be to lower the prices received by tobacco farmers , of which there are many in North Carolina . A. number of standard brand cigarette factories are also located in that state . Mr. Doughton predicted after the May vote that the committee would reverse its action and there has been much maneuvering by the opposing camps since then . The Doughton forces thought that they had won Representative Aime J. Forand , Democrat of Rhode Island , to their side . But 1Mr . Forand was absent today , as was one of the members who had voted with the Doughton side May 3 , Representative Thomas E. Martin , Republican of Iowa . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ switched his vote to the affirmative , making the ballot 13 to 10 , so that he could move for reconsideration at a later meeting . Only members voting on the prevailing side can move for reconsideration . Mr. Lynch said he would seek reconsideration in a " last desperate effort " to save excise reduction from a defeat threatened by inclusion of the cigarette tax provision in the same bill . The effective date of the approved cuts on furs , jewelry , luggage , toilet articles and admissions was established by the committee today as the first day of the first month that begins more than ten days after enactment of the bill . Thus , if a bill were enacted after July 21 but before Aug. 22 the effective date would be Sept. 1 . But if it became law Aug. 23 or later in August it would not take effect before Oct. 1 .                     