@@718603

txt Israel 's continued evasion of full compliance with the withdrawal demands of the United Nations General Assembly threatens to produce repercussions that go far beyond the immediate issue at hand . Israel 's position puts the United Nations itself in a painful dilemma , imposes new strains on the Western alliance , jeopardizes the prompt reopening of the Suez Canal and hn perils the effectiveness of the Eisenhower Doctrine , which depends at least in part on cooperation with Arab states not subservient to either Moscow or Cairo . Wherever the . fault for this situation may lid  --  and the United Nations , which failed to cope with Egypt 's arrogant lawlessness before the crisis , must take a - large share of the blame  --  the immediate responsibility rests on Israel . However good Israel 's cause may be , ' it must carefully weigh the risks of compliance against . the wider risks of noncompliance , risks not only to itself but to the whole world order which alone can guarantee its existence . The most pressing problem now is whether the United Nations is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The Asian-African bloc , impervious to any arguments but its own , has put before the General Assembly a formal demand for onesided economic and military sanctions in which the more fanatical Arabs see an instrument for Israel 's destruction . The United States , apparently holding that Israel 's transgressions are greater than those of Egypt , is believed to be pledged to support some kind of sanctions if such are decreed . Since Israel is dependent on financial support from the United States , a complete suspension of such support Gould be as lethal as bullets . In addition , President Nasser threatens to impose his own world-wide sanctions by keeping the Suez Canal ? blocked until Israel withdraws . Meantime , Britain . and France are critical of the American stand , and in a new split with the United States indicate their determined opposition to sanctions at this time . So do the Scandinavian and other European countries . Even the Soviet bloc , apparently fearing that sanctions may be turned against it , describes sanctions by vote of the General Assembly as " illegal . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could muster the requisite majority . But , quite apart from this ; the idea of imposing one-sided sanctions on Israel without imposing like sanctions on Egypt for prior defiance both of the United Nations and of international law is not only contrary to any sense of fair play ; it is also more likely to aggravate the situation than solve it . In any case , nothing should be done until the latest proposals from Jerusalem have been examined , and it is encouraging that both Israel and the United States are keeping the dooropen for further discussions . The details of these new proposals are still , to be revealed , but as forinulated by Premier Ben-Gurion before : Parliament , in the face of opposition from both left and right , they appear at least negotiable . What the , Israeli Premier asks is : ( 1 ) Stationing of United Nations forces at the Strait of Tiran to assure free passage for Israeli shipping until peace is established or other effective arrangements made ; ( 2 ) No Egyptian return to the Gaza Strip to stage new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , gone some distance toward meeting these ? demands . It backs the stationing of United Nations troops at Tiran and . in , Gaza ; it promises measures . to establish freedom of innocent passage through the Strait of Tiran , and consideration is being given to obtain Congressional support of this position . But all this is still conditional on prior Israeli withdrawal and in part on Egyptian consent . This weakness might well be remedied , however , by further measures . ?  - -  - The United gates is already discussing with other maritime powers a joint declaration proclaiming the Strait of Tiran to be international waters open to the shipping of all nations , including Israel . . Should Egypt then attempt to stop Israeli ships it would be guilty of aggression and Israel would have the right of self-defense . ? To support such a declaration Canada proposes to station United Nations naval forces in the strait to prevent Egypt from any attempt to resume its blockade . To prevent Egyptian obstruction of such measures Britain proposes a " combined operation " incorporated in one or two Assembly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ resolutions and establish the United Nations police on a firmer basis than at present . What remains to be seen is whether Israel has dropped its demand for its own administration and police in the Gaza Strip in favor of the United Nations . If it has , the way to a compromise solution that would avert a new crisis would seem to have been - opened again .                     