@@714767

txt ACHESON EXPLAINS ERROR KEPT BRITISH UNADVISED ON RAID Tells M. P. 's of Administrative Mix-Up -- Urges Briton as Deputy Chief to Clark MORRISON VOICES ANGER Assailing Some U .. S. Officials , He Denies Yalu Blow . Came Within Accords He Made By CLIFTON DANIEL . Special to Tlaz NEW TORE Tows . LONDON , June ** of State Dean Acheson told members of the British Parliament today that it was only because of an administrative mistake that British Ministers had not been informed of the United States Air Forces ' intention to bomb the North Korean power plants on the Yalu River . He expressed his regrets for the error . Earlier Mr. Acheson had formally notified Foreign Secretary Anthony Eden that the United States would be pleased to see a British officer appointed as Deputy Chief of Staff to Gen. Mark W. Clark , the United Nations Commander in Chief for Korea , in the interest of closer liaison between the Allies . However , Mr. Acheson 's offer was not immediately accepted by Mr. Eden in the terms presented . He welcomed the idea but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the ' best method of improving liaison with the United Nations Command . Presumably , the British Chiefs of Staff will consider the question and a decision will be made later lin consultation with the . United States . ? Former Foreign Secretary Herbert Morrison today added his voice to the British criticism , of the glirtellStateai fitilura:fto- consult London ' On-thfc -- -pfaiNo attack the power stations . Mr. Morrison denied suggestions emanating from Washington that the attack was within the scope of the agreements he had made- when he last visited Washington as Foreign Secretary . Assails U. S. ' Intervention ' He complained of the " tendency of the United States Administration to intervene in British politics " through the use of confidential communications between the two Governments . In , their meeting today , the third of a series that started on Tuesday , Mr. Eden and Mr. Acheson canvassed various proposals ' for closer liaison , but did not go deeply into details and did not reach any conclusions .. It was variously suggested that the British might place a liaison officer either on General Clark 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's staff in Korea , or in Washington . The two Ministers and their advisers weighed the advantages and disadvantages of the various proContinued on . Page 3 , Column 5 ACHESON EXPLAINS ERROR TO BRITAIN // posals from both military and poll-j teal points of view . While the details were not settled , it appeared that the United States was ready to accept any reasonable decision by the British Cabinet and that the liaison officer need only be named . British sources described the discussions on this subject as " very satisfactory . " After their meeting , Mr. Acheson and Mr. Eden went to the great committee room in the Palace of Westminster where the American Secretary informally addressed a gathering of 200 to 300 members of both Houses of Parliament at a private meeting of the British-American inter-parliamentary group . Present for the meeting were many of the Labor party members who raised such a rumpus in the House of Commons yesterday about the failure of the United States to notify Britain of the Yalu bombings and the alleged perils of carrying the war so close to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Bevan , leader of Labor 's belligerent Left , who was in the forefront of the attack on United States policy , was there but kept quiet . The vote of thanks to Mr. Acheson was presented in generous terms by Mr. Morrison . British sources reported that Mr. Acheson 's speech was " brilliant . " Mr. Acheson vigorously defended the decision to bomb the Yalu power plants , at the same time managing not to give offense to British views . He said the bombing was fully justified from a military point of view . He said that 40 per cent of the power produced by the plants was going to Manchuria to sustain plants manufacturing war materials for the Communist forces and the rest was being used by airfields , military depots , industrial plants and other installations in North Korea . No military commander , Mr. Acheson said , could grant immunity to plants with such a potential for harm to his forces and he emphasized that British as well as American lives would be spared by the bombing . The Secretary of State surprised some of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ virtually no fighting in Korea since the truce talks began by telling them that casualties in the past year had totaled 30,000 . While justifying the bombing , Mr. Acheson did not defend the failure to give notice of it to Field Marshal Earl Alexander , Defense Minister , and Selwyn Lloyd , Minister of State , who were in Washington when it happened . They were supposed to have been notified , he said , but there was a " snafu . " One office thought that another would inform the British ministers and so neither office did . A Washington Explanation A dispatch from Washington to The Times of London tonight said that the United States Joint Chiefs of Staff informed David K. E. Bruce , Acting Secretary of State , and others in the State Department on Sunday evening that the bombing would take place next day . Those officials assumed that the Chiefs of Staff had informed the British services mission while the Chiefs of Staff assumed that the State Department would inform the representatives of those nations with contingents in Korea , The Times said . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ operation when the field marshal was in Tokyo , The Times added , because the general himself may not have known at the tine that the operation was being planned . Therefore , The Times correspondent suggested , the failure to inform the Allies was not due to arrogance or secretiveness but to a misunderstanding . By explaining this to Parliament , Mr. Acheson may have helped Mr. Eden to- overcome the domestic political crisis precipitated by the Yalu incident . After his talk , Mr. Acheson did something that the British Ministers do every day : he submitted to questions from the legislators . He reportedly acquitted himself well . Also by his agreement to the appointment of a British officer to General Clark 's staff , Mr. Acheson provided a concrete accomplishment for Mr. Eden to present to Parliament next week . For his part , Mr. Eden was most understanding in his conversation with Mr. Acheson . While appreciating the difficulties of keeping the Allies informed of every move in Korea , he strongly stressed the need for closer liaison . The two Ministers also discussed the prospects @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ situation in the South Korean Republic . - They also reviewed in some de , tail the military prospects in Southeast Asia where both Britain and France are engaged in local hot wars against the Communists .                     