@@720425

txt The steel industry 's management and labor have been warned that , distasteful as it would be , the federal government might be forced to intervene if wage negotiations prom-ised to be clearly inflationary . Simultaneously , the 175.000.000 American people were put on notice that this was their business and that they should do something about it . President Eisenhower . in making these statements at his weekly news conference May 5 , deplored the prospect of such federal intervention and what it would do to the nation 's morale and economy . He did not say just how . or when , the federal government might step into the picture . But he made it clear it would not stand by idly if management and labor were to work out a clearly inflationary contract . ? Coupled with this warning to the domestic steel industry , the President took a long step toward a summer summit meeting with the Soviets by agreeing that such a meeting was " almost a foregone conclusion . " .16 Subjects Touched Thus while he did not agree that a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that must come out of a foreign ministers meeting to justify a summit gathering . Anything in the way of enlarged hope will be enough to satisfy him , he made clear  --  thus moving over perceptibly toward the posit ion taken by Britain 's Prime Minister , Harold Macmillan , that a summit meeting should occur come what may out of the foreign ministers meeting May 11 in Geneva . But the President 's press conference was not confined to these two subjects . In his usual half hour the President covered some 16 subjects and even more numerous questions ? which means less than two minutes apiece for each subject ( question and answer ) . He opened with a strong defense of the mutual security program and how necessar it was for national security , and then shifted to his personal plea to Soviet Premier Nikita S. Khrushehey to tell him what he knows , if anything , about the United States fliers that were shot down over Soviet Armenia last September . Strauss Defended He stoutly defended his nominee fur Secretary of Commerce , Lewis L. Strauss @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it was a bad day for the nation when personal antagonisms took over in confirmation hearings . He came out neither for nor against the 22d amendment that makes a " lame duck " of a second-term president  --  though his predecessor . Harry S. Truman , testifying on Capitol ' Hill the clay before , had strongly urged its repeal . elontv " Brushed Aside The President waxed unusually eloquent in again supporting the theme of European unity , He had been asked about his London speech in 1951 when he had strongly and eloquently pressed Europe to unite . He still feels the same way , he said , and was gratified at the steps that had been taken ( Euratom , the European Coal and Steel Community , the European Common Market ) ? though making clear he felt , they were not enough . Asked what he and Sir Winston Churchill , present ly White House guest , discussed and whether it had been Monty " ( British Field Marshal Viscount Montgomery ) quipped : " Well , we try to talk about important things . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the United States and of the President . There was one question the President refused to discuss . Senator Stuart Symington ( D ) of Missouri had said recently in a press club talk that there were no operational intermediate range ballistic missiles in n ? British bases , though the United States Air Force had asserted there were . Asked about it . the President cut the questioner off with - no comment. - There is some dispute as to whether the trouble in gettinl there missile bases operatiorud arises from American failure to produce the HIBils as needed or because Britain has not completed building the bases  --  its part f the bargain .                     