@@719816

txt Civil Aeronautics Board attorneys gm ? ' they are undecided whether to take to the Supreme Court a decision of the Court of Appeals here that the Board does not have authority to regulate depreciation accounting practices of airlines . Effective January 1 , 1957 , the Board laid out general accounting principles covering depreciation of equipment , maintaining they were necessary in determining fares and subsidy for the lines . About 40 air lines , including the major trunk and tr. cal service lines , contested the accounting rule The action had been termed " The Alaska Airlines Case " because that line was first alphabetically , but it applies to all the lines . A District Court here decided in favor of the C.A B , but the Appeals Court upset the decision . It ruled that the Civil Aeronautics Act ? unlike the laws governing some other Federal regulatory agencies  --  does not specifically give the board power to impose uniform accounting practices C.A.B . spokesmen said the airlines have followed the board 's ruling while the case was pending The C.A B. must @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ take the case to the Supreme Court before July 5 to prevent the air lines from returning to individual accounting practices . According to industry spokesman , they oppose the C.A.B regulation because it reduces the number of asset items they can depreciate , such as spare parts which the board considers expendable . NEW YORK  --  Eastern Air Lines , the carrier which would be most affected by the Appeals Court ruling on depreciation , said it has not yet received a copy of the decision and would withhold comment until there had been a chance to study it . Eastern on January 1 complied with the C A B. request that depreciation of flight equipment be placed on a seven year basis and leaving a 15r : . residual value . Previously , Eastern had been depreciating its equipment over four years down to a 5'i- residual figures The company earlier this year estimated that the C A B formula would cut the 1958 depreciation charge to about $19 6 million , of $18 2 million less than under Eastern 's formula This would increase Eastern 's 1958 earnings @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ estimated that under the C A B formula 1959 depreciation charges would be reduced to 529 4 million from $54 5 million under Eastern 's own accounting system American Airlines also has decreased its depieciation charges as a result of the C A B request No figure is available , but the per entage decrease , and thus the effect on earnings , is probably less than for Eastern .                     