@@719196

txt ahead to the not-so-distant future when still heavier satellites , capable of carrying instruments for " inspecting " other countries ' territory and eventually capable of carrying weapons , would be circling this earthly sphere . Comment Snarse There was no Congress in session in Washington to comment on the outstanding Soviet achievement , there were few available American diplomats , and President Eisenhower had flown off for a quiet weekend at Gettysburg . So capital comment came largely from the physicists and specialists engaged in preparing the American earth satellite , some attending an International Geophysical Year conference here . In the international fraternity of natural science there was a sporting amount of cong5atulations to the Soviets . Lloyd Berkner , nuclear physicist and American IGY official attending a party at the Soviet Embassy celebrating the IGY rockets and satellites conference here , offered plaudits to A. A. Blagonravov , a top SoViet satellite expert . " It would have been nice if the United States had been first , but let 's be glad that it 's been achieved , " Dr. Berkner declared . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ States National Committee for the IGY , said : " I am amazed that in the short time in which the Soviets had to plan  --  obviously not any longer than we had ? they made this remarkable achievement . " From the point of view of international cooperation the important thing is that a satellite has been launched . They did it and did it first . " I hope they give us enough information so that our ' moon-watch ' teams can help learn the scientific benefits . " Experts pointed out that if the Soviets could launch a satellite 23 inches across and weighing 185 pounds , they soon could launch still heavier ones . Soviet expert Blagonravov termed the Soviet launching merely the first of mankind 's steps into space . He reported that he had sent his own dog 90 miles skyward in a rocket in 1951 , without ill effects . The next step would be to send an animal up in a satellite , and then " men will penetrate space . " Second Round ' Moscow 's The Soviet natural scientist said there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from this man-made moon , for it would disintegrate from friction when it began to fall back into the earth 's heavier atmosphere . However , American officials were not unaware of the intense meaning of the Soviet accomplishment in terms of rockets and missiles . " The Soviet satellite gives the Russians no military advantage as such , " declared Dr. Fred L. Whipple , director of the Smithsonian Observatory , " but it indicates the Russian potential in the area of missiles . We won the first round with the H-bomb , but they took the second with the satellite . " There was a very penetrating realization in Washington  --  and at the Pentagon  --  that the Soviets again had demonstrated the excellence of their basic research , and the speed with which they are able to translate research into actual , usable hardware . Pressure Off ' Now Undoubtedly , had Congress been in town , there would be questions as to why the Soviets had been allowed to outdistance the Americans . As if in reply to this unstated query , William M. Holaday , Special @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said the achievement would not be evidence of Soviet technological superiority in missile and rocket developments . The Soviets may have placed great emphasis , time , and money in getting the satellite into orbit first in order to embarrass the United States , Mr. Holaday suggested . Quite conceivably , they had given the project higher priority than has the United States , which is not scheduled to launch its first full-scale satellite until next spring . This autumn , four small test spheres will be fired as part of the advance testing program and some of these may go into a globe-circling orbit . Rear Admiral Rawson Ben- science . " According to a Moscow announcement , the satellite is traveling in a southwest-northeast direction along an orbit that cuts a 65 degree angle with the equator and is about 560 miles high . Weighing 185 pounds , the 23-inch Soviet vehicle is more than eight times heavier than the 20-inch spheres scheduled to be launched by the American earth satellite project , Project Vanguard . Really Fantastic ' Moscow added that later satellites will be bigger and heavier @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Kaplan , chairman of the United States National Committee for the IGY was quoted by the Associated Press as exclaiming that the 185 pound weight and 23-inch span " is really fantastic . If they can launch that they can launch much heavier ones . " The United States Project Vanguard , which has postponed the schedule for its satellite launchings from last September to sometime next spring , has never contemplated such heavy satellites . In terms of the rocket power with which Vanguard engineers are working , such weights are out of the picture . Dr. Kaplan said he is " amazed that the Soviets did it in the short time which they had to plan  --  obviously not any longer than we had ? I think it was a remarkable achievement on their part . " A more somber note was added by Dr. Fred Whipple , director of the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory which is handling visual tracking of the IGY satellites . In response to a question about possible military implications of the Soviet " moon , " he observed , " It is not a military @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the area of missiles . " Dr. Whipple was referring to an axiom widely held among rocket experts that any country which has the capability to successfully launch a satellite such as that of the Soviets also has the rocket capability of launching successful intercontinental ballistic missiles , Claims Buttressed Thus the successful satellite that now is circling the planet will lend substantial weight to Soviet claims of having developed at least a working prototype of the most awesome weapon envisioned by military planners today . Indeed , this latter Soviet claim                     