@@718425

txt Some N.A.T.O . representatives were reportedly surprised when Secretary of State Dulles told them the United States must preserve its freedom of action in areas not covered by the Atlantic alliance . The only really surprising thing , though , is that such a view should occasion surprise . Mr. Dulles was expressing his reservations , about proposals to " strengthen " N.A.T.O . by having the members consult each other about their world-wide policies in the hope of coordinating those policies . If this system had been in operation , it 's argued , the Anglo-French attack on Egypt either would not have occurred or would not have caused so dangerous a rift within N.A.T.O . It seems to us the situation is just the other way around . What greatly exacerbated the rift between the United States and Britain and France was precisely the notion that N.A.T.O . presupposed unity of policy among its members regarding the whole world . Britain and France thought the United States should help them , or at least not lambaste them , when they went into Egypt . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ allies took such a fateful step without telling Washington . This idea of unity everywhere overlooks some plain facts of international life . N.A.T.O . was set up for one purpose only , to prevent or repel Soviet aggression against its members , particularly in Western Europe . N.A.T.O. , or any other alliance , can exist only because the members feel they face a common threat regarding a particular geographical area . The common threat , and consequently the common interest , is still very much present in the area covered by N.A.T.O . It has never during N.A.T.O . ' s history existed in the same way elsewhere . Geography , national interest and political theory give Britain an attitude toward the Far East  --  and hence toward Communist China  --  quite different from that of the United States . The British and French interests in the Middle East , though not identical , are much more immediate and practical than those of the United States . Where national interests divide in this way , it is not only unrealistic but dangerous to try to build a facade of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a showdown , will break through the facade and so perhaps imperil the alliance in the areas where it actually does rest on a unity of purpose . That danger arose as a result of the invasion of Egypt . Of course the United States must preserve freedom of action in areas outside N.A.T.O . There is no other way it could conduct a foreign policy . Even within N.A.T.O . the members have freedom of action ; an attack on a Western European nation does not automatically commit the United States to go to war but to take action with its allies which may include military action . Mr. Dulles , then , is simply trying to get N.A.T.O . back to earth and keep it there . The function of N.A.T.O . is the defense of the N.A.T.O . nations and , as Mr. Dulles observed , that does not require that the members ' foreign policies in all areas should be brought into compiete harmony . The sooner everyone understands what Mr. Dulles was plainly saying , the better will be the prospects for strengthening N.A.T.O . Attempts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will not strengthen it . They will only weaken it if they do not wreck it .                     