@@718904

txt Mayor Wagner appealed yesterday for changes in ' the state Constitution to help cure , govern'ment 's newest headache  --  the rising problems of metropolitan areas . He warned ' that the present Constitution might hobble the big cities unless they got more power to act . His warning was among several made before the Temporary State Commission on the Constitutional Convention . At a de.ylong session , the commission heard the views of twenty-two witnesses on proposed revisions of the state charter . The hearing was held in the Bar Association Building , 42 West Fortyfourth Street . Mr. Wagner , whose opinions were presented by ffls legislative assistant , Victor F. Condello , asked the commission to consider how big cities could cope ' with problems that override local boundaries . New Dimension ' Seen These include intercity and in= terstate problems such as transportation , highways , traffic , 144 , ter and air pollution , water supply , education and recreation . All of these matters are creating " a new dimension " of government , Harold Riegehnan , counsel to the Citizens @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Riegelman and S. Arnold Witte , counsel for ' the Commerce and Industry As . sociation of New York , shared the estimate of the developing imporance of the problem . Nobody offered ' any specific solutions or suggestions ' on the kind of ' governmental structure that . Might be needed . They warned , only , igainst imposing Cortitutional hindrance to ' metropolitan action . Mr .. Wagner said that the city might have some specific ideas later . " The whole Matter of , statelocal relationships requires reexamination , , with the prospect of greater emphasis upon . meaningful rather ' than purely home rule , and simplification nf provisions authorizing joint action on a metropolitan , level , " : the Mayor wrote . Witnesses offered a host of ideas , including ones to simplify the Constitutiolt increase home rule and local taxing powers as well as local debt ' limits , reform the state court system , improve legislative procedure , modernize constitutional provisions for housing and revise provisions on rights . But the subject that touched off the sharpest ' political exChange was the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the New York State C. I. 0 . Council , renewed organized labor 's demand for revision of the formula under which Senate and Assembly seats are apportioned . Tuts with caruno He aroused the political sensibilities of Assemblyman Joseph Carlino of Long Beach , Republican majority leader of the Assembly and a commission member when he remarked that enrolled party members were " pawns of political party dislcipline . " " Did you ever hear of party discipline in union affairs ? " Mr. Carlino asked . " No , " said Mr. Hollander . He added that decisions in the Legislature were made by party caucus without referral to corfstituents and with " a ? political boss using ' the whip . " Mr. Carlin() contended that the system ** apportionment was patterned on that of the Federal Government , with the lower chamber representing population and the Senate representing geographic areas . Mr. Hollander said he thought the system was antiquated and unfair and should be based solely on population . The commission was created last year to study proposals for changes in the Constitution . The voters @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in 1959 . If approved delegates will be elected in 1958 . Of the witnesses who testified at the three hearings so far , two have voiced outright opposition to a convention . They were spokesmen of the Citizens Public Expenditure Survey and . the Associated Industries of New York State . Nelson A. Rockefeller , corn ' missiOner chairman , said that 11 seventy witnesses representing forty organizations would have been heard by Monday . The final public hearing will be held then , starting at 10 A. M. , Mr. Rockefeller said the commission would mot make any recommendation on Whether a convention should be held because this action ' was not provided in legislation creating the group . Delay Is Denied Some Democrats have ' contended that Republican commission members were " dragging their feet " on the subject and were disinclined to promote a convention at which their legislatively entrenched party could gain little . But Mr. Rockefeller said that , if anything , the , hearings had increased interest of Republican members in revision . The League of Women Voters of New York , represented yesterday @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ commit'itself on the convention issue but would urge members to study the subject and vote on it this fall . Dean William C. Warren of the Columbia University School of Law echoed the complaint of several witnesses in saying the present Constitution , was obsolete and cumbersome . He said he had been " shocked " to find in it " provisions I ca n't explain , " and he could not determine " how they got there in the first place . " The need for a convention and for simplification was emphasized also by Mrs. Jerome L. Strauss , president of the Women 's City , Club of New York .                     