@@717920

txt The North Atlantic Council has concluded its latest session with a formal statement in which the fifteen nations represented in it renew their dedication to the ideals proclaimed in their treaty of alliance that is not only in keeping with - the Charter of the United Nations but is also the Magna Carta which they present to the world . In doing so they again affirm their desire to live in peace with all peoples and governments , and their determination to safeguard their freedom founded on the principles of democracy , individual liberty and the rule of law . Such a periodic reaffirmation of these ideals is necessary to keep them alive in the face of the corrosive influences of our age , to correct the propagandistic distortions of our purposes , and above all to meet the challenge flung down by totalitarian communism dedicated to the dictatorship of the few and the slavery of the many . Coming from a totalitarian regime , this challenge is also total and therefore has many facets which reach into every phase of ? life . The Council has taken @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into the political and economic fields . But the discussions preceding the meeting , and even within it , suggest some uncertainty as to just what the challenge is and how to meet it . That makes pertinent an attempt . to put it into the proper perspective . The Council recognizes that the challenge is first of all military and therefore demands priority for ? Atlantic vigilance , strength and unity . . But the Soviet " new look " tactics and a ' division of counsels among the experts have produced an increasingly popular notion that the Soviet peace professions and modern atomic weapons make war unlikely , that if war does come it will be decided by the atomic weapons of the United States and Soviet Russia , and that therefore there is less need for conventional armaments , ground troops and even alliances and bases , especially among the smaller nations . This notion overlooks three important factors . While the Soviets now disclaim Lenin 's dictum about the inevitability of war , they by no means rule out resort to war wherever " capitalists " resist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ both sides may be expected to shun a major atomic war , the Soviets ' own thesis increases the danger of " little " wars , which , as in Korea , must be fought by conventional arms and the foot soldier . Last , but not least , Soviet military power not only provides the Soviet regime with world-wide prestige . but also radiates power to intimidate the weak and restrain the strong from interfering with Soviet designs . But the Soviet challenge is also political , mainly on two counts . The Soviets openly proclaim that they will keep their conquests and therefore reject any settlement of such world problems as Germany , Korea and Vietnam , in the expectation that they will ultimately swallow these countries as so many others . At the same time they have renewed their campaign for a " popular front " between Communists and Socialists to capture parliaments , . governments and countries by " peaceful " means . Even more immediately important is the Soviet challenge in the eco . nomic. field . In contrast to the out . right . aid @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ potentially vast market of 800,000 ; 000 people as s lure to tempt b  --  th the larger indus ? trial nations and , even more , the eco ? nomically weaker raw-material countries to their side . At the same time they begin to offer to the underdeveloped countries technical assistance and capital goods on easy credits and to undersell the free nations in the world markets for their own political purposes . Finally , the Soviets hold out to many countries the lure of their own system , which is ? not the system of communism or socialism , but the system of a dictatorial state capitalism . Under this system they are able to wring enough capital from their people to " build their vast industries , and they now seek to sell a like system to the underdeveloped and . capital-starved countries as a short-cut to economic independence . Since they are able to hide the horrendous cost of this system behind their Iron Curtain , their ' sales campaign is not without some success . In ' summary , the Soviet challenge is so serious in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a mobilization of the combined resources of the whole Atlantic community . It is to be hoped that this community will prove itself equal to the task .                     