@@715646

txt Secretary of State John Foster Dulles reported after a conference with President Eisenhower here today that the United Nations might be forced to retaliate against the Chinese Communists and the North Koreans if the Communists fail to return all the war prisoners they now hold . By Henry S. Hayward Chief Par Eastern Correspondent of The Christian Science Monitor Munsan , Korea Those who have talked with scores of returned Allied prisoners during " Operation Little Switch " last April and the current " Operation Big Switch " counsel caution in accepting as typical certain stories that stir ! sensational headlines Among those cited are reports concerning atrocities , withholding of American pris oners , and Americans who do not wish to come home . The vanguard of American soldiers liberated in the great Korean war prisoner exchange were to leave for home by plane Aug. 10 , Associated Press said . About 325 more Americans  --  all healthy  --  were loaded aboard a plushly outfitted Navy transport at Inchon , a Korean west coast port . Aug. 10 saw 389 more Allied soldiers return from North @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Turks , and 189 South Koreans . Concerning the stories of atrocities , mistreatment , lack of medical attention , shortages of food and clothing , and outright torture did occur , according to eyewitness reports . Personal abuse and torture , however , were fairly isolated instances . Moreover , most of the group of " death marches " occurred in late 1950 and early in 1951 , just after Chinese Communists had entered the war and while the North Koreans still were smarting from the Allied drive to the Yalu River that practically destroyed their armioc ? Some Excesses Those were bitter days and it 's evident that savage excesses did OMIT . The average prisoner had a difficult time in captivity . But the average man , nevertheless , survived the ordeal and returned . Few stories are written about the bulk of men who experienced no harrowing incidents . The charge that American prisoners are being withheld arises from the fact that only 3,313 United States prisoners are scheduled for return while 8,705 are listed as missing in action . This leaves over 5,000 Americans unaccounted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ however . Many men are listed as missing who actually w ere killed in action . But un:ess the body was recovered or two eyewitnesses saw the fatality , the soldier still was carried on the rolls as missing . Many captured Americans unquestionably expired in Communist captivity . Some persons speculate that this figure alone totals 1,600 men . Some were seriously wounded when taken prisoner . Others could not survive the harsh enemy standards of living and the crude confinement . And some doubtless were victims of unnecessary brutality  --  mostly in the war 's earlier days . Some May Be Held It remains possible that some American prisoners  --  perhaps as malty as 2,000 sometimes is cited ? will be withheld deliberately by the Communists . This possibility will bear careful investigation . But with the information now in hand it is premature to conclude that any vast number of American prisoners , who are still alive , are being retained . Instead , the investigation may have to center on why so many Americans failed to survive enemy treatment . Another report that numerous Americans are being @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Europe has been given no official credence here so far . A few Americans who do not wish to return have been reported by the men now passing through exchange points . They are a tiny minority faction .                     