@@714256

txt Letters to The Times EDWARD S. CORWIN.it poses . ARTHUR W. STEVENS.ANDREW M. VIOLETTE.MARIAN HELD , Letters to The Times Vatican Post Discussed Constitutional Aspects of President 's Action Are Considered To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TINIER : ? . One does not have to be an all-out defender of ' the ' ' Administration 's foreign policy , to realize that the President 's recent action in nominating General Clark to be Ambassador to the Vatican is logical addendum to it . The . nomination has been attacked as violative of the principle of separation of church and . state . But can it be said that this principle , when given its proper constitutional setting , disables the country from forming advantageous diplomatic relations ? Thirtyseven other Governments maintain diplomatic representatives at the Vatican , several among them being countries which , like Brazil , Belgium and France , adhere to the separation principle in matters of internal legislation ; and if they can , why may not we ? The Supreme Court has said that in the international field " the right @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ equal to the right and power of the other members of the international family " ; and that the lion 's share of this power is vested by the Constitution in the President is not disputed . He alone may receive the diplomatic representatives of other Governments ; he alone may choose persons , subject to the consent of the Senate , to represent the United States abroad ; he alone may " recognize " foreign states and Governments . Thomas Jefferson and John Marshal did not see eye to eye in many things , but they did in this . " The transaction of business with foreign nations is executive altogether , " said Jefferson . " The President , " said Marshall , " is. the sole organ of the nation in its external relations , and its sole representative with foreign nations . " This being the case , however , any act performed by the President in the exercise of his diplomatic powers is presumably within his constitutional discretion ; and , by the same token , it is entitled to be regarded until the contrary is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ benefit of the country . Not Lawmaking As to the principle of separation of church and state  --  so far as it has constitutional basis it is a kind of " invisible radiation " from Amendment I , which says that " Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion . " But the nomination of an Ambassador is not lawmaking . Mr. Truman has not attempted , in this instance , to usurp the legislative power of Congress . No rule of conduct has been imposed by the President upon the people of the United States touching the relation of church and state , or touching anything else . He has performed an act of state of the most commonplace sort . Whatever thought of political advantage may have first suggested the President 's action  --  and one or two have been suspected  --  there exist at least two sound reasons of a broader nature which amply justify it as a timely move in the diplomatic game being presently played on the European chessboard . The first of these is the necessity of seeming Catholic support for our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ especially is this true as regards Italy and France  --  our policy promises to be dashed to bits against a combination of Communists and Neutralists . Secondly , the strong line being taken by the Papacy in the ideological war against communism is a further circumstance fortifying the intrinsic reasonableness of the President 's action . Validity Unaffected It is true , to he sure , that this action furnishes American Catholics an excuse to swell out their chests a hit , just as it has afforded some American Protestants an excuse to assail the Papacy as the foe of democracy . But these easily foreseeable repercussions do not affect the validity of the President 's course . If , as the Supreme Court has held , a state is entitled to pay for the public transportation of children attending parochial schools in order to assure their safety on the highway , notwithstanding the fact that in doing so it aids such schools , then certainly the President is entitled to bolster our precarious European diplomacy by sending an Ambassador to the Vatican , notwithstanding the fact that the separation principle @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them to mix religion with their politics . I have been asked , " By what procedure could the constitutional question ( raised by the President 's action ) be brought before the Supreme Court ? " It is highly doubtful if there is any procedure available for this purpose . The President can not be compelled judicially to perform his constitutional duties nor enjoined from exceeding his constitutional powers . The payment of money out of the national Treasury for an allegedly unconstitutional purpose can not be forbidden judicially . It is most questionable , moreover , if the court would recognize anybody as having a sufficient individual interest to entitle him to a judicial hearing on the subject . But even should a case raising the constitutional issue reach the court , through some device or inadvertence , the court would almost certainly refuse to pass on its merits , on the ground that it was " political " in character and hence not " justiciable . " The only remedy in such a situation , as the . court has ' pointed out more than once , is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the polls and-not to the courts . " EDWARD S. CORWIN , Princeton , N. J. , Nov. 7 , 1951 . The writer of the above letter , COL authority on Constitutional law , is McCormick Professor Emeritus of Jurisprudence at Princeton University . Reducing the Auto Toll Design of Cars Is Criticized as Major Safety Hazard To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : In THE TIMES of Nov. 4 Bert Pierce , writing about the persistence of the high automobile accident toll despite safety campaigns , quotes a report by Norman Damon of the Automotive Safety Foundation as follows : " In virtually every state and city we see various officials , technicians and traffic experts giving pep talks to each other in their own narrow , select circles  --  and that is as far as it goes . " : With the millionth fatal victim in automobile accidents confidently predicted for mid-December , it is high time to take stock of accident prevention techniques . Foundations and . councils for safety have been hard at it for four decades . But the auto goes on killing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a quarter year after year . The unsatisfactory nature of results can not be ascribed merely to the fact that safety people have been talking just to each other . THE TIMES , in its editorial columns and its news columns with writers like Bert Pierce , has carried the message to the public again and again . So have other publications . So has the radio . No , the reason lies elsewhere . It lies in the fact that the major factor in automobile accidents has been consistently overlooked . The blame for auto accidents has been placed on the driver , the pedestrian , the police , the courts , the road , and now on the fact that safety people are talking to each other . What has been left out is the one common factor in all these accidents  --  the automobile itself . If the electric toaster ' used so generally in homes for breakfast were electrocuting or maiming more than a million persons a year we would n't go on merely attacking the people who use the toaster or content ourselves with weeping and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ something wrong with the way the toaster was designed and built , and we would subject it to critical analysis and constructive criticism . That common-sense procedure has never been followed with respect to automobile accidents . It should be and must be if automobile accidents are to be brought under control . The automobile must be made right to drive . For instance , the automobile must be built so that the operator ? in the driver 's scat will have a full , comprehensive view of the road close up ahead as well as at a distance , so that he can see to drive safely . The automobile must be built so that it will not be front-end-heavy and prone to skid on slight provocation . Let 's stop fooling ourselves that if we do more and more of what has not succeeded in four decades we will somehow solve the automobile accident problem . The millionth victim of the automobile is about to be struck down and killed . In addition , the thirty-five millionth victim of the automobile is about to be injured or maimed for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ itself for the solution of the problem it poses . ARTHUR W. STE:YENS . Boston , Mass. , Nov. 6 , 1931 . Drafting of Married Men Opposed To THE EDITOR or THE NEW YORK TIMM : Present Selective Service regulations provide for the drafting of married men in place of men going to college . It appears that this is a gross injustice . If we are to consider which class represents a more basic segment of society and its continuity , ? can we justify the breaking up of potential families as less detrimental to our country 's welfare than the postponement of an edu-cation ? The family is the bulwark of our existence . Shall we uproot , separate , married men and women over the dubious and short-sighted dictum which in itself stammers for justification of this cruel sentence of separation ? ? A married man has responsibilities , a college student does not . A married man is the head of a family , a college student is not . A married man is drafted , a college man is not. ? Why ? . A @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Clothing Asked for the Blind To THE EDITOR OF ' THE iNEW YORK TIiliss : The Lighthouse Clothing Bureau again needs replenishing , especially for our blind newsdealers and other sightless persons who are trying to earn their own living . In view of present day high costs , clothing represents a considerable item in the average budget . We are particularly anxious to obtain men 's suits and overcoats . Will your readers be good enough to send us such clothing as they may consider useful ? Through the generosity of New Yorkers , The Lighthouse distributed last year clothing to 368 blind people . Please send what you can to the Lighthouse Clothing Bureau , 111 East Fiftyninth Street , New York 22 . MARIA N HELD , Director , Department of Direct Services . New York , Nov. 2 , 1950.                     