@@720928

txt Differences between former Secretary of State Dean Acheson and present Secretary of State Christian Herter over the pace and safety of relaxation , the seeming conflict between the presidential mission to Afghanistan aimed at bolstering that-land 's independence and his peacemaking with the Soviets , differences between West German chancellor Konrad Adcnauer and French President de Gaulle over NATO strategy , the inconsistency between Moscow 's words of peace and its insistence upon keeping Soviet troops in Hungary  --  all these things testify to the difficulties , complexities . and uncertainties of the present state of world affairs . The strands of old and new policies are getting tangled up ? inevitably  --  and it may be a very long time before they are all untangled and all sorted out . * This is not a time when any man can be sure that he tees clearly what is the wise and prudent direction for the policy of any great and responsible state . All countries seem it : he striking out into uncha  --  ted seas , steering by instinct rather than instrument , and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It is merely ironical that in this state of affairs it is the former Secretary of State , so long accused of softness on communism , who has become the voice of toughness toward communism in Washington , whereas the party which leveled the charge in times past is itself the primary sponsor of the great exploration into possibilities of coexistence with communism . Democrats and Republicans have outflanked each other and in appearance , if ' not in reality , changed sides in the great and continuing argument over how best to approach the Soviet Union . It is equally and more tragically ironical that in this period of advancing relaxation communism should happen to become tighter in Poland . not easier , and that executions arising out three-year-old events which Moscow admits it now regrets continue in Hungary . It would seen , almost that communism is in greater danger in the satellite states in this period of relaxation than it was during the tougher periods of the cold war . The matter of Hungary is probably the most typical single manifestation of these tangled times . Nothing arouses @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about the wisdom of relaxation as the continued executions of Hungarian patriots . And nothing provides Mr. Acheson with better ammunition for his argument than the fact that Moscow insists on maintaining its troops in Hungary with its left hand while proffering the olive branch to the West with the other . Yet in the matter of the troops , although certainly not in the matter of the shockingand fatally inexcusable executions . Moscow is doing the equivalent of what the West is doing . On both sides the alliances stemming from the past and the troop dispositions which are part of the old system are maintained as nearly as possible intact , for neither side is yet sure that the new trends will mature into a safer world system . One can as easily imagine Soviet Premier Nikita S. Khrushchev 's military advisers agreeing to the withdrawal of the troops from Hungary as President Eisenhower 's military advisers agreeing to the withdrawal Of United States troops from West Berlin or from the forward NATO defense zone between the Rhine and the Elbe . Peacemaking is a slow , tedious , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in matters as profound and fateful as this by sudden abandonment of old policies . But the new policies already have progressed far enough to expose some of the very real problems which might lie ahead should the new become dominant and the old recessive . For example , today France and West Germany grow closer together by the day , but this closeness is between West Germany as it exists , not Germany as it would exist should the official Western goal of German reunification ever be achieved . General de-Gaulle is trying to rebuild Charlemagne 's empire with its eastern frontier on the Elbe . It would be highly unrealistic to think that this French - German solidarity could continue should Germany ever be reunited . It has become customary to date the new relaxation from British Prime Minister Harold Macmillan 's visit to Moscow , but it might well be better dated from the time when Paris endorsed the existing frontiers between Poland and East Germany , thus clearly breaking with the idea of ever restoring Germany 's lost territories in the east . From that time Paris @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The culmination has come in Moscow 's neutralism toward the Algerian problem . * ? We can not expect Moscow to move any faster than we do in the direction of relaxation . The movement is as yet only tentative on either side . It could be blown away overnight by some chance change in conditions , It is fragile . Each side suspects that the relaxation may be insincere on the part of the other . It is just as logical at this stage ? of events for the Soviets to continue their penetration of Afghanistan as it is for Mr. Eisenhower to attempt to stern the tide of that penetration by his visit there . We are a long way yet from the time when Moscow and Washington might team up together in the development of some underdeveloped country . 