@@719057

txt Political maneuvering and few potent arguments on the merits still make the prospects of Congress enacting the Senate-modified civil rights bill " touch and go " in this session . But experts believe that . if House Republicans can make sufficient political noise in " moderately modifying " the measure , the House will agree to a slightly altered measure . Then the nation will have its first lull-dress civil rights measure since Reconstruction days . The House , which passed its own version in June . now is gingerly looking over the Senate version , which contains a controversial amendment that would guarantee jury trials in each and every governmental case involving criminal contempt . This could insert jury trials in antitrust cases , cases involving labor injunctions , and many actions before government regulatory agencies . Support Lining Up Representative Sam Rayburn Iof Texas , House Democratic generalissimo , says he is in favor of the Senate product but is willing to see the jury trial provision limited so it would apply I only to voting rights cases . But Mr. Rayburn says he will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as modified in the Senate , through the House . And Representative Joseph V ' . ' Martin , ' jr. , of Massachusetts , the Republican House chief , says he " can not spare " any GOP support for a bill containing language opposed by the administration . This means , as of the moment , that he is insisting on elimination , not mere modification , of the jury-trial provision . Nevertheless support is lining up , in Congress and out , for the proposition that a half-a-loaf bill is better than no bill . The reason Mr. Rayburn says he needs Republican support is that the Rules Committee , to which the Senate bill undoubtedly will be committed , naturally has its contingent of southern Democrats . They are always to be found shrewdly positioned in vital committees . The Rules Committee is made up of eight Democrats and four Republicans . Normally it is an instrument of the Speaker and if Mr. Rayburn said he wanted a Senate bill accepted , the committee would normally comply . But in the case of civil rights , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? one the committee chairman , Representative Howard W. Smith of Virginia , the other . Representative William M. Colmer of Mississippi. , Neither , apparently , can afford to go on record as favoring a civil rights bill of an , y sort . Defection of two Democratic votes would deadlock the committee . Mr. Martin says , therefore , that he is confident the bill will go to a Senate-House conference and be modified . The Republicans need , . for the record , to be able to show that they compelled a modification of the Senate bill which considerably imuroved Aware of the voting potential of Negroes in the northern big cities , the Republicans hope to persuade these valuable minority balloters , who could swing many a city and even statewide election , that the GOP is by far the more vigorous party in championing their rights . The proposal to send the bill to a Senate-House conference was urged by Vice-President Richard N. Nixon , who has fought strongly for a vigorous civil rights bill , by the Justice Department , and by Meade Alcorn , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a statement tied aring : " lt is to be fervently                     