@@716174

txt WASHINGTON , April 2 ? The Army tonight appointed a special counsel to handle its case in the dispute with Senator Joseph R. McCarthy . It named Joseph Nye Welch , a Boston trial lawyer and a Republican , who insisted upon serving without pay or expense account . The selection of Mr. Welch was made as the appointment yesterday of another Boston attorney , Samuel P. Sears , by Senator McCarthy 's investigations subcommittee had developed into high controversy . Mr. Sears , it turned out , had been a supporter of Senator McCarthy in politics and in his investigatille operations although he had stated that he had not expressed himself publicly or privately as to Army policies , Mr. McCarthy or what is now called McCarthyism . Meanwhile , the Army also announced it had referred to the Department of Justice " for ap-I propriate action " the case of Dr. Irving Peress , a New York dentist and former major , who had set off the charges and countercharges that prompted the pending investigation . Coddling of Reds Charged Dr. Peress , under McCarthy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Constitution for protection against answering questions concerning alleged Communist activities or association . This amendmept protects a witness in a criminal , case from answering questions that might be selfincriminatory . Dr. Peress had won promotion ' to a majority and a discharge under honorable circumstances . Senator McCarthy had charged that this was a case of " coddling Fifth Amendment Communists " by the Army . Yesterday the Senate Armed Services Committee approved a resolution under which draftees invoking the Fifth Amendment would be forced to complete their draft obligations but serve in lowest ranks . Mr. Welch , 63 years old , is- a member of the American . College of Trial Lawyers , as is Mr. Sears . He said he would bring with him two junior law associates , James D. St. Clair , a law partner in the firm of Hale &; Dorr , and Frederick G. Fisher Jr . They , too , he said , would serve without compensation . Asked whether he wds a friend of Mr. Sears , Mr. Welch called him " a professional friend and a personal friend as well @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " McCarthyism , " he ' re sponded : " I am a registered Republican , and a trial lawyer . I 'm just for , facts . " He added that he had had no previous connection with the Army except " a very modest , one , " when he was an officer can . didate in World War I , but did ' not get his commission as a second lieutenant before the war ended . Mr. Welch was born in Prim-'I ghar , Iowa , the son of William and Martha Welch . He was graduated from Grinnell College in 1914 and from Harvard Law School in 1917 . The dispute that the special ' counsel were to resolve ' arose when the Army charged that Senator McCarthy and Roy M. Cohn , chief counsel of his investigating panel , had sought favors for Pvt . G. David Schine , a former unpaid consultant of the inquiry group . The McCarthysubcommittee retorted that the Army , through John G. Adams , its counselor , had cited Private Schine as " a hostage " while attettipting to divert @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ alleged that the Army made an offer to turn up dirt " on the Navy and Air Force . Senator McCarthy called . this " blackmail . " Selection Leads to Confusion The Army selection came as Senate Republicans and Democrats alike were working to prevent the Senate investigation into the Army-McCarthy dispute from going on the rocks . Such a possibility appeared to be real . The appointment yesterday of Mr. Sears had led to confusion , if not absolute consternation , among those who had given him enthusiastic support . Through the day Mr. Sears capacity to conduct a thoroughly objective and impartial investigation was questioned . But the hope was expressed on all sides that he could explain satisfactorily the situation into which he fell so soon after his appointment . Back of this hope was the fact that his selection had been made unanimously by an equal number of Republicans and Democrats . It hnd been made largely on his assertion that he had not taken either a public or private position as , to Army policies , Senator McCarthy , or what is now known as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had been a vigorous McCarthy supporter in politics and had praised the Wisconsin Senator for his campaign to drive " pinks " and " Reds " from the Government . Also , according to the record , he had been active in cutting off scholarships granted to twin-brother students at Harvard , his alma mater , who had refused under constitutional protection to answer Congressional questions relative to colnmunism . It developed today that a Democrat , Senator A. S. Mike Monroney , an open foe of Senator McCarthy , had made the recommendation that clinched Mr. Sears ' appointment Ito the investigative post . This happened , incidentally , while Mr. Monroney was in Boston last Wednesday to make an anti-McCarthy speech . Meanwhile , the Senate Armed Services Committee , which Senator Estes Kefauver , Democrat of Tennessee , had argued for two weeks had the real jurisdiction to conduct the inquiry , voted , 7 to 1 , to keep hands off . This vote , taken in closed session , however , appeared to contain reservations that if the investigation developed matters  - -  such as Army morale , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Armed Services panel - might move in later . Explanation Awaited As the confused situation seemed to shape up it appeared Ithat all sides were hoping prayerfully that Mr. Sears could give la satisfactory explanation of what seemed to be sharp discrepancies in the statements he made . I The vote of appointment was unanimous among the six members of the Senate Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations present . Only the regular chairman , Senator McCarthy , was missing . He was sick in , New York , was notified of . the vote only after it had been taken , and made no comment . / The matter was handled by Senator Karl E. Mundt , Republican of South Dakota , the temporary subcommittee chairman for the Army-McCarthy inquiry . Mr. McCarthy had agreed to step down as top man , but insisted on the right . to cross-examine witnesses . This was one of the questions Mr. Sears was scheduled to rule on when he took over his , job next Monday . If Mr. Sears ' , appointment should be rescinded , or if he should resign , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ investigation . In the light of such ' a circumstance , it was argued , it would ' . be more difficult , if not impossible , to find another special attorney . The sixteen-day search for a counsel had been a hard one . Despite sideline charges that " someone was stalling , " the daily efforts of the search crew indicated that they worked long and earnestly , and without politically partisan motive , to find the man . Mr. Saud was high on the list of prospects . from the start and had " made himself available . " Mr. Sears , it was asserted , had heard that he was listed among the prospects and had registered his availability on at least three points . One question raised after his selection was whether the selecting subcommittee had followed out its determination that it would choose no " applicant " for the post . As a rule the group had cast aside without consideration the name of a man who sought the job . This was a case , it stated repeatedly , in which the job must @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was brought out , - much to the surprise of selection subcommittee members , that , Mr. Sears had volunteered his availability to serve to Representative Lawrence Curtis , Republican of Massachusetts , and to Senator Leverett Saltonstall , also of Massachusetts and chairman of the Armed Services Committee . Mr. Monroney explained that he had entered the case at the request of Dave Busby of Ada , Okla. , who had managed one of his county campaigns for reelection in 1952 . Mr. Busby is son-in-law of Mr. Sears . He was asked , Mr. Monroney said , to put in a word for Mr. Sears only if he was convinced that the Boston attorney would make a good and thoroughly objective contribution to the investigation . As he knew Mr. Sears and his record of having headed the Massachusetts Bar Association for three terms , . he said , he telephoned a recommendation from Boston . Mundt Answers Charge , Meanwhile , Senator Mundt , the acting chairman of the investigation , delivered a blast against Americans for Democratic Action , an organization that accused the subcommittee yesterday of apparently @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " I resent and I feel the country should resent the malicious attempt of the completely leftwing claque calling themselves Americans for Democratic Action , to question the integrity Of . the Senate by charging one of its duly elected constituted committees with plotting to whitewash through use of investigative powers , " Mr. Mundt said . Robert R. Nathan , chairman of the A. D. A. , retorted that unless Mr. Sears could " explain " past actions that made him to appear to be a supporter of Senator McCarthy , and square them with statements he made in winning the appointment , " he should not be permitted to continue as counsel . " While much secrecy surrounded the actions of the subcommittee members today , it ' was indicated that the group sought a full explanation from Mr. Sears of - the discrepancies in his statements . Senator John L. McClellan , Democrat of Arkansas , ranking minority member of the investigative group who concurred enthusiasticaly with the selection of Mr. Sears , said : " The only statement I can make is that presently I am awaiting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his representation that was confirmed by him in his state ments to the radio and press that he had taken ? no position either publicly or privately . on Senator McCarthy or McCarthyism : As to whether these things now deleted 3 lines                     