@@714654

txt Minor statewide political offices are attracting considerable early political attention in Massachusetts this year . With the Republican and Democratic top spots , for Governor , Lieutenant Governor , and United States Senator , already set , barring unexpected developments , the lesser offices are the only spots left for those ambitious for political advancements . Even though Representative Christian A. Herter ( R ) of Massachusetts has two declared opponents for the GOP gubernatorial nomination ? Howe Coolidge Amee of Cambridge and Dr. Edwin T. Foster , Springfield dentist ? his nomination victory is regarded as certain . Senator Henry Cabot Lodge , Jr . ( R ) , of Massachusetts is definitely set for renomination unless he should accept a spot on the national ticket , a possibility he denies . Senator Sumner G. Whittier ( R ) of Everett seems certain of the lieutenant governor nomination , even though John Adams of Andover is also in the field . 1Dever Word Awaited On the Democratic side , Governor Dever 's long-delayed announcement of his own plans regarding a possible third-term bid are still awaited @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he set for making his plans known . Representative John F. Kennedy ( D ) of Massachusetts is a certainty for the United States senator nomination unless Governor should surprise everybody by not seeking a third term . Lt. Gov . Charles F. Jeff Sullivan of Worcester has indicated he will seek a third term . So the minor-office activity is stepping up . Senator Edward C. Peirce ( D ) of New Bedford , who is also Mayor of New Bedford , has announced his candidacy for state treasurer . Papalia in Race In Republican circles , Roy C. Papalia of Watertown , 1950 nominee , some time ago announced his candidacy for the state treasurer nomination . On the Democratic side , conditions are unsettled as regards the attorney general nomination . Francis E. Kelly , now serving his third consecutive term , may not seek reelection . His family is urging him not to run . Possible candidates to succeed him include George J. Leary , who has served as Boston city councilor , state representative , and executive vice-chairman of the Democratic National Committee , and Mayor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                