@@716387

txt Rebel leader Ho Chi Minh forecast this would be the last week end of fighting for Hanoi , and that on July 14 , Bastille Day , France 's " Independence Day , " his troops will march triumphantly into the capital . Even though the French supreme commander , Gen. Paul Ely , said the city would be defended savagely against any Communist attempts to take it , he told 30 French civilian representatives this was an " opportune " time for evacuation of some 6,000 French families in Hanoi . Word of General Ely 's meeting with civilian representatives caused little surprise and served merely to reinforce a belief that an orderly evacuation would follow a cease fire or rebel attack on the city . Sources close to Vietnamese Premier Ngo Dinh Diem , idol of the loyal Indochinese , said , however , that any decisions taken at cease-fire talks at Trung Gia , north of Hanoi , would not be binding on his government . Diem 's Rhee-like defiance was made known as secret cease-fire negotiators met for the seventh time at Trung @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ consider the Trung Gia decisions " valuable " and his administration was only interested in plans made in agreement with " an autonomous delegation of Vietnam officers designated by the government . " Three Vietnamese officers have been sitting in on all secret sessions with the French and Communist Indochinese but the Communists have refused to recognize Diem 's emissaries as legitimate negotiators . Despite Diem 's attitude , French sources said the talks were " making progress . " Immediate problems , of life at Hanoi were becoming more acute daily as refugees from the abandoned southern sector continued to pour into the outskirts . Informed sources said Ameri- can residents of Hanoi , with the possible exception of consular personnel , likely will be flown soon to Tourane , on the east coast south of Hanoi where American technicians maintain an Air Force base for the French Union forces . The Chinese Nationalist consulate was reported to have booked flights for the several hundred anti-Communist Chinese who fear torture if captured by the Communists . Of the 6,000 French living in Hanoi , 4,000 are women and children . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ French Premier Pierre Mendes-France prepared to fly to Geneva to enter the final phase of negotiations on the Indochinese war . M. MendesFrance made it known that France would consider it a disaster if a top-ranking United States diplomat were not sent to Geneva . 2 . French and American officials in Paris were reported discussing the problem of equipping more French divisions for the Indochina war if the Geneva talks fail .                     