@@719885

txt Bernard Goldfine 's lawyers have refused to turn over to Congressional investigators records of $776,000 in uncashed bank checks drawn on six ' Goldfine companies . Samuel P. Sears and Lawrence R. Cohen , Mr. Goldfine 's Boston lawyers , refused in a letter received by the House subcommittee that initiated the pending contempt of Congress action against the New England industrialist . It was understood the lawyers contended that the subcommittee 's request was too broad and that what the House panel sought had no relevancy or pertinency to the inquiry . The letter was in reply to a request listing the documents sought by the subcommittee . The request followed the conclusion of the hearings in which Mr. Goldfine ' testified that the checks , some uncashed for years , were . " routine " and had nothing to do with the inquiry into alleged White House influence in decisions of regulatory agencies . Letter to Inquiry Counsel It was learned the letter was sent to Robert W. Lishman , counsel for the House Special Subcommittee on Legislative Oversight . Whether the refusal would lead @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to get the books of accounts would be dropped remained unanswered today . In a statement tonight , Mr. Goldfine denounced as " politically inspired " a new action of the Securities and Exchange Commission against one of his companies . It became known yesterday that the commission had notified Mr. Goldfine that a real estate concern of his had failed io file a required financial report that was due last Tuesday . Meanwhile , the possibility of issuing  --  a subpoena for the 11 records sought by the House Subcommittee was held in abeyance pending word from Mr. Goldfine 's counsel . Tile subcommitteechairman , Representative ( Oren Harris , Democrat of Arkansas , had directed that the subpoena be issued . It was said that the subcommittee had not followed up the refusal because it did not wish to open a new dispute until the contempt of Congress action had been disposed of in the House . The House is expected to act next week on the contempt citation voted by the subcommittee and its parent body , the House Interstate and Foreign Commerce Committee . Mr. Harris is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on Miss Mildred Paperman , Mr. Goldfine 's bookkeeper . It covers records dating back to 1950 . She produced some records during the hearings but the subcommittee was not satisfied , because they shed no light on how the checks had been treated on the company 's books . The books sought were those of four of Mr. Goldfine 's textile companies and two real estate companies . The textile companies are the Strathmore Woolen Company of Boston , Northfield ( Vt . ) Mills , Inc. , Lebanon ( N. H. ) Woolen Company and Lebandale Mills of Lebanon , N. H. The real estate companies are the East Boston Company ' and its subsidiary , the Boston Port Development Company . S. E. C. Plans Action In its new move , the Securities and Exchange Commission confirmed last night that it had notified Mr. Goldfine that it would take further action1 against his East Boston Com pany . The delinquent reports cited by the Commission would cover the real estate company 's fiscal year , which ended March 31 . In his statement tonight , Mr.I Goldfine denounced @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the ' get Goldfine movement ' that has become so popular in the last few weeks . " Then he asked : - " Am I never to be relieved of the role of political scapegoat ? " The industrialist put the blame for the delay on the House subcommittee . He charged the panel had failed to return documents needed for preparation of the annual report . The working documents , he said , have been in the hands of the House subcommittee since May 7 , when they were subpoenaed . He said that he and his staff had " on numerous occasions sought unsuccessfully to have these documents returned . " The contempt action was based on the refusal to answer questions on the financial operations of the real estate companies that the S. E. C. took to Federal court , starting in 1954 , to compel the filing of reports . The reports had been delinquent since 1948. $89,000 Is Unaccounted For Some $89,000 in the checks were unaccounted for at the hearings . Mr. Goldfine and Miss Paperman said they had no recbrd of what @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1942 . Mr. Goldfine testified that none had been used for payments , favors , or gifts to Federal officials and that they were solely business transactions of no concern to the investigators . Most of the checks were drawn on the accounts of the Strathmore Woolen Company , Northfield Mills , Lebandale Mills and the Boston Port Development Company . Some were made payable to individuals , including Mr. Goldfine , and some made payable to the same company on which they were drawn . The hearings developed testimony that most of the hotel bills paid by Mr. Goldfine and the gifts he bestowed upon Sherman Adams , the Assistant to the President , and others were charged to the Strathmore Woolen Company . Adams Told of Calls Mr. Adams told the subcommittee that he had twice communicated with the Federal Trade Commission in behalf of his friend Mr. Goldfine and once had had the President 's special counsel get information from the S. E. C. on the case involving the annual reports . The trade commission had I cited several of Mr. Goldfine 's textile mills for misbranding fabrics @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The major case , ' in which a consent order was obtained , was against Strathmore Woolen Company , Northfield Mills and Lebanon Woolen Company in 1956 . The commission has started a new investigation of these companies . The total of bank checks outstanding as of May 7 , when the subcommittee subpoenaed bank records , was $776,879.16 . A new total obtained by the subcommittee as of July 8 gave the amount as $558,192.23 . In his statement tonight , Mr. Goldfine said he wished to " disclose certain facts " in the event the S. E. C. 's " announcement might imply that I am defying that agency . " He said that when the documents required for the annual report were turned over to the subcommittee on May 6 , Mr. Lishman promised that they would be returned " in a couple of weeks . " On that final day of the hearing , July 17 , he went on , Miss Paperman again sought return of the papers and was told that they could be " mailed in a couple of days . " On July @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Benjamin Brown , was called to Washington for a conference with Mr. Lishman and Mr. Ross and " was again told that the papers would be returned in a few days . " But yesterday , he said , the S. E. C. letter of July 31 was received . Mr. Goldfine concluded by saying he drew the " inescapable conclusion that the committee staff knew that it was preventing the East Boston Company from filing this report by the required date . " He also suggested that the commission 's latest action was " politically inspired . "                     