@@713472

txt Swarming Chinese Communist attackers drove into the shrinking Allied beachhead in northeast Ko= rea and roared on with the aim of annihilating the United States 10th Corps defenders . Many Chinese Communists were ' reported killed in headlong charges of infantry and cavalrymen under Allied tank , artillery , and air counterattack and against withdrawing doughboy defenses . But the Communists kept coming onto the blazing flatlands of ' the Sea of Japan coast in the Hamhung-Hungnam port area . The first major attack was made by some 2,500 shouting mounted and toot soldiers who leaped aboard American tanks and tore at the hatches with small weapons and their bare hands . 1 Bigger attacks were expected at 1 night from the force of 100,000 Chinese Communists ringed around the United Nations forces backed up against the Sea of Jajpan. 1 The beachhead was the last ; refuge in the northeast for about 160,000 Allied troops who were forced to retreat by the Chinese Communist entry into the war late ; in November , Rescue Effort Fails One American platoon  --  normally 40 riflemen and one junior @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ initial attack by the 2,500 Communists . A tank-led column failed to rescue the platoon and had to fight off Chinese Communist soldiers who pried at the tanks ' hatches in frenzied hand combat . The tanks withdrew undamaged after they ran out of ammunition . American front-line troops said the Chinese Communists beat drums , blew bugles , and sang as they massed at the village of Oro , six miles northwest of Hamhung . These weird sounds mingled with the screaming of American artillery shells tearing into the Break Looms in Lull The 15 war summary by Gen. Douglas suggested that a lull of nearly two weeks on the western front is about to break . His headquarters said " there is growing evidence that the Communist mass is moving forward and to the east " against United States Eighth Army defense positions . The eastward movement might be a new attempt to turn the Eighth Army 's right flank . The enemy also was showing signs of increasing its hitherto negligible air activity over Korea . Russian-built jets fought United States jets in the northwest for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was quoted in a Moscow broad cast as saying United Nations forces were being evacuated by sea from the perimeter . This confirmed Dec. 13 front-line dispatches of American correspondents . Since then , a military blackout has been clamped on over-all operations of the 10th Corps . On the western front . the only activity reported by the United States Eighth Army Was near the 38th parallel at points north and northeast of Seoul . South Koreans withdrawing from Yonchon , 38 miles north of Seoul , ran into a North Korean roadblock just north of the 38th parallel . Near Chunchon , 45 miles northeast of Seoul , South Korean troops were halted in a northward rush by North Koreans employing artillery . That action was just south of the 38th parallel , the artificial boundary for North and South Korea . But South Korean forces six miles northeast of Chunchon advanced two miles against light opposition . Four United States F-80 jet fighter pilots reported they scored hits on two enemy planes in , a brief air battle with -- 10-Russian-built MIG-15 jets near the Manchurian border . No Atherican @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 20 miles southeast of the Korean border city of Sinuiju . In the same area , Dec. 13 , four United States jets were attacked by 24 enemy jet fighters and reported one of the MIG 's was damaged . Within the past 10 days . 47 Russian-made jet fighters have appeared over Korea . India Studies Maps By the Associated Press New Delhi Copies of a new map printed by Communist China show a huge section of India 's rich Assam Valley and a part of northern Burma . including the war-famous Stilwell Road , as Chinese . The maps are not marked " official , " but Indian officials said they presumably show what Chinese Communist officials consider are the " proper frontiers . " Nationalist China claimed the same frontiers , but never did anything to support the claims .                     