@@714262

txt Princess Elizabeth was back in Canada tonight , snugly installed in a private lodge in the Laurentian Mountains while a heavy snow fell outside . As the last act of their fortyfive-hour stay in the United States , Elizabeth and ' the Duke of Edinburgh visited the White House and left there the only gift they had presented on their current tour . Then they flew north between cloud layers that prevented their plane from circling New York for the view that the couple had hoped to see . At the White House , the Princess and her husband heard President Truman say , ' ** have many distinguished visitors here in this city , but never before have we had such a wonderful young couple that so completely captured the hearts of all of us . " Arriving here after a flight of about . two hours , the royal couple and their party drove immediately from the airport to , the mountain retreat , where they will rest from their whirlwind Washington schedule and prepare for next week 's tour of the Maritime Provinces . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ near St. Agathe , Que. , seventy miles north of Montreal . The Princess presented to President Truman a gift for the White House from her father , King George VI . It was an overmantel , consisting of a rare pair of English candelabra and a carved gilt mirror with an oil painting of flowers set in above it . All of the pieces are older than the United States . She told President Truman that the current renovation of the White House , in which her parents had been guests in 1939 , " has attracted interest all over the world . " She remarked that finding the eighteenth - century overmantel " gave the King great pleasure , " and she felt " that this ceremony makes a fitting climax to w hat has been a delightful and memorable occasion " for her and her husband . The presentation was made in the White House rose garden . Afterward , the President and Mrs. Truman took the royal couple on a tour of the nearly rebuilt residence , showing them the Blue Room , where the overmantel will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Princess and the Duke had taken a royal version of the standard tour of Washington sights . After having visited the massive Washington Episcopal Cathedral for a brief prayer , they went to the 4ibrary of Congress , where they saW the originals of the Declaration of Independence and the Constitution . Looking at the former , the Duke asked , " Does it really say ' taxation without representation ' ? " The royal couple craned their necks at the Capitol dome . They saw the Supreme Court and chatted with all the Justices assembled in the office of Chief Justice Fred M. Vinson . In the Senate , Princess Elizabeth sat briefly in the Vice President 's chair . In the House , she and her husband stepped to the Speaker 's rostrum , and waved and smiled at the gallery , which was% crowded with Government women employes and the families of Capitol employes . The royal visitors shook hands with thirty members of Congress , most of the others being out of town . The President and his family did not go to National Airport to see @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his White House speech , the President told her : " We want you to come back again . It has been reported to me that you would like to come back again and bring your lovely children . " The Princess smiled warmly at him . The President brought chuckles from the royal couple and the audience when he added , " I do n't know who the temporary occupants of the White House may be at that time . " He continued : " But you can be sure of this ! No matter who they are , you and your family will always be welcome . " President Truman never altered his homey , fatherly manner toward the girl whom he had toasted as the realization of his Missouri boyhood dream of " a fairy princess . "                     