@@713984

txt Two Senate Finance Committee Democrats yesterday disagreed flatly as to whether a big tax increase would curb inflation . Sen. Hoey of North Carolina contended that proposed tax boosts are n't " anti-inflationary at all . " But Sen. Johnson of Colorado declared a tax increase " is one of the best ways I know to check inflation . " The Houseapproved 57,200 million tax increase bill is " highly deflationary , " he asserted . Finance Committee Chairman George ( D .. Ga. ) , meanwhile , called for a 56 billion out in federal spending to " end all talk " of a tax boost as big as the StO billion the Administration wants . 1-113 committee today starts its third week of hearings on new tax legislation . The Georgian said a Government spending cut of the size he proposes would make possible a trimming of the House-passed tax increase . He forecast that unless there is a global war . Congress will approve only one more tax boost during the defense buildup  --  the one his committee is now considering . Sen. Hoey @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the theory that high taxes are deflationary because they drain off excess purchasing power . " High prices already have drained away whatever excess there might have been , " he said . " That certainly is particularly true in the lower and middle income brackets , where most of the purchasing power is found . In those groups , people already are having a hard time making ends meet . " - Sen. Hoey said there is no doubt a stiff tax increase is necessary to pay for the defense program . " but we ought to look on it as purely a revenue-raising effort and not as an inflation control move . " Among other things , the House-approved bill would increase individual income taxes l222 : ? about 52.547 million annually . Sen. Hoey called the House bill " pretty tough all around " and voiced the hope the Senate will be able to work out a somewhat smaller increase . -I think we can . " Sen. Hoey said . " if Congress will concentrate on cutting Government spending . " Sen. Johnson Disagrees Sen. Johnson disagreed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wiped out any excess purchasing power in the low and middle income brackets . -I think there is quite a bit of extra purchasing power left there with the national income what it is . " Sen. Johnson . said . He said he has not made up his mind as to whether the House bill ought to be revised . " Both sides seem to be pretty mad about the bill . " Sen. Johnson declared . " I notice that business groups arc screaming it 's a soaktherich bill . At the same time the labor unions are claiming it would soak the poor and let the rich and the corporations off easy . "                     