@@714267

txt Three persons drowned ' and one was rescued today when a plane plunged into Union lake , 20 miles south of here , during a snowStorm . The survivor was Clifford Potter , 35 , a factory employe of the Kellogg company , cereal manufacturer , here . He was reported to be in a serious condition at a hospital , suffering from exposure and a broken arm . The victims were his wife , Valerie , 32 ; Walter Smith , 43 , also a Kellogg company factory employe , and Smith 's wife , Mae , 40 . Potter said Smith was piloting the plane at the time of the crash . The body of Mrs. Smith was recovered by rescue workers . Search for the bodies of Mrs. Potter and Smith was abandoned at nightfall and will be resumed tomorrow . Row Thru Waves to Plane Potter 's life was saved by prompt action of A. W. Higgins and Jay Smith , cottagers living near the lake shore . Responding to an alarm given by Clarence Rambadt , another cottager , who heard the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Visibility was so poor they could not see the wreck of the plane when they left shore . They fought high waves to row 300 feet into the lake , however , and carne upon the floating fuselage . Potter was clinging to the wreckage in a semi-conscious condition . His rescuers pulled him into the boat and pulled back for shore , unable to find traces of other victims . Find Body floating The body of Mrs. Smith subsequently was found floating 60 feet from the crash scene . The water was about eight feet deep where the plane struck . An attempt to tow the wreckage to shore failed when it slipped into deeper water and sank . State police said the missing bodies may be in the plane 's cabin . The Smiths and Potters left Battle Creek at 1 p. yesterday for a week-end trip to Detroit . They were forced down by bad weather at Ypsilanti , Mich. , and spent the night there . They abandoned their plan to go to Detroit and started back for Battle Creek this morning . The plane was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ organization of civilian flying enthusiasts , of which Smith , a licensed pilot , was president . Potter is a student flyer with six months ' instruction . Jet Explodes in Air Newport , R. I. , Nov. 4 ( .113 ) ? A jet plane from the Quonset naval air station exploded in the air today , killing the pilot and spraying flaming debris over a wide area . The body of the pilot , Ensign Ralph A. Lennon , 23 , of Flushing , N. Y. , was trapped in the wreckage . Parts of the plane landed on the estates of Mrs. Charlotte Greenough and Miss Mary A. McCagg ? setting fire to grass and trees and a small building on the McCagg property . The plane 's tail ? apparently blown off in the air ? landed several blocks away on a vacant house .                     