@@713825

txt Ambassador William O'Dwyer issued a vigorous denial today of charges brought again ' t him in the report of the Senate Crime Investigating Committee . He said in a prepared statement : " For reasons unknown to me a concerted effort has been made by inference and innuendo to discredit me on a personal basis . Of this I have no fear . " My public life is a matter of record and a careful examination of that record will refute any attempts to associate it with anything that was not for the benefit of the people . " The former Mayor of New York charged that inferences had been drawn from a few minor and isolated incidents in his public career by the crime committee and that these had been blown up into exaggerated proportions . Sees " Fantastic Conclusion " He said that a " fantastic conclusion " had been reached by the committee , which charged in its report , issued yesterday , that the former Mayor had contributed directly and indirectly " to the growth of organized rime , racketeering and gangsterism in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ record as Kings County ( Brooklyn ) District Attorney , which had been sharply criticized by the committee . He said that there were eighty unsolved murders in the county when he assumed office in 1940 and that organized murder was in full swing . " In less than two years , " the statement asserted , " I solved most of these murders and sent a great number of gangsters , murderers and racketeers to jail and to the electric chair . " Mr. O'Dwyer also pointed to the achievements of his administration as Mayor , stressing his wort in the clearance of slum areas and the building of schools , health centers and hospitals . He said that these were " most effective " weapons in fighting the basic causes of crime . The Ambassador concluded his statement by saying that no solution to the problem of crime could be reached unless the solution was sought , ' ' as suggested by the committee , realistically , constructively and non-politically . " Acheson Queried on Effect By CLAYTON KNOWLES Special to ME NEW YORK TLMES WASHINGTON , May 2 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he knew of no deterioration in relations between the United States and Mexico resulting from the Senate Crime Investigating Committee 's sharp criticism of Ambassador William O'Dwyer 's political past . The release of the report , setting forth in detail the basis for the committee 's conclusion , produced Republican demands yesterday for the Ambassador 's recall or resignation . Other minority requests for such action were heard today . The upshot was that one of the first questions asked Mr. Acheson at his news conference this afternoon was whether he had evidence that the committee appraisal of Mr. O'Dwyer had " adversely affected American relations with Mexico . " The Secretary 's response was a , crisp no . A short while later , Joseph Short , Presidential press secretary , told White House reporters he was unaware of any plan to recall the Ambassador . For the second day he declined to comment on the Crime Committee report . President Truman undoubtedly will be bombarded with questions on the subject tomorrow at his weekly news conference . Observers are inclined to believe that the President will not take @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ O'Dwyer . Senator H. Alexander Smith , Republican of New Jersey , kept the attack on Mr. O'Dwyer alive today by saying it seemed " perfectly obvious that the President should recall him immediately . " " It is contrary to every good , principle of democracy and diplo , macy , " he said , " for us to be represented in Mexico by a man whose political activities in this country have been , at very least , open to serious question . " Never in our history has it been more important for us to be represented by individuals who are above suspicion and whose moral integrity can not be questioned . " Comment of Flanders Another Republican Senator , Ralph E. Flanders of Vermont , said he considered Mr. O'Dwyer 's designation as Ambassador " unwise at the time . " " It seems even more unwise now , " he declared . " I feel he should be recalled for the reputation and honor of this country . " Senator Irving M. ' Ives , the New York Republican who led the unsuccessful fight against confirmation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ asserting that there seemed to be " ample evidence to disqualify him . " Democrats maintained silence . There were no majority statements issued in Mr. O'Dwyer 's defense and more than a few Democrats declined comment on the report as it . dealt with the former Mayor . At the State Department news conference , Mr. Acheson said he had no plan to confer with Mr. O'Dwyer as a result of the committee report . He said that if he thought there was ground for the removal of the Ambassador , the matter would be taken up with the President . This answer immediately prompted the question as to whether he had such plans . With a smile , the secretary responded that he could not comment on loaded questions .                     