@@718687

txt Letters to The Times To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : The New York . State Legislature has just wound up its 1957 session . There is no copy publicly available covering the debates in the Assembly . If one wishes to obtain a transcript of the remarks made during a debate ' on any particular measure he can obtain it at fixed stenographic rates provided  --  believe it or not  --  that consent is first obtained from the member of the Assembly whose remarks are to , be transcribed . As to the Senate , a full typewritten copy of the debates is on file but can be read only by travel to Albany , or having someone copy the desired portions of it by longhand or shorthand transcription . I understand that portions of the debate may be obtained on the basis of a fixed stenographic charge , but , unlike the Assembly , the censorial power of a Senator does not obtain . I am advised by members of the Assembly that no rule governs the matter of a member 's objection @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ past experience and rigid practice this is the situation that actually prevails . So far as I can learn , no public protest has been . made of a refusal to supply transcripts of a member 's objection , ' though in some instances at least it has been bitterly resented by members of the Assembly who endeavored to obtain transcripts of remarks of their fellow members . Congressional Record Is there any reason why the Empire State should not have something like the Congressional Record ( not necessarily including its appendix , in which all sorts of matter is included ) ? Can it be reasonably argued that New York , with its over fourteen million population and a two-billion-dollar budget , is too poverty-stricken to afford this indispensable means for properly disseminating public debates ire the law-making process ? Deplorable as is the situation in this regard , the fact that it has existed ' this long without public protest is perhaps equally so . Apart from the basic need for a printed record publicly available in this day and age , the incidental benefits resulting therefrom would be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it should be remarked , however , that lawyers and judges frequently find such material of great value in interpreting statutes . Decisions in the Federal courts clearly demonstrate the frequent usefulness to them of the Congressional Record . Is n't it high time that the public be afforded an opportunity to know what transpires in the legislative debates ? Should n't the curtain be lifted ? Even newspaper accounts , necessarily restricted to a limited number of matters of special interest and unavoidably restricted to space limitations , are no substitute . What are or can be the objections to a printed State Legislative Record , distributed to . individuals , libraries and organizations , under proper regulation ? Certainly the present practice , in this day of democratic procedures , can no longer be permitted to continue . M. MALDWIN FERTIG . New York , April 11 , 1957 . Aid for Handicapped Children TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : A short time ago The New York Times carried a news item about the attempts of a judge of General Sessions to obtain orthopedic treatment for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gratifying to read of the ready response from surgeons and lay people offering help . However , it should be known that diagnosis and treatment are offered without charge to those unable to pay , under the program of the Bureau for Handicapped Children of the Department of Health . Care is given at a number of hospitals in the city and is available to children up to 21 years of age with various handicapping conditions , such as cleft palate , harelip , congenital- heart disease , hearing and speech difficulties , as well as orthopedic disabilities . Information about the program may be obtained from the Bureau of Handicapped Children , Department of Health , 125 Worth Street , New York , N. Y. THEODATE H. SOULE . New York . April 5 , 1957 . For Legislative Record Printed Transcripts of Debates In Both Houses Advocated The writer of the following letter served as Counsel to Governors Roosevelt and Lehman ; and as a member of the Assembly . Teachers ' Low Morale Cited To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Teachers have an understanding of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the municipal budget , of the reluctance of the Mayor and the Board of Estimate to raise tax rates . However , there is no justification in the inequitable methokby which the city has decided to raise teacher salaries , to say nothing of the ' meager , um allotted . The only justification for these piecemeal raises ( which benefit a minority of teachers and leave the rest of us dissatisfied and disgusted ) is the desire of the city to silence a few of the most disgruntled teacher groups , to throw a sop to older teachers , a crumb to elementary school teachers , a bone to teachers with P. Ph . D. degree . Teachers are left divided , humiliated , disillusioned . It is particularly depressing to ' us young- teachers who want to do a good job , who like teaching , who try to " give the taxpayers their money 's worth , " but find our energies depleted because they are spread among three or four jobs . Without these extra jobs - we can not maintain the standard of living , the ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have to do our job well . It is this paradox which , among other things , is responsible for the deterioration of teacher morale and educational standards . It is a sad fact that today American parents will spend billions of dollars on " educational " toys , " educational " games , " educational " books of all kinds , on everything , in fact , but on the one thing without which all the refit are worthless ? - " educational " teachers . MELVIN M. FRIED . New York , April 4 , 1957 . Loss of Indian Land Flooding of Seneca Reservation in construction Dam Protested ro THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Among the many projects included in the omnibus rivers and harbors bill now before Congress is Dne with which we should all be concerned . That is the Allegheny reservoir project involving the cone struction of the Kinzua dam on the Allegheny River . This project would flood 9,000 acres of the Allegheny eserva. - Lion , and would displace 1,000 dians , though the land was guaranteed to the Seneca @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lands would be flooded in spite of the fact that the rest of the Allegheny watershed is already in the possession of the white man . Promises are made to be ept . But it would appear that th project was enlarged too far bey nd what was at first contemplated for the very reason that Indian and state forest lands were located in this area . In 1790 and 1791 , when assurances were given to the Indians as to the security ofe their lands , they could , if necessary , have . struck powerful blows in their own defense . Now , having accepted the assurances then given , they can no longer defend themselves . Washington 's Speech In ' 1790 President Washington addressed the ' following declaration to Chief Cornplanter ' of . the Seneca Indians : " Hear well and let it be known by every person in your nation , that the President of the United States declares that the general Government considers itself bound to protect you in all the lands see cured to you by the treaty ofeStanwix , the 23rd of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the right to refuse to sell your lands . That , therefore , the sale of your lands in future will depend entirely upon yourselves . But that , when you may find it to your interest to sell any part of your lands , the United States must be present , by their agent , and will be your security that you will not be defrauded in the bargain you may make . " When Colonel Timothy Pickering went to negotiate with the Indians the following year he was instructed to repeat the assurances that the President had given . Washington conceived government under our Constitution as based on " the pure and immutable principles of private morality . " Would not he have wished that the promise to the Indians . on behalf of the Government , which he so painstakingly spelled out , should continue to be honored in letter and in spirit ? WILLIAM G. FRENCH . Jamaica , N. Y. , April 7 , 1957 . Notification of Delayed Trains To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Every commuter on the New Haven and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ increasingly plague trains on those lines . Of course the lines always have pat " explanations " of these . But nothing can explain , or ex. cuse , the failure to notify the thousands of wives , often accompanied by children , who wait in cars , sometimes for several hours , at stations all along the way . What a nerveracking experience this can be when the delay goes beyond an hour or so and the rumor gets around that there has been an accident I leave the reader to imagine . I am aware that these lines are not interested in their commuter service , but as long as they continue to operate these services such notification ( all stations have loudspeakers ) is a matter not only of good business but elementary decency . PAUL STEINER . New York , April 11 , 1957.                     