@@714511

txt It is impossible to talk with Gov . Adlai Stevenson of Illinois very long without realizing that he has a carefully developed viewpoint on a wide range of national and international affairs . While Governor Stevenson certainly is not leaping at the opportunity to become the Democratic presidential nominee this year , it is evident that he possesses an experience and an intellectual equipment which make it understandable that President Truman should be looking fondly in his direction for a possible successor . For several hours lately I have discussed with the Governor about everything which would seem to lie along the road from the executive mansion here in Springfield to 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue in Washington , and it is apparent that he is rarely without ideas or without convictions . For one thing , Governor Stevenson is horrified at the evidence of corruption and low ethical behavior in the federal government , and he will have no part in minimizing the gravity of these offenses . And he knows what he is talking about , because he was saddled with plenty when he took over from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Corruption in government is a very real issue , and why should n't it be ? " he asks , and his answer is : " Keeping government clean is a continuing problem . One corrupt official is too many , just as one corrupt private citizen is too many . A dishonest official is as faithless to his party as he is to his office , and the party of Jefferson and Jackson must never founder on the rocks of moral equivocation . With the growth of government at all levels , competence and economy must come first , and if political parties do n't deliver better , more scrupulous public administration all along the line the people will change managers . " Mr. Stevenson makes it clear that he believes unreservedly in free enterprise , and he believes that free enterprise must conscientiously discharge its social responsibilities in order to survive . He does not pull his punches when he says : " I do n't like government doles . I do n't like subsidies . I do n't like any interference with free markets , free men , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fail . " I believe emphatically in what is called , for want of a better word , ' free enterprise . ' But free enterprise in our world must result in more than profit for the few . It must be a source of well-being for the many or it wo n't be free very long . " AAA The Governor anxiously deplores the concentration of power and authority in Washington . but he is quick to recognize that many , too many , of the problems of " states ' rights " have . as he sees it , been created by " states ' wrongs . " That is , many , if not most , of the states have been guilty of abdicating their responsibilities , and in consequence the federal government has stepped in by default . He wants ' to see the states , Don Hesse . St. Louis Globe-Democrat " Election Is A-Comin ? Tra-la " including his own , do something besides complain about federal interference . Take , for example , the ghastly mine disaster in West Frankfort , Ill. , some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been trying to get his state to adopt modern , adequate milling laws and to enforce them effectively with the full cooperation of industry and union . But local resistance has been insurmountable and now the pressure is on in Washington to get the federal government to take over . " Peace , " he says , " is the most important unfinished business of our generation , " and while he would not want to see Congress scrimp in carrying forward vital defense and foreign-policy measures , he would favor a meaningful hold down on other federal spending . Mr. Stevenson does not look upon the defense of Korea as " the unnecessary war " and does not believe that it was precipitated by actions of the American Government . . A A 1 " We must prove to the world , " he declares , " that we will fight for peace if we have to . We want no more Munichs . We know from sad and bloody experience that appeasement begets more appeasement and finally disaster . We know that the strong ca n't avoid being the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in unprecedented resistance to cynical , brutal , shameless aggression . While Governor Stevenson was born a Democrat ? his paternal arandfather was vice-president in Grover Cleveland 's second term  --  his background includes some strongly Republican forebears . " If it 's true that politics is the art of compromise . " the Governor remarks , " I 've had a good start . My mother was a Republican and a Unitarian , my father was a Democrat and a Presbyterian . I ended up in his party and her church . "                     