@@712639

txt Judging from the growing violence of its words and actions , the Soviet Government is again stepping up both the pace and , the temper of its " cold war " against the West . Whether in China or in the United Nations , in Finland . Bulgaria or Berlin , or in direct replies to the United States , there is an obvious intensification of Moscow 's aggressive policy which adds up to what might develop into a new " spring offensive . " One reason for this is undoubtedly the heady wine of power and victory which seems to have convinced the Kremlin 's masters that their power is beyond challenge and that violence wins . Another and perhaps more immediate reason may be the desire to combat " Titoism " by driving Moscow 's satellites into an even closer Soviet embrace by aggravating their and Moscow 's own relations with the West . But whatever the rearm , it is equally obvious that the only effective answer to the new Russian drive , and the best chance for preserving peace , lies in increased @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ solidarity , which ' has attained a fair foundation in the European Recovery Program , the North Atlantic Pact and the military aid program , is being exposed to new strains and stresses at a moment when it is most essential . These strains and stresses have manifested themselves not only in the differing attitudes of the Western Powers toward events in China but even more in Europe , Where- the whole European " integration " program is being delayed and possibly compromised by a new Franco-German conflict over the Saar . This Conflict is due , in part at least , to the lack of a definitive peace settlement which alone can determine the final status of this important region . But the proportions which this conflict has assumed at this time are especially regrettable because it could have been so easily avoided if both sides had used a somewhat less heavy-handed approach to the problem . In any case , the French Government , without consulting either the United States or Britain , undertook to tighten the economic attachment of the Saar to France by initiating " technical " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ leases and railroad adjustments which the Germans interpreted as a further step in the fulfillment of openly proclaimed French desires for both the political and economic i.nnexation of the Saar . The French pronodncements , which allotted to the peace settlement merely the function of formally " consecrating " whatever agreements France imposed on the occupied Saar , did not allay the German suspicions . In return , the German Government , partly under pressure of reviving German nationalism , which expresses itself in ever louder demands for German unification , partly because it sees a chance for extracting further concessions from the West , not only objected to the French negotiations but went even further by demanding a virtual return of the Saar through a plebiscite . To back up its demands it has suspended pending trade negotiations with France and has served notice that the Saar issue , might prevent it from joining the Council of Europe . This German action , so soon after the new German defeat , comes as somewhat of a shock to the Western victors and will undoubtedly provoke demands for crushing the new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Allied occupation and lives to a large extent on American bounty , this can be easily done , and both the American and British Governments have already announced that on the issue of detaching the Saar from Gemany they will stand by France . Bt whether more heavy-handed measure will really serve the integration Western Europe , of which Germany i an essential part , may be doubted ur less German interests and even sent dents are also taken into account . Tb - : , erman claim that the separation c the Saar from Germany will prejudic ' le German demand for a return of a best some of the lands beyond th Oder-Neisse line , which has the legs sanction of the Western Powers , can not be . ignored . In point of fact , if real Europea integration is ever achieved , the statu of the Saar , or of any other industria region . in Western Europe , would mak little difference , and : that has also bee : the known view of Chancellor Ade nauer . But pricked by France 's uni lateral action @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this by even more drastic action o their own . This is a dangerous gam in which neither : side can win , and i must be hoped that both sides wil realize this before it is too late .                     