@@713201

txt A prominent administration official said tonight he expects President Truman to order seizure of the nation 's strike threatened railroads within 48 hours . Two big rail unions  --  the trainmen and the conductors  --  have instructed their 300,000 members to quit work Monday at 6 a. m. when that hour is reached in each locality . The unions have said they would continue to operate the railroads in the event of government seizure . The administration official , asking that his name not be used , told a reporter the unions ' sudden call for a nation-wide walkout left Mr. Truman with little choice but to act fast . " Can Do Nothing Else The official said the emergency created by the Korean war and the defense program leaves the President with no alternative but to keep the trains running . " I do n't believe the President can do anything else but seize , " the official said . " The only question is when . " He went on to say the President probably will act by Saturday at least ? in order to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ advance of the Monday strike deadline . These advance strike preparations might aggravate an existing boxcar shortage , he added . The situation is to be discussed at a cabinet meeting tomorrow . It is possible 9 decision on what step to take will be made then . The official commenting tonight attended a number of White House meetings on the rail labor crisis Other Course , ' Unlikely He said there are two other steps , other than seizure , which Mr. Truman could take , but these both are unlikely . One would b to seek a court injunction. in advance of a strike , to prohibit a walkout from occurring . But there is some doubt among Mr. Truman 's advisers es to the legal authority for this , it was said . The other would be a personal appeal by Mr. Truman to the unions and the carriers to settle their longstanding labor dispute . This latter possibility was regarded as unlikely by the official because of the deteriorated position of the two unions with Mr. Truman because of their action in calling their strike right after @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Might Affect 1,700,000 Should the strike go into effect , it was estimated by the Association of American Railroads that some 1,700,000 railroad workers in all categories , both operating and clerical , probably would be laid off . President Truman hinted at his news conference earlier today that he felt the two railroad unions had acted in bad faith because of their prior no-strike pledge to him . Sen. Holland ( D. , Fla. tonight in the senate termed the strike " tragic news for America  --  but good news to the Kremlin and splendid news to Communists everywhere . " Holland said union leaders , by their " irresponsible action " were inviting congress to enact a law barring railroad strikes .                     