@@715158

txt Federal Judge Irving R. Kaufman refused yesterday to change the death sentence of Julius and Ethel Rosenberg , unrepentant wartime atom spies , scheduled to be put to death the week of Jan. 12 . In denying judicial clemency to the Rosenbergs , Judge Kaufman declared : " I still feel that their crime was worse than Murder . " The Court said nothing had occurred since the jury 's verdict to convince him that the Rosenbergs were not guilty " beyond any doubt . " Their lips were sealed , he declared , because they preferred the glory of martyrdom . In his twenty-three-page opinion , Judge Kaufman said he had been subjected ? to a " mounting campaign of vilification , abuse and pressure . " Such tactics , he asserted , were not required to make him cognizant of the human tragedy involved . " We are dealing with the type of offense which is a crime of the mind and the heart , " the decision said . ' While the law under which the defendants Rosenberg were convicted does not recognize degrees @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , take that fact into consideration . " Their traitorous ' acts were of 1the highest degree . They- ; turned lover ? information- to ' Maisie ; eori. ' cerning the most deadly weapon known to man , thereby exposing millions of their countrymen tol danger or death . ' The Rosenbergs were not minor espionage agents ; ' they were on the top rung of this conspiracy . " Sees Russia as Pickpocket As to the defense contention that Russia was our ally at the time of the atom thefts , Judge Kaufman wrote : " Even as the Soviet Union took ) all our help and demanded more , while we were battling a commoni enemy , they were stealthily picking our pockets of our most septet atomic data . . P ? " What light have these defendants now to cry ' Russia , Was our ally ' when they were the very ones caught with their hands in our pockets trying to filch from their own country this weapon which , were its secret inviolate , might have been crucial in maintaining peace in the post-war @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bear upon him , Judge Kaufman said : " The Court:however , has had a solemn trust placed in its hands by the people of this land and I am convinced that any change of these sentences . by this Court , in the light of the evidence adduced in this case , would be a violation of that trust . Devotion to duty and justice must prevail over action . which could be attributable only to emotions . " The defense , meanwhile , has almost exhausted its legal remedies to stave off the death sentence . As a result of Judge Kaufman 's denial of judicial clemency , the couple can move for Executive mercy . The remaining legal move would be to apply to the United States Supreme Court-for a review of a decision of the United States Court of Appeals , which refused last Wednesday to set aside the convictions . Plea to Appeals Court Emanuel H. Bloch , defense counsel , said he would ask the Federal Appeals Court on Monday to stay the executions pending a final plea to the Supreme Court for a review @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the same appeal to Associate Justice Robert H. Jackson of the Supreme Court , a final move in this direction . On the same day Mr. Bloch will ask Judge Kaufman for a stay of execution while he applies for Executive clemency , The jurist said at the judicial clemency hearing last Tuesday , that if it was necessary he would ? ont a. stay so the Rosenbergs might not be deprived of their right to apply to President Truman . On two- prior occasions the Supreme Court has refused to review the convictions of . the spies , ' on the ground ? that no constitutional questions were , involved . The high tribunal does not review jury verdicts unless such questions arise . To move for Executive clemency Mr. Bloch will have to file an application with Daniel Lyons , United States Pardon Attorney . Mr. Lyons will process the application through a formal inquiry . He will ask Judge Kaufman and James B. KiLsheimer 3d , assistant United States Attorney , who has opposed previous defense applications , for the facts in the case and for their recommendations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to President Truman . Couple Called Spy Leaders The arrests of the Rosenbergs whom Judge Kaufman described as prime movers in the wartime espionage ring , came soon after the arrest of Dr. Klaus Fuchs , nuclear scientist , in England , Fuchs talked and Federal Bureau of Investigation agents then picked up Barry Gold , Philadelphia biochemist , now serving a thirty-year sentence . Gold , too , was cooperative with the authorities , and the next member of the ring arrested was David Greenglass , Mrs. Rosenberg 's brother . While in the Army and attached to the Los Alamos atom bomb project , Greenglass , at the instigation of Julius Rosenberg , passed on atom secrets to Gold . Greenglass and his wife , Ruth , who was named as a co-conspirator but not a defendant , testified against the Rosenbergs . Greenglass was sentenced by Judge Kaufman to fifteen years in prison . In their appeal to the Federal Circuit Court of Appeals to set aside their convictions , the Rosenbergs contended that the Greenglasses had bargained their lives for those of the Rosenbergs . In his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to regain their freedom , they would continue in their deepseated devotion and allegiance to Soviet Russia . The couple , he said , " still defiant , assert they seek justice not mercy . " " What they seek they have attained , " he added                     