@@717965

txt A na ? . ry board of inquiry at the Great Lakes Naval Training center heard testimony in two closed sessions yesterday in an investigation of the death of Maurice G. Everett , 17 , of , fit " , erect Tenn. , a recruit . The board will , resume its hearings this morning . Everett , whose death was attributed to a heat stroke , was overcome Tuesday after disciplinary drills in 80 and 90 degree temperatures . He had been assigned to the drills for " talking back " to a company commander . He died in Great Lakes Naval hospita : Tuesday night . Finding to Be Public The board , composed of officers , was appointed by Capt . J. B. , Great Lakes commander . The board 's finding will be mace public , Lt. C. E. ' White , the station public information officer , said . State 's Atty . Robert C. Nelson of Lake county , in which the station is located , said he lacked authority to investigate the death because the station is a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Lansing , Mich. , arrived at the station eight weeks ago to , undergo nine weeks of boot training . Navy 's Official Version Lt. White gave reporters this account of the events that led up to Everett 's death : Everett and another recruit were found in a barracks where they were not authorized to be . The company commander directed them to leave the area . Everett was said to have " talked back . " Everett was sent to the socalled retraining section for one day : * He reported there Tuesday morning and with five others was ordered to drill 45 minutes with rifles . Complained of Cramps Everett complained of cramps in his left arm . The company commander massaged the arm and Everett " seemed " to be all right . He went to lunch at 11 a. m . When a chow tray slipped out of his grasp , he assured the company commander that he was all right and ate a " substantial " Everett ' was assigned to a lawn watering detail after lunch , then went back to more rifle drills @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and told the company commander that he was tired . He was dismissed from the drill and assigned to a washroom cleaning project . Ten or 15 minutes later the company commander found him unconscious in the washroom . Members of the board of inquiry are Capt . Robert Archer , assistant chief of staff for operations ; Capt . Stanley Carr , assistant chief of staff for logistics , and C a p t . Benjamin Clark , a physician assigned to the center 's hospital . Capt . Leland Stallnecht is counsel for the board .                     