@@720411

txt BRITAIN PROPOSES AIR WATCH ZONE : PARIS TO MOSCOW 11 th-Hour Move Said to Seek Policy Unity in West Prior to Meetings With Soviet A 2D REGION SUGGESTED Limits on Arms and Forces in It Would Be Supervised by Teams on the Ground By SYDNEY GRUSON Special to The New York ilmes . BONN . Germany , April 26 ? The British Government , in a major revision of its plan to limit arms and forces in Central Europe , has proposed a zone for aerial inspection extending from Paris to Moscow , qualified diplomatic sources reported today . The revised plan also provides a narrower zone , excluding part of West Germany . where restrictions on the forces of East and West would be supervised by ground inspection teams . The changes were suggested in what is virtually a last-minute effort to resolve Allied differences before the East-West conference of foreign ministers in Geneva May 11 . U. S. Envoy Sees Adenauer The revisions were presumed to have been the main points of a suddenly arranged weekend conference between David K. E. Bruce , United States @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ West German Chancellor . They met at the Chancellor 's holiday retreat on Lake Como , in Italy . Mr. Bruce left here yesterday , conferred , dined and bowled with the 83-year-old Chancellor and returned to Bonn this morning . The Ambassador was reported to have sought Dr. Adenauer 's approval of the latest . " package " proposal to emerge from the preparatory meeting of United States , British , French and West German experts in London over the last two weeks . The foreign ministers of the four powers are to meet in Paris Wednesday . They will try to settle on a Western position for presentation to the Soviet Union at the foreign ministers ' conference . Answer to the Objections Diplomatic sources reported that for the first time the British had " fleshed out " their proposal for restricting forces and weapons in a Central European zone . The idea was raised in a communique issued at the end of Prime Minister Harold Macmillan 's visit to Moscow in February . Although the British never defined what they meant , the proposal was bitterly criticized by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ German and French objections was that the area the British had in mind was too small and would discriminate against the arming of West Germany . According to the diplomatic sources , the British have suggested the establishment of the inspection zones to overcome these objections . The smaller one would cover part of West Germany and possibly the Netherlands in the // West and all of East Germany , Poland and Czechoslovakia on the Communist side . The number of troops and the types of weapons would be limited and the area would be open to joint inspection and control . The second zone , extending roughly from Moscow to Paris , would be subject to aerial inspection , an Idea apparently inspired by Washington 's previous advocacy of some kind of " open skies " agreement with the Russians . Acording to the information here , the United States favored the latest British ideas during the London discussions , but made its support conditional on approval by West Germany and France . The British proposal would n t b put forward to the Russians by itself . The Allied @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sources said , the Allies have " firmly established that a link must exist " between European security and the reunification of Germany . This means , in effect , that if the Russians are unwilling to agree on a phased reunification program providing for free elections , the Allies will not accept a zone of limited arms . Prior Approval the Rey First , however , Washington and London must get Bonn and Paris to endorse the revised plan . The United States in particular wants to avoid a repetition of the impasse at the Western foreign ministers ' meeting in Washington earlier this month . Such pre-conference discussions as Mr. Bruce 's talk with Dr. Adenauer yesterday are aimed at getting the lines cleared in advance . On explicit instructions from Dr. Adenauer , his Foreign Minister , Dr. Heinrich von Brentano , astounded his colleagues in Washington by vetoing the working group 's arduously prepared paper . The paper had contained a reunification program based on a federation of the sixteen pre-war German states , ten in West Germany and six in East Germany . In London , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the formation of an East and West German organization to prepare a joint election law . But Bonn still insists , as fixedly as did Dr. von Brentano in Washington , that East Germany must not have equal representation with West Germany in such an organization . Bonn , like Washington , does not recognize the East German Communist regime . Socialist Abstentions Feared The West German position on delegates to an all-German organization , that they should be appointed ( ' rather than elected . and that their numbers should be apportioned by population , which is approximately 3 to 1 in West Germany 's favor . West Germany 's case is that the election of its delegates would have to be based on existing political parties , including those of the Opposition . Chancellor Adenauer fears that the Social Democrats might abstain on some issues , thus giving the East Germans a majority if the Eastern and Western delegations were the same size . Only in their determination to stand firm on their rights in Berlin do the Allies appear to have reached complete unity . But even on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ what role , if any , the United Nations should play at this time . The United States and Britain , according to diplomatic sources , would favor an immediate United Nations " presence " in Berlin to oversee the fulfillment of guarantees of access that the Allies hope to get from the Soviet Union . The French and West Germans do not exclude a role for the United Nations , but they would limit it out of fear that the larger the United Nations ' role the more it would weaken the Allied case that Berlin is and must remain a Big Four responsibility .                     