@@717400

txt DULLES DECLARES SOVIET WAVERING PERPLEXES WEST Secretary Says Policy Shifts Pose Delicate Diplomatic Task for Free World GENUINE CHANGE SOUGHT It Is Difficult to Detect and Dangerous to Rebuff , He Tells Legion in Miami Text of Mr. Dulles ' address is printed on Page 14 . Ely .1.01-17.7 1,7 " - POPE-TANI SpecIal to M .. New ' York T1mes . MIAMI , Oct. ** of State Dulles said today that the inconstancy of Soviet world policy had posed " difficult and delicate " diplomatic tasks for the free world . He pictured the Soviet rulers as steering an unsteady course that emphasized friendliness for some nations and intransigence toward others . The Western world 's problem , he added , is to distinguish a genuine change of purpose from an expedient maneuver in the Soviet 's " new look . " " We have to have plans that are responsive to either contingency , " Mr. Dulles said . " They must not rebuff a change which might be that for which the whole world longs , and , on the other hand , they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " The Secretary spoke at the opening session of the American Legion 's thirty-seventh annual convention in Dinner Key Auditorium here . He was interrupted five times by applause and at the end of the address the 8,000 Legion delegates gave him a standing ovation . Dulles to See President Tomorrow , Secretary Dulles will have a hospital-room conference with President Eisenhower in Denver to discuss United States strategy at the Big Four foreign ministers ' conference opening in Geneva Oct. 27 . The White House has announced that the topics will include German unification , European security , disarmament and increasing contacts between the Western and the Iron Curtain countries . In his speech here , Mr. Dulles made no specific references to the foreign ministers ' meeting , but he did charge that the Soviet Union 's advocacy of neutrality for nations outside the Iron Curtain was insincere and designed only to weaken such nations . The Russians are asking for a neutralized Germany . He said he believed the recent withdrawal of Soviet troops from Austria " came about primarily because world opinion insistently demanded it as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ha added , world opinion will " act as a compulsion " od the Soviet Union to relax its grip on East Germany , permit Ger1man unification and restore national independence to the captive states of Eastern Europe . In sharp contrast to Mr. Dulles ' views of Soviet foreign policy as a puzzling compound of possibly good faith or evil intent was the blistering attack on Soviet duplicity made two hours later by George Meany , president of the American Federation of Labor . " Nothing has happened in the // past few months , " Mr. Meany said , to evidence any real change in the Soviet plan for world domination . " Despite all its talk about peace , Moscow has yet to make a single real concession towards eliminating the sources of world tension and building the foundations of peace , " he continued . " Looking realistically at Moscow 's stifling of , human rights at home and chain of conquests abroad , we of the American Federation of Labor have flatly turned down all propositions of exchanging delegations with the Communist countries . " At @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Dulles began his Speech with a tribute to the legionnaires for cultivating " the spirit of patriotism . " Patriotism that is not linked with religion and morality , Mr. Dulles said , can be perverted into an evil and fanatical force . He warned against any thought that there had been a lessening of the need for traditional patriotism because of recent international events , such as the parley of the Big Four heads of government in Geneva last summer . " Today it is Soviet policy to appear friendly and to mingle with all the world , " he said . " Perhaps , " he added , - " the Russians have a proverb similar to the one in this country that says ' If you ca n't lick ' em , join ' em . ' " In the role of " joiners , " the Russians create problems not only for us but for themselves , he said , adding that the Soviet Union , by showing tolerance for other nations , increasingly will be expected by its satellite peoples to show similar tolerance toward them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ area into a respected segment of the society of nations , " he said . The Secretary stressed also that Communist doctrine had always taught " retreat and zigzig " as a tactic of conquest . Yet now , he added , the Soviet has a " new look " and in some places outside the Soviet bloc there are doors , formerly closed , that now stand ajar . How to solve this riddle is the difficulty facing /the West and " mere cleverness " is not a sufficient answer , he said . Mr. Dulles spoke of the United States ' partnership association for security purposes with fortyfour nations . He said that the Soviet rulers feared that kind of community effort among independent nations and therefore , advocated a concept of " neutralism " that was designed to weaken it . At the same time , he charged , the Soviet Union promotes no neutrality programs among the countries it dominates , preferringa . multi-nation monolithic power structure , ? Senator Walter . F. George , Democrat of Georgia and chairmatt ofzthe Senate Foreign Relatians ' Committee , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Spoke tonight at the annual Cotrunander 's Dinner for distinguished guests attending the Legion convention , , Senator George said that he was " convinced at this hour that , in the move to secure peace , we are facing the greatest opportunity that has ' come to us in this century , maybe in all history . " " It would be tragic , indeed , " he asserted , " if we were:so blinded by any unworthy or unwise attitude as to render us incapable of seeing what is now happening in the world . " The Senator stressed that ( United States foreign policy " could be handled only on a bipartisan basis . " , . He praised Secretary Dulles for his bipartisan efforts , and pledged his own support to continued cooperation . Senator George - predicted that " rio abrupt ordrastio.change in our foreign policy wduld result from a change in rjgoverninent leadership . "                     