@@714400

txt British Prime Minister Churchill declared tonight that the United States , Britain , Canada and Western Europe stood united " to defend the cause of freedom with all our strength " and he called the North , Atlantic Treaty the surest guarantee of victory should war be forced upon them . Disclaiming any ability to " predict with Certainty what will happen , " the British statesman added , nevertheless , that all could see " the strange clouds that move and gather on the horizons . " " But this time , at any rate , we are all united from the beginning , " he said . Addressing a state dinner given in his honor by the Canadian Government on the eve of his return to Washington , Mr. Churchill assured listeners in the United States and Canada alike that " we do not want to live on our friends and relations , but to earn our living and pay our own way so far as the comforts and standards of the British people are concerned . " Theme of Discussions Once again stressing the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Washington during the course of Mr. Churchill 's talks , the Prime Minister asserted : " We all mean to stand by each other , here in Canada , in the United States , in Britain , in Western Europe , all of us are united to defend the cause of freedom with all our strength and by that strength we hope to preserve unbroken the peace which is our hearts ' desire . " Stating that the two world wars of the " terrible twentieth century " had shifted the economic balance of power from the Old World to the new , Mr. Churchill continued : " It is certain that Europe could not have survived without the moral and material help which has flowed across the ocean from Canada and the United States . " Now we have the North Atlantic Treaty which owes much to Canadian statesmanship and to the personal initiative of Mr. St. Laurent . The treaty is the surest guarantee not only of the prevention of war but of victory , should our hopes be blasted . " So far this solemn compact has been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all feel , especially since our visit to Washington , that it is broadening out into the conception of the North Atlantic community of free nations , acting together not only for defense but for the welfare and happiness and progress of all the peoples of the free world . For this we need to do all in our power to promote a united Europe and the design of a European army , including Germany . Cites Unity Under Pact " I have long been an advocate of both these ideas . We shall do all in our power to help them to success . That does not mean that Great Britain will become a unit in a federated Europe , nor that her army , already in line upon the Continent and to grow steadily , will be merged in such a way as to lose its identity . We stand with the United States , shoulder to shoulder with ' the European army and its German elements , under the supreme Nato commander to face whatever aggression may fall upon us . " Informed sources indicated Mr. Churchill upon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for national security and press for a decision on the establishment of an Atlantic command . The question of an Atlantic sea command is still the major issue between Washington and London and was left unanswered in discussions between President Truman and Mr. Churchill last week . The British Prime Minister is known to feel that settlement of the issue is of paramount importance to the preservation of the United Kingdom in the event of war and he wants to take - home some kind of answer . The Prime Minister has the full sympathy of the Canadian leaders on this view . While Canada would support any agreement reached between the United States and Britain , Ottawa officials believe with London that in view of the stake of the Unite dKingdom , the views of Britain , must receive equitable consideration in the event of an Atlantic sea war . This aspect of Commonwealth unity was exhibited today both in a brief joint communiqu ? on Mr. Churchill 's talks here with Canadian Cabinet Ministers and in remarks made by the Canadian Prime Minister , Louis St. Laurent , at the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Minister Anthony Eden , Lord Ismay , Secretary of State for Commonwealth Affairs , and Lord Cherwell , British Paymaster General , participated in the Cabinet discussion . The communiqu ? noted that the discussion " ranged over the world ' situation , with particular emphasis on the North Atlantic alliance . " " It was not the purpose of the meeting to reach any specific decisions or agreement , " the statement said . " It provided an opportunity for a valuable exchange of views in which complete understanding was found to exist between the members of the two Cabinets . " In the course of his introduction of Mr. Churchill , Prime Minister St. Laurent remarked that the British Governor General , Viscount Alexander , was " representative of the King in Canada . " He added that it was " good to have a visible reminder that it is the Crown which is the constitutional link between us . " " The Crown is more than the symbol of our association in the British Commonwealth , " said the Canadian Prime Minister . is also the symbol of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the name of our common King that we discharge in both countries the responsibilities of Government . " Despite official reticence , speculation continued strong here on the possible appointment of Viscount Alexander either as Defense Minister , the post now held by Mr. Churchill himself , or as commander for the United States , Britain and France in all Southeast Asia . Viscount Alexander 's assignment in Ottawa would normally end next fall but since he already had been reappointed once it was felt likely the veteran of Burmese fighting in the last war would accept a new . post more intimately related with Western defense .                     