@@713578

txt An amendment its opponents charged would destroy the force of the measure requiring policemen to wait thirty days for retirement after filing applications was adopted yesterday by the City Council by a vote of 15 to 10 . The amended measure will lie on the Councilmen 's desks for seven days before the bill as a whole can come up for a final vote . Under the amended bill the only policemen who will be compelled to wait thirty days after applications for retirement will be those who are under subpoena issued by a city or state body . The Council 's action was taken in the face of letters from two District Attorneys , Miles F. in Erooklyn and Frank S. Hogan in Manhattan , both strenuously opposing the amendment . Mr. argued that the restriction would " render the bill useless " and that it would " degenerate into a race between the process server and the policeman . " Mr. , upon whose instigation the original thirty-day bill was introduced , contended that the amendment would haltper his gambling investigation in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the restriction would be " unsatisfactory , " because it would " open up the avenues of tip-off . " Stanley Issacs , Manhattan Republican-Liberal was the spearhead of the fight against the amendment , which was spon- sored by Councilmen Samuel Davis , Manhattan ; Edward A. Cunningham , the Bronx , and Eric J. Treulich and Hugh Quinn , Queens , all Democrats . During the debate Mr. Isaacs told his colleagues that by voting for the amendment they would be " lining up with gangsters and racketeers " and would be " supplying ammunition to those detractors of the city who say we do not have an honest government . " He lost out by another 15-to-10 vote on a motion to have the amendment reconsidered by the Council . Mr. Isaacs said he was " shocked " that in the several weeks of discussions on the thirty-day bill " nothing has been heard from the Police Commissioner and the Mayor . " Referring to what he called the " arrogant tone " of letters written to Councilmen by members of police line organizations demanding the bill @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Commissioner Thomas F. Murphy had not put the writers of these letters " on the carpet . " Action Delayed Until Feb. 6 Further action on the police bills must wait until Feb. 6 , the date for the next council meeting . The original bill , proposed by Councilman John J. Met*li , Manhattan Democrat , called for a policeman to wait thirty days after filing retirement papers before his retirement became effective . A later amendment provided that the policeman could take any accumulated leave after filing his papers . In urging the introduction of the original bill , Mr. complained that the present regulation permitting policemen to retire the moment their papers are filed , was impeding his inquiry into gambling in Kings County . Acting Council President Joseph T. Sharkey and Acting Majority Leader Charles E. Keegan argued strongly against the amendment and for the unmodified bill . Councilman Cunningham disclosed that yesterday 's amendment first had been defeated in the Finance Committee . " Independent Thinking " Hailed Mr. Keegan challenged a remark by Mr. Isaacs , made after the vote was taken , that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Keegan and Mr. Sharkey , and the recommendations of the two District Attorneys . He said he did not 3onsider that he had been flouted , ) ut rather he complimented the Douncilmen on their " independent thinking . " Councilman Abraham Sussman , Brooklyn Democrat , introduced a resolution calling for the appointnent of a special committee of the Council to study and review the adequacy and equitability of saltries , for policemen and a sounder ) ension plan for the two departnents . ? The resolution set forth that inadequate compensation has been sited by the press and members of ; he departments as one of the causes of the present situation . " dr . Sussman 's allusion was underitood to be to investigations now coder way by District Attorney iogan into different aspects of he Police and Fire Departments and to the Brooklyn gambling inmiry . The resolution was sent to he Rules Committee .                     