@@716367

txt GUATEMALA GIVES ASSENT TO INQUIRY Toriello Reveals Turnabout on Inter-American Study of Aggression Charge By TAD SZULC In an unexpected diplomatic turnabout , Guatemala agreed yesterday to allow the Inter-American Peace Committee to conduct an on-the-spot investigation of the nine-day-old invasion of her her soil by anti-Communist rebels . Foreign Minister Guillermo Toriello told The New York Times in 8. telephone interview from Guatemala last night that a note announcing acceptance of the hemispheric investigation had been cabled in the afternoon to Alfredo Chocano , Guatemalan charg ? d'affaires in Washington . Guatemala had rejected Friday night the offer of the five-nation committee to send a team to study her charges that she was a victim of foreign aggression . Sehor Toriello indicated that the reversal of his Government 's position had come after the UnitedNations Security Council refused Friday to consider the Guatemalan case until the Organization of American States , of which the Peace Committee is an organ , had made its own survey . " The Council does not want to take cognizance of our case , " he said , He remarked that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has accused of aiding the rebels , had " obeyed " the Council 's earlier call for a ceasefire and had disarmed the forces of Col. Carlos Castillo Armes , the rebel leader . " the matter would have been settled in a few days . " The Guatemalan note , stressing that full cooperation and assistance would be given the Americas ' inquiry team , was handed at 1 A. M. today by Senor Chocano to Ambassador Luis Quintanilla of Mexico , chairman of the peace group . A meeting of the committee was expected to be held in Washington this afternoon to discuss the Guatemalan communication . The note declared that Guatemala welcomed " Very cordially " the Inter-American investigators . It was understood that Guatemala 's shift in her approach toward the proposed investigation was motivated by her desire to maintain her case on the agenda of the Security Council . Guatemalans were said to fear that the Council would throw out their complaint if they persisted in their refusal to let in the 0 . A. S. observers . In revealing Guatemala 's change of heart . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the United States and nine Latin-American countries that the foreign ministers of the hemisphere meet July 7 to consider the " threat of international communism " to the Americas . He said " this is the first I have heard about it , " and proceeded to denounce the move as a " shame . " " It is a surprise to me that the meeting has been called for such a malicious and tendentious reason , " he said . " It has been done to go on attacking the Guatemalan democracy under the same old pretext of fighting ' international communism . ' " " It is a shame for the Organization of American States to call a conference for this purpose and not to stop aggression against Guatemala , " the Foreign Minister declared . Senor Toriello was noncommittal , however , as to whether he would attend the proposed meeting . " We 'll have to think about it , " he said . " It depends on the agenda and on what it all is going to be about . " Speaking in Spanish from his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Senor Toriello insisted again that the conflict was a " foreign aggression " and not a civil war or a rebellion against the Government . " Not one single - uprising has taken place in any part of the republic . " he said . " Mercenaries . Paid from abroad , have been urging a rebellion through their clandestine radio station in Honduras . They have parachuted a great quantity of weapons for sabotage and have engaged in subversive propaganda against . the Government . But all this has failed . " Turning to the military situation , the Foreign Minister said that , rebel claims notwithstanding , the Government forces still held Chiquimula. a town south of Zacapa where the main fighting is taking place . He said rebel planes had submitted Chiquimula and Zacapa to a " tremendous bombardment " yesterday . Senor Toriello said the capital was attacked by a rebel P-47 fighter plane at 4:30 P. M. After strafing the city . he said , the plane dropped a load of bombs , destroying one house in midtown and damaging several others . Several persons were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Foreign Minister said four 100-pound bombs " of United States manufacture " were dropped Friday at the capital 's airport , " causing slight damage . " Guatemala 's rejection of a peace committee investigation was based on the premise that the case should be handled by the United Nations and not the American republics . She had originally asked for action by the Organization of American States , but later withdrew it in favor of an intervention by the United Nations . Both Honduras and Nicaragua accepted the offer of the interAmerican group and a fact-finding panel composed of Argentina , Brazil , Cuba . Mexico and the United States was set up late last week . This is the make-up of the peace committee . In the interview , to which he agreed , despite a. new ban on press telephone calls to Guatemala imposed yesterday , Senor Toriello amplified his earlier charges that the " aggression " against his country had been carefully financed and prepared abroad . He said it had been hatched " many years ago " and that the first step in this direction had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of arms to Guatemala . " While this embargo was im'posed , mercenary groups at the service of the United Fruit Company were being equipped with great quantities of war mateIrial. " he said .                     