@@715829

txt Cardinal Spellman of New York today rebuked Europedn critics of " McCarthyism , " saying Americans would not be dissuaded from their determination to root out communist Cardinal Spellman subversion . The New York archbishop , in a speech delivered for a Roman Catholic group sponsoring lectures by eminent personalities , defended the procedure of congressional committees , including that headed by Sen. McCarthy IR. , Wis. , investigating communism . The cardinal is visiting in Europe while returning to the United States after attending the dedication of the North American pontifical college in Rome . Cites " Hysterical Tone " Referring to what he termed the " hysterical tone " - of criticism of committee procedure , Cardinal Spellman asserted : " No American uncontaminated by communism has lost his good name because of congressional hearings on un-American activities . However , there are individuals who have seriously compromised themselves by a flat refusal to state whether they are now or have been Communists . It is impossible for me to understand why any American should refuse to declare himself free of communist affiliation , unless @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were strong reasons for the in quiries and added ; Yugoslav View Ironic " The anguished cries and protests against ' McCarthyism ' are not going to dissuade Americans from their desire to see Communists exposed and removed from positions where they can carry out their nefarious plans . If American prestige is going to suffer in Europe because of this understandable desire we have to keep our free society immune from communist subversion , then it seems more a reflection . upon European standards of honor and patriotism rather than ours .... " He said published reports that Yugoslavia is exercised over " McCarthyism " were particularly ironic to Americans in view of Yugoslav treatment of , the Catholic clergy . Cardinal Spellman dealt also with European criticism of the treatment of the Negro in the United States , and the handling of the Rosenberg case . He said most Americans will agree their greatest single fail-ore has been with regard to the Negro . But he added that with the conscience of America aroused by religious , educational , and political leaders , the American Negro has made rapid @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ race in history . " Cardinal Spellman said the Rosenbergs had received every legal protection and even the promise of executive clemency if they had made a clean breast of their espionage activities . He called attention to the arrest of Lavrenti P. Berle , former No. 2 Russian , and asked why Communists were not protesting for justice in Beria 's behalf . The cardinal spoke of America 's debt to Europeans for the heritage left by them in the new worl d . He appealed for true friendship with the United States , based on appreciation of what America has done for Europe and what in turn Europeans have contributed , to the new world . Spellman , accompanied by Archbishop Gerald Bergen of Omaha , was received today by King Baudoin at the Belgian palace . He left tonight for Paris . Stritch Cheers Poles ROME , Oct. 24 Reuters ? Cardinal Stritch of Chicago has expressed certainty that Catholicism in Poland , now persecuted by communism , will rise again . He said this in the course of a visit to the 87 year old pontifical Polish @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the 30 students of the college that probably the world 's greatest Polish colony outside Poland was to be found in his diocese and that he had always taken a keen interest in the problems of Polish Catholics . Following an ancient Polish custom , the teaching staff and students welcomed the cardinal with bread and salt at the entrance to the college . Cardinal Stritch blessed the college and prayed in its chapel where the student choir sang a Polish religious hymn . Cardinal Stritch came to Rome to attend the dedication of a new building for the North American college a week ago .                     