@@712676

txt ! MAHON SATISFIED BY NEW BOMB PLAN Congress Unit More Hopeful After Parley With Atomic Board on Hydrogen Arm By WILLIAM S. WHITE Special Tim NEW YORK TIMES . WASHINGTON , Feb. 10 ? The Joint Congressional Committee on Atomic Energy held another secret meeting on the hydrogen bomb today with the Atomic Energy Commission . It was indicated afterward that the committee had found the consultation fundamentally reassuring . . This conviction came from the committee chairman , Senator Brien , Democrat , of I Connecticut . Mr. said in answer to a question that the Commission 's plans for its urgent hydrogen development work seemed to him quite " satisfactory . " An authoritative estimate that information handed over by Dr. Klaus Fuchs to the Soviet Union would gain a year for the Russians in making the hydrogen bomb , assuming they could make it at all , was given during the day . This was the evaluation of Senator Millard E. Tydings , . Democrat , of Maryland , a- member of the . Joint Congressional Committee on Atomic Energy . Senator @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee , he is the most intimate associate in Congress of // NIHON SATISFIED BY NEW BOMB PLAN // the high military command . Mr. said that the Atomic Energy Commission 's pending requests for money from Congress had been put in before President Trtiman 's recently announced decision that this country would go ahead with the hydrogen bomb . " Will the budget request now be revised ? " he ' was asked . " No immediate problem in implementing the President 's , directive is foreseen , " he replied . " What is likely to be the ultimate cost of the hydrogen bomb ? " a reporter asked . " We have in this room a representative of a news agency that transmits every word of what I say to the Soviet Union , " said Mr. . " That is the ? kind of system we have , I suppose . " The reference was to Jean Montgomery , a reporter for the Russian news agency Tass . After he had ended his . press conference he obAerved @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I 'm tired of making it any earlier for them than I have to . " Among the matters discussed by the committee and the Atomic Energy Commission was the confession of Dr. Fuchs , the accused spy , in London . Senator indicated that his committee was waiting for further word from the Federal Bureau of Investigation before resuming its own investigation into what he earlier had called a " serious " breach in this country 's security ? the activities of Dr. Fuchs . Rear Admiral R. H. Hillenkoetter , head of the Central Intelligence Agency , the highest of its kind in the country , probably will appear before the committee in a few days . In the meantime , the Senator said , his group will begin on Feb. 15 a series of secret sessions with the highest atomic and military authorities to obtain data preliminary for an open inquiry later into the state of civilian defense in the United States against atomic attack . This inquiry was not intended to suggest any special alarm ; it had been planned long before the arrest of Dr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ help probably given to the Soviet Union by Dr. Fuchs was accompanied by an observation that the scientist had handed over not only " accurate theoretical information , " but also " some practical data " as well . " The information he has given them the Russians probably will advance their development of a hydrogen bomb a year or more  --  if they are able to make such a bomb , " Mr. Tydings added . He said he thought the United States would be ' able to produce such a weapon , although there was no certainty about it . In the continuing Congressional discussion over whether there should be new approaches to the Russians toward international control of atomic and hydrogen weapons , Senator Scott W. Lucas of Illinois , the Democratic Senate Leader , asserted that " the door " long since had been opened to the Soviet Union for such control . " The door will always be open , " he added in a radio speech intended primarily for Illinois , " and the leaders of the United Nations are always working to bring the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said , however , that demands for fresh efforts should be " carefully considered . " " I believe there are good reasons for hope even in the terrible situation we fate today , " he went on . " I do not think the Commissars in the Kremlin will risk the obliteration of Russian cities and Russian people . I know that the President and Congress of the United States are completely devoted to , the cause of peace . " British Clearance Still Accepted ' WASHINGTON , Feb. 10 ( a ) ? The Atomic Energy Commission said tonight that it still accepted British security clearance for scientists coming to this country for limited atomic work . That does not include the more vital aspects , such as new weapons developed sin the past three years , a commission official said .                     