@@717238

txt We now have before us four facts emerging from the Geneva Conference from which , and from which alone , we can attempt to gauge its meaning and its effect on the future . Fact one is that the leaders of East and West succeeded in meeting together for six days in an atmosphere of personal politeness and conversational civility . Fact two is that they were able to agree to continue the diplomatic contact between East and West which really began in Vienna when the Austrian Treaty was signed . Fact three is that they were triable to narrow the gap between the great policy and purpose positions of the two sides . All they could do was to agree to : ix October as a next meeting time for the foreign rninisters , when the gap again will be discussed and studied . Fact four is that Soviet policy did not budge one inch here at the summit conference from its insistence that the alliance of Germany with the West must be liquidated before the Soviet Union will ' release East Germany any and permit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can add one plausible assumption : The establiestablishment of a precedent for diplomatic Civility in East-West negotiations plus the decision to continue the diplomatic contact suggest . although they do not prove , that a mutual tacit assumption now on the part of the present leaders of , the two sides that they will not resort to atomic war against each . other . It is doubtful that speculation is Justified very far beyond these points of departure . However . if one chooses to try to speculate hopefully it could go as follows : The past decade represented - what might be called unrestrained competition between the social systems and military positions of East and West- it was : narked by ex=erre tensiona the unbridled ardor of ideological fanattclam. and the extreme danger of such competition in an atomic age . The atmosphere of Geneva seemed to express a preference on the part of all concerned for some regulation of the moods and methods to be employed in the future in the progress of the competition which undoubtedly continues . Certainly no set of fairtrade rules wall adopted forhere. and vet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ set of rules regulating and restraining the forms of competitive action had been arrived at . Competa- Civility Ace .... the Gap tion is less dangerous if it can be presumed by both sides that ultimate weapons will not be used . It is less dangerous if - the leaders employ civility in their public exchanges , for such use of civility confuses and restrains the ideological fanatics who are the radicals in such con:speduons  --  the ones who constantly advocate radical solutions to problems . The most hopeful conclusion permissible from Geneva is thus that . by : ant agreement . a set of fair-trade rules has come into general acceptance by the world 's two great power coalitions , and that as a result we may expect less tension and les real danger of war . whether atomic or otherwise . HOWetiC7 anyone who accepts this assumption must face its corollary that thecompetitive situation continues unchanged . The Soviet Union continues to seek ulti , " mate control over the foreign policies of all Germany . which ? if achieved , would give it effective control of all Europe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the West . which ultimately would push Soviet influence back behind the traditional Russian frontiers . This means that the West could lose the cold war in a peacefully competitive situation just as easily as in the old situation . for ? much depends now on Germany . The Western powers failed here to gain unity for Germany . Nothing prevents the Soviet Union from offering that unity directly to Germany as a price the West would not pay but which Germany itself might pay some day . It means also that there can be no relaxation of effort to maintain and to expand Western unity , for the price of relaxation would be a Soviet advance over Weste-n Europe . It must further be noted that the West might be inclined to more relaxation in a peacefully competitive situation than the Soviet Union . Against this last is the possibility that in the long run Prcldenr . Eisenhower 's personal diplomacy as practiced on the Soviet leaders here will have an evolutionary effectApparent/y they were impressed  --  Soviet reporters say so in private conversations . If one assumes that their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the United States . then a relaxation of their fears induced by Mr. Eisenhower 's personal assurances could lead eventually to a modification of policy . Those inclined to reject such thoughts as a pink-cloud illusion must recognize that Eisenhower 's early promof a reunited and happy America also once sounded platitudinous and illusory and yet have come to take on some substance . The vussibility can not be ignored that the process over which he presided at home might even find expression between East and WCs : - 