@@718640

txt Britain is moving purposefully toward a new position in the world . Technological , commercial and political skills are to win new eminence for her in the nuclear age . Science and industry are combining to re-establish the nation 's economic bases . Diplomatic skill and political experience are welding an expanded association of European states to a Commonwealth whose ties with the home country are solidified by overseas investment S and service to new markets in new nations . These are the answers that Bi0.tain gives to the challenging questions that have arisen since the Suez crisis began : Where do the British go from here ? Is their long , stirring story nearly done ? Did Suez mark the beginning of a decline into national impotence and international neutrality ? Two months of travel and discussion with industrial , commercial and political leaders and with the people of these islands led to the conclusion that Britain had started toward her new position . Differences on Methods There are differences on how the goals are to be attained . There are , deep cleavages in society @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ abroad . Parenthetically , it should be noted that these do not daunt the British as much as foreigners think . The British have always been fewer in ' number and less richly endowed- in natural resources than their great rivals . As Prime Minister Harold Macmillan noted in a recent interview , the great periods of British history have been those when the odds against the islanders were largest . The prevailing impression communicated by leaders and the British people is one of aggressive confidence- based on evi1 dence of solid progress . This is not a moribund society Jiving in the afterglow of past glories . It is a society in motion . Despite resistance to change , the British economy is changing and will change still more rapidly . Policy is , not stagnant . It is being formulated in terms of grand designs for European cooperation and for expansion of the economic and political power of the Commonwealth . Britain is a country that still believes in itself . The apposite words are those from the Book of Joel , " Your old men shall dream dreams @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dreams and visions already have the texture of reality . The target of production of electricity from nuclear power stations has been tripled to an estimated output of between 5 , - 000,000 and 6,000,000 kilowatts in 1965 . The original goal , set only two years ago , wa-. i3etween 1,500,000 and 2,000,000 kilowatts . Huge Demand for Power This expansion of production by the construction of nineteen nuclear power stations , in what will be the world 's most extensive system , will not end Britain 's power problems . The demands of the expanding industrial economy will be so great that nuclear energy will supplement rather than replace coal and oil as a source of power . Coal remains Britain 's primary power source and its extraction a perennial problem . There is evidence , however , that production is responding to programs of g recruitin miners and mechanizing the industry . In the first two months of this year coal output was more than 1,000,000 tons higher than in the comparable period last year . Construction will be started this year on five new steel plants . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or nearly double the 1949 production . The new plants will cost approximately ? 520,000,000 , or nearly $1,500,000,000 . Nowhere is the change in the economy more evident than in the character of the exports on which the nation 's existence depends . Products new or virtually new to Britain 's foreign trade occupy an increasingly important role in the nation 's competition for world trade . Engineering Exports Rise Radioactive isotopes and electronic instruments - connected with their use are being sold to more than forty foreign countries . A rising trade in chemical products ranging from antibiotics to detergents is pushing into new markets in countries where the standard of living is improving . New exports of engineering products were 46 per cent higher in 1955 than in 1953 . Diesel engines for commercial vehicles are being shipped abroad at a yearly rate of nearly ? 11.000,000 ( more than $30,000,000 ) , Twenty years ago they did not produce a shilling . There ha. ; been a steady shift in investment and skilled labor to electronics and other new industries . Exports of radio communication , navigational aid @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ radar system in 1940 ? have jumped from ? 2,300,000 ( $6,440,000 ) to ? 13 , - 000,000 ( $36,400,000 ) hi eight years . The advent of new products for export has been accompanied by steady expansion in standard items such as commercial vehides , agricultural tractors , office machinery and plastic materials . An intensive drive to improve maintenance and service abroad has helped sales . Britain 's nineteenth century economic leadership was based on coal and seapower , the latter expressed mainly through the world 's largest merchant navy . Britain 's merchant fleet is now second to that of the United States . Germany and Japan , her great export rivals , have overtaken her in the production of certain classes of ships . Shipyards Are Busy Paradoxically , there is nothing urgently wrong with British shipbuilding . More than 6,000 , - 000 tons are on order . Books are filled in most yards for from four to six years ahead . But a shortage of steel , to be remedied by the new plants , reconstruction of older shipyards and the restrictive practices of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for relatively simple operations , have combined to delay production and frighten would-be customers . The industry is convalescent , not critically ill . It is to the air that modern Britain is turning , both for exports and for international prestige . Last year 's aviation exports amounted to ? 104,460,562 ( about $292,500,000 ) . The United States bought ? 17,200,000 worth of airplanes and parts , including engines . The total figure for these exports was 58 per cent higher than the previous record . Nine countries are building fourteen types of British engines under license , among them the United States , which has turned out 8,000 Sapphire ( J-56 ) and 5,000 Rolls-Royce ( . T-42 and J-48 ) engines . Despite the small home market , British aircraft constructors are looking beyond today 's Vis-1 counts and Britannias to longrange supersonic commercial aircraft . The Ministry of Supply and seven aircraft manufacturers are now working on prototypes of such craft . The expectation is that they will be ready for service by the late Nineteen Sixties . Before that , however , Vickers Vanguards carrying @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in general service . And in less than a year turbo-propeller Britannias will be flying regular routes over the Atlantic . There is a strong movement toward the improvement and expansion of technological education that is essential if Britain is to have scientists and technicians to serve her new industrial revolution . When Viscount Hailsham , previously First Lord of the Admiralty , was summoned to be Minister of Education , increased technical training was the first charge placed upon him by Prime Minister Macmillan . Complacency and over-confidence about productivity exist . But there are progressive industries that are planning their own campaigns to increase productivity . The United Steel Company of Sheffield , for example , plans to send its own study groups , composed mainly of foremen and workers , to study production methods in the United States . The sense of confidence and of direction is strong , especially in the industrial areas of the Midlands and the north . Increasingly they are reflected in Whitehall . Mr. Macmillan , more than his predecessors , believes that diplomatic maneuvering and strong international attitudes are useless without the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ menaced by familiar difficulties : inflation at home and the failure of exports to rebuild the gold and dollar reserves , repay overseas debts and supply capital for the Commonwealth . Economy Heavily Burdened The economy has been loaded with huge expenditures for the social services of the welfare state ( ? 2,267,000,000 , or $6,347 , - 000,000 ) and for defense ( ? 1,500 , - 000,000 , or $4,200,000,000 ) . Reductions in both fields will begin this year . The objective is to release funds for investment in industry , especially those industries catering to exports , and make more manpower available for new factories that crave help . The way out of the basic economic problems will be sought through application of revolutionary techniques to Britain 's industrial structure . The central fact that Britain is an island dependent on imports of raw materials and exports of finished goods can not be altered by planning . What the planners hope to do is to raise the efficiency of industrial processes . Scientists , industrialists and politicians agree that this already is being done and that there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ efficiency and productivity will be developed . The alliance between thoretical science and the adaptation of its findings to British industrial technology is a flourishing one . In the view of industrial scientists there is no technical reason why the country can not stay ahead of the industrial advances in the nations on the Continent . The chief difficulty seen by them , and by many politicians and economists , is resistance to change among sections of labor and capital . Labor Strife Traditional The workers opposition can be traced to the long , bitter struggle of labor and bosses in this birthplace of the industrial revolution . Since 1945 industrial workers have found security in the welfare state . Any industrial change , represented as endangering that security , is bound to be opposed . Yet it is to this working class that Britain must look for the basis of its new industrial progress . Highly skilled , ingenious , proud of its workmanship , it is a natural resource . To those who judge only by material standards , this group may not appear to be as important a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one in which Britain 's leaders and planners have faith . ' " When you talk to them in factories , you realize what a tremendous amount of human energy we have , " one minister said . With a sound economy serving as a foundation , Britain 's leaders see new horizons opening to progressive foreign policies . Ties With Europe Gaining The planned approach to close ' association with Continental Europe is much further advanced in Government thinking than is publicly acknowledged . The advance will be methodical and pragmatic . The Government will enter those international mechanisms that actually work . Entry into a European free trade area is the first step in this process . But Britain looks beyond this to the gradual expansion of the area to include other European nations in addition to West Germany , Italy , France , the Netherlands , Belgium and Luxembourg . British officials hope that a European General Assembly , elected by the political parties in each member country , ultimately will take the place of the Council of Europe and the councils of the Western European Union and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ almost too well aware of its problems . Highly political , it revels in discordant political criticism . But among those who lead , in and out of politics , there is calm acceptance of the new direction Britain has taken and full conviction of success ? if the nation responds . Tomorrow : The confidence of the people of Britain that their country is a great power and will remain so .                     