@@718444

txt Prime Minister Eden appeared tonight to have stemmed the tide of revolt in the Conservative party . A pledge of Government determination to rebuild Britain 's international position , coupled with a hint of extensive renovation of the Cabinet in the new year , impressed the members of the 1922 Committee . This group consists of Conservative backbenchers , or rank and file of the party , in both Houses of Parliament . The Prime Minister 's reception by the committee was equivocal . Although the official statement reported that he was " loudly cheered , " other sources described the applause as " perfunctory . " The Suez rebels , the group of Conservatives who resent Britain 's withdrawal , who bedeviled the Prime Minister in the House of Commons this afternoon with anti-American remarks , remained fairly quiet tonight General Election Fears This was ascribed in political1 circles to their fear of the re- ' sults of a general election rather , than to their love of Sir Anthony . The 1922 Committee , also known as the Conservative and Unionist Members Committee , is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the largest component of the group that chooses the leader of the Conservative party , the organization post that Sir Anthony now holds . The loss of their support would be Sir Anthony 's first step toward loss of leadership and resignation as Prime Minister . Political sources cautioned , however , that Sir Anthony ' had won a battle , not the war , at tonight 's meeting . Although there appeared to be a general movement toward closing ranks , many Conservatives , on the extreme left and right wings of the party who have been most active in criticizing Sir Anthony 's leadership , remained anxious and aloof . No Direct Criticism But there was no direct criticism offered of Sir Anthony 's leadership . Nor did anyone raise the question of his future as Prime Minister . The Conservatives were most encouraged by Sir Anthony 's confident references to the Government 's ability to master the economic crisis arising from the Suez invasion and to restore Britain 's international comity . A united Conservative party can defeat the Labor party in a general election , Sir Anthony @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ least two years , he declared . Some anxiety was expressed // at the Prime Minister 's insistence on repeating the reasons why he was convinced that Britain and France were right to invade Egypt . To practical politicians these are not so immediately important as an answer to the Laborites ' charge of collusion between Britain , France and Israel before the attack . But when one M. P. raisqd this question Sir Anthony referred him to the answers that former Secretary Selwyn Lloyd has given in the House of Commons . Sir Anthony 's assurance was , not matched by many conservatives . One veteran thought the Prime Minister was convinced there was party unity when , " as a matter of fact , the party is deeply divided and on nothing more than the identity of the man who should replace Eden as leader . " Conservative party differences over the Government 's attitude toward the United States exploded in the House of Commons while the Prime Minister was replying to questions . Bickering between the Government and its supposed supporters emphasized how delays in clearing the Suez @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had sharpened Conservative criticism of the United Nations , the United States and the Government 's decision to withdraw from Egypt . Pressed by the Opposition to say something about a meeting with President Eisenhower , Sir Anthony could answer only that " I recognize the value of the suggestion but I have no statement to make . " From the Labor benches Arthur Henderson told the Prime ' Minister that if he wished to restore relations with the United States he must " repudiate " the anti-American sentiments of the Conservative party . At this point Sir Robert Grim-ston , Conservative member for Westbury , arose to inquire if the Prime ? Minister understood that the recent Conservative motion deploring the United States attitude over Suez " represented very widely held feelings in this country . " The feelings of the " Suez rebels , " broke out again during discussion of the United State Air Force bases in Britain . number of Conservative backbenchers have questioned whether these bases should he retained in view of United States criticism of the Government 's action , in Egypt . The Prime @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he retained and the Air Force treated with every courtesy . Sir Anthony refused to consider a Labor request that he place in the library . of the House of Commons a copy of the letter he sent to President Eisenhower " on or about Sept. 6 " concerning Britain 's " intended use of force against Egypt " and a copy of the President 's reply .                     