@@712903

txt Dr. J. Robert Oppenheimer , one of the nation 's top atomic scientists , was described today as attending a secret , closed Communist party meeting in Berkeley in 1991 . That was the testimony of a witness in a state senate communist activities probe . The witness , Mrs. Sylvia Crouch , an ex-Communist party courier , gave additional testimony tending to hack up an investigator 's contention that the meeting was held in Oppenheitner 's own home in the Berkeley hills . Dr , Oppenheimer , chairman of the advisory committee which shapes policy for the nation 's atomic energy commission , was director of the atomic research rit Oppenheimer Oath Weinberg , and 14 rm . Cronrh. laboratory at Los Alamos , N. M. , during the war . The first atom bombs were made there . Picked Out Picture , In Washington , Dr. Oppenheimer said tonight he has never been a Communist party member and never al tended a party meeting my home or anywhere else . " Dr. Oppenheimer said he does not remember any meeting ever having ! teen held @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a Communist party session . Ile acknowledged in a statement that he formerly knew many persons " in left-wing circles " and himself belonged to several leftwing organizations . But he said the government has known about that ever since he started work on the atomic bomb project . Mrs. Crouch , whose husband , Paul , has testified for the government at numerous anti-communist trials and hearings , said she picked out Dr. Oppenheimer from a group of pictmes shown to her by government agents . Picks Out Pictures She recognized his picture , she said , as that of a man she had seen for the first time at the cornanunist meeting on the Berkeley campus . She also picked out the picture of Joseph Weirberg as another of the group of some 25 to 30 persons at the gathering . In Minneapolis , Dr. Weinberg declined to comment on Mrs. Crouch 's testimony . Weinberg , now an assistant pro , fessor of physics at the University of Minnesota , was named by the house fur-American activities committee in 1949 as the " Scientist X " whom it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to a Communist party official in 1943 . Mrs. Crouch said she had seen Dr. Oppenheimer several times after the Berkeley meeting , but never again at a closed communist session . Dr , Oppenheimer 's name never before has been publicly connected with possible Communist party membership , altho his brother , Dr. Frank Oppenheimer , has admitted being a party member . Both Join Party Dr. Frank Oppenheimer was employed at the University of California radiation laboratory during the war and later went to the University of Minnesota . He testified before the house unAmerican activities committee in June , 1949 , that he and his wife both had joined the Communist party " seeking an answer to the problems of unemployment " in the ' 30s . Ile left it before he began working on the atomic bomb project , he said . Paul Crouch and his wife both were subpenaed as government witnesses at the recent Harry Bridges perjury trial , in which Communist party membership of the longshore labor leader was the principal issue . Mrs. Crouch did not testify , however . Bridges was convict @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Fla. , newspaper . Explain Party Line Mrs. Crouch fixed the d.tte of the meeting In July , 1941 , shortly after Germany attacked the soviet union . She said her husband , a Communist for 17 years and a party official in Alameda county at the time , was called upon to explain the radical change in the party line to a " section meeting . " The new line was one urging full support of the war effort . Previously , the Communists had called the conflict in Europe an " imperialist war . " The witness related that she and her husband were escorted to the meeting by Kenneth May , former member of the University of California faculty who was dismissed after he publicly espoused communism . Richard E. Combs , attorney and investigator for the state senate committee on un-American activities , which began a four day hearing yesterday , told newsmen he had information that the meeting actually was held in the Oppenheimer home . Crouch testified before the committee yesterday , but did not mention Oppenheimer or the Berkeley meeting . His wife @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the first time she had testified , regarding her former communist activities .                     