@@712723

txt Letters to The Times MORTON MORRISONHAROLD RIEGELMAN.D . DE SOLA POOL . Letters to The Times Organization Membership Fellow-Traveling Groups Considered to Be in a Special Category - To THE EDITOR or THE NEW YORK TIMES : In the context of the present world situation , your March 9 editorial " The Bight to Join " seems to me shockingly frivolous . However well-intentioned , its effect is to confuse the issues and to bolster the Communist strategy for fooling the . American people . The editorial implies throughout that the scores ' of false-front organizations set up by Communists are on a par with societies for preserving wooden Indians . Would n't it make some difference if every one of those wooden Indians contained a time-bomb to kill people ? Would it then make sense to ascertain whether the joiners are or are not aware of the real objective of the installations ? You ignore the fact that the fellowtraveling fronts are deliberately and astutely planned , named , disguised and decorated to promote anti-American . policies ht the interests of and under the explicit orders @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that ' this central truth does not put - such organizations in a special category , requiring special public vigilance and demanding special criteria of judgment ? Accepting Moral Consequences The issue is not " the right to join . " Nobody denies that right . To put the matter on that basis makes little sense . The issue is the right of a democratic society to expose and identify the origin and objective of camouflaged organizations  --  and the obligation of the joiner to accept the moral consequences of joining , in terms of public opinion . In the abstract we all oppose " guilt by association . " Concretely , we are entitled to draw deductions when Joe Doakes associates continually and con , sistently with dope peddlers , thieves , perverts and counterfeiters . His privilege of association with whomsoever he pleases can not be questioned . Yet we would be justified in taking that predilection into consideration before entrusting him with the care of money or the education of children  --  or the formulation of public policy . Suppose ' that an American in the course of many @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fascist , racial , mob-action societies , some of them officially identified as subversive . His " right " to join would be clear ; there is nothing in the law that would open him to punishment . Yet common sense would enable us to make certain judgments about his views . Why , in all conscience , is the case any different when the subversive organizations are Communist ? No one ? not even . Senator McCarthy  --  has challenged . any citizen 's right to join Red ? false-front groups . But the right to join implies ' a ; - minimal responsibility for the real objectives of the organizations . After all , the joiner ca n't have the cake and eat it . After he has given his name and time and money to groups Under varying titles all dedicated to preserving wooden Indians he ' ca n't be outraged if lie is ' publicly identified as a person dedicated to the preservation of wooden Indians . Not Set Up by Ifs The editorial grossly misstates the known and documented situation when it refers to " the possible @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the objectives we seek and may join with us in ? seeking them . " ' The falsefront organizations in question are not set up by " ue . " They are set up by agents of Moscow for Muscovite objectives . Then they are baited with names and slogans to trap " us . " Certainly some people join innocently . But when they step into ten or twenty or thirty of the traps , when they remain entrapped long after the hocus-pocus is common knowledge  --  have we , as a so-. ciety ; no right to raise questions about their alleged innocence ? With reference to Communist infiltration of our institutions , we are dealing with a conspiracy . Conspirators do n't ? carry badges identifying themselves as such . We can only try to locate and isolate them by their conduct  --  and surely continuous , habitual joining of the conspiratorial organizations is at least contributory evidence . The right to join is not even involved . You have raised a false issue . What you should discuss ' is the right of the American people @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , in the press , on the radio-4y the kind of company they keep , the kind of organizations they join . EUGENE LYONS . New York , March 9 , 1950 . We see no frivolity in an attempt to reassert a basic democratic right . We believe that right  --  the " right to join " ? has in fact been questioned , that some organizations have ' been cited for frivolous reasons and that people have in fact been punished for belonging to those and other organizations . If Mr. Lyons will re-read the editorial of which he complains he will see that we did not suggest that any person be relieved of responsibility for the actions of organizations of which he is a member . We believe it may sometiines be better to fight the Communists and exposethem ; in such , ' organizations  --  as has - been. successfully done in certain labor unions  --  than to run ? for safety the minute a Communist shows his . head. - Editor THE TIMES . Worm . of Tax . Laws . Urged To rni Emma-or THE NEW YORK @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the date comes the annual headache ex -- perienced by Mr. and Mrs. Public trying ' to prepare : their federal income ' tax ? in time to make the March 15 deadline . Although much has been done to Simplify this annual chore , such as the ' form ' 1040A , for wage-earners and the . excellent . instructions *printed by the , Government which makes for interesting reading and some enlightenment , much still remains to be done . our present tax law is a series of patchedup laws which need a complete overhauling . It is also about time that the federal and state income tax returns be so identical that both can be prepared simultaneously and both be based on similar tax laws . Why should life insurance premiums up to $150 be , deductible for state purposes and not for federal ? The same for admissions taxes . Why should the public be forced to go through the agony of preparing another tax return for the state so soon after March 15 ? Reform in this field of legislation is long past due . MORTON MORRISON . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on . China Proposal to Replace Representatives Called Stab in Back for U. N. To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Friends of the United Nations are deeply shocked at the suggestion of Trygve Lie , Secretary General of that body , that the authorized representatives of the lawful Government of China be repudiated and replaced by- the designees of a group which through fraud and force of arms has imposed its will for the moment upon a large part , but not all , of the Chinese people and Chinese territory . International law and order can not exist unless founded upon elementary morals . Nor can any instrumentality of international law and order long survive the negation of elementary.morals . Counsels of expediency wrecked the League of Nations . Trygve Lie 's proposal in ? the name of expediency is a stab in the back of the United Nations . His argument is simple enough : The United Nations in order to function as intended requires the cooperation of the five great powers . One nation , Soviet Russia , refuses to cooperate unless the existing and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ China  --  is repudiated and a self-constituted , usurping Government is accepted in its place . Therefore , says Mr. Lie , repudiate the lawful Government , notwithstanding its great contributions to the United Nations , and accept a Government which has demonstrated itself to be the very antithesis of international peace and goodwill . Entirely apart from bad morals which condemn the suggestion on its face , what does Mr. Lie hope to gain as , . a matter of expediency ? Had Russia cooperated in furthering the aims of the United Nations before this issue was raised ? Is there any reason to suppose that if the free nations yield despite the resulting injustice any genuine cooperation could be expected from Russia ? Having yielded in this case , could the free nations consistently decline to refuse a similar demand when the next country in Asia or elsewhere is partially overrun by Communist aggression ? It would be an incalculable tragedy if the United Nations were to fail the hopes ? and prayers of the peace-hungry peoples of the world . If that failure should flow from Russian contumacy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ result . If failure should come because the free nations sacrifice justice and morals to Russian contumacy , the United Nations would still fail , though it might simulate continuance , but only as a symbol of universal cynicism and cruel mockery of mankind 's noblest aspirations ; and the free nations could not evade responsibility for that result . It was not Italy in Abyssinia or Japan in Manchuria which wrecked the League of Nations . It was the weak-kneed , spineless reluctance of the other powers to take a resolute stand upon the ground of manifest morals and justice . The indication that the United States of America refrain ? from defining its opinion of Mr. Lie 's proposal until a majority of the Security Council had expressed itself is unworthy of the position of leadership which events have accorded America . The issue is clear and calls for forthright policy . There is a lawful constitutional Government of China . In the critical years when our own fate was in the balance that Government faithfully , loyally and successfully defended the bastion of Asia against our mortal enemy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into a solemn obligation to defend the integrity of China against aggression . We have done badly enough in fulfilling that obligation without participating in this final , fatal betrayal suggested by Mr. Lie . HAROLD RIEGELMAN . New York , March 13 , 1950 . Congressional Prayer by Rabbi To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : When recently Rabbi Nachum David Herman of Brooklyn opened the session of the House of Representatives with prayer it was generally stated that this was the first time that - such ' a prayer had been delivered by an Orthodox rabbi . Let us recall that in the year 1872 our Congress in Washington was opened with a prayer offered by the Orthodox ' Montreal rabbi , Abraham de Sola . D. DE SOLA New York , March 10 , 1950.                     