@@715336

txt President Eisenhower said today he will go at least half way with the new Russian regime in an effort to end the cold war , but that he has received n o feelers toward that end from the soviet ikenhower et press conference union . Mr. Eisenhower told a news conference that soviet intentions under Premier Malenkov appear to be following the same pattern as under Stalin . The President said he has read Malenkov 's statements of peaceful intentions in the newspapers , but has had no word from Russia beyond that . He reiterated previous offers to take up east-west problems with Russia thin regular diplomatic channels . ' Soviet peace overture s , thel President &aid,; will be welcomed only to the extent that they are sincere . Russia will never be met ' less than half way in any effort for peace , he said . Refers to Air Attacks The chief executive opened the news conference , his fourth since ' his inauguration , by referring to recent soviet air attacks on American planes . Our government , he said , takes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they indicate a significant change in Russian intentions . The President was asked whether he favors a proposal made by Sen. Knowland R. , Cal. to have this country ask the United Nations to brand Russia an aggressor in Korea . Mr. Eisenhower said he did not wish to comment directly on the Knowland proposal , but that he is not ready at this time to take an unnecessarily provocative step against Russia . He said if any opponent nation is ready to wipe the slate of the past clean , this country is ready to negotiate , but that American rights and international justice will be safeguarded . Calls Korean Action a War The President told a questioner that he would call the Korean action a war , rather than a police action as former President Truman labeled it . Mr. Eisenhower said it must be called a war when American boys are being drafted and such casualties are being suffered . It is not , however , a total war in the sense of full mobilization with a clear objective of total destruction , he added . Mr. Eisenhower @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this country must not reduce its combat strength , which now numbers 3,600,000 men under arms . He said no radical increase in military or civil defense items is planned , but that he hopes to get more security for the same money by cutting out needless overhead and duplication . Asked to comment on the recent contention by Sen. Symington D. , Mo. ? , former air secretary , that the nation 's defenses are inadequate , the President replied that no amount of military strength can provide real security , because potential enemies seek to build military machines of equal strength . Civil Defense a Local Issue Asked about the recent atom bomb tests in Nevada and the government 's civil defense plans , the President said the bulk of civil defense machinery , beyond actual military preparations , must be handled largely by state and local governments . The President was asked whether he favors a government investigation of possible communism in the nation 's churches . The question was an apparent reference to a recent statement by Chairman Velde R. , 111.1 of the house committee on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ individual Communists in any field , including the churches . Mr. Eisenhower paused and rubbed his chin before replying that if our churches , with their belief in an Almighty God , are teaching communism , then scmething more than an inquiry by Congress is needed . He said churches should be the last ones to tolerate communism , and that he sees no possible good in questioning our churches in that regard . Avoids Stand on Amendment The chief executive said he has not taken a stand on a proposed constitutional amendment by Serf : Bricker R. , 0.1 to bar treaties or other international agreements from abrogating constitutional rights of Americans . Mr. Eisenhower called the proposal , which Bricker discussed with him yesterday in a White House call , a most argumentative one . Quizzed on Seaway The President said he has asked Lewis Douglas , former ambassador to Great Britain , to head a study group on our international economic policies , including . tarifs and foreign markets . Asked whether he favors the , long proposed American-Canadian St. Lawrence project , Mr. Eisen- , hover said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thought they were ' confidential for the time being . He added , however , that he would hate to see Canada go ahead with the seaway alone , because , he said , this country might later regret not having taken part .                     