@@713960

txt Diplomatic opinion in Moscow tonight hardened into the conviction that a genuine opportunity for halting the conflict in Korea now existed and concrete action was expected shortly to test the possibility of achieving a cease-fire there . It was not believed that important diplomats accredited to Moscow would stand idly by in a situation of such importance and urgency , although exactly what steps might be taken here had not yet been publicly indicated . However , developments of some kind were expected within the next forty-eight hours . Lingering doubts in the minds of the diplomatic corps here that the statement by Jacob A. Malik Saturday constituted a " real break " in the deadlock over ending the Korean war were removed by the publication this morning in Pravda of two items of great significance . The first item , and one that a number of observers found of most interest , was a brief dispatch published under headline type of generous size reporting President Truman 's speech in Tullahoma , Tenn . The report was very brief but it carried this most important paragraph : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ question of the war with Korea . However , he had to associate himself with the proposal of the Soviet representative in the United Nations , Malik , on a peaceful settlement of the Korean question and cessation of war actions . " While Pravda did not present textually the words that President Truman spoke in Tullahoma it was regarded as of very major cance that in the opinion of Pravda 's editors Mr. Truman 's statement constituted associating himself with the Malik proposals . The Truman speech as reported here by the Information Service of the State Department did not specifically mention the Malik suggestions yet nevertheless Pravda took special pains to point out that the President 's views were in fact " associated " with those advanced by the Soviet spokesman . In effect , in the minds of diplomats here , Pravda was asserting that Mr. Malik and Mr. Truman had arrived at the same general conclusions on the need for peace and the end of the war in Korea . The dispatch published by Pravda also was widely reprinted in other Soviet newspapers so that the Soviet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had received a favorable response from Mr. Truman . Secondary in interest only to this unusual treatment of Mr. Truman 's Tullahoma remarks by Pravda was a long foreign affairs editorial that dotted the eyes and crossed the tees of Mr. Malik 's proposal . The editorial left no doubt that Mr. Malik 's statement had the fullest backing of the Soviet Government and that the Kremlin appeared prepared to implement Mr. Malik 's general suggestions . To some extent the editorial %vent even further than Mr. Malik , since it incorporated the views of the French paper , Liberation , to the effect that " if peace can be won in Korea it will by this token be won in the entire remaining world . " Pravda also quoted THE NEW YORK TIMES as recognizing the virtue of Mr. Malik 's proposals with the words that " Negotiations for a military cease-fire , as the United Nations urges , can and should be entered into at the earliest possible moment . " The editorial from which this comment was taken was published Monday and it continued ; " That has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time . It remains to be seen if there is any sincere reciprocity of this attitude on the part of the Soviet Union and its agents in the field . " Pravda Sees Hope for Peace Pravda declared that the Soviet ' Union was convinced that there existed the possibility for a peaceful settlement in Korea and declared settlement of the Korean war would remove one of the most important causes of world tension . However , the editorial continued:1 " Of course , as was to be expected , in the reactionary press there are a good many statements that express the views of those who can not hide their malevolent attitude toward the efforts at a firm peace and the prevention of war . But these declarations can not drown the sober voice of the people who understand the utter futility and danger of a further continuation of the Korean war . " Pravda 's comment was the first that had been published in the Soviet press on the Malik proposals . Its temper left clear the implication that not only did the Russians hope for and expect action @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reaction in the United States and elsewhere abroad as providing a solid basis for expectation that the Korean war could be negotiated to a conclusion .                     