@@715106

txt CONTROLS RELAXED FOR BUILDING IN ' 53 ; AUTO LIMIT RAISED Construction Ruling to Permit Adequate ' Steel and Copper for Homes and Apartments METAL PROSPECTS BETTER 1,500,000 Autos Are Authorized for Second Quarter  --  Detroit Is Cheered by Decision Special to Tax New Yoga Taus . WASHINGTON , Dec. 10 ? The , National Production Authority to-1 day eased curbs on apartment house and other types of construc-I tion , effective Jan. 1 , and authorized increased production of automobiles for the second quarter of 1953 . The agency acted because of improved prospects for steel and copper supplies after the first of the year . In Detroit the automobile industry , heartened by word it would be allowed to build more cars next year , received calmly the Defense Department 's decision to cut back some tank and military truck production . Relaxation of construction curbs , , the N. P. A. officials said , will allow builders " adequate " amounts lof steel and copper for the erection of private homes and apartment houses . The easier regulations , it was added , also @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ size schoolhouses , hospitals and other public projects . Large-scale projects , still will require special permission from the National Production Authority . ' Recreational Halls on ' List The agency now will allow the construction of recreational buildings including such structures as dance halls , and other amusement enterprises that heretofore had required individual sanction from the defense agency . Unforeseen setbacks in the output of aluminium forced the N. P. A. to hold up its approval of greater use of the metal until next May 1 . Officials said , however , that they did not feel that the restrictions upon aluminum use would present insuperable obstacles to auto producers or builders who desired to take advantage of today 's concessions on steel and copper . R. A. , head of the National Production Authority , said the supply picture for key metals appeared much more promising now than it had a few weeks ago . New steel mill facilities , he added , promise an increase amounting to 2,500,000 tons a quarter through most of 1953 . In the first quarter of 1952 , the last full @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were produced . The relaxations in steel and copper uses granted for the beginning of the new year come four months iri advance ' of previous plans . Originally the N. P. A. // figured on waiting until May 1 before relaxing the materials curbs but the outlook for increased ? roduction brought a decision to act earlier . Under today 's orders automobile manufacturers will be permitted to turn out 1,500,000 passenger cars and 315,000 truck units in the second three months of 1953 . The new ceiling on passenger autos is 250,000 greater than that allowed for the first quarter . It was recommended by the automobile industry . Mr. said that although motor car manufacturers would be permitted to make 1,500,000 passenger cars there would be no guarantee given them that materials for the making of more than 1.250,000 cars would be made available to them . The truck quota he said , is the same as that for the first quarter . In the second quarter of 1952 , the authority limited the production of cars to 950,000 and trucks to about 250,000 . The N. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the use of imported and high-priced domestic steels , auto makers had been able to turn out more units than . the quotas set by the defense agency . . Amounts to Be Announced Mr. said that the exact amount of steel , copper and aluminum that the N. P. A. will have to allot to automobile makers will be announced within the next few days . In the concessions granted to the construction industry , Mr. said that sharp increases had been made in the amounts of steel and of copper that may be selfauthorized for conimercial and other types of construction . The concessions , he said , are more sweeping than any applied since construction regulations were first imposed by the agency on Oct. 26 , ' 1950 . Under the new rules builders of multi-residence ( walk-up I build-I ings are granted permission after ' Jan. 1 to self-authorize the use of ' two tons of carbon steel . 225 pounds of copper and 275 pounds of aluminum , per dwelling unit . No self-authorization for this category of construction is allowed at present . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ self-authorize the use of three tons ' I of carbon steel , 225 pounds of copper and 275 pounds of alumim Jium per unit . As in the case of walk-ups no self-authorization is allowed for apartment house bundlers at present . According to Mr. , the , quantities of steel , copper and aluminum allowed for apartments and other dwellings is more than adequate to meet , normal require-1 ments . The concessions allowed for aluminum , it was explained , were included in the construction order ' today but actually can not be applied until May 1 . because of pro- ' duction losses arising from power ' failures in the Pacific Northwest , and in the Tennessee Valley . Mr. estimated that aluminum production losses would ' amount to 94,000,000 pounds in the current quarter and to a , possible 120,000,000 pounds in the first quarter of 1953 . The N. P , A. Administrator said that due to a high level of imports of refined copper and an increase ih the production of refined copper from domestic ores and scrap there was room for more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ even a month ago . Brass mills and copper wire ' mills , he said , have improved working inventories and are turning-out products at the highest rate since allocation controls were imposed in August , 1951.                     