@@719546

txt Greater Boston businessmen today were bracing themselves against the economic impact of Ford 's decision to pull its assembly-line operations out of the company 's 31-year-old Somerville , Mass. , plant , and out of New England for the first time in 50 years . While the disposition of the outmoded plant with its 1,000 workers has been in doubt for several years of " ups and downs , " local officials were surprised and " upset " by the sudden Ford pronouncement that the plant would start shutting down March 14 . Ford officials came to Boston late yesterday to " break the news " to local chambers of commerce and newsmen that the old plant was too far gone to rehabilitate , that the 1,000 workers would be given the opportunity of transferring to a new Ford plant in Lorain , Ohio , while the shutdown would be gradual to provide for an orderly placing of employees . $5 Million Payroll At present , the Somerville plant is turning out 160 Ford assemblies daily with a yearly payroll of $5,000,000 . About one-third of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ohio plant which has three times the capacity of the Somerville plant , and in the other 13 Ford assembly plants scattered throughout the United States . What will happen to the other two-thirds of the work force is a matter for current discussions already under way between Ford officials and Greater Boston union chiefs . It is hoped that many of the workers will be employed by some new occupant of the plant now being sought by the combined Chambers of Commerce of Massachusetts , Greater Boston , and Somerville , and Massachusetts labor groups . Ford denied the immediate reaction of businessmen that the shutdown might be due to the current business recession or to some dissatisfaction with local labor conditions . The plan has been generating for some time , it was said , as part of an overall program of consolidation of Ford assembly operations at points where vast acreage was available for continued expansion . In a conference with 20 business leaders , Thomas R. Reid , Ford 's director of civic affairs , said several informal bids have been received for the Somerville plant but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the area invites a promising industry . Utilization of the Somerville plant , according to Vr . Reid , is considered " no longer feasible . " He said there were no provisions for assembling trucks and certain lines of station wagons which are growing in popularity . Only last year , several million dollars were spent to convert the plant 's equipment from Ford to Edsel assemblies , only to revert to Fords later in the year . Edsel Setback Acute The problem of what to do with the old plant became acute when the initial demand for Edsels was not sufficient to keep the plant running at capacity . A total of 11,354 Edsels were assembled at the Somerville plant , many of which were shipped out of New England for retailing . Ford 's background of Greater Boston history is impressive . Starting with a service repair headquarters on Columbus Avenue in 1905 , additional offices were obtained on Beacon Street in 1908 . Success of the famous Model T led to the setting up of full-scale assembly operations in suburban Cambridge just 50 years ago . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shifted into a multiple-storied building on Memorial Drive at Boston University Bridge . Then , in December , 1926 , the present Somerville plant was opened , located on the vital water site which was necessary for shipment in those days . Since cars are no longer transported by water , the latest assembly plants in Ohio and elsewhere are located well out in the country , where vast acreage is available for current and future operations .                     