@@715091

txt President-clecl Eisenhower has learned . during his trip to Korea , that the enemy has roughly twice as much manpower on the front line as the UN . This presumably is behind the general 's early statement , upon leaving for his homeward flight , that UN strength in Korea must be increased . The situation . according to latest intelligence reports , is as follows : The enemy 's front is adequately manned and the Communists have ample uncommitted reserves . The Communists are lined up defensively with units prepared to bolster the front or move toward both coasts in case of an Allied amphibious attack . j Chinese Hold West Front The best Chinese Communist armies usually are located on and behind the west front . Two Chinese armies of approximately 32. - D00 . men apiece and one North Korean corps were pulled out of the line at the beginning of the rainy season to case the difficulty of supplying them when roads and trails were bad . These units have not been returned to the Generally , enemy over - all strength has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The enemy has increased the number of tubes firing at the Allies from 500 last January to 1.100 in October , This firing peak has dropped sharply since then , apparently due to depletion of ammunition supplies . Outgunned by Reds As in manpower , Allied artillery is roughly half the enemy 's total . However , about 50 per cent of the Communist artillery usually is kept in reserve , whereas Allied artillery usually is all kept in positions from which it can fire against the enemy if needed , Adequately Supplied Supply  --  The Communists get all they need to deliver , but the problem is getting it to the front lines . They are estimated to have enough at the front for 30 . days of the present type of fighting or perhaps 15 days if they should mount a major offensive , Biggest question is whether they could resupply their Army on the move fast enough . Adequate winter N ear is available . although nothing like Allied clothing . Their food is adequate but there is some poor distribution . They sometimes turn out whole North @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ people 's backs . Morale  --  The North Koreans are hit by air and ground casualties , but at least the Chinese Communists are not living off the country . They bring in their own food supplies . Although they take whatever else they need , they are careful to give proper receipts . Chinese relationship with the civilian population is believed actually better than that of the North Korean soldiers . The latter expect civilians to do laundry and cooking as recompense for the soldiers ' fighting . In some cases Chinese soldiers go into the fields to help local farmers . Chinese morale generally is better than that of the North Koreans because the Chinese troops can look forward to going home sometime . But the North Koreans already are home and no longer see much prospect of victory . Mobility  --  All enemy infantry moves on foot . Only the heaviest equipment moves by vehicle , sometimes in parts , One army moving into the line under no particular strain took 13 days to travel 50 to 60 miles . Communications are difficult . since there are almost @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fanatical fighters but hard to control . They do not seem able to cease action or recall troops during an attack if it does not go well . They just keep on until killed . The Chinese Communists ? They maintain far better control of their troops on action . They can shift tactics or recall troops in orderely fashion . They .. have better officers and therefore ' better command of the men . Quality Varies Chinese Communist armies vary from very good to poor . The poorer units have been purged lately of dangerous or unenthusiastic elements in an effort to improve their caliber . Tactics  --  The Chinese Communists tried during the heavy fighting at Whitehorse Mountain early in October to take the position by massing artillery and then throwing in infantry masses . They got badly cut up in the process . This tactic was so unsuccessful that they probably will not try to take positions that way hereafter . Instead , they probably will use stealth and attempt to inch forward slowly . The picture as a whole is unchanged since Nov. 23 , 1951 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hostile forces . Hills and minor ground have changed hands since . but nothing important . H. S. H.                     