@@719344

txt Letters to The Times Japan 's Cotton Trade Effect on Domestic Trade of Cheap Raw Material and Labor Stressed To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Your editorial of Dec. 4 on our trade with Japan went out of its way to criticize the quota arrangements with Japan on cotton textiles and apparel . You may have forgotten that this program was jointly endorsed by the Departments of State , Commerce and Agriculture as " a major step fortvard in the developrnent of orderly and mutually beneficial trade between the United States and Japan . " And you may also have forgotten that the program was the culmination of long-drawn-out negotiations based on proposals initiated by the Japanese . The obvious background of the settlement was a realization by our Government , and by the Japanese , too , that inequitable advantages had ' been bestowed on the foreign competitor to the extent of flagrant discrimination against the American industry and its employes . This had already been evident in the field of wages and labor costs , ' where the American producer , bound @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had to face goods made with , unbelievably Iow wages averaging about 15 cents an hour . On top ef , this , the United States Government sold American cotton to Japan and other foreign producers at a dis- , count of 20 to 25 per cent below the ' , price its support programs compel home mills to pay . , increased Markets In addition to the raw material bonus for foreign mills , the United States has arranged to finance a considerable part of their purchases , and through triangular deals involving the grant of raw cotton to countries like Indonesia , Burma and Thailand has greatly increased the export markets for cotton cloth to Japan and other foreign producers . Against such deals American exporters have little chance of successful competition , in spite of the equalization fee ( covering cotton differentials , not labor ) granted them on overseas shipments . In domestic markets of the United States , upon which 2,000,000 workers in textiles and , apparel depend for a livelihood , there is not even a compensatory tax levied on the foreign-made goods , which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the large bounty of cheap American cotton . With tariff schedules already slashed to a degree of negligible benefit , only a limitation of the foreign quantities and types can serve to prevent a wholesale sacrifice of our plants and workers on an altar of clear injustice and unfair discrimination set up by their own Government . According to recent statistics the value of Japanese imports for consumption of all commodities into the United States had increased by about 10 per cent in eight months of 1957 over the corresponding period of 1956 . In addition , Japanese exports of cotton goods to all countries has increased substantially in 1957 despite a minor decline of the United States volume . w . RAY BELL . President , The Association of Cotton Textile Merchants , New York , Dec. 5 , 1957 . Pay of Subway Motormen To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : There was a subway strike in 1918 . On the evening of Nov. 1 a five-car Brighton Beach train headed for the Malbone Street tunnel with a dispatcher instead of a motorman at the controls . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ limit at more than thirty miles an hour . Authorities differ on the number of deaths . Tile World Almanac says ninety-seven , making it the second worst accident in United States railroad history . But it was n't entirely an accident . t was company policy  --  to break a . strike , at no matter what risk . The : . ompany officials were indicted . Your editorial of Dec. 10 said : " * * * discharge these outlaw strikers . " And then what ? Trains every half hour ? Or maintain service by putting dispatchers at the 2ontrols There would have been no subway strike if the motormen had been paid ' is much as garbage collectors . What newspaper ever attacked the out7ageous pay scale ? How many citi ... ens knew about it ? You call the strikers " bad actors " md take your stand with Calvin - 2oolidge , Franklin D. Roosevelt and Fiorello H. La Guardia in oondemnng strikes by public employes , I lo n't recall that Abraham Lincoln wer qualified for this consortium . ndeed , I think he might @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Anthony Zelano . ALEX , . N DER L. CROSBY . New York , Dec. 11 , 1957 . Markers on Buildings 70 THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : The recent announcement that the qew York Community Trust is putnig markers on twenty or so of the : ity 's distinguished buildings will , I lope , remind New Yorkers of what rich architectural treasure house hey live in , Another city recently had a lesson n the importance . of its architecural past . The mayoral election in 3ridgeport , Conn. , this year was eally woi. by a Gothic Revival house luilt in the Eighteen Forties . The Vheeler Mansion became a crucial lolitical issue and Mayor , 6rho had been in office for twentyfour years and who was determined to tear the house down and erect a city hail on its site , discovered that ! the resolution of a band of historically minded citizens was more than , i he had bargained for . He lost the election by a mere 160 votes , and ; the candidate who defeated him gavel credit for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ save for their city one of the most distinguished examples of the work of one of America 's greatest architects , A , J. Davis . An English architectural critic , said to me once : " New York building is n't architecture ; it 's man-made landscape . " It is true that many of our best buildings are likely to get lost in our towering landscape , but all five of our boroughs are spotted with excellent architectural examples from three centuries of inventive and often beautiful design .. If the markers serve to remind us of this , which we are likely to fors get , and occasionally stay the hand of the wreckers , we have reason to be grateful . RUSSELL LYNES. t New York , Nov. 28 , 1957 . Launching of Satellite Publicity is Asked for as Well as Successes To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : The failure of our first satellite launching is widely accepted as a great defeat for America . As a result of the failure , following a publicity build-up , we shall loss : prestige all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ York Times on , Dec. 7 goes so far as to detnand a cessation of public statements by Vanguard officials " until they have concrete achievement to report . " take exception to The Times ' attitude , and to the evaluation of the launching failure on which it IS based . Apparently laymen both here and abroad expected success . Such an attitude , almost childlike in its opt ! - . mism , is common among those who have never tried to do something never achieved before . Most scis entists were not surprised by the . failure , as they are well schooled in such matters in their own laboratories . The willingness to go on in spite of failure is a crucial requirement of scientific work , as indeed it is of any creative human endeavor . By continuing to publicize the failures as well as the successes ok ' Vanguard the press can educate us all in the pitfalls of experimental work . In doing so it will make a ? bold step forward in helping the public to participate in the truly human drama of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , I am inclined to discount it on related grounds . The " keen disappointment " which is felt in foreign capitals the day after a launchs ing failure will be forgotten in a short time because it is not based on a mature appraisal . Surely ' evaluation of America derived front the success or failure of isolated missile tests is not realistic and is consequently of little significance . In the long run we shall be judged by our virtues and not by our rockets . I urge The Times to drop its advocacy of a moratorium on Vanguard publicity and instead to continue to convey to its readers the excitement which is common to Vanguard and to all experiments with the unknown . GEORGE B. FIELD , Princeton University Observatory . Princeton , N. J. , Dec. 7 , 1957 . Peru 's Stand in Dispute To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : I would like to refer to Tad , Szulc 's article which appeared in your valued issue of Nov. 28 and ? the Ecuadorean Ambassador 's letter published Dec , 6 . I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Peru has complied with all the terms of the protocol of Rio de Janeiro which ended the boundary dispute between Peru and Ecuador and also with the decisions of the Brazilian arbiter Diaz de Aguiar referred to in Mr. Szulc 's article as well as with the resolutions of the . Peruvian-Ecuadorfflm boundary commission . There has been no refusal on the part of Peru but , on the contrary , the greatest desire to proceed with the survey of this very small section ( eighty kilometers ) which is needed , . for the completion of the boundary demarcation . FERNANDO BERCKEMEYER , Ambassador of Peru . Washington , Dec. 6 , 1957.                     