@@715976

txt 12 Die in Plane in Louisiana Braniff , Airline President , ' and 9 Business Leaders Killed in Storm in South Fly The Wilted Press . SHREVEPORT , La. , Jan. 10 ? Thomas E. Braniff , president of Braniff International Airways , and eleven other persons were killed tonight when a private amphibious plane bringing them here after a hunting trip crashed on the shores of Lake Wallace during a driving snow and sleet storm . Besides Mr. Braniff. whose airline has flown almost 3,000,000 , - 000 passenger miles without a single fatality , the dead included R. H. Hargrove of Shreveport. president of Texas Eastern Transmission Corporation , a big pipeline concern . W. E. Wilson , public relations director for United Gas Company , owner of the plane , said the twelve aboard included ten wealthy business men who had been on a hunting trip in southern Louisiana and the pilot and co-pilot . All aboard died in the fiery // crash of the two-engined amphibian on the shore of Lake Wallace , ten miles south of Shreveport , about 6:45 P. M. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Airport . It was one of two United Gas Company planes returning the group of prominent business men from a duck hunt in southern Louisiana . Ivey Pool , night manager of the Shreveport airport , said the pilot of the amphibian , Buddy Huddleston , radioed minutes before the crash that the plane was icing over and he would attempt an emergency landing on Lake Wallace . " I do n't think we can make it , " Mr. Huddleston told the control tower at the airport , Mr. Pool said . The Louisiana State Police said the plane apparently hit a power line as it attempted to land on the lake . The airport night manager said the amphibian slammed , into a boat shed alongside the lake , crashed on the shore and burst into flames . The shed alSo burned . Mr. Wilson said that besides Mr. Braniff , Hargrove and Huddleston , the dead included : J. B. Atkins Sr. , of Shreveport , president of Highland Oil Company and an officer of Atlas Refining Company ; J. P. Evans Sr. , a Shreveport oil man @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , San Antonio , Tex. ; Milton Weiss of Dallas , head of the dress department for Volk 's Department Store ; E. B. Weiss , Milton 's brother , vice president and general manager of Goldring 's , a Shreveport woman 's store ; Justin R. Querbes Sr. , a prominent Shreveport insurance man ; Randolph Querbes , Justin 's brother , head of  --  a Shreveport wholesale electric supply company ; Chris Abbott , a Hyannis , Neb. , cattle man , and Louis Schexnayder , the co-pilot . The second United Gas Company plane , a DC-3 , landed safe= ly at Shreveport about thirty minutes before the amphibian crashed . N. C. , president of the company ; A. C. Glassel and W. C. Wolf of Shreveport , were aboard . The ill-fated Mallard amphibian took off from the Merinentau River , south of Lake Charles , La . The ' twelve bodies were badly burned and identification was extremely difficult . Sheriff J. Howell Flournoy of Caddo County said the plane exploded and burned as it struck the ground , scattering burned bodies and wreckage @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ heard the plane coming in low and heard a noise that sounded ' ' like a huge exhaust backfire . " She said she ran to the scene about 150 yards from her house . " There was nothing I could do , " she said . " The plane had cut a swath through the trees and one wing had dug into a drainage ditch and the craft had flipped into a large frame structure on the lake . " Braniff Founded Airline Thomas Elmer Braniff , who was the founder , president and board chairman of Braniff International Airways , was an organizer of the first passenger airline in the Southwest. - It was formed in 1928 and carried oilmen between Oklahoma City and Tulsa , Okla . The line owned one single-engine , fiveplace plane and employed a staff of three . The present Braniff line , which flies routes through the Midwestern United States and into Latin America . is the only major American airline that still bears its owner 's name . Before entering the aviation field , Mr. Braniff had become wealthy in the insurance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1923 , one of the city 's earliest skyscrapers , the Braniff Building . A prominent Roman Catholic layman . Mr. Braniff had served since 1945 as the Catholic cochairman of the National Conference of Christians and Jews . Last October he was appointed general chairman for 1954 of that lorganization 's annual Brotherhood Week , which will be observed nationally next Feb. 21-28 . In August , 1952 , Braniff Airways absorbed Mid-Continent Airlines . At that time Braniff served thirty-one cities in nine states and nine Latin-American countries , and Mid-Continent served thirty-five cities in twelve states . The new company , which retained the Braniff name , was described as the sixth largest airline in the country . In extendng his operations to Latin America , Mr. Braniff overcame , according to one account , such obstacles as " climatic con di tions , hostile foreign governments and competing Pan American Airways . " Mr. Braniff 's business interests included the Republic National Bank in Dallas , Tex. , and the Kansas City Fire and Marine Insurance Company , in which he held directorships . He was president @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Investment Company , and board chairman of the Prudential Fire Insurance Company of Oklanoma . He was a member of the United States Council of the International Chamber of Commerce , the transportation and commerce committee of the United States Inter-American Council on Commerce and Production , the National Association of Manufacturers , the Air Transport Association and the National Safety Council , Founded Brotherhood Group Mr. Braniff was one of the founders of the World Brotherhood Organizations in Europe . His ether charitable and civic activities included the American Cancer Society , the Dallas Community Chest , the University of Notre Dame Foundation , Oklahoma City University , the Dallas Pilot Institute for the Deaf , the Institute of International Education and the Institute of Fiscal and Political Education . Others were the Dallas Opera Association , the English Speaking Union of the United States and the Boy Scouts . He and his wife established in 1944 the Braniff Foundation to support religious , educational and scientific projects . Mr. Braniff was a Knight Commander of the Order of St. Gregory and c Knight of the Equestrian Order of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Dec. 6 , 1883 , Mr. Braniff attended the Central High School in Kansas City , Mo . On Oct. 26 , 1912 , he was married to the former Bess Thurman , ? who survives . They had a son and daughter , the late Thurman Braniff and the . late Mrs. Jeanne Terrell . Sketches of others killed in the crash follow : REGINALD H. HARGROVE Reginald Henry Hargrove , 57 , was former acting assistant deputy administrator for the Petroleum Administration for Defense , a post to which he was appointed in 1951 . He was a founder and president of the Texas Eastern Transmission Corporation , operators of the Big Inch and Little Inch pipelines . For more than twenty-four years he was prominent in the field of public utilities . A native of Marshall , Tex. , he was a former executive of the United Gas Company , resigning in 1946 as vice president and ' general manager of the concern to found the Texas Eastern Transmission Corporation . JUSTIN R. QUERBES SR . Justin Ft ? Querbes of Shreveport . La. , 61 , was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ concerns . He was a partner in the insurance firm of Querbes ta Bourquin and was a lifelong resident of Shreveport . He was a president and director of the Motor Finance Company and the Louisiana Fire Insurance Company , a director of the Wrst National Bank in Shreveport , treasurer and a director of the Louisiana State Fair . vice president and director of the Interstate Electric Company , treasurer of the Louisiana and Arkansas Rail Road Company director of the San Antonio Coca Cola Bottling Company , a partner in the J. R. Querbes Oil Company and vice president and a director of the Howse Oil Co . He was graduated from Louisiana State University in 1914 . RANDOLPH QUERBES Randolph Querbes was the 59-year-old brother of Justin Querbes , and long has been a financier . He was president of the Interstate Electric Company , Inc. , and formerly was associated with the Standard Oil Company in Shreveport . CHRISTOPHER J. ABBOTT Christopher Joseph Abbott , 64 , has been regarded for years as the richest man in Nebraska . He lived in the town of Hyannis ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , - 000-acre ranch near Hyannis , eight banks and four stores in western Nebraska , and Prairie Airways , Inc . He was a director of the Northwestern Bell Telephone Company , the Union Stockyards Company of Omaha . the Mutual Benefit Health and Accident Association of Omaha , and the Omaha National Bank . He was horn in Kansas and attended Nebraska Wesleyan University , the University of Michigan and .. the University of Nebraska , before going into the ranching business at Hyannis hi 1912 , - He was a past vice president of the United States Chamber of Commerce , past vice president and director of the American National Livestock Association , former chairman of the board of the Transportation Association of America and a former trustee of the Tax Foundation of New York . He is survived by his widow , a son . Arthur , and two daughters , Glaideth and Phyllis . E. BERNARD WEISS . E. Bernard Weiss , 65 , was vice president and general manager of Goldring 's , home store of a chain of about fifty women 's clothing stores @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ civic , charitable and religious activities . He had been a resident of Shreveport since 1920 . He was co-chairman of a permanent inter-racial organization named to carry out recommendations of a three-yea ? survey of Shreveport 's Negro community . MILTON WEISS Milton Weiss of Dallas , Tex. , was a brother of E. Bernard Weiss and an official of Gold , ring 's . EDGAR TOBIN Edgar Tobin , 58 , was a native of San Antonio , a flying ace of World War I who once flew with Captain Eddie Rickenbacker and served in World War II as a civilian adviser to Gen. H. H. Arnold of the Air Force . Mr. Tobin founded Tobin 's Aerial Survey , mapping more than 500.000 square miles of the United States for the Government at the start of World War II . His was considered the largest mapping service in the world and was valued at 510,000,000 . In France in World War I he became an ace by shooting down five German planes from a balloon . He was a member of the famed " Hat-in-the-Ring " flying squadron @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? John B. Atkins Sr. , 56 , was chairman of the board of the Atlas Processing Company in Shreveport . A prominent oil man , Mr. Atkins operated the Parade Gas Company , an East Texas refinery with offices in Shreveport , in affiliation with H. L. Hunt , the internationally known oil executive , and D. P. Hamilton . Mr. Atkins was a graduate of Washington and Lee University . J. P. EVANS S. J. P. Evans Sr. , 69 , was a ' wealthy independent oil producer who had resided in Shreveport ' since 1908 . He was a native of Dallas .                     