@@715888

txt The Canadian Government has gone as far as it intends to go toward meeting the United States request for permission to send investigators here to question Igor Gouzenko . Lester B. Pearson , Minister for External Affairs , told the House of Commons yesterday that the Government would permit a - person designated by the United States Government to interview Mr. Gouzenko , former Soviet Embassy code clerk who in 1945 exposed a Russian spy ring here . Mr. Pearson specified , however , that the interview be conducted under Canadian auspices and Canadian procedure and that Canada reserved the veto power over publication of any evidence . He and his fellow Cabinet members hoped that would end the matter . However , that hope was ended when Senator William E. Jenner , Republican of Indiana and chairman of the Senate Internal Security subcommittee , wrote Secretary of State John Foster Dulles . Senator Jenner 's letter , terming unsatisfactory the stipulation of secrecy for the testimony of Mr. Gouzenko unless Canada agreed to its publication and asking Mr. Dulles to make a third request to the Canadian @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , also aroused new irritation here . The Government is now awaiting another note with its toes dug in and it intends to keep them so . Solidly Backed by Opinion The Canadian Government has the solid backing of Canadian opinion from coast to coast . Members of the Liberal party of Prime Minister Louis St. Laurent are enthusiastically behind Mr. Pearson , who they feel is the real object of attack by the Unithd States Senate subcommittee . They teel that the subcommittee , in asking for Mr. Gouzenko 's testimony , really was trying to put the Minister of External Affairs on the spot as seeminge to seek to protect Communists . This view is shared by members of the Opposition , who declared themselves yesterday as firmly behind the Government 's policy . The stipulation that Canada must have the last word on what might ? be published as a result of the Gouzenko questioning had two purposes . The first is to protect Mr. Gouzenko from disclosure of the assumed name he has taken and the place ' where he lives with his wife and family . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by corroborative evidence . Some uncertainty existed yesterday because of the phrasing of the Canadian note , which said that any " person " designated by the United States Government could question Mr. Gouzenko under the conditions laid down . It was not clear whether in using the singular form of the word " person " Canada would limit the United States to one representative . It was learned today that while the word was chosen deliberately to avoid leaving the door open to an invasion by a large group of investigators , Canada did not intend to restrict representation unduly . It would regard a delegation of three or four representatives of the subcommittee as reasonable . Quite apart from the Gouzenko case Canadian officials are greatly disturbed over the action of United States Attorney General Herbert Brownell Jr . in declassifying a confidential document originating here without consultation with this Government to read it into the record of one of the subcommittee hearings . This document was the letter , from J. Edgar Hoover , Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation , to the White House citing a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ late Harry Dexter White might have been a Soviet agent . Mr. Pearson said yesterday that the F. B. I. chief was in error and the sender was really a security officer for a third friendly power who was reminding the F. B. I. of its own warning to keep an eye open for evidence against Mr. White . Canada , which with Britain has been chided for laxity in security matters by the United States , feels now that the shoe is on the other foot . If Mr. Brownell could declassify top - secret information without consulting the allies of the United States , it was asked here today , how far can Canada feel safe in going in the exchange of scientific strategic and economic information that might be helpful to her potential enemies ?                     