@@714954

txt Peace talks between the warring factions in the elevator strike broke up late last night without a settlement . Both sides , however , agreed to meet again at 10 a. rn. today in the offices of the United States mediation and conciliation service at 220 S. State st. , which observers viewed as an encouraging sign . Martin J. Dwyer , president of local 66 of the AFL Elevator Operators and Starters union , which has tied up 123 downtown buildings , told reporters that " some progress " had been made in yesterday 's sessions , but he declined to elaborate . Ca n't Give " Plus or Minus " William Doughty , president of the Building Managers ' association , said , " I ca n't give you a plus or minus answer . " James J. Spillane , federal mediation and concilation director , had no comment . He said , however , that Mayor Kennelly called him during the evening to inquire about the progress of the negotiations for the settlement of the strike . The night session broke up two hours @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . As they emerged from the meeting room , Doughty and Dwyer said they had been discussing all the issues involved in the strike , and would make a report to their ' , Martin J. Dwyer lefti and William H. Doughty at meeting yesterday . ITREBUNE Photo associates before proceeding further . " Is n't that about it ? " Doughty asked Dwyer . " Yes , tha : : goes for me. too , " ' said Dwyer . Conciliators Not Called in Others in the meeting were Robert S. Cushman , attorney for the building managers ' association , and George R. Bailey , the association vice president , and Lester Asher , attorney for the union , and two union business agents , Thomas O'Rourke and Peter Zinni .. Federal conciliators stood by during the day and the evening ready to offer aid had it been requested . The striking elevator operators are seeking a reduction of their work week from 48 to 40 hours , plus an increase in the present weekly pay of $76.96 . As the strike swung into its fifth day , pickets @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Picketing Union spokesmen said picketing will continue today to prevent delivery of supplies into the struck buildings . Truck drivers have been refusing to cross the elevator operators ' picket lines , which also have kept janitors and scrubwomen out of the struck buildings . A union spokesman said physicians having offices in the buildings involved in the strike will be required to supply elevator startera with lists of patients expected for appointments , in order to get them on emergency elevators still being operated .                     