@@720089

txt The armed services reported to Congress they own 68 idle industrial plants that cost the taxpayers about $30.4 million a year to keep up . - However , military officials contended in testimony before a HouSe Armed Services subcommittee , most of the inactive plants are needed in event of an emergency . All possible efforts are made to utilize existing Government plants , or to lease them to pTivate industry when this ca n't be done , they said . In addition , the service representatives declared , the U.S.-owned plants are always being screened to determine whether they are outmoded and should be put up for sale . The subcommittee , headed by Rep. Hebert ( D. , La. ) , wound up two days of hearings on whether the Defense Department is using its industrial properties properly . Spokesmen for the three services said the emphasis in recent years has been on dropping Government production and turning the job over to private companies . Five Plants Idle Dudley C. Sharp , assistant Air Force secretary , said that as weapons become more complex , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and thus would have to sell more of the 80 Government-owned plant* set aside for the Air Force to private industry . At present , five Air Force plants are idle . . Mr. Sharp noted as an example that the final assembly and testing of some rockets and missiles have to be done in remote areas where new plants have to be bunt " But in . every case , " he asserted , " we expect maximum private financing for rate production and we will not support any facilities to do work which can reasonably be obtained by subcontracting . " As a result , " In any emergency , primary reliance will be on private industry to provide the major portion of productive capacity required for war production , " according to Brig . Gen. Jean E. Engler , Army procurement director . Cheaper End Cost Assistant Defense Secretary Floyd S. Bryant testified , " When a private company has a substantial amount , of the facilities needed to produce a new item , frequently a cheaper end item cost can be obtained by supplementing these facilities at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an existing idle Government-owned plant . " One of the problems in selling or leasing some of the Government facilities is that they have little or no application for civilian use , Gen. Engler said . He listed such plants as those which make explosives and chemical propellants . In detailed reports submitted to the panel on the status of the unused plants , the services estimated they are worth up to $1.7 billion , based on original cost . However , Gen. Engler : declared , the 38 inactive plants held by the Army currently - would cost $3.7 billion to replace . No estimates were offered on replace : meat costs of the five idle Air Force plants and the 20 unused Navy facilities .                     