@@715410

txt Federal District Judge Luther W. Youngdahl dismissed today four counts of a seven-count perjury indictment against Owen Lattimore , Johns Hopkins lecturer and an expert on Far Eastern affairs . Judge Youngdahl said there was " serious doubt " as to the strength of the remaining three counts , but he nevertheless ordered Mr. Lattimore to stand trial on Oct. 6 . At the same time , he ordered the Government to file a bill of particulars on what remained of the indictment , in order to show more specifically what was to be proved . The first and major count of perjury on which Mr. Lattimore was indicted by a Federal grand jury last Dec. 16 was based on his denial before the Senate Internal Security subcommittee that he had been " a sympathizer or any other kind of a promoter of communism or Communist interests . " In addition to finding that charge " fatally defective " and in violation of the First Amendment , Judge Youngdahl threw out two counts involving the question of whether the Far Eastern specialist knew certain contributors to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , were Communists , and another charging he had lied in denying that a 1937 trip to Yenan , then the Chinese Communist headquarters , was by prearrangement with the Communist party . Three Counts Stand Following are the three counts on which Mr. Lattimore must stand trial : 1 . That he testified falsely when he denied he had been told before 1950 that Ch'ao-ting Chi , a Chinese , was a Communist . 2 . That he testified falsely when he said a meeting with Constantine Oumainsky. former Soviet Ambassador to the United States , had not taken place during the period of the Nazi-Soviet pact . 3 . That he testified falsely when he denied he had handled the correspondence for Lauchlin Currie , an aide to President Truman during World War IL Even these three counts may not " pass the test of materiality so as to present a jury issue , " Judge Youngdahl said , adding : " But this must await the trial . " Judge Youngdahl denied a defense motion for dismissal of those three counts also , but he said action would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ renew that motion when the trial opens . Defense counsel also requested in vain that the trial be postponed until next year and that it be held outside of Washington . The judge repeatedly invoked the Bill of Rights in explaining his ruling against the first and major perjury charge . His opinion said that the count " must fall " because it violated ' both the First and Sixth Amendments , which protect freedom of speech and belief , and the right of an individual to know the nature and cause of the adcusation against him . " It seems to the court , " Judge Youngdahl declared , " that this charge is so nebulous and indefinite that a jury would have to indulge in speculation in order to arrive at a verdict . Sympathies and beliefs and what they mean to different individuals involve concepts that are highly nebulous and speculative at best . " I presume a person could sympathize with a belief and yet still not believe . To probe the mind in a situation like this would give rise to nothing more than sheer speculation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that a jury should not be asked to determine an issue which can be decided only on conjecture . " He declared that the constitutional guarantee of free speech was designed to protect an individual " in the expression of ideas though they are repugnant to the orthodox , " and he added : " Communism 's fallacy and viciousness can be demonstrated without striking down the protection of the first amendment of discourse , discussion and debate . When public excitement runs high as to alien ideologies , it is the time when we must be particularly alert not to impair the ancient landmarks set up in the Bill of Rights . ' The Will of the People ' " The greater the importance of safeguarding the community from incitements to the overthrow of our institutions by force and violence , the more imperative is the need to preserve inviolate the constitutional rights of free speech , free press and free assembly in order to maintain the opportunity for free political discussion , to the end that Government may be responsive to the will of the people and that changes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Therein lies the security of the Republic , the very foundation of constitutional government . " Asserting that " the experts have had many conflicting and divergent views on foreign policy " during the past few years , Judge Youngdahl said that " in our proper concern for the internal and external threat of communism and in pursuing our efforts to strike down these threats , we should endeavor to be consistent and not attempt- to require a conformity in thought and beliefs that has no relevancy to a present danger to our security . " Senator Arthur V. Watkins , Republican of Utah , a member of the Senate subcommittee , said that from reports he had of the decision Judge Youngdahl 's reasoning appeared to be faulty . " When he talks about the Constitution and free speech , Senator Watkins said , " he is entirely missing the point . " The question simply was whether Mr. Lattimore had lied to a Senate committee and , if so , whether he had lied about material matter , Senator Watkins declared . The indictment of Mr. Lattimore was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and March , 1952 , before the Senate subcommittee , of which Senator Pat McCarran , Democrat of Nevada , was chairman . The subcommittee dealt extensively with the degree to which the Institute of Pacific Relations , with which Mr. Lattimore had been associated , was actually influenced or controlled'hy ' CominUnists , and the , degree of influence the Institute might have exercised on the Far Eastern policy- of the United States . ' Much earlier , too , Mr. Lattimore had been the target of Congressional attacks , made chiefly by critics of President Truman 's Far East policies and by those who charged the Government , especially the State Department , had been infiltrated by Communists or their sympathizers . In 1950 , Senator Joseph R. McCarthy , Republican of Wisconsin , labeled Mr. Lattimore the " top Soviet agent " in the- United States and the " architect " of the Administration 's Far Eastern outlook . A Senate subcommittee headed by Millard Tydings , then Democratic Senator of Maryland , conducted an investigation of the McCarthy charges and eventually reported they could not be sustained @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from Senator McCarthy and others , and it became an issue in the 1950 elections that brought defeat to the veteran Maryland Senator . The indictment of Mr. Lattimore , who has since been on leave from his university post , followed an order for a Federal grand jury inquiry into the McCarran subcommittee 's charges by James- P. , then Attorney General . Mr. , one of President Truman 's last Administration appointments , acted on the basis of a transcript of the subcommittee 's hearings . Judge Youngdahl , whose opinion is almost certain to make him suddenly the center of a new controversy here , was appointed to the Federal District Court by President Truman in July , 1951 . He was Republican Governor of Minnesota at the time . 