@@713753

txt Simon Bardre , Russian pianist , collapsed and fell to the floor last night in Carnegie Hall as he was playing the Grieg Piano Concerto with the Philadelphia Orchestra half way through a concert of the American - Scandinavian Foundation . He was dead when medical assistance arrived . was nothing in ' Mr. Barere 's bearing as he appeared on the stage to indicate the impending tragedy . The concerto , the second number of a concert devoted entirely to the music of Scandinavian composers , had been preceded by the short Seventh Symphony of Jan Sibelius . After this opening number Eugene Ormandy , the conductor , went back to the wings , according to custom , returning a moment later at the heels of Mr. Barere , who , stepped briskly to the piano , set himself and awaited Mr. Ormandy 's down - beat for the performance to begin . The beginning is thunderous and dramatic , the roar of the drums leading to the clanging chords of the piano that usher in the main body of the movement . Mr. Barere appeared @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ brilliantly de livered . But presently this writer was puzzled by the pace of his performance , which seemed excesThere sively fast . Then comes the pasBarere 's sage , after the violoncellos have announced the second theme , of developments discoursed between the piano and the orchestra . A moment later it seemed as if Mr. Barere were bending over to one side , listening with especial at tention to the instruments as he matched his tone with theirs . In another moment his left hand fell from the keyboard and in another second he fell senseless from the stool to the floor . The orchestra stopped in consternation , someone shouted from the stage for a doctor , and with some difficulty the unconscious man was carried from the stage . Doctors were summoned to the dressing room where Mr. Barere lay , and it was decided quickly to continue with the concert . The next performing artist was Set Svanholm , the Swedish tenor of the Metropolitan , scheduled to sing the cycle of " King E4c 's Songs , " by Ture Rangstrom . ' Thse are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  who , it later developed , had gone on the stage with the apprehension that Mr. Barere would , not live  --  delivered them with the most admirable expressiveness and control . He and the songs were received with special enthusiasm by the audience , which did mot apparently suspect the situation that was so serious back-stage . The word had gone round that Mr. Barere was recovering from . a sudden heart attack . The fact was that before Mr. Svanholm had finished the third of the series , the pianist had died . Mr. Barere had not been conscious since his collapse , though oxygen tanks and every other device that three doctors , including his personal physician , could bring to bear , were tried . His end was that of a great and modest musician , one of the leading interpreters of this day and it was not inglorious . Others might wish such a thrilling exit from life , while nobly making music . Mr. Barere was indeed at the height of his art when the summons came . As it happened , this was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had ever given , or prepared to give . He had been asked only last February to learn the work for this concert . His opening measures , to say nothing of his high international reputation , would have constituted sufficiently impressive demonstration of the fact that he had been more than ready for a great performance . After the intermission , and the return of the orchestra to the stage for what would have been the final performance of the evening , Lithgow Osborne , president of the American - Scandinavian Foundation , appeared upon the stage , and requested the audience to rise . He then announced that the artist had died and that it was the feeling of all the musicians taking part in the concert that it should be abandoned . There were exclamations of astonishment and dismay as the audience left the hall . Mr. Barere was 55 years old . He was born in Odessa in 1896 . He went to the , St. Petersburg Conservatory as a phenomenally gifted boy of 11 to study with the famous Annette Essipof . Later he won the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made his first appearance in New York in Carnegie Hall on Nov. 9 , 1936 , and immediately was recognized as one of the authoritative players of the period . He continued to tour America and Europe , appearing with all the leading orchestras , including the New York Philharmonic-Symphony , on many occasions . His last New York recital was on Nov. 17 . There was no more modest , studious and sincere artist . Others sought the limelight more aggressively . Mr. Barere was concerned with only one thing , the humble service of music . He had a prodigious repertory , a prodigious technique. , It may be added that he was a prodigious musician , which is not necessarily the same thing . His knowledge was such that many pianists , great and small , sought his counsel as coach and teacher . He leaves not only a great but an enviable reputation behind him . The tragedy of his death was the more poignant because of the presence of his wife , Helen Barere , and his son , Boris , in the audience . When @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Squad 3 and an ambulance were called and the police atttempted for about half an hour to revive him . He was dead when the ambulance arrived . Dr. John F. Furey , an Assistant Medical Examiner , gave the cause of death as a spontaneous cerebral hemorrhage . Dr. Mack Lipkin , the pianist 's personal physician , said he had been treating Mr. Barere for high blood pressure for the last four years . Arrangements were made to take Mr. Barere 's body to the Riverside Memorial Chapel , Seventysixth Street and Amsterdam Avenue .                     