@@718430

txt Down the road of the future  --  and not so very far down either  --  is the prospect of a day when the northern forests of both the United States and the Soviet Union will be liberally seeded with rockets armed with nuclear warheads pointed in each other 's direction  --  pre-aimed , pre-set , and ready for launching at the touch of a button . It will not be easy to detect the location of the launching sites of these weapons  --  in fact the experts who work on such matters doubt that it will be possible to detect them at all . The seeding of the northern forests has not begun . Neither the United States nor the Soviet Union , to the best of our knowledge , has yet broken through the last experimental-stage barriers to the intercontinental ballistic missile . But there is little doubt that the barriers will soon be broken ; perhaps in a year or two at the most . Then the seeding will begin  --  will , unless something is done in the meantime to control and limit the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ World War II there were rockets which could jump the English Channel from Antwerp to London and make very large holes in the ground . They were mere toys compared to the gadgets being perfected now . These new . rockets will ? have ranges of 5,000 miles or perhaps even more  --  and be fitted with nuclear war heads . Time for Accord ? Should anyone try to do anything about it ? For a long time now men in Washington have begun to question the desirability of allowing this condition to come about without first exploring to the tin it the possibilities of an agreement with the Soviet Union which would avert this development . This week the problem of Hungary came into juxtaposition with the problem of the long-7 range strategic weapon in the planning staffs of Washington and a decision was taken to try to do something about both at once . The something to be done will be in ' stages . The first United States move will be a letter from President Eisenhower to Soviet Premier Nikolai A. Bulganin responding to the Bulganin letter of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , among other things , a partial withdrawal of foreign troops from Germany and a thousand-mile belt of aerial inspection across EEurope . Two impulses lie behind the decision . One is the impulse to avert the day when an accidental push on a button in either the United States or the U.S.S.R. could set off World War III . The other is the growing realization that the only really practical way to do anything to help Hungary is to negotiate the Soviet armies out of Eastern Europe . ! Assistance Pondered Everyone in the civilized world this week wanted to do something to help Hungary . A lot of ideas were proposed and some actions were taken . President Eisenhower assigned his VicePresident , Richard M. Nixon , to an Austrian tour . The United States put its influence behind a resolution in the United Nations calling for a Soviet troop withdrawal . Money was collected for Hungarian relief . There was talk of authorizing " volunteers " to help the patriot bands which have kept up a guerrilla war inside Hungary . But none of the above really brought @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hungary were getting increasingly restless about United States propaganda agencies in their . midst . Austria decided to investigate Radio Free Europe activities with an eye to excluding its offices and its correspondents from Austria . West Germany decided to investigate , too . There was a real possibility . that Radio Free Europe would be expelled from Central Europe by governments who urgently want to help Hungary and begin to doubt that RFE broadcasts serve that cause . ! Moscow Reassured The urgency of doing something really substantial was pointed up during the week by reports of new unrest in Poland and in East Germany . There was little doubt that either of these places could explode again . If one went the other almost certainly would blow , too . The time is past when people in Eastern Europe are unaware of the fact that they all think muth                     