@@717525

txt The United States ' hope of tax cuts and a balanced budget next year rests on booming federal revenues . The nation 's unparalleled prosperity is pouring a flood of unexpected receipts into Treasury coffers . Now the ' White House and Congress have simultaneously gone to work on the problem , approaching it from different directions . The basic question is the same for each : " Shall there be tax . cuts , and if so . how much ? " Both sides know that the economy is booming . ? . and that 1956 is an election year . Just how big the rise in federal income receipts will be is still a well-guarded estimate within the Treasury Department . EN:perts on Job But Congress has its own experts scanning the situation . Congressmen sniff a cash surplus in the offing . The executive has one team of experts at work drawing up the budget that goes to Congress next month . Congress , in turn , started hearings Dec. 5 by the Joint Committee on the Economic Report on taxation " readjustment " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) of Illinois is chairman of the parent committee , Representative Wilbur D. Mills ( D ) of Arkansas is chairman of the subcommittee on Tax policies , and Dr. Grover W. Easley is permanent staff director . On the hot issue of tax cuts the White House will propose , Congress will dispose . Already Congress shows . an inclination to take the question out of the hands of the Budget Bureau . Official Figures Latest official figures available to the public were those of last August . On the " administrative " budget ( as distinguished from the " cash " budget which includes fund accumulations ) this was the situation : Federal Receipts : 62.1 billion dollars ( up 2:1 billion dollars from the White House estimate in January ) . All indications are that this August figure still underestimates receipts . Federal Expenditures : 63.8 billion dollars ( up 1.4 billion dollars from the White House estimate in January ) . Here again expenditures may be bigger . The August review estimated the deficit on the administration budget for the current fiscal year ( ending next June @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " cash " budget . ineloeing trust fund accumulations. it figured a 300 million dollar surplus . Most economists prefer to do their reckoning on the " cash " budget , which has greater meaning from a fiscal pdlicy standpoint . The August " cash " estimate was : Receipts to the United States from the public , 70.9 billion dollars : payments to the public 70.6 billion dollars : hence a surplus of 300 million dollars . $2 Billion Surplus Seen An informed source in Washington told The Christian Science Monitor that on the basis of the cash budget the surplus for next June 30 might now be estfinated at around two billion dollars . This assumes that tax receipts keep on piling up and that expenditures remain at approximately their August rate . American taxes on perspnal and corporate incomes are so arranged that if there is a boom they automatically skim off more money . On a 50 per cent tax basis , for example , there is obviously more money coming into the Treasury if a corporation makes a billion dollars in income than if it makes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ism that is pouring a golden pile I into the Treasury as income I rises with prosperity . If the present , boom extends another year . and federal expenditures remain ' substantially stabilized. the prospective surplus on the cash basis will be higher than the present twobillion-dollar informal surplus estimate . Guessing Is Hazardous Guesses about the " surplus , " however , are hazardous . A number of intricate bookkeeping devices could be operated one way or the other to affect the result . One guess here was that this factor alone could count for a billion-dollar " swing " either way . What the public has not yet realized is that under present law the corporate income tax . now at 52 per cent . is scheduled to drop to 47 per cent automatically April 1 unless Congress does something about it in the meantime . In the same way excise-tax rates on automobiles , alrohnlic beverages , tobacco , gasoline , and the like automatically go down April 1 . Who **25;598;TOOLONG has fought over this battleground once already . If there are tax cuts , shall @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ corporate and excise taxes be kept where they are while benefits are paid out to individuals ? Senator Douglas wants individuals to get the benefit . He would raise the exemption from the present $600 to $700 . This would cost the Treasury an estimated 2.5 billion dollars . On the other hand business groups want the graduated income taxes reduced evenly all down the line . This would throw the biggest benefit to upper-income groups . Of one thing there is agreement : prosperity . Without it the present discussion would be impossible . Today the American people are producing more , consuming more , saving more , and investing more than ever before in history .                     