@@718191

txt Letters to The Times Letters to The Times To Solve Suez Crisis Solution Involving Panama Canal Internationalization Proposed To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : The United States bears a considerable responsibility for the Middle East crisis . It also holds in its hands the power to bring about a peaceful solution . Having , as part of a general proArab policy , urged the British to evacuate Suez , our Secretary of State sponsored the one idea predictably certain to make Egypt hostile to the West in spite of British withdrawal . This was the notion ? born of obsolete strategic considerations  --  to link Iraq , Egypt 's rival for Arab leadership , into a military alliance with Britain , Turkey , Iran and Pakistan . The arming of Iraq led Egypt to seek arms from Russia , bringing Russia into the Middle East , splitting the Arab League , and bringing ' Egypt and Israel to the brink of war . Reversal of Policy Faced with the fiasco of the Baghdad Pact , Mr. Dulles made frantic efforts to forestall further Soviet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Aswan High Dam . Yet when it , became apparent that the Kremlin was in no hurry to outbid the United States in financing this costly project Mr. Dulles suddenly reversed his policy , withdrawing the American offer and justifying that action by a statement which would have offended even a Government less sensitive than that of President Nasser . It was scarcely surprising that the hot ' headed Egyptian leader should react by nationalizing the Suez Canal . Nor was it surprising that the British and French Governments should , for the moment , lose their heads and unwisely threaten military action . Since then American efforts have been sensibly directed toward bringing about a peaceful settlement which would assure all nations against a capricious denial of the use of the vital waterway . However , Western insistence upon international control is weakened by past Western acquiescence in Egypt 's denial of passage to Israeli ships . As matters stand , the West appears headed for a serious and far-reaching diplomatic defeat . There is one way by which our Government could almost certainly bring about a solution of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the United States were to offer to place the Panama Canal under international or United Nations control it would build a bridge over which President Nasser could , without losing face , retreat " from his present refusal to accept a similar control over the Suez waterway . Effect on Cyprus By the same action Washington would greatly facilitate a solution of the Cypriote crisis which has all but disintegrated NATO 's Mediterranean flank . Given assured use of Suez , Britain would have little reason to insist upon retaining Cyprus as a base . In the writer 's opinion the action suggested would go far toward smoothing the way toward peaceful settlements throughout the Middle East . What is more , without jeopardizing American security , it would strengthen our relations with Latin America and greatly contribute toward restoring our moral prestige and leadership throughout the world . JAMES P. WARBURG . New York , Sept. 10. 1956 . An Indian View on Suez To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : I am surprised on reading the advertisement headed " Nasser 's Larceny " in Aug. 4 International @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has nationalized is an Egyptian company , registered under Egyptian law . If Mr. Spanel thinks that the Egyptian Government has not the capacity to pay , may it be remembered that the sterling balances of Egypt in the United Kingdom alone exceed the market value of shares of the Suez Canal Company and hence there can be no worry about compensation payment . Mr. Spanel has in an indirect way accused Pandit Nehru of complacency against communism . I may state for the information of Mr. Spanel that as recently as Aug. 10 Pandit Nehru declared in Lok Sebba , " Members know that none could raise his head against a decision taken in a Communist country . If the head is raised it disappears . There is no motion of adjournment or discussions . " It is clear that Pandit Nehru is completely conscious of the Communist threat . KRISHNA P. GoEt New Delhi , India , Aug. 29 , 1956 Traffic Solution in Vienna To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : I have just returned from a trip abroad , and during my travels I spent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there one of the most amazing things , considering the size of Vienna and its financial condition as a result of two wars . At the pusy intersection in the city between the Hotel Bristol on one corner and the Opera House on the other and two very large office buildings in the process of completion , pedestrian traffic to cross this intersection is prohibited . On each of the four corners there are escalators going down and going up and pedestrians use these escalators to cross from one side of the street to the other . ; Below the street level where the escalators stop a complete shopping center has been built and restaurants and several dozen stores . The traffic problem for that busy intersection has been completely solved as a result . In this respect this great city of New York is way behind the times . Underground passages on such congested corners as Fifty-seventh Street and Fifth Avenue and Fortysecond Street and Fifth Avenue and innumerable others could solve the traffic problem if there was an actual will to do so . Surely we have the resources @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ emulate this courageous city of Vienna . CLARENCE H. Low , New York , Sept. 5 , 1956 . Evading Integration Legality of Removing Schools From Court Jurisdiction Questioned To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : In your excellent editorial of Sept. 9 entitled " The Right to Learn " you referred to the steps being taken in such states as Mississippi , Georgia , Louisiana , South Carolina and Virginia to change the nature of the public schools so as to eliminate the effect of the school segregation cases decided by the United States Supreme Court . These efforts , you stated , " are within the framework of American tradition . " Please allow me to take exception to this conclusion . Until the spring of 1956 all states had compulsory attendance laws which carried out constitutional or statutory provisions for the maintenance of free public schools . In the spring of 1956 six Southern states amended their Constitutions or passed legislation requiring the abandonment of public support for education in the event of the issuance of a court order requiring admission of Negroes to all-white schools @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Gray Commission , which proposed the abolition of public schools in Virginia at the option of individual localities . Although the United States Constitution does not require a state to afford any education to its children , and there can be a complete relinquishment of state support for public education , discontinuance of public support has been limited to single school districts . The validity of such isolated treatment is very doubtful in law . These classifications , limited to isolated units , constitute a denial of the equal protection of the laws . This establishment of the condition precedent to termination of public support is unreasonable and unconstitutional . While other schools are operating on a segregated basis , state officials should be enjoined from discontinuing payments for the support of schools which are closed solely because of court orders requiring Negroes to be admitted . Thus there must be strong dissent from your conclusion that these measures taken by some of the states in the Deep South are " within the framework of American tradition . " NATHANIEL H. JANES . New York , Sept. 10 , 1956 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ NEW YORK TIMES : I was rather amused at the caption under the aerial shot of the Forest Hills Tennis Stadium which you published Sept. 4 showing the north and west sides practically fully occupied , while the seats in the south section were more or less empty . The caption read : " Spectators clearly preferred the sunny side of the West Side Tennis Club Stadium in Forest Hills during the national championships yesterday . " The reason unquestionably was not that the spectators liked more sun , but that they preferred lower charges . The occupied seats were half the price of the " shunned " section . For the last part of the matches the ante for the south section seats is $5 . This would be a fair charge if the tennis " producers " had to make good a weekly salary budget of , let us say , $20 , - 000 , like an average show . Query : Is such charge necessary where the cast is obtained practically for free ? The most sensible thing those in charge have clone is to make a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the tournament , but even at that it should not be necessary to charge adults theatrical prices but for the fact that it is a huge establishment that has to be maintained some fifteen or twenty days for the " benefit " of the public and 340 days for the benefit of the membership . Perhaps more people would be willing to " suffer " in the shade on a hot summer 's day if the inducement were there . DAVID OPPENHEIM , New York , Sept. 4 , 1956 . Conditions in Korea To THE EDITOR OF TILE NEW YORK TIMES : The Korean people appreciate the clarity of your editorial of Sept. 7 commenting on Senator Ellender 's remarks casting aspersions on them and our country . The Senator made his statement in Indonesia following his visit to the Soviet Union . He has not yet visited Korea , which is America 's most loyal ally . I am sure that when he comes here to see with his own eyes the actual conditions of our warstruggle against communism . I wish to compliment The New York Times @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ CHAE , Director , Office of Public Information , Republic of Korea . Seoul , Korea , Sept. 11 , 1956 . Eisenhower Actions Praised President Commended for Advice on Teaching of Communism To THE EDITOR OF THE New YORK TIMER : President Eisenhower seems to possess the faculty of always being one jump ahead of his opponents in enlightened public thinking , His advice to schools to " give students the facts that will enable them to discriminate between the merits of democracy and communism " is a sterling example of his courage and capacity to explode myths such as that , for instance , entertained by some persons that communistic doctrine is a bogy to be hidden in a closet , lest by taking it out in the clean light of day it may have a corruptive influence . Yes , as the President suggests , let us take this bogy out from behind the curtains erected to conceal its sinister visage , examine it with keen eyes and intellect , and understand it for what it is  --  a graven image and false god that no thinking American @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to under . ' stand the true nature of the beast . Freedom of Individual This great country of ours was founded in , and owes its tremendous growth and expansion to , our pioneering spirit  --  the spirit which gives the greatest possible leeway and opportunity to individual freedom and individual effort . Any and everything which militates against the exercise of this individuality is contrary to the express design of a wise and gracious Creator . In studying human beings and their affairs it takes no ' great amount of brains to come to the immediate conclusion that slavery and extreme domination in any form , by a state , a government or any subdivision thereof , and by either a majority or a minority of its people , are vicious things and inimical to the welfare and happiness of those who are enslaved or substantially robbed of their freedom and independence . The message . of the President to the schools seems to me to be a new note in the President 's thinking , " an invitation to learning , " so to speak , a most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fear that a temporary eclipse had overtaken the " age of reason . " Messrs . Stevenson and Kefauver may travel around the country orating about the shortcomings of the Eisenhower Administration , but their generalities , mean nothing to thinking Americans . It is incumbent on them as prospective promisers to name chapter and verse of these alleged errors and shortcomings ; and it is likewise incumbent on them to state what they would have done or would do under the same circumstances . ? What , for instance , would Stevenson and Kefauver have done had they , in 1953 , like Eisenhower , come into office and found our sons suffering destruction and death in Korea ? Would they have continued the war or would they have sought a sane termination thereof , which Mr. Eisenhower promptly accomplished . Foreign Problems What , too , would these condemning gentlemen have done when faced with the French crisis in Indochina ? Would they have gone to war and again sent our boys into the same kind of futile struggle as had been just ended in Korea ? And , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Kefauver do were they in the saddle in the Suez Canal crisis ? Do they not feel overwhelmingly convinced that the President has exercised extraordinary wisdom in restraining England and France from committing suicide by resorting to force under existing circumstances ? In short , it seems to me that what this country needs most of all in the existing state of world affairs is not old clich  --  s and outworn slogans , but the imaginative vision and wisdom which President Eisenhower has displayed to a marked degree throughout his first term in office and which undoubtedly , to my mind , entitles him to an additional term in office , so that he and his Administration may carry forward the plans and measures left half done and incomplete at the present time . EDMUND 0 . AUSTIN , Yonkers , N. Y. , Sept. 8 , 1958 . Upholding Maxim of Democracy TO THE EDTTOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Just now the politicians of both parties are wrangling over the first part of that maxim of democracy , " Equal rights for all : special privileges for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ But these politicians have . as yet carefully avoided the second part of that maxim , " special privileges for none . " For they have been under obligation to provide price support to agriculture , strike support to labor and tariff support to protected industries , in return for the political support of these three powerful pressure groups .                     