@@718655

txt Governor Ribicoff of Connecticut reiterated that he is " definitely . unalterably opposed " to a state income tax .. What is needed is for the General Assembly to " hold the line against pressure groups who would have us spend the state blind . " The Air Force . The cut is part of a nationwide reduction by the Air Force of its civilian force by some 600 positions . Some 40 Hungarian refugee students now living in Greater Boston will gather at the International Student Association center in Cambridge tonight to celebate their national Independence Day . Washington : Eisenhower Weighs Formula The White House said , without giving details , that President Eisenhower is considering a Justice Department formula regarding presidential powers when a Chief Executive is disabled . Private-borne construction slumped in February to the lowest rate since 1949 , the Labor Department reported . Seventeen per cent fewer new residences were started last month than in February last year . The House Appropriations Committee slashed $516,993.300 or almost 10 per cent from the budget request for 18 miscellaneous agencies . Major cuts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ General Services Administration , Africa : Hearing Granted to U.S. Deportee After an urgent application to the Johannesburg court . Mrs. Mary-Louise Hooper . an American **26;683;TOOLONG , detained in Johannesburg Fort . Prison under " degrading and humiliating " conditions pending deportation , has been granted a writ of habeas corpus and will appear before the court March 16 . National : Explosion Destroys A-Power Reactor The Atomic Energy Commission said the core of a test atomic power reactor exploded during testing on Feb. 12 . No one was injured , but the power unit was destroyed . A spokesman compared the destruction to " what happens when you hold a hot glass under cold water . " The AEC blamed " malfunction of special test equipment . " The AFL-CIO Ethical Practices Committee decided to investigate charges of misconduct and misuse of funds by top officers of the Bakery and Confectionery Workers Union . Europe : Hungary Clamped Under Rigid Guard Communist police and militia have clamped a rigid guard on strategic centers and national shrines today as Hungary observes the 109th anniversary of the 1848 revolt against Austria @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 11 crash of a Viscount turbo-prop airliner , it was announced . Speculation is spreading through London that Colonial Secretary Alan Lennox-Boyd will fly to Cyprus or Turkey to discuss a truce offer by the Greek Cypriote underground . Page 6.                     