@@712935

txt BARUCH REITERATES MOBILIZATION PLEA He Again Urges Stand-by Laws to Pool All Our Resources in Event of War Crisis Bernard M. Baruch renewed last night his pleas for the immediate passing of stand - by economic mobilization laws , covering prices , wages , profits and manpower , to be put into effect in case of a national emergency . Without such a total mobilization program , he warned , the risks and costs of a war are " greatly and needlessly " increased . With it , he went on , we would increase our national security and be able to reduce " appreciably " the costs of defense . Mr. Baruch , the adviser to Presidents in two World Wars , was sharply critical of the state of this country 's defenses . He termed Washington " the capital of indecision . " " We seem to have forgotten what was learned in both World Wars  --  that the true measure of American military power lies not alone in the size of our armed forces , but in the speed with which we can convert @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said . He spoke to eighteen Columbia University students , many of them officers in the armed services , who are taking a course in economic mobilization plannin ? at the Graduate School of Business . He was introduced by Gen. Dwight D. Eisenhower . Mr. Baruch spoke for twenty // two minutes and then answered questions for an hour more . His theme was the same : advance economic planning could prevent a third World War or shorten one if it began . The students and General Eisenhower indicated by their questions and comments that they agreed with the 79-year-old expert . Many of the students wanted to know why such stand-by laws could not be passed now . To this his answer was " lack of political courage " and " pressure groups . " At one point in the question period he said mobilization laws such as he advocated could be passed if President Truman were willing , but indicated that the President apparently was not . Discusses Social Liberties One student asked whether it were possible to include provisions for preserving our social liberties in such a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could best be accomplished by winning any war . General Eisenhower interjected ' a comment here . He said if we went into a war with plans such as outlined there would be more chance for the country to emerge with its civil liberties preserved than if " you go into it hit or miss . " Later , General Eisenhower , giving what he termed " a military comment , " said the problem of mobilization was international . He said this country had to plan to hold a line in Western Europe and , therefore , the economic needs of our allies became important . In his speech , Mr. Baruch told the students and about twenty-five guests that what prevented the outbreak of another war was not primarily American possession of atomic weapons , but " the memory of the crushing military might this , country mobilized and transported to every part of the world in the ' last war , " It took this country roughly two and a half years to convert from peace to all-out war production during the last war , he recalled . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lag by enacting now the stand-by mobilization program , he said . " Of course , this time lag can not be closed completely , " he went on . " Because of that we must maintain a military force capable of instant retaliation and of holding a safe line of defense until we have time to mobilize . To the degree that we narrow the time lag in our mobilization , our military forces can be safely reduced . " Mr. Baruch warned that Soviet mobilization readiness today surpassed ours . This was the reason , he said , why the diplomatic initiative in the " cold war " was being pressed by the Soviets . Calls for " Enduring " Policy To meet the challenge of the " cold war , " the United States must develop an " enduring defense policy and establishment which will see the struggle through to the victory of peace ? no matter how long it takes , " he said . He added , however , that we still lacked the equivalent of a global strategy for the whole of peacemaking , did @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such strategy , and continued to dissipate our resources without decision . He specified a sound mobilization program as the key factor in preventing a war or winning it if it were forced upon us . Standby measures should include the following , he said : 1 . An impartial selective service law , with a work-or-fight clause . 2 . A ready civilian defense . 3 . The elimination of profiteering . 1 . An over-all ceiling on all prices , rents , wages and other costs to prevent the inflation that could wreck any mobilization. 5 . Higher taxes . 5 . Power to curtail less essential production to give priority to military and essential civilian needs . 7 . Organization of manpower to direct it where most needed , with an index of all essential skill : and training facilities . 8 . Rationing of scarce essentials . 9 . Comprehensive system of . eco . nomic defense controlling all im ports and exports .                     