@@718753

txt Ecuador is making some of the most dramatic political progress in the hemisphere today . Prior to 1948 , the country went through 25 years of almost onstant revolution . Since that late revolutions have almost disappeared , and three Presidents have been elected democratically , two having served their full terms ? an unusual Dccurrencc in that mountain-girt land . This period of political pacification has given a long-range boost to the economy of the country although at the moment the government faces major problems . Progress of the country has assumed a bipartisan character . Last year Conservative Dr. Camilo Ponce was elected President , the first of his party to hold that post in more than 60 years . Many of his liberal foes felt that Dr. Ponce 's accession would mean a wave of ultra-conservatism , clericalism , and repression . During his tenure as Minister of the Interior in the Vclasco Ibarra government he clamped down lard on the press and used police powers with a strong hand . Later , however , Dr. Velasco Ibarra admitted that the orders for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Dr. Ponce . Revolt . Fails Dr. Ponce gained power with only 29 per cent of the popular vote  --  thanks to the wide-open split among his Liberal and dissident . Conservative foes . Some Liberals raised a brief revolt last July and congressional tactics were attempted to keep him out of power , but these efforts were unsuccessful . Ecuadorians say that the traditions of democracy are now rooting deeply into the country , which explains the failure of the antidemocratic efforts to bar him from the presidency . The people were fed up with the long years of political chaos which held back their country . Another significant fact in recent Ecuadorian history has been the moderate role played by the military . The great bulk of its leaders have pledged to abide by . the Constitution . Prior to the 1940 's the military kept a finger firmly in the , political pie . Dr. Ponce 's regime so far has surprised even his worst enemies . His government has been moderate , conciliatory . and has rigidly adhered to democratic forms . Clericalism Rejected He has even @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ call himself a " progressive " Conservative " ) . That is , he has adopted some of the political concepts of the Liberals  --  the need to raise the living standards of the Indian populations and incorporate them into the national economy , closer intercommunication between the coastal regions and the Andean valleys . He also abolished police excesses practiced during the Velasco Ibarra regime . Although Conservatives in Ecuador have long had close ties with the Roman Catholic Church , he has not opposed the work of Protestant missionaries . There has been no trend toward clericalism . In tact , his administration turned back a congressional bill for resumption of religious teaching in public schools . Under the long succession of Liberal regimes , Ecuador developed a strong of anticlericalism . There has been no crackdown Monitor on the press  --  although some Liberals charge that behind the scenes the government exerts its power to keep the press in line . Many Liberals are expressing an admiration ? if reluctant  --  over the Ponce administration 's accomplishments . One Liberal , in fact , avers that the moderate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tremendous challenge to the greatly divided Liberals . He was apprehensive that if Dr. Ponce should fill out his term of office and be able to give the country a continuing good administration , this might result in " handing back the country to the Conservatives . " Nevertheless , Dr. Ponce 's problems arc not easy . The Velasco Ibarra regime , spending heavily on public works , left the country with a shortage of money when the new government took over . While Dr. Ponce has gained ground politically by his sober , conciliatory attitude ( which may be influenced by his knowledge of the delicate political balance in the country ) , he is in what one observer described as a " race against time , " The country has many debts to pay and little cash with which to operate internally . To be successful he must show results economically . Dr. Ponce has attempted to meet these problems with a tightened money policy and government economies and without resort to the printing press to grind out inflated money . Faced with little or no money in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tightened the income-tax structure . In addition , he and his Cabinet at an executive session of the Congress begged for a cut in the budget proposed by the outgoing administration . The budget was trimmed to a little below the figure for the previous year . An outspoken exponent of free enterprise , the Ecuadorian President has sought to dismantle some government monopolies . State-owned railroads , match , alcohol , salt , and cigarette monopolies are in the process of being handed over to private enterprise .                     