@@716746

txt President Eisenhower appealed Yesterday to both of " our great parties " to support the objectives defined in his State of the Union message . There will be time later for a detailed consideration of these objectives , particularly when yesterday 's message is supplemented by the additional messages which the President has promised to send . Here we attempt only a first appraisal , in which we begin , as the President did , with a consideration of I. Foreign Policy For the first time in more than two decades an American President has delivered his State of the Union message in a world at least nominally at peace . This welcome fact determines its tenor . There are no startling pro- nouncements , no challenges , noharsh words to alarm friend or excite potential foe . The foreign , policy ' outlined is in tune with the moderate , middleof-the-road policies pursued by President Eisenhower in other fields . The President is fully aware that the existing peace is only an insecure stalemate ; ) that the struggle between human freedom and Communist slavery continues @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and nuclear weapons , threaten the world with atomic war . In this situation he rightly holds that our first duty and responsibility must be to preserve the peace we have . And the formula he again propounds for doing so is " peace through strength . " That strength must rest first of all on military power able to deter aggression . It must rest on growing unity among free nations , which means support of collective defense under the United Nations , development of our alliances and settlement of issues dividing the free world . The message is able to cite notable progress along these lines , topped by the Western European Union and the Manila pact . Finally , free world strength must rest on the expansion of trade and aid to friendly nations to promote political and economic vitality capable of repelling Communist subversion . In all these fields President Eisenhower offers other free nations not so much " leadership " as a " true partnership . " ** the basis of such strength the President again pledges himself to enter into any negotiations that promise to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shall not buy peace at the expense of honor or good faith . We believe that this policy has the support of the nation . II . National Defense President Eisenhower 's recommendations in the field of national defense come from an expert . He did not make them ex cathedra , however , but chose to preface them with a statement of what he called " certain fundamentals " underlying our defense program . These should be kept in mind . . The need for a great defense establishment is not of our choosing . Since , under present conditions , we have no alternative , we must make that establishment as vigorous as is possible and at the same time retain our commitment to the efforts for peace , disarmament and the non-destructive uses of atomic energy . The President sets forth a goal of balance and flexibility in our farces , a ready reserve , adequate stockpiling , strategic deployment and what he calls " the utmost in efficiency and ingenuity . " Attaining such a goal is not so much a matter of drastic new legislation as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at our command . The problem , in short , is more administrative than legislative . For that reason it should not be permitted to become a political football . There are , however , immediate legislative-needs and the President I therefore will recommend the extension of the Selective Service Act , which , without legislation , will expire next June . He-will ask for laws providing better personal conditions - for those in service so as to reduce turnover . Finally , he will ask for a comprehensive training and reserve program to provide the proper ready manpower base , This is an imperative . In this message the military-politica:1 philosophy that is set forth seems to us to be thoroughly sound : The measures that are to be presented and recommended deserve strong support . III . The Economics of Freedom Last year the President lost his battle for a three-year extension of the Reciprocal Trade Agreements Act and had to be satisfied with one year . Now , as we know from reliable sources in Washington , not too far from the White House , he feels strong enough @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 5 per cent reduction eacE year for three years of the tariff rates on selected commodities . The details of this proposal will be given to Congress next Monday . In yesterday 's message the President points out that " barriers still impede trade and the flow of capital needed to develop each nation 's human and material resources " ; that " wise reduction of these barriers is a long-term objective of our foreign economic policy , " and urges the gradual reduction of " certain tariff obstacles to trade . " He also puts in a word for technical assistance and other steps to aid less developed countries and to " release forces of private initiative . " This brief section of a long speech had of necessity to omit details , but the heart of Mr. Eisenhower 's economic philosophy is there . He rests his faith on private initiative and wholesome competition , but he knows also that this virtue and this condition may not arise of themselves in a world so warped and torn as today 's world is . If the health of the free @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ some doctoring . IV . On the Home Front Turning from foreign affairs to the home front , we find the President 's message yesterday fairly studded with references to an " expansion " of the domestic economy . But Mr. Eisenhower makes it clear that by " expansion " he does not mean simple inflation . His Administration , the President says , wants an economy that is " vigorous and free . " Steps taken during the last two years , he observed , have been designed . to " adjust to conditions of peace , " " to create a climate for economic growth " and " to encourage increased private spending and employment . " It is obvious from such phrases that Mr. Eisenhower not only wants economic expansion , but expansion of a definite kind . Under his concept the Government would recognize the democratic system of private enterprise as the basic driving force behind such expansion . It would be the responsibility of the Government ( 1 ) to maintain an atmosphere calculated to ' maximize that driving force , ( 2 ) to give @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( 3 ) to see that it does n't get out of control , and ( 4 ) to be prepared to . mobilize economic activities theecome under its own direction at such times as this basic source of energy should momentarily run down . That there is no confusion in the President 's mind between expansion and inflation is clear from his repeated emphasis of the point that we can hope for no permanent and stable prosperity in the absence of a dollar of stable value . His recommendation that there be no further tax reduction this year accords with this latter conviction . In two years the Administration has reduced Government spenaIng by $11 billions , but much of this gain has been turned back to the people in the form of lower taxes . It is logical that with business recovering the Administration is not only in a position to move in the direction of a balanced budget , but has an obligation to do so . V. Our Natural Resources In enunciating basic principles for the management of our natural resources the President - places proper stress on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ state and federal governments . To the degree that this partnership canbe carried .. out with efficiency and without impairment of ? the fundaa mental public interest , it is commendable ; and , as the President indicates , it has some excellent results to show . We agree with the President th#t the Federal Government itsfelf must undertake those projects of ? su'ch great complexity that they are beyond private Or local resources ; but the big question is : Which projects ? Mr. Eisenhower specifically cites in this connection the gigantic plan for development of the Upper Colorado basin . The West certainly needs water ; but it may still ' be open to argument whether this particular plan , as it is presently projected , is worth the ultimate - cost ; and it . is certainly open to argument whether all the specific dam sites selected have been wisely chosen . The President emphasizes his interest in conservation and in the protection of our national parks , forests ; and public lands ; but thus far . the Administration has not distinguished itself for its interest in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ President 's proposals on- highway development , transportation studies and the coordination of public works indicate that much thought ' has : been given to ' these important subjects ; and we can expect to see some interesting and worthwhile proposals relating to them in the near future , VI . Farm Policy The determination- of the Administration to return to a free peacetime economy is nowhere better exemplified than in the area of titriculture . Here , last year , it had to overcome the powerful resistance of the farm bloc , which put up a bitter fight for I the retention ' of the high rigid farm price supports which had teen introduced for purely wartime purposes in the early Nineteen Forties and were to have expired eight years ago . As the President told Congress yesterday , we are at last " headed in the right direction " ; the important thing now is " to continue resolutely on this road . " When a Government has subsidized agricultural overproduction for as long as this this huge surpluses resulting from that course ca n't be wished away , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the President was able yesterday to give Congress a sample of the results it may expect if it does n't permit farm policy to get off the rails again . Since ? " February , 1953 , the rate of increase in Government-held surpluses " has been reduced by our moving into - 'use more than $2.3 billions ' worth of Government-owned farm commhdities . " VII . The Federal Service The President 's Comments regarding the structure of the Federal Government , and the people who lend flesh and blood to that structure , seem to us somewhat uninspiring . True , he does urge " a long overdue increase " in the salaries of members of Congress and the federal judiciary ; and we hope that this year , finally , action will be taken in that respect . ' The President also intends to ask ' next week for higher pay for other classes of federal personnel . But on the one major issue that has done more to disrupt the morale of the federal civil service than anything else , the " security risk " question , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that " an improved and strengthened security system is in effect thidnghout the Government " is open to serious question , for the system has shown itself in many cases to be so full of holes that the need for a re-examination of its premises and its methods is evident . We regret that the President has not seized the initiative by appointing a special commission that could keep ' this subject further away from politics than any Congressional committee could , no matter how well intentioned . The President throws a bouquet toward the Second Hoover Commission ; but hard work will be needed if the forthcoming recommendations of this body are to be ' put into effect . According to figures of the nonpartisan Citizens Committee for the Hoover Report , some 65 per cent of the First Hoover Report was adopted during the last three years of the previous Administration , while during the first two years of the present Administration only an additional 7 per cent of the report has become effective . VIII . Statehood and Suffrage We agree with the President in declaring that " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Hawaii . " We have long urged admission of Alaska as well ; but the two questions are entirely separate and ought to be considered ' separately . The only thing that blocks admission of Hawaii is , of course , the heretofore successful effort of the proponents of Alaskan statehood to force a " deal " whereby both would be admitted or neither . This . kind of argument may be practical politics , but it has nothing to do with the merits of the case . Similarly , the refusal of Congress to grant full citizenship rights to the residents of the District of Columbia has no moral justification , and we are glad to see the President ask again for self-government and suffrage for Washingtonians . However , we can not agree with his plea for a constitutional amendment to reduce the voting age for federal elections . IX . Immigration Policy During his election campaign of 1952 the President promised to seek ' revision of unjust features of the McCarran Immigration Act . Subsequently he Called to the attention of Congress - specific faults in the law @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ history his remarks yesterday on the subject are notably mild . He does ask that the " inequitable " and " discriminatory " provisions of the law be " corrected " . at this session ; but we would be pleased to see him give More push to such a move than he has yet done . Furthermore , there is no comment on the unsatisfactory way in which the Refugee Relief Act has been working thus far . X. Government 's Helping Hand In his social- program the President again faces the irony of our desire for individual independence and selfreliance and the fact that many of us in modern societies , because of mia7-fortune , illness or old age , can not always be independent , self-reliant and productiVe . Those who wish to damn the ' con-.I ception , of a governmental helping halid call it the " welfare state . " That certainly is not what the President has in mind . Social welfare programs , whether federal , state =local , really have two elements : first , the element of contribution , as in various @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , a device by which people able to ' do so contribute toward those - of their neighbors who ari in need : This - giv- * ing , even though it is regulated - by ' law and the-funds taken by-taxation , is still a neighborly act and need not ' create a central tyranny or break the will ? of those who benefit . President Eisenhower ' believes that if the Federal Government does . only what ' can not " otherwise be adequately performed " and does not uimpair the self-respect , freedom and incentive of the individual , " public welfare need not create " a dependent population or a domineering bureaucracy . " Insuranceagainst unemployment , rehabilitation facilities , decent housing , good medical care , the further extension of social security into various fields and into various groups  --  all these things are possible without impairing our freedoms or lessening our individual responsibilities . In this , as in other parts of his message , President Eisenhower - allied himself again with what he recently called the " group of progressive moderates . " What do we seek when we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and want ? For that matter , what do we seek when we look abroad and help ' our friends at times and in situations when they can not adequately do things for themselves ? At home and abroad we seek a world in which extremes of need and suffering will be done away with . We seek also a world in which every person will be able to give full energy and enthusiasm to creative work . This is no partisan program ? it is rather an American arid democratic ideal . What the President said yesterday was consistent with it . ? ? ,                     