@@715895

txt President Eisenhower , Prime Minister Churchill , and Premier Joseph Laniel of France today agreed to accept Russia 's invitation to a four nation conference at the foreign ministers ' level . The general agreement was reached at the first meeting of the three leaders to discuss world problems . Their session lasted 2% hours after State Secretary Dulles , Foreign Secretary Eden a Britain , and Foreign Minister Georges Bidault of France held a short meeting to discuss the conference program . In getting American consent to participate with the British and French in a meeting with Russia , possibly in Berlin at an early date , Churchill agreed not to press now his desire for a personal meeting with the Russian Pfemier Georgi Malenkov , Draft Joint Reply Experts from the three delegations were given the task of drafting a joint reply to the Russian note offering to meet to discuss " European security , " ' particularly matters concerning Germany and Austria . An official statement of progress was issued at the close of the session , which was completed by candle light when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ leaders had met to review " the world situation " and Dulles and the two foreign ministers would meet tomorrow to discuss the soviet note , followed by another formal meeting " of the three leaders at 5 p. m. , Bermuda time , or 3 p. in. ? Chicago time . Ovation for Eisenhower President Eisenhower received an ovation when he arrived in Bermuda today by plane . The , President 's left hand was wrapped in bandages . James C. Hagerty , the Presidential secretary , said that the President scratched his palm at the White House last night but that the injury was not serious . The three leaders lost no time in getting down to the business at hand , the No. 1 topic being how to get along with Russia . Mr. Eisenhower , Churchill and Laniel conferred in the swank Mid  --  Ocean club , where they will reside during the meeting . Atomic Ex-pert in Party Mr. Eisenhower brought with him an added starter in the American delegation in the person of Lewis W. Strauss , chairman of the atomic energy commission . Churchill @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ freer access for ; Britain to American atomic information , and has brought with him Frederick Alexander Lindemann Lord Cherwell , his scientific adviser and former chief of the British atomic energy program . The three leaders are also scheduled to discuss the likelihood of France ratifying the European defense community program for a six nation army to defend western Europe , and particularly the role of a rearmed Germany in that setup . French political ranks have been split by this issue , and Laniel remains in office and attends the Bermuda conference by the grace of only 31 votes in a confidence vote last week in the French lower house . Discussions among the three leaders will be world-wide in range , covering the situation in Korea , Indo-China , and the far east and the middle east . Considerable skepticism has been expressed over what the conference can accomplish . However , the President radiated confidence that better understandings would be one result as he spoke upon arrival over a loud speaker hookup . He said : " It is a very great privilege to meet on this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ know that our conversaticns here will result in better understanding among the people involved , and I sincerely hope with mutual benefit to our respective countries . " To each of you who have come out this morning , my thanks for the cordiality of your welcome . " He 's General Again The President received by far the biggest welcome of the three government leaders . Churchill , quite a show stealer , had to yield the spotlight to Mr. Eisenhower . Eisenhower was a general again as he briskly reviewed the combined American and British guard of honor , under the command of Capt . J. V. Neill of the Welch Fusiliers . American marines , sailors , and air force men participated in the honor guard , along with the Welch Fusiliers , whose colorful uniforms and mascot , a white billy goat with curved and gilded horns , also attracted Mr. Eisenbower 's attention . The President stopped to pat the goat on the head and Mr. Churchill did the same as he passed . It Was the third day in a row that the goat had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ examine the white buckskin apron worn by the Fusilier pioneers engineers who carry picks , shovels , and axes . 5,000 Applaud Show A crowd estimated at more than 5,000 applauded the show.1 It got three celebrities for the price of one and really turned out for the first time since the arrivals began with Churchill on Wednesday . Many Americans were in the crowd . They applauded Mr. Eisenhower and he smilingly doffed his gray felt hat . A group of bobby soxers led cheers for the President and school children shouted , " We like Ike " as he drove to the Mid-Ocean club . Churchill and Laniel , accompanied by Eden and Bidault , arrived about 10 minutes ahead of the President . They spent their time chatting . Churchill speaks French bat Laniel does n't speak English . Churchill , 79 , seemed in good spirits as he walked up to gr e et the President . Mr. Eisenhower , wearing a gray business suit , walked quickly down the ramp from his plane to shake hands first with Gov . Alexander Hood , resplendent in a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ white plumes . The President walked thru a guard of air force police to shake hands with Churchill . He smilingly told Churchill , " Well , it 's been a long time . " Then the President and Laniel bowed to each other and shook hands . Mr. Eisenhower , backed by Churchill and Laniel , stood at attention as a British frigate , the St. Austell Bay . anchored offshore , fired a 21 gun salute . The President received a line of civilian and military dignitaries and their wives . One woman curtsied to him . Mr. Eisenhower and Churchill entered Gov . Hood 's limousine but left Hood behind . He followed later with his wife in a little English car . He had to take off his helmet to enter it . The caravan proceeded to the MidOcean club .                     