@@717960

txt Monday 's extraordinary news conference in the Pentagon of all the nation 's military chiefs has helped , as Secretary of Defense Wilson hoped it would , to put great military issues into clearer perspective . Inter-service and intra-service differences , always existent , had emerged from the academic freedom of the war colleges and the sanctity of military staff papers into the forum of Congress and the press . The result was Mr. Wilson 's convocation of the Secretaries and the uniformed chiefs of all the services . The Secretary struck exactly the right note in his opening remarks when he stressed two points . " There will always be , " he said , " some differences of opinion within ' and between the services in connection with military operations . Honest differences and reasonable competition * " are healthy * * s . " To this the Secretary added that " it is not good for the country , however , to have these differences * * * aired on the basis of service partisanship " without balancing the partisans ' subjective assessments with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the purpose of the dramatic conference , but its real background is the technological revolution in warfare through which we are passing  --  a revolution that has smudged the fine line between missiles and aircraft , armies and air forces . navies and flying fleets . The conference did not , of course , settle the great issues , nor did it always clarify them . But it made the fundamental point that no military " party line " ? no dictated and imposed strategy , no service agreement imposed by fiat  --  can possibly provide the bais for a sound system of security . The services ' educational systems encourage ? as they should  --  a free examination of all issues . Honest differences of opinion must be encouraged  --  not discouraged . So far as the technical issues of the controversy are concerned , we believe there is this to be said : 1 . On the concentration upon air power . The Army , now the principal antagonist of the Air Force in the Pentagon , is quite correct in maintaining the continued utility of the soldier in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fighting non-atomic wars such as Korea or limited nuclear wars or we may face ugly alternatives in the worldwide struggle against communism ? defeat or transformation of a small war into a nuclear one . But preponderant emphasis must be given to ? our capability of " massive retaliation , " for it is only this capability which would enable us to keep a small war small . Unless we can discourage any potential enemy from utilizing nuclear weapons against us by the fear of bigger and better retaliation , the development of limited nuclear strategies or of non-nuclear ones would be simply an intellectual exercise without practical meaning . 2 . On aircraft carriers . The Air Force " Indians " in the Pentagon are really challenging the President himself on this issue . For the utility of the carrier as a base for the strategic bombardment of enemy land targets has been threshed out at the highest levels in Europe and Washington . Long ago , in the famous Key West and Newport agreements on roles and missions of the swvices , the Navy was given an ancillary , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , then a general and Supreme Commander of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization forces in Europe , personally integrated the carriers of the Sixth Fleet in tfie Mediterranean into NATO 's strategic plans . Today these carriers have specific ? targets  - -  agreed upon all up and down the chain of command  --  which their aircraft would bomb in the event of war . Whether these targets  --  airfields , nodal communication points , and so on ? are " strategic " or " tactical " is a question . of semantics , which has little importance . What is important is the utility of the aircraft carrier in bombardment of enemy land targets . 3 . On missiles . The immediate issue , between the Air Force and the Army , is about the utility of the Army 's Nike anti-aircraft weapon , but the larger problem , still to be resolved in some categories , is what service is to handle what missile . The Nike is a short-range , high speed , radar-controlled missile installed around many of our cities . Its present twenty-five-mile range makes - it , as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ weapon ; an enemy bomber might get so close to its target before it was in range of the Nike that a hydrogen bomb would cause devastation to the target even if the bomber were shot down . A later version of the Nike will about double the present range ; even this  --  given the rapid development of technology  --  will soon be of marginal value , for bombers soon will fire guided missiles themselves . All this , though true , can not and should not alter the responsible decision that was made , with top approval in the Pentagon and the National Security Council , to ring our cities with Nike installations . The cost is large , and the protection offered is perhaps both marginal and temporary . But the Nike has been an operational weapon for many months ; the longer-range Talos , which the Air Force prefers , probably will not be ready in quantity for eighteen months . Finally , it should be clearly understood that all methods of warfare are changing . The disputes in Washington which occasionally erupt to public view are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pilot , the submarine skipper , the missile expert in the Navy all see their specialty as the arm of tomorrow . Airborne and armor and artillery ( missiles ) ? with new technologies  --  vie in the Army . And the Air Force , under the compulsion of change , is being forced to reassess the meaning of a " bomber " ; in an age when a fighter plane , with air refueling , can carry a hydrogen bomb many hundreds of miles into enemy territory , even the relative importance of the Strategic Air Command is subject to modification . The new technologies stress the old lessons of many wars  --  vital to security  --  the indivisibility of military force , the necessity for flexible sfl.ategies , the need for freedom of thought . We can never afford a military " party line . "                     