@@714628

txt One of nine guards . held as hostages was released today by 231 " striking " convicts besieged by police in a dormitory wing of the New Jersey state prison farm here . The guard , Marlon Dunn of East Trenton , suffering from ulcers , was freed by the convicts when he became ill . He reported he and the ' eight other captive guards had been well treated , and that food sent them by prison authorities had reached them . Dunn said the rioters , holed up in the red brick dormitory from which water , electricity , and food aside from food for the captive guards had been cut off since midnight Thursday , had broken up radiators to suck out the boiler water as their thirst increased . Hang Out Sign ? " Water " Earlier today they had hung a bed sheet sign ? " Water " ? from a shattered window . Prison authorities , believing this an indication the resistance of the convicts was weakening , hoped for an early end to the mutiny . R. William Lagay , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the convicts , but no coherent replies were received . The uprising began shortly before 9 p. m . Thursday , when the convicts seized control of the dor- : mitory wing in what authorities described as a strike in sympathy with rioting convicts at Trenton state prison . Sixty-nine convicts at Trenton surrendered yesterday , 77 hours after they began rioting and seized the prison print shop . Thee hostages they had held were unharmed . The prison was described as quiet today . 661 Confined to Cells At the Rahway prison farm 664 convicts who are not participating in the riot have been confined to their cells since the revolt began . Meanwhile Sanford Bates , commissioner of institutions and agencies , replied in a statement to charges made by the Rahway rioters , who hung out a bed sheet banner demanding , " Investigate mass beatings here in segregation  --  a doctor will verify . " Bates said corporal punishment was carried out only once in recent years . That episode involved five ringleaders of a previous Trenton outbreak who had been transferred to the prison farm @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " it was deemed necessary to use force " to subdue the five when they became " unusually unruly . " An examination the next morning by the prison farm physician , Dr. Perry A. Proudfoot , showed only minor injuries , Bates said . Gov . Driscoll of New Jersey has been blamed for lax conditions in the state 's penal institutions . He has ignored charges of immorality , gambling , narcotics , home brew making , and other scandalous activities in the prison .                     