@@713237

txt CONGRESS LEADERS HAIL NEW TAX PLAN President 's Threat to ' Pocket ' Anti-Red Bill May Delay Adjournment Saturday speciat to THE NEW YORK TIMES . WASHINGTON , Sept. 10 ? President Truman 's announced intention of vetoing the McCarran AntiCommunist Bill may prevent adjournment of Congress next Saturday . This was learned tonight as Congressional tax leaders were hailing President Truman 's request for taxes to make the rearmament program a pay-as-you-go affair . In his speech last night unveiling his plans for economic mobilization and controls , Mr. Truman said Congress " should enact further tax legislation as soon as possible . " To this , Senator Walter F. George , Democrat of Georgia , answered that Congress would soon start work on a second installment tax bill to collect about $7,000,000 , - 000 more yearly . However , it was made clear that such work would be purely preliminary , because the bill would not get definitive consideration until the Eighty-second Congress convened next January . Congressional leaders will go to the White House tomorrow morning to confer with the President . // @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . As of tonight , however , many members thought the Saturday goal would be attained . A leading Democrat said tonight , on the other hand , that adjournment might be postponed to prevent a. pocket veto of the McCarran bill by Mr. Truman . Backers of this measure feel they have the strength to override a veto and thus hesitate to adjourn . The McCarran bill , in addition to tightening espionage and sabotage laws , would require that Communist party members and front organizations register . The Senate has been debating it for several days and will start voting Tuesday afternoon . A similar measure has passed the House of Representatives . After the bill is finally enacted and sent to the White House President Truman would have ten days in which to approve it , veto it or allow it to become law without his signature , should Congress remain in session . If Mr. Truman should veto it under such circumstances Congress would then have the opportunity to override by two-thirds vote of each House . %Void ( Bar Pocket Veto Should Congress adjourn , however @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ veto it by doing nothing This is what the bill 's backers wish to avoid and what may force a prolongation of the session , despite the wish to get home for election campaigning . Mr. Truman believes the antiCommunist feature of the bill is unconstitutional and un-American , that it would be extremely difficult of enforcement and would simply send Communists and their sympathizers underground . However , it appears that at least twothirds of each House disagree . The House returns tomorrow after its long Labor Day holiday . It will have before it the $4,508 , - 000,000 first installment tax increase bill . It is expected that the House will send this measure to conference , although there may be efforts to add an excess profits tax . Mr Truman has asked this type of tax be provided in the second installment , which will not come until next year . Should the bill be quickly sent to conference , agreement and final enactment seems likely before the end of the week . The Rearmament Fund There is one other measure 1 n be completed before adjournament @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the country 's rearmament program . This has been passed by the House . The Senate is expected to pass it promptly after it finishes with the McCarran bill . This bill could easily be completed in time for a Saturday adjournment should a real fight be made for that goal . The Democratic leadership has put two other hills on its " must " list before adjournment . These would set in motion the machinery by which Alaska and Hawaii would become the forty-ninth and fiftieth States . Both bills have been approved by the House . However , there is considerable opposition in the Senate . Because a filibuster by opponents is quite possible it is not likely that the bills will be pushed to a vote . Means 4 More Senators The admittance of two more states would of course mean addition of four members to the Senate . This increase conceivably could weaken the power of Southern Democrats to defeat attempts to enact the President 's civil rights program . Senator George in commenting . on taxes said he believed a second tax bill raising about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ next fiscal year . He estimated that the deficit in the current fiscal year , which will end June 30 , would not be more than $2,500,000,000 . Blow to F. B. Seen WASHINGTON , Sept. 10 UM ? . Senator Harley M. Kilgore , Democrat of Virginia , said today that the anti-Communist bill proposed by Senator Pat McCarran , Democrat of Nevada , would " seriously damage the undercover work of the Federal Bureau of Investigation . He contended that in carrying out what he termed the " impractical registration features " of the bill , F.B.I . undercover agents would have to testify in open hearings and thus destroy their effectiveness . Senator Kilgore is the author of a substitute anti-Communist bill , which would empower the Attorney General to throw Communists into concentration camps during national emergencies .                     