@@715807

txt in invoking the Fifth Amendment before congressional committees ? has induced the administration to contemplate a serious legal step . Attorney General Herbert Brownell , Jr. , will ask the next session of Congress for a law which would prevent witnesses from invoking the Fifth Amendment to the Constitution ( " I refuse to testify on the ground that it may incriminate me " ) by forcibly granting such witnesses immunity from criminal prosecution . In other words , a witness could not refuse to testify on grounds of self-incrimination because Congress and the Attorney General would have power to rule him immune from prosecution . Also , the White House has just ordered that federal employees who invoke the Fifth Amendment shall be subject to possible dismissal , thus tightening the President 's security program announced April 27 . A bill providing approximately this was passed by the Senate last session . Sponsored by Senator Pat McCarran ( D ) of . Nevada , it stated that any witness who refuses to testify on grounds of possible sell-incrimination may be forced to testify if two-thirds of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ immunity from prosecution . Amendment Proposed This proposal is still pending before Congress . The administration would amend it to give the Attorney General a larger role in deciding whether and when immunity should be granted to witnesses . The administration proposal would vest the power to grant immunity jointly in the Attorney General and in appropriate members of Congress . This whole proposal , which amounts virtually to a suspension of the constitutional guarantee against self-incrimination , is not undertaken lightly by the administration . After all , the Privilege against testimony that is self-incriminating was well established in British common law as early as 1650 . Down through American historyshol.vever , there has been experimentatiOn with statutes grapting immunity to testifiers so that they would offer testimony which without the immunity grant would render them liable to federal prosecution . Unfortunately , sometimes the worst criminals then escaped punishment by taking advantage of these statutes , testifying profusely about their own crimes and claiming immunity , from prosecution . But it has been the frustrating practice of Communists , subversives , and other reluctant witnesses before congressional committees , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has led to active consideration of this device to void the amendment 's protection . Mr. Brownell also comments that a good many criminal eases involving tax fraud . racketeering , and even murder remain unsolved today because witnesse : can refuse to testify against themselves . Move Debated Whether this whittling away at constitutional protections , even to catch subversives , is wise is a matter of considerable debate . Some contend that if the nation has rocked along for 150 years without obtaining self-incriminating testimony from witnesses , it can get along without in effect amending the Contitution today . The fact that subversives are apparently still active in the United States  --  the sudden prospect , for instance , that radar secrets have been filched from Signal Corps , files at Fort Monmouth , N.J. ? gives ammunition to those who contend that new methods and approaches arc . necessary . Now comes the effort to compel witnesses to testify against themselves . The administration is going along with congresional sentiment , asking only that the Attorney General have a voice in determining when immunity should be granted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may possess extremely pertinent background information about . specific witnesses .                     