@@712696

txt WASHINGTON , Feb. 18 ? Soft coal wage talks . went into a dead stall today and . a recess was taken till 2 P. M. Monday . The Government clung officially to a belief that John L. Lewis ' second end-the-strike order to his miners would stay the creeping coal famine , but reports from the field ran strongly to the contrary . Unless signs of a break in the strike front appear , the Government 's immediate alternative is to start action for contempt Of-court against the United Mine Workers and its officers. ? It will be up to Judge Richmond B. Keech of the Federal District Court , to decide Whether the defendants have taken all possible action to carry out his order . The union 's lawyers axe scheduled to appear in Judge Keech 's court at 10 A. M. Monday to show why the ten-day restraining order should not be extended for the full eighty days provided for in the Taft-Hartley Act . The question of contempt will not necessarily rise at that time . The week-end recess in negotiations came at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a hotel room . David L. Cole , chairman of the board of inquiry in the dispute , said he and Cyrus S. Ching , Federal mediation chief , suggested the " breather . " " They were n't making the real // progress we hoped , for so we ? thought a recess would be helpful , " Mr. Cole added , A little earlier , after reporting to President Truman , Mr. Cole had ' said : " We in this group believe agreat many miners are going back . Monday . We expect a real back-towork movement to develop . We hope it will be enough to allay the crisis and mane ? further Government action unnecessary . " He stressed that Mr. Lewis ' message to local unions yesterday was much stronger than his first one , last Saturday . John D. Battle , executive vice ' president of the National Coal Association , said this afternoon : " From the many telephonic reports I get it looks like they are not going back . It has all the earL marks of a wink , or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " I did n't believe that yesterday , but it does look like ' ? it now . It Is up , to the . Government to show whether it controls Mr. Lewis or Mr. Lewis controls the Government . " . Senator Robert A. Taft , Republican , of Ohio , told reporters that he thought " vigorous ? action by the Government would get the men back , because I think most of them want to go back . " He said President Truman had two courses of action , contempt of court proceedings and action to prevent violence . Of newspaper reports that local unions were meeting and failing to direct a return . to work , Senator Taft said : " That would be in clear defiance , I think , of the injunction . It seems to represent direct contempt of court . ' " The Senator said- he did not know whether it could be proved that Mr. Lewis himself.was in contempt . . At the White House Mr. Truman 's press secretary ; Charles G. Ross , emphasized to reporters that " the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ powers . " Mr. Cole said the board of inquiry gave the President a factual report . Then he and Mr. Ching rejoined the eight-man wage conference at the hotel three blocks away : Two and one-half hours later he admitted that " there does n't seem to be any change at all " in the bargaining situation . Mr. Cole said the unexpectedly long recess was not tied to the question whether the . miners would show up for ' work on Monday , because negotiations would go on in any event . Reliable reports indicated that the recess was prompted by a sense of futility and a gamble that a rest ? from the grindstone might soften the attitudes of the bargainers . Asked whether he had any assurance from Mr ; ? Lewis that the miners would be back at work on Monday , Mr , Cole replied : " No , but he told me the letter was sent out in good faith . "                     