@@712680

txt Republican optimism toward November 's state election mounted swiftly today following Lt. Comdr . William H. Bates ' spectacular victory in the Sixth Congressional District special election . The Bates winning margin was 43,947 to 16,422 over his Democratic opponent , Richard M. Russell , former Mayor of Cambridge . It was even larger than many of his supporters anticipated . His workers had striven for a 2-to-1 margin . So , today , Republican leaders gleefully claimed they had found a winning formula ? " new faces and a 1950 outlook . " That phrase ' came from Mason Sears , chairman of the Republican State Committee . But it was quickly echoed by others . Although the victory had been anticipated , in view of the unbroken tradition of Republican representation from the district , the manner in which that victory was accomplished spurred Republican November hopes . New Leader Sought In fact , it may eliminate some of the tarnish from the Republican nomination for governor . It may make it more attractive to a greater number of candidates . Republican leaders hope it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the GOP gubernatorial mantle . Republican leaders , such as Mr. Sears , have been searching for new talent , at least talent unhampered by past election drubbing . Thus far , they have met rebuff , for one reason or another . The size of the Bates ' victory could change a decision or two . At any rate , the previous gloom has been replaced somewhat by optimism . Those leaders who felt before the special election that Governor Dever can be beaten in November are now more certain . One reason for their optimism was the fact that the Democrats drew heavily upon national political figures to support Mr. Russell . but they lost heavily . Vice-.President Barkley went out of his way to - urge Mr. Russell 's election . Maurice J. Tobin , Secretary of Labor , who carried the district in his 1944 gubernatorial campaign , entered the district on Mr. Russell 's behalf . Republicans were particularly joyful over the fact that Governor Devet drew less than . 40 spectators at a preelection Russell rally in Salem . Commander Bates carried every one of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ per cent of the district 's 165,000 voters went to the polls on a day when snow fell continuously from noon until poll closing time . The astute campaign conducted by Carleton Hovey , Beverly Times publisher , in Coffimander Bates ' behalf paid off . Commander Bates is still on navy duty and thus was barred by navy regulations from campaigning personally . He plans to resign from the navy shortly and take up his new post . Backbone of the Bates ' organization was ' enthusiastic workers , many of whom never before had taken any active role in a campaign . Particularly effective was the work of women workers who held many so-called " coffee hours " to which they invited friends for the purpose of discussing Commander Bates ' candidacy . Door-to-Door Appeal Door-to-door campaigning ' was another technique used to good effect . It is expected that the Republican state organization will ' adopt many of the techniques used successfully in the Sixth District contest . Of course , another important factor in the Bates victory was the fact that Commander Bates was seeking a seat @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ J. Bates , was killed in a Washington airplane crash . Although no open effort was made to trade on Mr. Bates ' reputation , it was there as a solid basis for his son 's campaign . Now Representative-elect Bates is on his own . He will build his own record in Congress upon which to base his campaign for reelection in November . No ' Rubber Stamp ' In his first public statement after his victory Commander Bates asserted : " If anyone thinks I 'm going to be a rubber stamp they do n't know me . I 'll have to be convinced before I 'll give my support on any issue . " He added : " I think the Republican Party must make an appeal to the younger people . " The representative-elect said he was not ready to give his views on various issues , but he did say " reciprocal trade agreements , as I see them , will ' stand a close and frequent scrutiny , and the time may not be far distant when - the Congress will have to step in , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Reciprocal trade agreements came in for discussion during the campaign because of the effect of trade pacts upon the fishing industry . Fishing is an important industry in the Sixth District , inasmuch as it includes Gloucester and other fishing ports .                     