@@720252

txt The jurisdiction of the Supreme Court is in danger of attack again by an organization as powerful and as responsible as could be invoked  --  the American Bar Association . A conimittee report favorably ? if somewhat belatedly  --  pre- . sented by the association 's board of governors and due to come before the House of Delegates at this week 's meeting in Chicago carries weight because the bar association has not lent itself to indiscriminate attacks on the court . Indeed , the board of governors last May denounced the Jenner-Butler court " reform " bill as " a threat to the independence of the judiciary . " This was one reason why that bill was tabled in the Senate last August by a vote of 41 to 40 . The report now submitted pays tribute to the Supreme Court and " an independent judiciary " as " the ultimate guardians of the Bill of Rights and the protectors of our freedom . " It goes on , however , to charge that " many cases have been decided in such a manner as to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " It adds the disquieting indictment that " our internal security has been weakened by technicalities raised in judicial decisions which too frequently in the public mind have had the effect of putting on trial the machinery of the judicial process and freeing the subversive to go forth and further undermine our nation . " The principal citation here is usually that of Steve Nelson , convicted of seditious activities under a law of the State of Pennsylvania and given a new trial on the theory that sedition bAd already been taken care of by Federal legislatism . The bar association report suggests a number of issues that have worried persons who see Communists under every bush . The report suggests that states should enforce their own laws against sedition , which would take care of the Nelson case ; that the Secretary of State be given broader power to deny passports to persons he considers subversive ; that Federal employes in " nonsensitive " agencies be put through the same doctrinal wringer as those in the " sensitive " agencies ; that the Smith Act be broadened to remove @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ actual " incitement to action , " and that the charter of the Committee on Un-American Activities be more " precisely worded " ? obviously a response to the Supreme Court 's requirement that a witness need n't answer questions unless they are " pertinent " to the purpose of the inquiry . These suggestions are not necessarily criticisms of the court . In some cases , indeed , the court itself has expressed a desire for more " precise " expressions of the lawmakers ' intentions . We do believe , however , that an assembly of distinguished lawyers should think twice before - condemning " technicalities " as of small importance . Lawyers use in their own pleadings all the " technicalities " they can . Why not ? One man 's technicality may be another man 's property , liberty or life . We live in a time of great stress , of great dangers , of a great necessity for discipline . Nevertheless , the basic rights of our society are not those of governments , or of any agents of government , but of the individual @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ those rights and undermine them , just as the ultimate loyalty is to protect them and carry forward the great traditions of democracy .                     