@@719551

txt It will be ten years on April 3 since the Economic Cooperation Act , embodying the Marshall Plan , became law . This legislation passed Senate and House by majorities of more than four to one . Since 1918 the idea behind . it has changed its name several times , the specified purposes have expanded and the ratio between military and nonmilitary assistance to our allies and friend. ; has altered greatly . Counting all forms of foreign assistance since the end of the second World War , we have probably provided close to 870 billion out of our not inconsiderable riches to make the world a better and safer place for freedom . As the programs for this sort of international cooperation ' have been revised the political opposition to some or all of them or to their total magnitude has increased . This year the President has asked for approximately the same sum as last year , a little under $4 billion . Last year Congress shaved this amount down by more than half a billion dollars , although the money actually spent was augmented @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Eisenhower was n't satisfied last year and he may not be satisfied this year . The same Congress that virtually shuts its eyes when a purely military appropriation is iiroposed begins to count postage stamps when it comes to an approRiation that is designed to promote the national security in another way . ' It has often been pointed out that it is a good deal cheaper for us - to get our friends to set up a division of troops than it is to form and equip a division here . But it is misleading , and in a way unworthy , for us to argue economic cooperation , mutual security , foreign operations . international cooperation or whatever the current term happens to be , ' 111 terms of a narrow prudence . Our loreign-aid funds are not a disguised irive for imperialism . We have not ) een organizing mercenaries . We nave , rather , worked with our friends , providing for the common enterprise what we could best proyide and letting them furnish what wkis easiest for them to procure . ... After the Communist attack @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ security objectives in place of economic objectives and ultimately to spend more money on the Far East than in Europe . If the policy of Stalin and his succesAirs had been a peaceful one , the re it ' vestiges of the second World War might by this time have vanished and living conditions throughcia the world might have been vastly improved . The program of mutual security became part of the qctkl war only because the Soviet ( overnment wished it so . Let us not forget that Russia had a chance to'share in the opportunities and benefits of the Marshall Plan and that she refused because of what her rulers took to be political disadvantages . ' ' This is where the matter stands today . Western Europe has its troubles , economic and otherwise , ' Mit it has not turned to communism . P'or has the struggle for the souls ansl bodies of the Far Eastern populations been won by communism . Our friends and allies everywhere still need our help and we still need theirs . ' The sum required for this sort of cooperation is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dollars perhaps do more to help us economically than if we locked them up in banks or paid them out in profits and wages at home . Doubtless we could spend them more efficiently , just as we could the domestic part of our Federal budget . But the spectacle of Congress ' wrangling for months as it did last year to whittle a few hundred million dollars off the mutual security funds would be a sad one indeed . In this tenth year of foreign , aid we still have a chance to Win a war for freedom without bloodshed and without destruction . There should be enough statesmanship in Congress , in both major parties , to seize this opportunity .                     