@@718445

txt Japan today was elected as the eightieth member of the United Nations . The Japanese application already had been approved by the Security Council . When it came before the uenerat Assembly this morning the application was sponsored by fifty-one nations . The final vote for the admission of Japan was 77 to 0 , with no abstentions . Hungary and South Africa were absent . They have moved out of the Assembly in protest against items on the agenda . Mamoru Shigemitsu , Foreign Minister of Japan , officially accepted the Japanese seat in the world organization . In an official address , he stayed clear of inContinued ternational problems , though he gave some indication of Japan 's stand . First , Mr. Shigemitsu said , the powerful Arab and Asian nations might well beware of " running into excesses of extreme nationalism . " Though Japan participated in last year 's AsianAfrican conference in Bandung , Indonesia , he said , the Japanese Government " believes that the United Nations Itself is the world 's central driving force for peace . " No Kurile @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , to ask the United Nations to consider the Soviet occupation of the Kurile Islands . Territorial questions were waived temporarily under an agreement between the Soviet Union and Japan , because of which the former removed its veto against Japanese membership in the United Nations . The decision of such " territorial questions , " Mr. Shigemitsu said , must depend on the votes of the powers that signed the San Francisco Peace Treaty , which put an end to the war between Japan and all the Second World War Allies except the Soviet Union . The Soviet Union did not sign the treaty . Overpopulated and underfed Japan , Mr. Shigemitsu told the Assembly , is " extremely sensitive to obstructions to international trade . " Japan , " therefore welcomes any efforts of the United Nations to promote the freer flow of people and goods across international boundaries , " he said , The admission of Japan brought a slight tilt between the United States and the Soviet Union on the Assembly floor . Vasily V. Kuznetsov charged that the United States , France and Britain had " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Assembly " in failing to vote Outer Mongolia into the world organization also . The Soviet Union in the Security Council last year vetoed Japan after Nationalist China had refused to accept the Mongolian People 's Republic . The Council this year also declined to receive Outer Mongolia . The Far Eastern Asian country had been proposed last year for ad1 mission as a part of a " package deal . " Some nations , this year , found Outer Mongolia unacceptable as an individual and independent state . Henry Cabot Lodge Jr. , for the United States , asserted that Japan had been kept out of the United Nations by a " clear-cut misuse of the veto . " The Soviet Union , in the Council , had four times barred Japan 's admission on the ground that a state of war still existed then between the two nations . The final admission of Japan , , Mr. Lodge added , will " greatly , increase the vigor and the value of our organization . " Mr. Shigemitsu , in his first speech zo the Assembly , gave somewhat qualified @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the constitution of a United Nations Emergency Force in the Suez Canal area , he voiced the hope that " the United Nations will always command the widest possible power consonant with its mission as an instrument of peace . " Regarding Hungary , he asserted , " we fervently hope that the voice of the Hungarian people will be heard and their situation relieved in accordance with the resolutions of the United Nations . " The Japanese Foreign Minister took no hand in current discussions regarding a possible United Nations prohibition of nuclear bomb tests . The Soviet Union has proposed a ban on such experiments for war . Mr. Shigemitsu called attention to resolutions of the Japanese Diet ( Parliament ) asking a cessation of bomb experiments . This , he said , " came from a prayerful desire that mankind may not again be visited by the horrors of mass destruc tion . " " We earnestly hope that under the leadership of the United Nations the great task of disarmament will be successfully consummated and mankind secured from a calamitous fate and relieved from the inhibitive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                   