@@715742

txt Yugoslavia 's armed forces are shedding their Soviet-like characteristics as they gradually move toward practical integration in the defense plans of the western world . President Tito , as supreme commander of the armed forces , already has abolished the function of the political commissar , who in all Army . Navy , and Air Force units held authority alongside the commander . By the end of the year , Yugoslav officers and men no longer even will look like soldiers of a Soviet bloc army . Instead of stiff gold epaulettes , identical with Soviet badges of rank , officers will wear stars on their shoulders and collars and ties . New uniforms are being in- troduced for summer and winter wear , the summer uniform consisting of shirt and shorts . The new uniforms will , in the Yugoslav view , be more practical and easy fitting . In his order abolishing political commissars , Tito said that in the future there would be a single , not a dual , system of command in the Army . Yugoslav leaders stress that the changes are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interests of both the West and of Yugoslavia itself can be safeguarded adequately without Communist Yugoslavia joining the North Atlantic Treaty Organization , they say . According to western military attaches , Yugoslavia hitherto has been extremely reticent about pooling military information . despite the fact that it will receive 216 million dollars worth of United States military aid this . year , including jet aircraft and modern M-47 medium tanks . Until a few months ago , representatives of western countries were given only very limited chances to see Yugoslav defense installations and the Yugoslav Army in training . There are signs , however , that as a result of the signature of the Balkan pact between Yugoslavia and Greece and Turkey , both NATO members , the Yugoslav military authorities slowly are " thawing . " Yugoslavia is now participating in the United States offshore procurement program . The first contract , signed in June , provides for Yugoslavia to manufacture ammunition to a value of 55,390,000 . Staff talks between Yugoslavia , Greece . and Turkey on the defense of the Balkan , peninsula were held in Athens @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , good progress was reported to have been made .                     