@@717395

txt A temporary mutiny of French reservists against serving in North Africa occurred over the weekend at Rouen as a further indication of growing agitation in France over the North African problem . Despite the fact that only 200 soldiers refused to go , and they used no arms to resist , it was 24 hours before the men finally were sent on their way , due to long delays in getting enough security police to the scene . The Rouen episode pointed up the fact that so many of France 's military and mobile guard reserves have had to be sent to Africa that the military strength of continental France now is ' less than the prewar garrisons for eastern France alone . Guns Quell Riot In a separate development Oct. 9 , French police killed two North Africans and wounded five others by gunfire in quelling a riot at Douai:northern.France . The police opened fire after several hundred North Africans , carrying clubs and throwing stones , charged them in an " independence " demonstration . In Paris , 700 North Africans were detained to prevent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , which France considers an integral part of metropolitan France . In Rabat , Morocco , conservative French settlers , organized in the so-called Presence Frangaise , demanded to see Francois de Panafieu , French minister at the ' residency , and told him that since he favored the council of the throne which is a part of the French Government plan for Morocco , now approved by the National Assembly , he no longer could hold his post . Reportedly , it was a flat edict of the kind which customarily comes from a government , not from a group of discontented citizens . Premier Edgar Faure 's office in Paris sent a swift retort saying , " M. Panalleu , being an official of the French Government , takes orders from nobody outside . " Try to Force Hand But the fact that Presence Frangaise would dare to attempt ? .3 fire a minister by itself is an indication of the authoritarian . outlook of these settlers and their determination to cling to accustomed colonial patterns . When their efforts to fire M. Panafieu failed , they started demonstrations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ even red paint in some cases . Frustrated this way , Presence Francaise called a general strike of 24 hours throughout Morocco . Previously , Presence Frangaise members had talked with Gen. Pierre George Boyer de Latour , Resident General in Morocco , and said there could be no council of the throne . Then they tried to force General Boyer de Latour 's hand by saying he had agreed . They modified their statement Oct. 9 by saying that so far as they were concerned he had agreed . Gen. Pierre Billotte , the new Minister of Defense who flew to Morocco at once upon being ' appointed , returned to Paris Oct. 9 to say that General Boyer de Latour is in full agreement with the French Goveinment plan . By Joan Special Correspondent of Th Paris After 25 hours of speeches , spread over three days , the French National Assembly has voted 477 to 140 in favor of a Socialist resolution defining the two essential steps of Premier Edgar Faure 's Moroccan policy and approving the Aix-les-Bains agreements reached by the government in August and still hanging @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has managed to survive the obstacle of the Moroccan debate , which many observers felt might cause its fall , but under circumstances that leave no doubt that the Assembly majority does not approve of the weeks of hesitation and weakness , government disunity and contrary orders , which have held up what was originally known as the " Faure plan for Morocco . " Urgency Stressed The Socialist resolution of Oct. 9 , framed to express regret that the government had hesitated so long , was hastily changed to a simple expression of the policy that should be " immediately " applied , and so became acceptable to the government , but not before the Premier and the handful of ministers on the government bench had had to listen to a barrage of criticism , insinuation , and some outright insult . It was a humiliating experience for the government , already weakened by the resignation of Gaullist ministers and only too aware that its authority has become a mere shadow in both the Assembly and in the country at large . The stress in the Socialist resolution was laid @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ formation of the much-disputed council of the Moroccan throne and the institution of a Moroccan government including representatives of all elements . Danger Impends With the new debate on the situation in Algeria opening Oct. 11 , many observers believe the Cabinet has no more than a day or two to announce establishment of the council of the throne if the Socialists and other left-wing groups are not to topple the Cabinet by the end of the week . This danger is all the more Thiriet e Christian Science Monitor imminent since the ' massive majority in favor of the Socialist resolution , accepted almost thankfully by the government despite its absence of any reference to the Cabinet , was made up of the Roman Catholic Popular Republicans , the Democratic and Socialist Union of Resistance , Radical - Socialists , Socialists , and Communists . Without the Communist vote , the resolution still had a comfortable majority of more than 370 votes , a total many a previous French regime has greeted with sincere enthusiasm . But the Socialists are not part of the Premier 's tenuous majority , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Cabinet over other crises . Warning to Settlers The 140 opponents of the Moroccan policy came almost entirely from the Gaullists , Independent Conservatives , and Peasants , who until Oct. 6 , formed the right-wing of M. Faure 's coalition .. The vote is a warning to French settler organizations in Morocco to stop their delaying tactics and outright opposition to the authorities and shows that there is a Center-Left majority in the Assembly for a more progressive policy in North Africa , determined to sec the council of the throne  --  and Moroccan government set up . But the emphasis here is not necessarily " by M. Faure , " but even " with or more probably without M. Faure . " The threat to the present Cabinet is implicit but certain . As for the first effects of this vote , they can only be to reassure the Moroccan nationalist leaders that France , as expressed through the majority . in the Assembly , does indeed intend to carry out the program initiated by M. Faure , This reassurance , tardy but forceful , can only help @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' intrigues in Paris as well as in Rabat . M. Faure emerges much weakened by his failure to obtain anything like a vote of confidence , but strengthened by the Assembly 's approval of his policy . Whether his Cabinet remains or goes , the broad lines of Moroccan policy are approved by the Assembly , and the curl Socialist resolution is a valuable addition to the record .                     