@@716528

txt Jubilant Democrats declared today that the Maine election results indicated a trend that would give their party control of both the Senate and the House in the next Congress . Rueful Republicans agreed privately that their party had suffered a setback , but they laid it to " local issues . " Republican leaders agreed , however , that the figures demonstrated a need for intensified efforts if they were to retain control of Congress , to say nothing of giving President Eisenhower the increased majorities he has asked to enact his incompleted program . While the election by Maine voters of Edmund S. Muskie as the first Democratic Governor in twenty years dominated the headlines , politicians in both parties here were inclined to attach even more significance to the gains the Democrats made even while losing three House seats and the Senate contest . The Statistical Picture The statistics demonstrated a Republican loss of twelve percentage points in the victory margins of their three House candidates as compared to the outcome two years ago . Senator Margaret Chase Smith , the Republican who was re-elected @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ margin in 1943 , - hen she first was sent to the Senate . If the adage , " As goes Maine , so goes the nation , " still held , and this twelve percentage point trend became uniform across the country , a Republican loss of 106 House seats and thirteen Senate seats would be indicated in November . The seats in question were captured last time by less than 61 per cent of the vote . But even the Democrats were not ? talking this optimistically . A formal statement by Stephen A. Mitchell , Democratic National Chairman , said that if the Democrats made only half the gains elsewhere that they made in the M : ine Congressional races , " we will pick up a minimum of forty Seats . " " It is also olear that if the Democrats do half as well in the Senate seats elsewhere as they did in Maine , we will win enough seats in November td take command of the Senate in the next session of Congress , " Mr. Mitchell declared . Republicans Blame Cross Blaming Gov . Burton @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . for the reduced majorities of the Maine House and Senate , Republican leaders publicly were , satisfied to claim a victory for the Eisenhower Administration because Mrs. Smith and the three Republican House members were re-elected . The only formal comment from Republican headquarters was in the form of a telegram from Leonard W. Hall , Republican National Chairman , addressed to Mrs. Smith and Representatives Robert Hale , Charles P. ikelson , and Clifford G. . It said : " Congratulations on your victories in the face of stiffer than usual opposition and the obstacles of local issues . It is a tribute to each of you , your records in Congress , and President Eisenhower 's splendid Republican program that the voters of Maine saw fit to distinguish between na Monal and state issues and return you to Washington . " Before the election , however , the Republicans themselves had injected into the Maine election the issue of whether their House and Senate candidates would win by larger or smaller majorities . Nixon Rallied Voters The Maine balloting yesterday was the first state-wide test of Vie @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the outcome would have great significance nationally . Appealing for the support of the entire Republican ticket in a television broadcast from Portland Aug. 29 , Mr. Nixon declared : " For this reason I am hopeful that this state which has been known for so Many years as a Republican stronghold will ' give an even greater majority than before and thereby set the standard for the rest of the country in November . " While Republican leaders today emphasized that Governor Cross had made himself unpopular , and thus hurt the other candidates , this fact was well known to Mr. Nixon when he called for bigger majorities as a vote of confidence in the Eisenhower Administration . 46- Even discounting Governor Cross ' defeat for a second term , the first instance in forty years when an incumbent Governor was denied re-election , the Republican candidates as a whole did not pile up victory margins comparable either with the last Presidential year or mid-term balloting . Smith Vote Lags Mrs. Smith , for example , received just under 59- per cent of ' the total vote , whereas @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Representative R. Hate of Portland , seeking his seventh term , polled about 52 per cent of the vote , compared with 61.6 per cent in 1952 and 54 per cent in 1950 . Mr. Hale had strong opposition from James C Oliver , a Democrat who formerly was the Republican member for this district . Representative Nelson of Augusta won a fourth term with less than 55 per cent of the vote , whereas he had- 66.8 per cent in 1952 and 57.7 . per cent in 1950 . Representative of Perham , who has served one full term and part of another , was the biggest vote getter of them all with more than 60 per cent of the vote . He had 76.2 per cent of the vote in 1952 , and 62.9 per cent of the vote in 1950 . Talking with reporters , Mr. Hall said that the reduced margins were decided entirely by " local and extraneous issues that had nothing to do with the national election . " Another Republican leader , unwilling to be quoted by name , said . however @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Maine figures . This leader said the results ought to shake the complacency of any Republican candidate who has figured he may have easy sailing this fall . " Any who are off fishing today probably will be back electioneering in their own district by tomorrow , " he said . Mitchell Hails Results Mr. Mitchell also supplemented his formal statement in an interview . He said he hoped that the percentage point Republican loss in Maine would not make Democratic candidates " overconfident . " The Democratic chairman called attention to Mr. Nixon 's appeal for bigger Republican majorities , and observed : " I do n't think Vice President Nixon 's advice carries much , weight with the people of Maine . " Mr. Mitchell also said the Maine results were , for him , only one more of " many other indications I have seen around the country of a disillusionment of the people with the Eisenhower Administration . "                     