@@718853

txt Letters to The Times WILLIAM A. MILLSXURT L. SHELL , KARL HAARTZ.ALLAN L. MENDELSOHN.PHILIP B. ARMS ... Letters to The Times To Reward Job Stability Legislation Providing Merit Rating Considered Beneficial to Workers To THE EDITOR OF THENEW YORK TIMES : Labor leaders and certain politicians who depend upon labor support for their election assume that unemployment insurance is a social obligation imposed upon all business . Our concept is that the use of unemployment insurance is a business expense to be borne by the employers causing the unemployment . If it had been the original intent of Congress and the Legislature to socialize the cost of unemployment. , the tax burden would have been imposed upon all taxpayers . The early exclusion of so many employers was evidence that socialization was not intended . I was a party to the early consideration of the Unemployment Insurance Law . The national law and the state laws that were enacted in conformity thereto had as one of their primary objectives the stabilization of employment , and the merit-rating provisions were included as an incentive toward stabilization . Quite @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is beyond the control of a single employer , many so-called seasonal employers have substantially stabilized employment . The auto industry is a striking example . Even the seasonal apparel industry has a substantial number of firms which are merit-rated . The large over-all percentage of employers in that industry that have earned merit-ratings indicates that . it can be done . It is significant that 59 per cent of employers in the apparel industry do not have negative balances and will not be required to pay the maximum tax rate . No Payment Required It is also significant that 79 per cent of construction industry employers do not have negative balances and hence will not he required to pay the maximum tax rate . Under modern construction procedures this industry can no longer be considered seasonal , In food processing , while the initial handling of the fruits and vegetables must be done within a few days or weeks , in many instances the food is placed in large storage tanks and further processed as needed during the " off-season " periods . Many of the temporary employes of food @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the family budget . They are in no sense " permanently attached " to the labor market . In most instances they would not be available for employment if year-round jobs were open to them . It is easy to get emotional about matters of this kind . There is , however , one basic decision that New York must make  --  are we going to continue to impose unnecessary burdens upon stable employers paying high wages ( the kind we most desire ) or are we going to make the state more attractive to them and to aid in the encouragement of creating more of these job opportunities in New York ? We can not have both . WILLIAM A. MILLS , Executive Vice President , Empire State Chamber of Commerce , Inc . Albany , June 6 , 1957 . Testing Soviets on Troops To THEEDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : I have long been puzzled by what appears to me as a contradiction in ! the American response to proposals to withdraw American and Russian troops from the center of Europe . Our spokesmen simultaneously argue that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ power and that the Soviets would , in truth , never relinquish their position in Eastern Europe because Communist power there would collapse upon Soviet troop withdrawal . If we genuinely believe that the Soviet regime is insincere in its proposals for the mutual troop withdrawal because such a withdrawal would have extremely adverse consequences for the Soviet position in Eastern Europe ( and the 1953 East Berlin rising , as well as last year 's events in Poland and Hungary strongly support such a belief ) , why are n't we doing everything we can to put Soviet sincerity to the test ? Acceptance of the proposal by the United States would expose either the hollowness of Communist propaganda or of the Communist position in Central and Eastern Europe . KURT L , SHELL , Assistant Professor of Political Science , Harpur College . Endicott , N. Y. , June 6 , 1957 . Foundation of Our Economy To THEEDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : In addition to the several reasons the President gave for supporting his work program , more weight should be given to the improved kind @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ During the past twenty-six years there has been in progress a transition from gold  --  a material form of money  --  to paper , or a faith form of money . The former always seemed to distract men at crucial periods from what money does to the substance of the money itself . But the latter induces men to pay their full attention , continuously , to the production that money should nurture . That is the amazing new value of this kind of money . Accordingly , the vast and growing productive capacity of our omittry rests mainly upon this new and better money . Closely related to it too Is the need for ever larger regenerative spending lest we accumu ? late in certain places so much money that attention is again diverted from what money does to its substance . This has been the basin cause of all major depressions . In the past gold as money has been too attractive for the best interests of the economy . And smaller Federal budgets might do the same thing with the present kind of money . KARL HAARTZ . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ German Policy Concern Should Be First With Our Own Problems , It is Felt . To THE EDITOR OF THE New York TIMES With the most recent AdenauerEisenhower talks concluded , one is again impressed with the over-solicitous attitude manifested by our Government to that of Germany . As other writers have already pointed out , it is clearly not in the interests of East-West agreement to tie in together proposals for disarmament with conditions for German unification . That either or both should be effected at the earliest possible time is , of course , the fundamental objective of any United States foreign policy . But that one should be tied to the other and that effectuation of one is made conditional on effectuation of the other only tends to make it appear as though our Government is imposing ? difficult and unnecessary conditions to the primary objective of obtaining immediate East-West agreement on either . It would seem as though this non-compromising approach to international affairs arises out of some unfounded and unrealistic belief shared by many departments of our Government that it is our duty to placate the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the effects such policy might have both or . American citizens in Germany antis on United States interests in inter ' national settlement of disputes , Emphasis on Amity Unfortunately , all aspects of United States activities here in Germany are tinted by this ominous and omnipresent bend-over-backward effort to maintain friendly roe lations with Bonn . Newspaper are titles continually point out ? and particularly since the Taiwan incident  --  how in the administration of military justice soldiers are severely punished for affrays with German nationals . Articles and policy statements continually harass us with the importance of good relations . In many instances it might seem as though policy fairness and justice toward our own citizens is balanced against this pressure for the maintenance of good reiations . In other areas , we even go : 30 far as to aid the Germans in constructing a war memorial to deceased German soldiers . Furtherance of friendly relations is , of course , a wise and prudent goal . But it is necessary to keep in mind that the German nation has in the past always looked first to its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the interests of other nations . It appears from Mr. Adenauer 's recent White House conference that the historical trend of German foreign policy has not beenaltered . Quite sincerely this letter is not intended to remind American citizens of the second World War . it is intended , though , to remind Americans that United States foreign policy should concern itself first with problems of disarmament and problems affecting its own , citizens and only second with whether Mr. Adenauer succeeds in September . ALLAN I. MENDELSOH N. Frankfurt , Germany , June 7 , 1957 . Effects of Fall-Out Queried To THE EDITOR OF THE N Ew YORK TIMES : The appalling predictions of Dr. Linus Pauling on the effects of fallout from nuclear tests , reported in The Times on June 3 , are merely " guesstimates " which should not be taken seriously . No one , including Dr. Pauling , knows what advances will be made in the control and disposal of radioactive fall-out and waste over the next twenty generations . Our present knowledge of the whole problem does not permit predictions such as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . PHILIP B. ARMSTRONG . New York , June 3 , 1957.                     