@@713813

txt CHICAGO , April ** of the Army Douglas capped an enthusiastic Midwestern welcome here tonight with the declaration that a realistic American policy for Korea must replace the present " political vacuum heretofore unknown to war . " General told an assemblage of some 55,000 persons at Soldier Field that American casualties in Korea , in proportion to the number of troops committed , had reached " staggering " proportions and " were mounting by thousands each month . " He demanded again and again : " What is our policy in Korea ? " To applause , he continued : " I strongly urge the need for a positive policy designed to stop through strength this slaughter of America 's sons . " Text of the speech by General is on Page 5.1 " I have been encouraged in many ways by the events which have followed my return from long absence abroad . Foremost of the I encouraging signs has been the demonstration that the American people are keenly alive to ? their own responsibilities and do unhestitatingly voice their views on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is for future events to ascertain whether they still retain the ultimate authority over government as intended by the Constitution or whether such authority has I been lost in the drift from the pat // CHICAGO TURNS OUT TO HONOR GENERAL M'ARTHUR tsr FAREUR POSES QUESTION ON RULE // tern ordained by the architects of our political institutions . " General provoked a roar of protest from the crowd when he said his public life was over . Smiling until the tumult died down , he said : " It is , though . " The general spoke after streetlining throngs of Chicagoans , officially estimated to have totaled 2,000,000 and upward along the general 's route , had cheered their welcome to him . He was accompanied by Mrs. and their 13-year-old son , Arthur . His silver , four-engined plane , the Bataan , had broken through a mist and landed at Midway airport at 12:20 P. M. Thence his motorcade , often slowed if not halted by the press of the throngs , had proceeded to the Stevens Hotel on the lakefront before going to Soldiers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Gov . Adlai E. Stevenson of Illinois met the visitor as he debarked . At the same moment four 105-mm. howitzers fired the first round of a seventeen-gun salute . Lieut . Gen. Stephen J. Chamberlin , commanding the Fifth Army , joined in the greeting .. Martial music was played by an Army band from Fort Custer , Mich. , including the four flourishes and four ruffles honoring an officer of General 's rank . After leaving his Constellation , General inspected a 120-man honor guard of the 174th Military Police Battalion , then entered a convertible automobile for a two-and-one-half-hour drive through the city . At several points along the route , overenthusiastic crowds broke through police lines and surged into the roadways . At State Street and Madison Street , the crowds first narrowed the motorcade to one lane of traffic and then poured over into the roadways , cutting all but the first six cars off from the parade . Police nightsticks were brandished high in the air and firemen locked arms against the throng in a vain effort to stem it . After a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and cleared the street . General sat high over the right rear seat of his convertible , which flew his fivestarred flag in addition to the American flag . Trench coat buttoned to his throat against a brisk northeast wind , he waved full-arm greetings to the crowd with both his right and left arms . Wife , Son Wave Greetings Behind him rode his wife , wearing a purple hat , brown fur jacket and black gloves . She waved a large white handkerchief and smiled repeatedly in response to shouted greetings . Arthur wore a maroon sport jacket and his inevitable tan duck-billed cap . He waved often at the crowd . In the car with them rode Mrs. Robert E. Wood , chairman of the Mayor 's reception committee , and Col. Sidney Huff , a aide . Home-made signs read " Defeat Trumanism ? Stand with Mac ; " 1 " We 're With You , Mac " ; " God Bless , Our Next President , " and similar greetings . MI the University of Chicago a group ' of students displayed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Fade Away . " This was taken as a double reference to the British attitude toward General and , ? the latter 's statement to Congress that he would " fade away " like an old soldier . As the motorcade swung into Lake Shore Drive , the early morning greyness was dispelled by bright shafts of spring sunlight . Overhead , nine jet airplanes flying in formation tore by with a ghostly " whoosh . " Train crews blew their whistles and broke out bunting . Flags galore whipped in the breeze , and Michigan Avenue displayed the general 's five-star flag on both sides of the broad thoroughfare . Public schools were on spring vacation and parochial schools dismissed classes . Merchants generally closed at 2 P. M. for the parade . At the Bataan-Corregidor Bridge carrying State . Street across the Chicago River , General deposited a wreath in honor of the men killed in those campaigns . Facing a group of eighty-three " Gold Star Mothers " in the dense crowd , General said : " These men who died were mine . I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mothers and families here I can only say that since they fell , I have shared your sorrow . " The reception committee gave to Mrs. a diamond-andplatinum pin duplicating the fivestar insignia worn by her husband . Each star was five-eighths of an inch in size , with a small diamond sparkling in the center . Arthur received an aluminum model of his father 's airplane , the Bataan , and an engraved pair of skates . General was given a gold key to his suite in the Stevens Hotel . Tomorrow the General and his party will leave the Stevens at 7:30 A. M. for a ninety-mile drive to Milwaukee , Wis. , the city he calls his home town . He will stop briefly in Evanston , Fort Sheridan , the Great Lakes Naval Training Center and at the Wisconsin state line . His schedule calls for arrival at the Milwaukee county line at 10:35 A. M. After the Milwaukee celebration the General will fly back to NOW York for the Loyalty Day Parade on Satur4ay . TEXT OF SPEECH CHICAGO , April 26 ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of General of the Army Douglas 's address at Soldier Field here tonight : I can not find the words adequately to express my sense of of gratitude for the cordiality of your welcome . The memory of it will long live in my heart and prove a source of added strength to help me meet my responsibilities of citizenship in the great issues which now stir mankind . I have been encouraged in many ways by the events which have followed my return from long absence abroad . Foremost of the encouraging signs has been the demomtration that the American people are keenly alive to their own responsibilities and do unhesitatingly voice their views on the direction of the policy of Government . It is for future events to ascertain whether they still retain the ultimate authority over Government as intended by the Constitution or whether such authority has been lost in the drift from the pattern ordained by the architects of our political institutions . I have only recently left many of your sons on the battleline in Korea , and I can report to you they are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they fight , they are writing a proud record of valor in indomitable determination unsurpassed in our military annals . Various Objectives Cited I have believed a realistic policy should fill the long existing vacuum left in the wake of Red china 's commitment to war against us , a policy designed to effect the early restoration of peace through victory , with a consequent saving of countless American lives . It is difficult to ask men to fight and die unless we give them a realistic mission and the means to accomplish it . What is our policy in Korea ? Some will tell you that the pacification and unification of all Korea is the objective , an objective which indeed still stands as the formal mandate of the United Nations . Others tend to overlook such a formally stated policy , and will tell you that our objective is achieved upon clearing South Korea of invading forces . Still others ignore both explanations and frankly say that our objective now is to continue to engage the enemy forces in Korea in a prolonged and indecisive campaign of attrition , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of these will tell you in the traditionally ringing tones of the American patriot that our objective is victory over the nation and men who without provocation or justification have warred against us and that our forces will be furnished all the sinews and other means essential to achieve that victory with a minimum of cost in human life . The tragedy is that since the advent of the war with Red China there has been no definition of the political policy which would provide a solution for the new problems thereby created . This has resulted in a policy vacuum heretofore unknown to war . However great the effort to distract attention from the main issues by introducing into public discussion extraneous and irrelevant matters , the fundamental question still remains the same : " What is the policy for Korea ? " U. S. Toll Called Heavy Our losses there in ratio to the men committed have already reached staggering proportions . These losses are progressively mounting by thousands each month . It is this steady increase that arouses in the mothers and fathers of America 's sons such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ those nations , with but token forces in ratio to our own , calmly to advocate no deviation from this course . It is in this situation of complete unrealism that while meticulously implementing the directives given me , I have strongly urged the need for a positive policy attuned to the military realities and designed to stop through strength this slaughter of America 's sons . I have endeavored since my return home to keep the issue on a ? higher level than partisan politics . The lives of your sons call for this measure of consideration . For the enemy bullets have no respect for political affiliation and strike down the son of a Democrat just as surely as the son of a Republican . Although my public life is now closed and I no longer ? ( shouts of " no " ) ? it is closed ( laughter and further cries of " no " ) and I no longer carry any responsibilities of the national administration , I feel my responsibility ' of national citizenship no less deeply . I shall continue to advocate a positive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bring the war to an early end and honorable end with maximum protection for your sons now engaged . I shall continue to fight against that greatest scourge of mankind , communism , as long as God gives me the power to fight . I shall work with you in the discharge of our common responsibilities of citizenship , to the end that American policy be based upon the thoughts and the needs and the aspirations of the American people unyielding to undue and exaggerated political pressures from abroad . I shall stand with you for an America rededicated to those sacred and immutable ideals and concepts which guided our forefathers when drawing the design of American freedom . For although without command , authority or responsibility , I still proudly possess that to me the greatest of all honors and distinctions . I am an American .                     