@@714244

txt A buffer zone four kilometers wide stretching across Korea on either side of the present battlefront positions has been proposed by the United Nations as armistice negotiations in the Korean war resumed at the new site of Panmunjom . This emphasis on present battlefront positions abruptly ended speculation that the United Nations command might case demands to accept the 38th parallel as the dividing line  --  which the Communists desire . The new plan did not even make a gesture in the direction of a compromise line between the battle front and the parallel . Such a compromise , however , can not yet be ruled out . It will depend on Communist reaction to the proposal . And the Allied command has indicated it is willing to make concessions at least in the vicinity of the battle front . UN Offers ' Swap ' Additionally the United Nations is offering to trade 200 square miles of Allied territory in the east for 200 square miles of Communist territory in the west . Not included are Heartbreak Ridge and other hard-won cast-front points , however . Air @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ officer , declared the proposal is in line with Gen. Matthew B. Ridgway 's basic concept of a demilitarized zone on the present battle front , no matter how far north it moves . Such a demilitarized zone and comparable demarcation line were points at issue between the Communist and Allied delegates when truce talks were suspended Aug. 23 . Indeed from the United Nations ' viewpoint only two things have changed in the interim  --  the location of the talks and the location of the battle front . Both have moved considerably in the Allied favor . The new proposal is regarded as . a yardstick by which current United Nations bargaining power will be measured . When the conference was resumed on the morning of Oct. 25 in a tent in a millet field at the edge of no man 's land between the two armed forces , the full delegations took less than an hour to decide to turn over the difficult problem of the dividing line between the belligerents to a special joint subcommittee of two members on each side . Proposal Presented The subcommittee was originally established @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to agree on item Two of the agenda adopted late in July . The subcommittee was wrestling with the problem in " shirt-sleeve informality " when a breakdown came because of neutrality violations at Kaesong , which was the former conference site . The subcommittee , with Rear Admiral Arleigh Burke and Maj. Gen. Henry I. Hodes representing the Allies , met on the afternoon of Oct. 25 , at which time the United Nations ' proposal was presented . It was illustrated with a map which the Communists accepted for study  --  and the meeting adjourned . Starting at the mouth of the Esong River in the west , the United Nations proposed zone curves north of Kaesong and runs northeastward to a point about four miles south of Pyonggang , which is the apex of the ir ) n triangle . It then proceeds eastward , passing north of Kumhwa , south of Kumsong , 15 miles north of the Hwachcon reservoir to the east coast , about 11 miles south of Kosong . Calls for United Nations withdrawals in the eastern sector of the front were counterbalancedby Communist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , now in enemy hands , would become Allied property and the Communist hold on South Korean territory would be limited to the peninsulas jutting below the parallel far to the west . These peninsulas are effectively cut off from the South Korean mainland by water gaps . Apparently by way of compensation the Allied plan pulls its line south of present positions on the east front . For example , United Nations tank infantry patrols recently stabbed into Kum-. song . but the proposed line will run 61 miles south of the town . Other similar territorial concessions are involved  --  but not in areas bought at heavy cost , Pressure on Foe Commenting on the first session General Hodes said the Allied proposal was a " new and concrete solution of item two of the agenda . " It made no mention of the previous United Nations demand that its air front extend all the way to the Yalu border of North Korea . General ' Hodes also hinted the present plan will not hold true if the battle front moves northward a great deal in the interval before @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ map is contemplated , General Hodes indicated month-by-month gains might . have to be taken into consideration . All of which is intended to put pressure on the enemy to accept the proposal before the price goes up again . As far as the atmosphere at Panmunjon is concerned , General Nuchols stated the Communists apparently are willing to " let bygones be bygones " concerning past incidents . His impression was that enemy delegates were affable and seemed awaiting the United Nations ' proposal .                     