@@720465

txt United States sugar interests in Cuba , which produce about 38 per cent of the average $600 , - 000,000 sugar crop . are troubled by the apparent severity of of Cuba 's new agrarian reform : art While sugar sources in New York , Washington . and Boston would not comment for the record , until their lawyers figure out the exact effect of the law , there was no question that sugar firms with properties in Cuba are taken aback by the drastic nature of the act . Essentially , the act would limit ownership of Cuban sugar lands to Cuban citizens ; require sugar mill companies to get rid of their plantation lands : provide for redistribution of sugar plantations and limit sugar plantations to 1,000 acres in size , and ranches to 3,333 acres . Forced Sales Loom There are II . United States sugar companies operating in Cuba . All have rather extensive land holdings . There air% 29 sugar grinding mills operated by them . United Fruit Company , which owns more than 90,000 acres of land , and American Sugar @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ country . As presently interpreted , the new agrarian law would force them to sell their lands to Cubans or a Cuban-owned corporation and force them to stay in the refining business only . One possible loophole in the law  --  though no official version has been published vet  --  is that the National Institute of Agrarian Reform may be permitted to grant exemptions to some firms " when it deems it beneficial for the development 01 the national economy . " As for the immediate consequences of the land reform act announced by Premier Fidel Castro : Stocks of United States sugar companies based in Cuba tumbled several points on the stock market . Those of Puerto Rican and United States sugar beet grower companies rose . Expropriation Hinted First reactions on the business front were that the announced reforms were certainly no way to attract foreign investors to Cuba . The agrarian reform law , as first announced . stipulates that no foreigners can own stock in Cuban sugar operations . Many North Americans own stock in American sugar firms doing business in Cuba . If the companies are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there is even a question whether there will be sufficient Cuban capital available to purchase them . In that event , the firms can be expropriated by the Cuban Government . according to current interpretations of the laW . If there is no retreat from this position by the Cuban Government , there is a distinct possibility that the United States Congress could react rather drastically on the Cuban sugar quota arrangement . The sugar quota act is up before Congress this year for renewal . Bond Uncertainty At present , the United States , receives a higher price for the sugar it sells to the United States loan it does on the world market . ? If United States citizens should be no longer associated with the Cuban sugar firms through their investments , it is possible the Congress might reduce the quotas for Cuban sugar , which would mean Cuban sugar would have to be sold  --  if at all  --  on the lower-priced world market . It is entirely possible that the Cuban Government . which has in its midst moderates in the financial and economic fields . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been made in the drastic rent and real estate laws promulgated several months ago , when it was found the laws were too severe . There is concern that , if plantation lands owned by United States interests must be sold , a proper compensation will not be forthcoming . The land reform law states that government bonds bearing 41. , per cent interest will be exchanged for land : but when they can be redeemed is still open to question . Another feature of the law that will llear watching , in the opinion of long-time observers of the Latin-American scene , is the section which orders establishment of local land reform committees to supervise administration of the law . These observers point out that in the Communist-influenced land reform system set up in Guatemala some years ago , the local committees were the most influential , until the system fell . Depending on who controls these local land reform committees . the fate of the whole Cuban land reform system could devolve on the wisdom of just these men . to protect both United States sugar growers , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the amount of sugar which Cuba may export to the United States . This year it is 5,800,000 tons . Puerto . Rico , Hawaii , and the Philippines come under this quota as well . Under the quota system , Cuba                     