@@713537

txt FRANKFORT , Germany , Jan. 14 ? Chancellor Konrad Adenauer virtually rejected East Germany 's terms for unification and pledged his countrymen to " the Western camp of freedom " in a statement defining German policy tonight . Speaking before a meeting of the Christian Democratic party of North Rhine-Westphalia at Bielefeld , Dr. Adenauer , who is leader of the party , made it clear that although Western Germany was with the West in the struggle against Communist imperialism and would not treat with the Communist Germans on their terms , it desired certain conditions to seal West German-Allied alliance . As outlined by the Federal Chancellor these are : 1 . The Occupation statute must be replaced by a " treaty law " and the Allied High Commission must be replaced by a conference of Ambassadors . 2 . The German defense contingent to be raised to stem Soviet aggression must receive an " absolutely " equal status with all other members of the European defense force . 3 . Federal Germany , apart from her own contributions , must receive financial aid from the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ her defenses so that the present social obli // gations of the Republic , including refugees , can be borne during rearmament. 4 . Decisions reached by a fourPower conference must not be at the expense of Germany . 5 . All the free peoples in Europe must work equally and place their military and political power in the service of European security . 6 . All " psychological hindrances " such as " defamation " of the German Wehrmacht must be ended by the Allies . Some of these conditions have been pressed on the Council of the Allied High Commission by . the Chancellor . Others thrown up by the tempest in German politics over the rearmament issue have been adopted by the Chancellor as political weapons . But Dr. Adenauer made it clear that neither he nor his Government intended to fall for East German blandishments about unity and he bitterly criticized those who thought neutrality could save Germany from danger . Commenting on the letter sent him by Otto Grotewohl , Premier of the East German Communist state , asking for talks on unity , Chancellor Adenauer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Soviet position in four-Power talks . The Soviet Union , he said , is playing the same game with France and Italy . So far as the Federal Republic is concerned , Dr. Adenauer made it clear that his Government had thrice appealed to the East Ger- , mans for free national elections as a first step toward unity and thrice had been rebuffed . " Herr Grotewhol declared these proposals were not worth reading , " Dr. Adenauer said . " They scorned our appeals . " Terms to . Be Reasserted On the basis of what he said tonight , it is clear that the Chancellor 's answer to Premier Grotewohl , due to be delivered tomorrow , will go no further than a reassertion of the terms on which the Federal Republic will consider unity : Free national elections and free party activity in East as well as West Germany . Turning to the current agitation for neutrality through unity that is making rapid headway in Western Germany , the Chancellor declared that a neutral Germany would be sucked into the Soviet maelstrom . Moreover , he warned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lose interest in Europe . Germany , he declared , can exist only if it belongs to " the Western camp of freedom , " whereas , Soviet rule in Germany means the end of the " Christian West . " The deep-seated fears of Federal Government over the prospective four-power meeting on Germany were expressed frankly by the Chancellor who said that " too many conferences " have yielded very little . Only one solution is possible in the present military situation , the Chancellor declared  --  military strengthening of the West . Holds War Can Be Avoided " I do not believe that a third world war is coming if the other side safeguards itself by readying all powers , but that . still is some distance away and therefore the West German Government looks forward to the coming of the fourpower talks with a certain concern , " the Chancellor said . Although Dr. Adenauer approached the point obliquely , this was the first suggestion by a responsible German leader to his people that rearmament in Europe and Germany can check Soviet ambitions . The Chancellor , taking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rearmament , contended that one of the reasons for the Germans ' resistance to rearmament was the " defamation of the entire German Wehrmacht . " He also charged that the Germans knew of plans for a defense West of the Rhine , although he said nothing about other plans for defense east of the river , and were worried by them . ' He also opposed the idea of equipping the Germans " only with light weapons and limiting their formations to combat team level . " " Only soldiers who feel equal to the other soldiers will be trustworthy and effective allies , " he declared . United States observers feared that the Chancellor was being somewhat less than frank in these passages . The conditions under which Germany is to be rearmed have been known for some weeks and Americans felt it was diplomatically unwise for Dr. Adenauer to make political play with them no matter how gratifying it might have been to his instincts as a party leader . On the whole , the speech , one of the most important Dr. Adenauer has made since he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , although the fact that Dr. Adenauer went out of his way to list the conditions under which Germany will work in the closest cooperation with the West shows that a solid alliance is not contemplate 1 unless further concessions are made by the occupation powers . But Dr. Adenauer 's blunt rebuff to the East on unity talks and his bitter attack on neutrality are signal gains for the Western powers in a confused and difficult political situation .                     