@@718593

txt Lyndon B. Johnson of Texas , Senate Democratic leader , admonished President Eisenhower today to avoid " coercion " in United States relations with Israel . In effect , Senator Johnson took a stand alongside the most powerful Republicans of the Senate in deploring talk of United Nations sanctions against the Israelis for tlieir refusal to withdraw unconditionally from the Gaza Strip and the Gulf of Aqaba area . As he did so , it became known that President Eisenhower 's decision to fly back to Washington for consultation with Congressional leaders of both parties had been made after the Democrats had rejected a suggestion that Secretary of State Dulles conduct the meeting . The Democrats understood that the Administration viewed the conference on Israel as urgent . They therefore suggested that it ' required the President 's presence . While Senate opinion in both parties was hardening against sanctions , some Administration officials said privately that if forced to choose between Israel and the United Nations , as they put it , the Government would back the United Nations . This was their way of hinting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would cooperate in applying them . At the request of the United States , the General Assembly postponed until Thursday the opening of its scheduled debate on the Middle East . It was not made clear whether the United States would vote for sanctions or would abstain . Nor was it specified how far economic sanctions might extend ? whether they would merely involve cutting off United States aid or would also interrupt private remittances to Israel through the United Jewish Appeal and the Israel bond drive . There appeared to be divided councils in the State Department on the question of private contributions . Clarification of the United States position was expected tomorrow , perhaps at Secretary Dulles ' scheduled news conference . The Johnson Statement Senator ' Johnson 's statement , issued as the Senate met at noon , said : " The headlines describe the situation in the Middle East as an ' impasse ' and a ' deadlock ' . I hope that this does not revive the talk about sanctions or other methods of coercion . " An impasse or a deadlock can be broken by- @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ persuaded somehow to keep on talking or they will go ahead and fight . " We seek peace and not war . This means that we seek talking rather than fighting .. I would hope that the possibilities would be explored of finding means other than direct coercion of keeping some form of negotiation going  --  possibly through a third party . " Senator William F. Knowland of California , the Republican leader , on Feb. 5 opened an attack on sanctions against Israel as " immoral " and " insupportable " so long as Soviet aggression in Hungary remained unpunished . He subsequently was joined in principle by Seviator Styles Bridges of New Hampshire , chairman of the Senate Republican Policy Committee ; by Senator Leverett Saltonstall of Masator Leverett Saltonstall of Massachusetts , chairman of Republican Conference , an organization of all Senate Republicans ; and by Senator Alexander Wiley of Wisconsin , the senior Republican spokesman on foreign policy . Senator Knowland feels so strongly on the matter that some of his friends expect him to-resign his membership in the United States delegation to the United Nations if @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as to whether he would take such a step he replied : " I will make my position known when I find out what the Administration is going to do . " Senator Knowland was- asked for his views on President Eisenhower 's renewed warning to the Israelis , in a statement yesterday , to withdraw from the Gaza Strip and Gulf of Aqaba area . Senator Knowland replied : " I have no comment ? at this time . " He emphasized the last three words . Senator Paul Douglas , Democrat of Illinois , asserted in the Senate that ? the President 's statement had been tantamount to rejection of Israel 's requests for clarification of United States proposals . " Unless American policy is changed decidedly in the next ' few days the results may be dis- ' estrous , " Senator Douglas said . While the Israel question dom- ' inated the Senate scene , sched-1 uled debate on the President 's Middle East resolution was , deferred until tomorrow because of an unexpected delay in the transaction of some routine business .     @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @       