@@719952

txt Attorneys for seven Negro children who seek readmission to Central High School in Little Rock , Ark. , filed a final brief with the Supreme Court today . The lawyers , associated with the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People , said the case " has now become a national test of the vitality of the principles enunciated in Brown vs . Board of Education . " The citation refers to the legal title of the case in which , in 1954 , the high court held public school segregation unconstitutional . In its brief , the N. A. A. C. P. scored the argument of the Little Rock school board , which opposes a resumption of integrated classes on the ground it would disrupt education . Argument Is Noted The N. A. A. C. P. said the school board 's argument added up to a prediction that , unless integration was stopped , " ruffians with or without support from state officials will resume their attempts forcibly to block the execution of valid , Federal court orders . " The Supreme Court meets at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the Little Rock case . The immediate question will be whether the seven Negro children must be readmitted to Central High School when it reopens next Monday . But on the resolution of that question may depend the course of Southern compliance with the court 's decision against racial segrega ? tion in the schools . In small ways and large tocl the momentous character of the case was illustrated . Through the day the marshal of the Supreme Court , T. Perry Lippitt , was deluged with requests for the few available seats in the courtroom . Government officials , as well as others , had to be turned down . Little Rock Delays Plan In Little Rock officials postponed talks about plans to deal with possible violence at Central High until after the Supreme Court announces its decision . That could be tomorrow ' or later . The court has announced no ' time limits for the oral argument tomorrow . The same three lawyers who argued before it ' two weeks ago will be heard again . Richard C. Butler , attorney for the Little Rock school @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Thurgood Marshall , chief counsel of the N. A. A. C. P. Finally , .1 . Lee Rankin , Solicitor General of the United States , will speak for the Government . The school board is , legally , a petitioner asking the Supreme Court to review and reverse the decision of the Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit on Vie . case . The Eighth Court set aside an order of United States District Judge Harry J. Lemley granting e. postponement of Little Rock 's integration plan until 1961 . The school board 's attorneys have framed the central legal question this way : " Whether a court of equity may postpone the enforcement of the respondents ' the Negro children 's constitutional rights if the continued enforcement thereof will result in an intol , : erable situation ane great disruption of the educational process to the detriment of the public interest , the schools and the students including the respondents . Violence Fear Rebutted In the brief filed today , the lawyers for the Negro children gave two answers to that legal question . First , they said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ courts in withdrawing their orders . Second , the N. A. A. C. P. argued that there was no grOund for thinking violence could not be prevented at Little Rock : The Justice Department decided today that it would not file a further brief in the case . It covered the central issue in a brief two weeks ago , saying that a delay of integration in Little Rock was not justified . The Supreme Court also has before it a motion by Senator J. W. Fulbright , Democrat of Arkansas , asking permission to file a brief as a friend of the court . The court will pass on this request before or with its final decision . Senator Fulbright 's brief was attached to this motion when it was filed two weeks ago . It asks the Supreme Court 's forbearance in view of the " ancient and melancholy history " of race relations in Arkansas and the South .                     