@@714259

txt General of the Army Dwight D. Eisenhower indicated tonight as forcefully as he could that his talks with President Truman and top Administration officials would be confined to matters of Western defense if his wishes were respected . Before he boarded the Constellation that would take him to the United States , General Eisenhower held a last-minute conference in the Military Air Transportation Service building at Orly airfield with W. Averell Harriman , Mutual Security Agency Director . By hurried maneuvering Mr. Harriman , who earlier in the afternoon had conferred with Prime Minister Churchill and British Cabinet members on Britain 's rearmament and economic problems , was able to arrive an hour before the general 's scheduled departure . While other officers stood in a steady rain outside the impromptu conference room to keep reporters away , the general and his chief of staff , Gen. Alfred M. Gruenther , talked with Mr. Harriman for fifty minutes . When General Eisenhower and M. Harriman emerged , it was apparent that the general did not relish being confronted by the press . Several reporters who had been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Gen. Charles Lanham , press chief at Supreme Headquarters , Allied Powers in Europe , that he had had great difficulty in getting the general to say a few words prior his departure and had succeeded only on thE basis that no political questions were to be asked . Harriman Talk First Bearing a more serious mien than he customarily does when meeting reporters , General Eisenhower invited Mr. Harriman to make a few remarks on their meeting . Mr. Harriman made a short statement explaining that this was the first of a series of talks he would be holding with General Eisenhower on defense problems and that he had discussed his new job as Mutual Security Agency Director . General Eisenhower then said he would Continue to shift the talks , which began in Washington , continued in London and then Paris , back to Washington . He said flatly that his talks there would be " strictly on the military aspects " of defense problems . He gave a convincing impression that no political discussions would be initiated or welcomed by him . He then turned abruptly and started @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reporter called to him asking whether he would answer any military questions , the . general turned back . Asked whether as a result of his talks with Mr. Harriman he believed that the shipment of United States supplies to Europe would have to be drastically speeded up , or whether European arms production must be accelerated , he replied that was a production problem . Bars ' Quarterback Sneak ' Another reporter asked " when , at the present rate of progress , do you think Europe 's rearmament will be such that you could safely be replaced ? " General Eisenhower luickly responded : " Quarterback sneaks may be all right in the football season but if you made a yard on that one brother . He then turned to the door and , walked down the ramp to the ' plane . With a smile on his face he asked Mr. Harriman : " What did you think of that one as a purely military question ? " Among the group accompanying ' General Eisenhower to Washing- , ton was Douglas , United States national military repre @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ matters relating to political de- , velopmenta in the Atlantic pact . countries . His presence in the group strengthened declarations at , headquarters that although there was much speculation on the potential political aspects of General . Eisenhower 's visit , the only purpose was a person-to-person consultation on military matters . The timing of the trip was attributable on part to a desire to wait until Congress adjourned . If General Eisenhower had returned while Congress was in session it was possible he might have been summoned to appear before some committee . With such a precedent , General Eisenhower , as Supreme Commander of the Atlantic pact military forces , could be called before Parliamentary groups in any of the member nations and thus possibly have little time to devote to his primary tasks .                     