@@719748

txt The House Armed Services Committee is moving toward a substantial compromise with the Administration on the Pentagon reorganization plan . All signs now point to a settlement that will give President Eisenhower most of the new flexibility he wants but deny him the broad discretionary ! powers embedded in his contro- ' versial draft bill . For the most part , these are powers that Administration witnesses have sworn they did not intend to use anyhow . Hence . if the Administration will tolerate the loss of much of its draft language the way is open for resolution of the dispute . After an open hearing Monday the committee will begin drafting new language to strip the President 's bill of " dead cats , " as one member has called its broader provisions . Representative Carl Vinson , Democrat of Georgia and committee chairman , now wants to move fast and hopes to get a bill to the floor by the end of this month . Committee Ready to Act The committee , after throe weeks of hearings , seems willing to accept a bill that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ command channel out of the Pentagon , would permit some enlargement and centralization of the Joint Chiefs of Staff structure and would clarify the Secretary of Defense 's power to make controversial de-. cisions in the field of futuristic ' weapons . It would not be a " blank check " ? as some critics have ) described the President 's drafts ? for the Administration to slash traditional service branches , emasculate the separate ' service staffs , or establish an overpowering general staff . There is little opposition to the President 's proposal to centralize research and develop-1 ment activities through a new high-ranking director of research and engineering . This provision seems safe . The following is a breakdown of the program 's major controversial proposals with indicated committee reaction : Channel of command ? this can be changed to drop the service departments from the channel between the President and unified commands by an Executive order . But to do the operational staff work that will be necessary at the Joint Chiefs level once the service staffs are removed from the picture , the Administration contends that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ present I legal limit of 210 qfficers . The Administration bill asked for repeal of the limiting figure . The committee objected that this would clear the track for development of a vast general staff dominating the Pentagon . Indications are that it will insist on a statutory limit of 400 officers at most , possibly fewer . Uneasy Abdtit Proposal In addition , committee members have indicated that they will repeal present law giving the Chief of Naval Operations and the Air Force Chief of Staff " command " over elements of their services . The Administration also asked the repeal of the law that gives the Army and Air Force the power to make plans for the national security , since this power would be lodged with the Joint Staff under the new proposal . The committee is uneasy about this proposal , fearing it would leave the service staffs without legally prescribed duties . If repeal is accepted , the committee will probably insist on new language spelling out the residual functions that would remain with service ' staffs . The Joint Chiefs of Staff ? The Administration @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their functions as ' advisers to the Secretary on high policy matters , less on their administrative duties as service chiefs . It also recommended enhancement of the chairman 's stature . The President 's bill proposed ' that the chiefs be empowered to delegate " authority " and " responsibility " for their administrative duties to their vice chiefs . The committee has no powerful objections to their delegating administrative duties but has misgivings about what might happen if they delegated " responsibility . " The bill also proposed that the the provision against the chairman 's being permitted to vote in the Joint Chiefs be repealed . The committee seems willing to grant this , The bill also proopsed that the chairman be empowered to select the director of the joint staff . The committee is disposed to permit this but will probably add language that would make it clear that he was to do so in " consultation " with the other chiefs . Single Chief Feared In general , while the committee is willing to put the chairman on a par legally with the other chiefs , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stature . This reflects the fear of a single chief developing in the new structure . Clarification of the Secretary of Defense 's power  --  This has proven the most controversial section of the bill . The Administration contends that present " fuzzy " language enables dissident services to resist important secretarial decisions and inhibits the Secretary from making basic decisions as quickly as the missile age demands . The crux of the Administration proposal was that the law be repealed that restricts the Secretary 's power to abolish , merge or transfer the service 's combatant functions . It would also specifically define his right to do so . The committee has contended , over Administration objections , that an extreme application . of this provision could lead to destruction of the Marine Corps and the naval air arm and to the impoverishment of whole services . The Administration has denied any such intent and has said it has no changes in mind but merely wants the cloudy area clarified so that the Secretary can move quickly and decisively without service obstruction as new weapons are developed . The committee @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that he should be " the boss " t the Pentagon , as Mr. Vinson has said . Most members are not convinced , however , that sweeping discretionary power must be given to accomplish the goal . One possible approach here is to add new language that will clearly define the Secretary 's authority in the new-weapons field without empowering him to transfer , merge or abolish existing service branches . This is probably the rine the committee will follow . The second controversial proposal by the President was to repeal language that states that the services should be " separately administered " though " under the direction , authority and control " of ? the Secretary . Vinson Cites Hey Words Mr. Vinson contends that the words " under the direction , authority and control of one Secretary of Defense " are the key words here and that they reflect Congress ' intention that the Secretary should be " boss . " The Administration says that , nevertheless , the words " separately administered " are used by the services to resist Secretarial decisions on the ground that they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is willing to remove any ambiguity and clarify the Secretary 's power . But there are great reservations whether the words " separately administered " need come out in order to achieve this .                     