@@713386

txt Efforts to help chronic alcoholies , will be initiated by the Commonwealth of Massachusetts tomorrow with the opening of a division of alcoholism in the De . partment of Public Health and 1 a clinic for rehabilitating alcoholies . Announcement was made today by Commissioner Dr. Vlado A. Getting , who termed the state 's alcoholism program long delayed . It results from legislation approved by Governor Dever last August . The clinic is the first of two to be operated under sponsorship of the health department at the Peter Bent Brigham Hospital and the Quincy City Hospital . Three-Pronged Attack The new division in the health department , Dr. Getting said , will conduct a three-pronged attack on the widespread problem of chronic alcoholism aimed at ( 1 ) diagnosis , treatment , and rehabilitation of persons addicted to the excessive use of alcohol : ( 2 ) prevention and education , and ( 3 ) research in the medical and public health aspects of chronic alcoholism . During its first year the division will establish clinics for the diagnosis , treatment , and rehabilitation of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ alcohol . " It will operate with a limited budget of $40,000 to cover costs until June 30 , 1951 , end of the fiscal year . The division is expected to work in conjunction with other agencies such as Alcoholics Anonymous , committees for education on alcoholism , church , and other groups to study the problems of alcoholism and to promote a preventive and educational program . Boston Rate Higher Alcoholism ranks among the state 's major public health problems , Dr. Getting said . " In fact , " he added , " the Bay State 's alcoholic problem ranks fifth in the nation with only four other states having a higher alcoholism rate . " One out of every 100 adults in the state has been physically or psychologically damaged by ex- , cessive drinking of alcohol . " The rate in Boston , he indicated , is slightly higher than that of the state as a whole . Dr. Getting recalled that the cost to governmental agencies in Massachusetts for incarceration of problem drinkers and care of their families was estimated by the Legislative Commission on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In setting up the division of alcoholism in the health department , Massachusetts is following the lead of Virginia , New Jersey , and Pennsylvania in treating alcoholism as a part of its general public health program . The director of the new division will be Dr. John C. Ayres , of Brighton , a Navy Medical Corps veteran who saw service in the Pacific area . Dr. Ayres at present is assistant director of the department 's division of communicable diseases .                     