@@713479

txt An advisory group to the Selective Service System today proposed that superior university students be deferred indefinitely from military service to continue their studies and even longer if their training and capabilities were of use elsewhere in the defense program . The committee emphasized to the Selective Service Director , Maj. Gen. Lewis B. Hershey , its view that highly trained specialized manpower could serve the national interest both in and out of the armed forces . General Hershey appointed more than two years ago six scientific advisory committees representing agriculture , engineering , the healing arts , humanities , physical sciences and the social sciences . The committees today presented a combined report at a public meeting attended ' by more than 250 representatives of education , industry , labor , Government departments and other fields . The heart of the plan was a proposal that students , to be eligible for draft postponement , would have to attain a score of at least 120 in a classification test similar to that given now by the armed services and be certified as promising students . These @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ M. H. Tritten , general chairman of the six committees : 3 . Students who are deferred to pursue courses have added to " their period of Selective Service liability a period equal to the time they were deferred for training . " 2 . Selective Service should create a classification to be known as II-A ( S ) to cover all students who have demonstrated educational aptitude of potential value to the national health , safety and interest . 3 . A general classification and a record of previous educational accomplishment be combined in deciding when a student is of special promise in science or the professions . 4 . Students eligible for II-A ( S ) classification should be certified by an accredited educational institution . Any student registered as II-A. ( 5 ) would , under the plan , remain in this classification for four months after completion of his scholastic training . " Joker " Seen in Plan This provision , according to the committee , is to- offer a transition period for the student and , it was said , implies that the student will go @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more important use for his professional knowledge is found in some nonmilitary endeavor . After the meeting , one Government official close to the manpower picture and Selective Service matters expressed the view that this provision might prove to be a " joker " in the plan . It would , he thought , give almost all deferred students an opportunity to get into some kind of " draft-proof " occupation . Figures prepared by the committee indicated that under the plan 65,000 young men classified as II-A(S) would be graduated from college annually . " This , " the advisory committee said , " would be a small number to supply the students that would go through medical schools , dental schools , engineering schools , scientific curricula and many other curricula now so essential in our civilization and for our national security . However , it is our hope that the productivity of this selected group will be at a high average . " In thanking the group for its recommendations General Hershey said that the present deferment ' system leads to a " hide and seek " with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ asserted that it was not up to him as director to change the policy and said he did not know if Congress would legislate a better program . Overhauling of the Selective Service system  --  with a tightened deferment policy , possible exten- sion of the term of service from twenty-one to twenty-four or more months and a possible change that would permit drafting of 18-yearolds ? is expected to be taken up by the new Congress in January . The chairmen of the six committees presenting today 's report were Dr. Leland W. Parr , George Washington Univerity ; Stephen L. Tyler , executive secretary of the American Institute of Chemical Engineers ; Dr. Charles E. Odegaard , executive director of the American Council of Learned Societies ; Dr. Clifton Gibbs , chairman of the Division of Mathematical and Physical Sciences of the National Research Council ; Dr. Charles W. Cole , president of Amherst College , and Dr. Stockton Kimball , dean of the School of Medicine at the University of Buffalo . A representative of the United States Office of Education objected to the absence of a provision @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the committee said that it did not consider such a provision within its scope . Plans Already Offered In recent days there have been many suggestions from official and unofficial sources on the problem of student deferment . Dr. James B. Conant , president of Harvard University , has called for the induction for a two-year period of all men , without exception , as soon as they reached 18 . This was criticized by a special committee of college presidents in a report to the New York State Association of Colleges and Universities . The committee called Dr. Conant 's proposal too rigid . , It urged basic military training at age 18 , but it advocated delay ill military service , as distinct from the period of basic training , until the end or completion of the student 's education at either the highschool or post-high-school level . Oscar R. Ewing , Federal Security Administrator , on Saturday proposed a four-point plan that would introduce universal ' basic military training in high schools and tie universities closer to the preparedness program . His plan would set up a Federal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ number of young men to , colleges either as officer candidates or as science candidates in the so-called critical or essential professions . On Sunday , another plan that would postpone induction of students was submitted to General Hershey by Dr. Earl J. , United States Commissioner of Education . His plan is based on the assumption that there shall be no exemptions of students from military service but that the time of induction may be postponed . Eligibility for postponement would rest on demonstrated abilities of the student to do better-than-average college work .                     