@@719296

txt Administration spokesmen set out to seek public support for higher defense outlays even before President Eisenhower 's outline of spending prospects last nirht . Earlier yesterday . Cabinet members and other key officials presented the new outlook to it two-day gathering of the National Defense Executive Reserve . The reserve group . composed of over 1,200 leaders of industry . labor and agriculture . is sponsored by the Office of Defense Mobilization and the Commerce Department , and forms a manpower pool available to the Government in an emergency . Its members were given these insights into the Administration 's latest thinking of budgetary and other aspects of defense : Commerce Secretary Weeks . the lead-off speaker , declared " the emphasis now is on less butter and more guns " and urged business to support a defense and foreign sid'program " adequate for national security " that may necessitate " curtailment of some less essential programs " outside the broad field of defense . At the same time . the Commerce chief cautioned that " every unnecessary burden crushes down " the booming U.S. economy " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ U.S. production of goods and services  --  the gross national product  --  is now running at an annual rate of $440 billion , up from 5415 billion in 1956 and nearly three times the estimated 5154 billion Soviet gross national product in 1956 . Secretary of State Dulles said that if the U.S. devoted to defense and foreign aid the same proportion of its total production as the Soviet " garrison state , " current spending on these items would run about $125 billion a year  --  nearly twice the total current Federal budget . Simultaneously . Mr. Dulles cautioned that the problem facing this country is to remain strong " and still retain the essentials of freedom . " He pleaded for wider acceptance of " inter-dependence " on overseas allies and warned the U.S. must not be too - prom to accept scientific ideas from other countries . Gen. Maxwell Taylor . Army Chief of Staff . told the group that rising costs of space-age military hardware and the need for higher pay to retain highly-trained military personnel " create budgetary headaches for which we have not yet found an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the problem confronting the U.S. is not one of keeping up with the Joneses militarily but " with some very tough opponents whose names do not sound like Jones who are trying their best to outstrip us . " In the wake of Russia 's earth-satellite launchings. these developments highlighted the day 's news in the fields of scientific and military activity : Dr. S. Fred Singer , associate professor of obealea at the University of Maryland and a consultant on missile programs , predicted at a Rotary Club luncheon here that the U.S. Air Force will have a 5.000-mile intercontinental balltstic missile comparable to the Soviets ' weapon " in the next few weeks " even though two launchings of the U.S. " Atlas " nussile failed . Gen. Curtis LeMay. the Air Force 's vice chief of stall , arrived back in Washington on the return leg of a trip to Buenos Aires to demonstrate the capability of the Air Foree 's new Boeing NC-135 Stratotanker to increase the rewire of America 's hydrogen-bomb-carryMg strategic air force . Three Air Force medium 13 ? 66 bombers made an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to show that a selfcontained tactical striking force can be moved anywhere in the world to meet potential aggression . The Navy denied a report it will fire a test three  --  stage missile on December 1 that will hurl an experimental satellite . into space : officials did say the test will occur " some time in December " and that the final stage will be supplied by Grand Central Rocket Co. , a firm specializing in solid propellants.                     