@@713218

txt ? Mayor O'Dwyer 's formal resignation was filed with City Clerk Murray W. Stand yesterday at 10:04 A. M. The filing automatically conferred upon Acting Mayor Vincent R. Impellitteri all the powers and duties of Mayor . The resignation , dated yesterday , was written on the official stationery of the Mayor 's office . It was taken to Mr. Stand 's office on the second floor of the Municipal Building by Charles F. Preusse , first assistant Corporation Counsel , to whom it had been entrusted by Mr. O'Dwyer last Thursday . Mr : Stand immediately stamped upon the document the date and time of its receipt . Mr. Stand 's next act was to send to the Board of Elections by messenger his formal certification that the office of Mayor was vacant . The Board of Elections received the certification at 10:27 A. M .. The O'Dwyer resignation , addressed to Mr. Stand , read as follows : Dear Sir : I hereby resign as Mayor of the City of New York . Very truly yours , WILLIAM O'DWYER . Mr. Impellitteri still retains title @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to which he was reelected last November . He be ' came Acting Mayor , with limited administrative powers , when Mr. O'Dwyer left the city last Thursday . The filing of the O'Dwyer resignation removed the limitations . At 10:55 A. M. the Acting Mayor moved from the Council President 's office in the southwest corner of City Hall to the Mayor 's office in the northwest corner of the building . Immediately afterward he held a press conference at which he reiterated that he was a candidate for the Democratic nomination for Mayor and hoped and expected that the five Democratic county leaders would . select him , on the basis of his experience in public office , as the Democratic candidate in the Nov. 7 election To Move to Mansion " I am moving into Gracie Mansion the Mayor 's official restknee next Tuesday and I expect t to be my official residence after lov. 7 , " Mr. Impellitteri declared . ' As I said some time ago , I am a candidate for the office of Mayor . hope and expect the five county eaders will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ my experi ? . nce , as their candidate for the ( ) Mee of Mayor . " The Acting Mayor remarked that he was " heartened " by the " wholehearted endorsement of my candidacy by the joint committee of the American Federation of Labor and the Congress of Industrial Organizations . " His candidacy , he added , has been endorsed by representatives of most of the civic organizations of Queens and units of the American Legion , Veterans of Foreign Wars , Catholic The Acting Mayor declared that he had received offers to support his candidacy from " a great number of independent citizens ' groups " and from the Lambs Club , which sent him a telegram bearing the signatures of 400 members . The Acting Mayor , who served as a radio operator on a destroyer in World War I , has been a. member of the American Legion and the V. F. W. for thirty years . Mr. Impellitteri declared that he contemplated no changes for the present in his official family . " With reference to persons now holding positions in the city government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the right kind of job for the people of this city will continue in office . I have no present plans to remove anyone . I shall expect from all heads of city agencies the same cooperation given Mayor O'Dwyer during his administration . " The Acting Mayor announced that his personal secretary would be Miss Mary Ann Catenacchi of 958 East 214th Street , the Bronx , who acted in a similar capacity when he served as Council President . Miss Catenacchi was his secretaty also when he was a practicing lawyer about ten years ago . Patrolman Mauro A. Contrasteno of 1439 West Avenue , the Bronx , will be the Acting Mayor 's police aide . Move by Assistant Harry D. Kingsbury of 146-15 Holly Avenue , Flushing , Queens , I executive assistant to the Council President , also moved to the other end of City Hall with the Acting Mayor . Mr. Impellitteri 's first official act was to sign a letter addressed to all department . and agency heads , advising them of the procedure to be followed with respect to State legislation . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the city 's legislative representative at Albany , their views on legislation they desired to have the city Sponsor in 1951 and their recommendations as to pending legislation after the 1951 Legislature convened . In the afternoon the Acting Mayor and Mrs. Impellitteri made an informal inspection of Gracie Mansion . They will spend the holiday week-end at their apartment at 200 West Sixteenth Street . They will attend services at St. Prancis Xavier Roman Catholic Church on the same street today at 12:45 P. M.                     