@@714630

txt Despite a protest by the President that such action would " paralyze the Government in an emergency , " the Senate voted 44-31 on Monday against permitting any of the funds being voted in a pending appropriation bill to be used for Government operation of the recently seized mills of the steel industry . Yesterday another similar motion failed of passage by the narrow margin of four votes . Richard B. Russell , Democrat of Georgia , told the Senate that while he would support a " constructive legislative program " that would " take the steel mills from the hands of the President , " he did not favor dealing with the Executive Order by cutting off appropriations . There is a good deal to be said for the Senator 's attitude on this point and we agree with him . This , however , does not lessen the importance of Monday 's vote as a rebuke to the White House and a reflection of the opposition that the President 's action has aroused . Mr. Truman is showing some signs of awareness of the Congressional @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ President Barkley which seems designed as an effort to win Congressional support . Whether it will have that effect , however , is seriously open to question , And the reason for this is that the protestations it makes as to the President 's intentions are themselves open to question . Referring to his action of April 9 ordering the seizure of the steel mills , Mr. Truman declared that he decided on that course " with the utmost reluctance , " and that " the idea of Government operation of the steel mills was thoroughly distasteful to me . " He could not invoke the Taft-Hartley Act , he wrote , because that law " provides no means of preventing a shutdown while the fact-findiag board ? is making its inquiry . " In view of the President 's record on seizure these assurances do not carry much conviction . Following Mr. Truman 's election in 1948 the Administration launched a drive for repeal of the Taft-Hartley Act and its replacement with a thinly disguised version of the Wagner Act . Sponsors of that legislation ( the Lesinski bill ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ emergency disputes , right up to the time when it became apparent that such a concession would be necessary to head off the opposition ( Wood ) bill . At first the " inherent powers of the President " were relied upon , under the Lesinski bill . Later the idea of permitting seizure was considered . The injunction was accepted only as the very last resort . As recently as 1950 , moreover , the President virtually admitted that Congressional authority was required for him to seize the coal mines . At that time he sent messages to both houses asking speedy legislation granting him the power of seizure . As matters turned out the strike ended before such action by Congress could be taken , but the precedent still stands to confront Mr. Truman and to make his recent resort to what he terms " inherent powers " seem poorly founded . To say that the Taft-Hartley Act is too slow in operation to have been effective in the steel situation is not accurate . There is nothing in that act which says that the President must wait until @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he have to show that the entire industry is likely to be affected . He is authorized to act when there is a situation " which will , qwq The fact of the matter is that the nation 's blast furnaces were being shut down right and left for a number of days before Mr. Truman suddenly decided to resort to seizure of the industry . In this period , which would have been sufficient to get the Taft-Hartley machinery well under way , the nation lost some 900.000 tons of steel production .                     