@@716470

txt The French protocol to revise the European Defense Community treaty was frowned upon by the foreign ministers of all the five other signatory countries who gathered in Brussels today to discuss it . The frown appeared to be deep , Unanimous and determined . Officials predicted that at the first meeting tomorrow the other foreign ministers would decline to accept the protocol even as a basis for discussion . Others suggested the frown might not be permanent . The ministers will hold a restricted session tomorrow to measure the prospect of overcoming what appeared tonight to be an absolute deadlock . On that occasion Premier Pierre MendesFrance will hold a conference with Dr. Konrad Adenauer , West German Chancellor , for the first time . Premier 's Stand Unchanged M , Mendes-France 's attitude seemed unchanged except that his associates emphasized that he did not offer his protocol in a " takeit-or-leave-it " spirit , as had been reported in Paris . But the Premier was understood to contend that every amendment proposed to his protocol must be judged not only on its merits but also and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the treaty in the French Parliament . Since the French Parliament is not directly represented here , it was assumed that M. MendesFrance would be the sole judge of its probable reaction to any counter-proposal that might come up . It was remarked that M. Mendes-France apparently viewed the suggested changes in his protocol as " amendments . " But the other ministers regard the protocol itself as a collection of amendments to the treaty that in effect would replace it by a new treaty . Hence the clash at this conference appeared to be between two treaties  --  the one that had been signed by six nations and ratified by four , and the one M. MendesFrance was offering as being about the only kind France would now accept . M. Mendes-France contends his treaty could be ratified without appeal to the . other parliaments , although it would annul a treaty voted by four parliaments , in the opinion of officials of other nations . The five other states  --  West Germany , Italy , Belgium , the Netherlands Wand Luxembourg ? all reject this theory of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ treated in that manner . Chancellor Adenauer is reported to have found in M. MendesFrance 's treaty , as it is called here , forty-four clauses that would require the approval of the West German Parliament and more than twenty that would require approval by a two-thirds vote because they would affect the Constitution . The other ministers all insisted that their parliaments , too , would have to vote on any amendments to the existing treaty . Violations of Treaty Charged ' An official of one signatory state said the treaty as signed was " violated " on every page of M. Mendes-France 's protocol . It was indicated tonight that PaulHenri Spaak , Belgian Foreign Minister , who had aspired to be the conciliator at this conference , had not yet discovered enough common ground between M. Mendes-France and the other foreign ministers to provide a starting point for conciliation . There was no doubt that the French stood sharply isolated with all the five others against them on the issues that M. Mendes-France had raised . To those who suggested that the choice might be between a protocol @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Community treaty at ' all , some officials of the other states promptly replied that they would prefer to see the treaty die . They insisted the treaty that M. Mendes-France wanted was very temporary , tied as it was to the presence of United States and British troops in Europe , and would be fatally weakened by the various escape and veto clauses in the protocol , Since the French Government negotiated last year a series of protocols to the treaty , part of which M. Mendes-France now seeks to annul , officials of other states ask how they can be sure ' that within a few months some new French premier will not come up with new protocols to annul the protocol of M. MendesFrance if it is adopted . As if anticipating a combined attack on their diplomatic position , the French have come to Brussels in full force . Their delegation is the largest here and contains twenty-three officials . The Germans brought only eight officials .                     