@@720500

txt President Eisenhower Tuesday night urged the nation 's ( physicians to help him fight inflation by charging fees that " people can reasonably pay . " In an address to the 108th annual ) convention of the American liedical association , the President warned anew against " reckless " federal spending which , he said , would debase the American dollar . He told 5,000 physicians in this resort city 's convention hall that they have " a vital interest " in backing his fight for sound money . He said this is a key peg in keeping a free economy for doctors along with other Americans . Warns on Controls The President said that certainly doctors want to keep , the i r fees reasonable . He warned against government controls that would lead in the direction of socialized medicine with this statement : " If the time ever comes when large numbers of our citizens turn primarily to the government for assistance in what ought to remain a private arrangement between doctor and patient , then we shall have all suffered a great loss . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not paid in dollars alone " but in stagnation of national progress and " if unchecked , in lost freedoms for the . doctor and patient . " Tells Need for Balance In his 25 minute address , Mr. Eisenhower paid tribute to the medical profession , but he hit hardest , as he has in many recent speeches , on the necessity for balancing the f e d e ra 1 budget as a step toward stabilizing living costs for all citizens . He made no direct mention of Democratic backed spending measures in Congress calling for big outlays that would lead to continued deficits . Mr. Eisenhower drew a parallel for his medical audi . ence between physical and fiscal health . " Our economy , like our bodies , must be vigorous , " he said . " In this sense the relationships ' between the ' balanced diet a n d balanced budget are easily understood . How the Two Compare " Neither is an end in itself . There are some useless items of food all of us crave and do eat , no matter how @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? for which we thoughtlessly spend , often to our own detriment . . . . " Habitual violation of the requirements of a balanced diet can lead to ruined health " Deliberately to unbalance the federal budget in time of huge indebtedness and rapidly increasing prosperAl can bring about an enfeebled economy . The choice , therefore , is ours and we must act with clear mind and resolution in either case . " In the management of our governmental activity one simple need is for judgment , frugality , a n d restraint . " Likened to a Bank , Mr. Eisenhower also likened the federal government to a commercial bank , with the taxpayers in the role of depositors . He said that if the taxpayers ' bank  --  the government ? spends tax money " foolishly or too lavishly " because of pressure from special groups , such a " reckless course " would impoverish the taxpayers . He noted that the ? government , unlike a bank , could avoid bankruptcy by the unpleasant step of boosting taxes s " Or worse , " he said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Finally , all prices would go out of sight and everybody would go broke . " Mr. Eisenhower said that we must live within our means if we as a people are to prosper . " He asserted that unless responsible officials , " ? meaning Congress and the executive , " and all citizens insist on reducing the huge national debt , the nation 's credit will be weakened . Effect on the Elderly He said that doctors , as community leaders , can do a great service by preaching that the future of America and the free world depends on keeping a " robust economy and a stable dollar . " The President praised the A. M. A. 's recent inquiry into the problems of the aged and their health needs . He said this activity calls for a " lively partnership " among individuals , voluntary agencies , and , where necessary , the government . He also keyed his anti-inflation fight to the problems of elderly Americans . He said they live largely on pensions and o t h e r fixed income amounts , so that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? it is a robber and a thief . " " It takes the bread out of their mouths , the clothes off their backs , and it limits their access to the medical care and facilities they need , " the President said . The President arrived back in Washington at 10:45 p. m . He stepped directly from his plane into a limousine and drove to the White House . The round trip took less than six hours .                     