@@713447

txt Prime Minister Attlee declared yesterday that there will be no " appeasement " of Communist China and that , in fair or foul weather , where the Stars and Stripes fly in Korea the British flag will fly beside them . The precise meaning of this declaration in terms of a solution of the Korean problem must still be revealed . Undoubtedly it will depend in large measure on the further course of events on the Korean battlefields . There one part of the United Nations forces is still fighting against heavy odds to escape destruction in a trap ; but the main parts of these forces have completed a successful retreat and are now attempting to establish a line near the Thirtyeighth Parallel for a new stand against the Chinese Communists . Since these forces are still largely intact and will now fight in defensive positions more nearly of their own choice , there is at least a chance that they may be able to halt the enemy , despite his vast numerical superiority , and thereby improve not only the military position but also the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ frankly states that there are " differences of emphasis " in American and British policies , owing to such factors as our different geography ; but coming toward the end of his conferences with President Truman , his declaration may be taken as further confirmation that there is neither dispute nor doubt about the ends which both Governments seek , and that , whatever happens in Korea , our two nations are agreed on a broad policy of resistance to Communist aggression . In this policy Britain naturally looks first of all to the defense of now defenseless Europe . The United States likewise agrees that Europe constitutes our own first line of defense , and this agreement is demonstrated not only by all the previous American efforts to speed European economic recovery and rearmament but also by the announcement last evening that " the Prime Minister and the President are in full agreement on the necessity of carrying out urgently plans and programs developed by the North Atlantic Treaty Organization . " Meanwhile , efforts are being made , both within the United Nations and outside of it , to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fateful course . In the United Nations the General Assembly decided yesterday , by a vote of 51 against the 5 votes of the Soviet bloc , to put to immediate debate a resolution calling on the Peiping Government to stop its " intervention " in Korea and to withdraw its troops from that country immediately . At the same time , United Nations delegates of thirteen Asiatic and Middle Eastern countries , led by India , have urged the Peiping regime to halt its forces at the Thirty-eighth Parallel , in order to provide time for consideration of a peaceful settlement and to avert the danger of a greater war . Whether this pressure will lead to my worthwhile result remains to be seen . The cynical attitude of Mr. Vishinsky offers little hope along this ine , and some of the proposals for a ' settlement " go far beyond what either he United Nations or any free nation ndividually could honorably concede . ror , above all the turmoil and . confusion of the moment , there is one paramount fact  --  and that is that Commudst China @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ explicit deiance of the United Nations . The Jnited Nations will fail in its duty nd risk its very existence if it refuses o take cognizance of this hard fact nd in compliance with its Charter ass judgment upon it 80 that , irrepective of the military exigencies of the moment , the , law-abiding wor : may keep the moral record straigi and preserve its right to appeal I the conscience of mankind .                     