@@713856

txt TOKYO , Tuesday , May 15 ? United Nations patrols moved deep into enemy territory in Korea yesterday , striking out from a strong defense line on high ground across the peninsula . They found few opponents . Communist troops , reportedly completing their concentrations for resumption of their spring offensive , were either well concealed or still north of the battle zone . United States tank-infantry patrols ranged as far as eight miles north of ruined Uijongbu , on the western front , almost within striking distance of the . Thirty-eighth Parallel , with limited contact . But one enemy battalion , dug in astride a road about two miles north of Uijongbu , fought stubbornly , and United Nations forces were unable to dislodge them . Patrols that tried to cross the Pukham River east of Kapyong , in central Korea , met heavy fire from rifles and machine guns , and failed to get over the stream . Rain and low-hanging clouds hampered air operations and made behind-the-lines observation difficult . Pilots reported , however , that movement continued south // ward above the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for a drive in the mountain terrain of Korea 's rugged " spine . " " Activity and southward movement " was reported by the Eighth Army in the area around Hwachon , big Communist base ten miles north of the Thirty-eighth Parallel . The enemy appeared " to be moving cautiously , however , after the bad mauling by air and artillery that he suffered during the first phase of the offensive above the Korean capital at Seoul . Pilots found and attacked only small concentrations of troops . Fliers of the First Marine Air Wing in sixteen sorties dropped fragmentation bombs and napalm on enemy groups ten miles north of Kapyong , on the main lateral highway across the peninsula . Land-based fighter-bombers of the Fifth Air Force placed one strike on an estimated 100 of the Chinese northeast of Changgong . Weather held sorties to 449 up to dark yesterday , forty-five in close support of the infantry , which was largely out of contact with the enemy as ground combat dwindled . Enemy casualties dropped during the lull in fighting , which may be preparatory to a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or wounded on Sunday at 910 . Air strikes yesterday added approximately 400 . Enemy Bridgehead Expanded Farther east , the enemy was reported expanding and reinforcing his three-mile bridgehead on the south bank of the Choyang River above Chunchon . Heavy artillery pounded the area throughout the day , and a company on the western flank of the Communist positions reported that guns had killed 100 of the enemy on a single hillside in a bombardment . Reconnaissance forces thrusting northward toward the Thirtyeighth Parallel , however , repthted " no significant enemy activity " on most of the central front , Eighth Army headquarters said . South of Yanggu , at the eastern end of the big Hwachon Reservoir , another area where the Communists were reported building up their forces , South Korean patrols reported some contact . The South Koreans traded rifle fire with three groups in brief engagements , incomplete reports said . South Koreans north and east of Inje , where heavy enemy attacks earlier this week had forced readjustment of positions , also came under light small-arms fire . One South Korean organization reported @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Front Rain was falling yesterday and again this morning over much of the front and some observers believed that this heightened the possibility of an enemy attack soon . Superior United Nations fire power on the ground and from the air was largely responsible for halting the Chinese onslaught above Seoul . In bad weather , however , these were at a disadvantage in finding targets , and a spell of poor visibility would somewhat enhance the Communists ' chances . It was for this reason that the enemy 's main effort originally was expected to have been made during the period of spring and early summer , when the rains would be at hand . B-29 's from Japan took advantage of a break in the weather yesterday to bomb visually at Hamhung , one of the main junctions on the enemy 's supply route from Manchuria down the east coast of Korea . 