@@718251

txt Egypt 's request for a United Nations Security Council meeting to consider the Egyptian complaint against " some powers , particularly France . and the United Kingdom , " is an obvious countermove to the Anglo-French initiative for a Security Council meeting to discuss the situation caused by Egyptian nationalization of the Suez Canal Company . President Nasser considers he had legal justification for nationalizing the company . Clearly he is going to challenge any attempt to bring him before the Security Council as a delinquent or defendant . Soviet Veto Sighted His aim is to come before the Security Council only as a plaintiff accusing Britain and France of violating the UN Charter by military and economic pressures brought to bear on Egypt since his nationalization of the canal company . Egyptians are solidly behind Colonel Nasser in his claim that he has done no wrong in nationalizing the company . They resent the way in- which the West , particularly Britain and France ? as they see it  --  have used threats to try to get Colonel Nasser to accept international control of the canal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ convinced of the righteousness of the Egyptian case , and of the guilt of Britain and France . They expect the Soviet Union to use the veto if necessary to support Egypt , and they take heart from the moral support which they feel is assured from the great mass of peoples of Asia and Africa with a colonial past . The decision to meet Anglo-French reference of the Suez dispute to the Security Council with a countercomplaint came only a few hours after President Nasser 's return from his weekend conference in Saudi Arabia with King Saud and President El Kuwaiti of Syria . A joint communiqu ? after this conference contained the usual noble expressions of Arab brotherhood , solidarity , and determination that give few clues as to what went on behind the scenes . The cominunique. said King Saud and President El Kuwaiti fully supported Egypt in every step taken by President Nasser in the Suez dispute . However , the tone of the communiqu ? is moderate , and the emphasis is on the need for a negotiated settle ? ment . The communiqu ? said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the nations concerned about navigation through the canal can be guaranteed through negotiations with Egypt , the country owning the canal , provided such negotiations be marked by respect for the United Nations Charter as well as resolutions adopted by the Bandung- Conference . No - pres- sure of any kind should be allowed and no desire for any solution be imposed unilaterally . " Observers Wonder Observers here wonder to what extent King Saud and President El Kuwaiti might have communicated to President Nasser any misgiving they might have about his having embarked unilaterally on a course over the Suez Canal , a particularly Egyptian interest , which . could . have serious . consequences for the whole Arab world . It is noticed , for example , that in the joint communiqu ? Suez takes-second place to . " the Israeli menace " ? generally considered by other Arab states as the big . gest common danger to them all . Observers wonder , too , whether King Saud raised the question of likely effects on oil-producing countries like his own if the Suez dispute led to interruption of the flow @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ boycott of the canal , or by blowing up of pipelines that cross Syria from Iraq and Saudi Arabia to shipping terminals on the Mediterranean coast . Rare Arab Meeting Colonel Nasser can not have failed to notice the significance of the meeting of Kings of Saudi Arabia and- Iraq at the end of last week . It was the first meeting of the heads of these two royal houses  --  long rivals be . cause of a dynastic feud  --  in more than a quarter of a century . Hardly had King Saud bidden farewell to the King of Iraq-.before President Nasser was on his way by air to confer with King Saud  --  perhaps to reassure himself . It is also noticed here that on conclusion of the meeting of King Saud , President Kuwaiti , and President Nasser , President Nasser left for home and did  --  not wait to meet Indian Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru , due only a few hours later as official guest of King Saud . The government - directed Egyptian ? press had earlier reported confidently that Colonel Nasser would stay on in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reports from New Delhi , however , it seems Mr. Nehru felt such a meeting . would be inopportune while his special ' ' envoy ' V : K. Krishna Menon , now in London after talks in Cairo , is on the stage as India 's chief actor in the continuing Suez drama .                     