@@714719

txt Dwight D. Eisenhower 's first address to the American people as private citizen and as candidate for the Republican presidential nomination accomnlished several thins . In its basic philosophy and direction it demonstrated to doubting Republicans that Mr. Eisenhower embraces the heart of Republican doctrine . In its wide-ranging and telling criticisms of the Roosevelt and Truman administrations it showed that Eisenhower is both free and disposed to conduct a vigorous campaign against the Demo-r ate Party and against the Democratic record at all its most vulnerable and weakest points  --  in foreign as well as domestic policy . In domestic affairs the speech showed considerable agreement between the former military leader and Senator Taft on the need of balancing the budget , reducing taxation , cutting down the federal bureaucracy , and reversing the trend of concentrating more and more power in Washington , to the end that conservative Republicans would find no wrench to their convictions in supporting an Eisenhower nomination . In foreign affairs , Mr. Eisenhower , in his Abilene homecoming and in his Pentagon press conference the day before , marked out @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inevitably the Republican Party will have to make a significant and meaningful choice between the two when the voting begins in Chicago July 7 . A A i The Abilene address was general at many points , and therefore will leave some Republicans and perhaps many uncommitted voters wanting a fuller bill of particulars on ways and means . But one speech is only a beginning , and he has promised to " speak his mind " with candor and directness . Mr. Eisenhower has laid down one guiding rule for himself which is novel and welcome . He has said that he is n't going to toss off pronouncements on every question that is asked him until he has had a chance to get at the facts . That may slow him up a little , but it wo n't do anybody any harm . There are sions about Eisenhower , . which are becoming clear even on the basis of the few days he has been out of uniform and in politics . He is n't going to be hard to find from here to Chicago . He is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as some of his supporters feared . He is n't going to play political pat-a-cake with the Truman administration , as many of his Republican critics have been alleging he would . * His central thesis in the front , middle , and end of his speech in Abilene , Kan. , was that the Democratic Party had been in power too long , that our two-party system of government urgently calls for a change , and that the United States will be better off when that change is brought about . Candidate Eisenhower also made it clear that merely because he has helped to bring to fruition the concept of collective security through the North Atlantic Alliance  --  an alliance which Senator Vandenberg originally proposed and which the administration later embraced ? he counts himself in no way the captive of the Truman administration in foreign policy any more than in domestic policy . Mr. Eisenhower characterized the loss of China to the Communists as one of the great tragedies of our times . He declared that the time had come to " remove the mystery " from our foreign @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rightly dread the kind of secrecy that surrounded Yalta . " Quite obviously , Mr. Eisenhower is ready to take on Mr. Truman  --  and the Democratic presidential nominee  --  at all stops , whistle or not . J. A It will be the Republican Party 's responsibility to choose at Chicago the kind of foreign policy on which it wishes to place its stamp of approval . To that end , it is altogether useful that Mr. Eisenhower is attempting in no way to blur the differences between Senator Taft and himself . This will help make the decision more visible and deliberate . It seems evident that Mr. Eisenhower stands for a more vigorous , dynamic leadership of the free world on the part of the United States than Senator Taft considers either wise or necessary.General " Ike " stands unqualifiedly for the principle and the practice of collective security as embodied in the North Atlantic Treaty ' while the Ohio senator voted against the treaty , stating that he thought the United States should not promise to join in the common defense . Both of these Republican contenders @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ important points . * In this period of tension and considerable antagonisms , it seems to me that . Mr. Eisenhower is asking for the nation an era of good will and dedication to which , regardless of one 's attitude toward him as a candidate , all good men might rally .                     