@@714803

txt Averell Harriman , who seeks the Democratic nomination for President as a " four-square " supporter of the New and Fair Deals , today sought to form a Northern coalition , probably with help of supporters of Senator Estes Kefauver of Tennessee , also a candidate for the nomination . The aim of the coalition would be to seat " loyalist " delegations from Texas and Mississippi that favor the Truman Administration and are contesting the officially designated " regular " delegations . Early today a Subcommittee on Credentials of the Democratic National Committee voted to seat the contested anti-Administration del ' egations after ' Texas and MissisIsippi party leaders had made qualified pledges of party loyalty . The full National Committee will receive the recommendations at 10 o'clock this morning . The subcommittee also recommended a change in the convention rules , stipulating that the only honorable course for any delegate seated permanently would be to support the policies and nominees voted by the convention . Contests May Go to Floor The contests are expected to go to the floor of the convention , which opens @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bolt like that of four years ago on civil rights . As a result , the fight over these contests , in which the " regular " delegations are headed by Goys . Allan Shivers of Texas and Hugh White of Mississippi , are likely to furnish a test vote in this convention , just as the Texas , Georgia and Louisiana delegate contests furnished test votes in the Republican National Convention that led ultimately to the nomination of Gen. Dwight D. Eisenhower for President . Other pre-convention developments yesterday included : gThe arrival of Vice President Alben W. Barkley , and a consequent increase in the strength of his candidacy for the Presidential nomination , probably as a compromise candidate if a deadlock developed . 41The unexpected arrival of Gov . Adlai E. Stevenson of Illinois from Springfield , with the most discouraging statement he has made Yet from the viewpoint of those who want to draft him as the party 's Presidential candidate . He said his arrival had no political significance and that he came here to do some work for the state . Governor Ste. venson , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could not conceive that the convention would nominate an " unwilling candidate " when so many other candidates were ? available . clAn approach from supporters of Senator Richard B. Russell of Georgia to Representative Franklin D. Roosevelt Jr . of New York , national chairman of the Harriman-for-President Committee , on . whether Mr. Roosevelt would be interested in the nomination for Vice President with Senator ' Russell as the candidate for President . Mr. Roosevelt rejected the offer . Francis Biddle , former Attorney General and now national chairman of the Americans for Democratic Action , claimed 654 votes , or thirty-eight more than a majority of the convention , for a civil rights plank in the platform at least as strong as the 1948 party ( declaration that caused the bolt of Southern delegates . Senator Robert S. Kerr of Okla-i still predicting his nominart-ion for President , said at a press ! conference that as President or as Senator he would not be bound by any platform declaration for a closure rule in the Senate to prevent filibustering ? unlimited debate to prevent a vote on a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is now required to impose closure , or limit debate . Senator Kefauver has come out in favor of a closure rule that would require only a majority to halt a filibuster , the weapon that has been employed to block action on President Truman 's civil rights program . Senator Hubert H. Humphrey of Minnesota had a part in the attempt to build the coalition of supporters of Mr. Harriman and Senator Kefauver to seat the " loyalist " Texas and Mississippi delegations . He conferred with Mr. Harriman , New York 's candidate , and Senator Kefauver in this attempt . If the coalition plan were Successful , it would mean that the Democrats would base their plans to elect the national ticket on carrying the Northern states with large numbers of electoral votes and virtually abandon hope of carrying the South . Mr. Harriman 's coalition strategy is based on a hope and a conviction . The hope is that President Truman will announce ' a preference for Mr. Harriman . The conviction is that no Presidential candidate who will be before the convention could possibly hold the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's Strategy On the basis of this reasoning , the Harriman strategy is to let the South go where it will and concentrate on actions and declarations that will be popular in the rest of the country , particularly in the states with large electoral votes . Representative Roosevelt was in touch yesterday with leaders of delegations from a number of states in an effort to line up votes for the " loyalists , " but as yet there is no estimate of the strength the coalition will have either in the convention or in its Credentials Committee . Senator Kefauver was understood to have agreed to support the movement . Informed of the attempt to form a coalition to seat the " loyalist " delegates , Senator Russell said : " I doubt if it is true but , if so , it is a fear movement designed to stop Russell . " Senator Humphrey said that the main question that would come before the convention was whether the Democratic party was to continue as the party of the New Deal and the Fair Deal . He declared that " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Eisenhower as the head of the Republican ticket . " ' With Southern Accent ' Referring to Southern Democratic leaders , Senator Humphrey said that those who were pleading for party harmony would have the Democratic party sound " like a barber shop quartet . " He described these leaders as " nothing but a bunch of Republicans with a Southern accent . " The Minnesota Senator said that if the Democratic party failed to make a clear declaration of civil rights , the American people " will deliver us right out of Washingtonr Asked how Senator Kefauver stood on the question of seating the " loyalist " Texas and Mississippi delegation , Senator Humphrey said he preferred to have Senator Kefauver speak for himself , but added : " I feel sure that , when the time comes , Estes Kefauver will take his usual courageous stand and make the appropriate response . " Senator Humphrey called a conference on seeking delegate support for seating the " loyalist " Texas and Mississippi delegations . Among those at the conference were Paul E. Fitzpatrick , New York State party chairman ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Alexander , na Itional committeeman-designate and Icandidate for Senator in New Jersey ; Monroe Svveetman of Oregon ; 1Leif Ericson of Montana , and Julius Edelstein , administrative assistant to Senator Herbert H. Lehman of New York . Those at the conference were optimistic on the prospect of getting a majority of the delegates616 are needed  --  to seat the " loy-alist " delegations . The two " loyalist " delegations ' are led by former Representative1 Maury Maverick of Texas and Mrs. ' John Clark of Mississippi . A public , hearing on the contests was held by the Credentials subcommittee , ' which will report to the National Committee tomorrow . Texas has sixty-two delegates and fifty-two votes . There are twenty-four delegates with eighteen votes in the Mississippi delegation . In Kansas City , Thomas J. Gavin , alternate delegate for President Truman , announced that he had received instructions from the President , not only for whom to vote for the Presidential nomination but on any committees to which he might be assigned . Mr. Gavin , who declined to say for whom the President had instructed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Smith succeeded in establishing the unit rule for the Missouri delegation , he would seek recognition from the chairman of the convention to announce the President 's choice . Vice President Barkley after his arrival almost immediately went into a lead , which may be only temporary , as a probable compromise candidate if the convention should go into a deadlock after five or six ballots . Mr. Barkley 's candidacy is aided greatly by his personal popularity among the delegates and the willingness of leaders of many state delegations to go along with him , despite his age of 74 . Though any of the Presidential candidates would welcome the support of President Truman , it does not seem likely that the President would back any but Mr. Harriman or Vice President Barkley , both of whom have given complete support to his Fair Deal policies . Before announcing the candidacy of Mr. Harriman , Mr. Fitzpatrick , who never wavered in his support of Mr. Truman for the Democratic nomination for President in 1948 , called on President Truman at the White House to get his approval . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ run for re-election . President Truman told Mr. Fitzpatrick that he would be pleased to have him go ahead with Mr. Harriman 's candidacy and expressed high regard for Mr. Harriman as Director for Mutual Security , saying that Mr. Harriman always had done anything he had asked him to do and had done it well . In other conversations , Mr. Truman also spoke highly of Vice President Barkley but expressed the opinion that the latter 's age , was a serious bar to his nomination for President . Mr. Truman , who is 68 , in instructing Frank E. , Democratic National Chairman , not to permit his name to go before the convention , indicated that his age made it inadvisable for him to continue in the Presidency , with its heavy duties and responsibilities . He is said to have expressed doubt that Mr. Barkley at his age had the stamina to assume these duties and responsibilities . Mr. Barkley at a press conference here said he was " proud " of his age , his health , his strength " and the work I have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of ' eminent men whose service had been famous after 70 , and observed : " I am just 74 . What do you think I am going to do the rest of my life ? " There is reason to believe that President Truman does not favor ! the nomination of Governor Stevenson , who may emerge as a compromise candidate if the convention reaches a deadlock . The President is understood to have " cooled off " on the Illinois Governor , whom he originally favored , because of Governor Stevenson 's " coyness , " and to have been offended on learning that Governor Stevenson had been critical of him and some of his policies . There also is believed to be little likelihood that the President will support either Senator Russell or Senator Kerr , neither of whom is expected to win the Presidential nomination . Seeks to Mollify South Senator Russell and members of his campaign staff moved swiftly yesterday to mollify Southern delegates who were displeased with ' the . Georgia Senator 's proposal that the Taft-Hartley labor law be supplanted by a new measure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ placed on his statement that he favored enactment of a new labor law . He said his position was not new , as he had said many times that the law should be rewritten . Senator Harry F. Byrd of Vir- , ginia had expressed sharp disagreement with Senator Russell 's position , but Senator Lister Hill of Alabama , a top member of the Russell strategy board , said he was certain that the Virginia Sen ator and the delegation from that state would be " in there pitching for Russell " when they were advised further of , Mr. Russell 's position . Senator Hill said that the majority of the Alabama delegation was for Senator Russell . Governor Shivers of Texas said that Senator Russell 's explanation of his TaftHartley statement was satisfactory . Gov . Herman Talmadge of Georgia said that state 's delegation was for Mr. Russell " all the way . " Senator Kefauver at a press conference in the Sherman Hotel , introduced Nathan Straus of New York as his Finance Committee chairman . Rudolph Halley , president of the New York City Council @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Committee when Senator Kefauver was its chairman , joined the Kefauver forces today . Gov . James F. Byrnes of South Carolina flew here last night from ' Columbia . He is one of the leaders of the Southern group that may bolt if it believes the interests of the South adversely affected by action of the convention .                     