@@719032

txt A Bronx youth was stabbed ' to death early today after acting Police Commissioner James R. Kennedy had alerted the entire Police Department to end the current flare-up in juvenile crime . This , was thei fourth serious outbreak of juvenile violence in the city this week . Three persons have been killed and two others critically injured . The latest outbreak took place shortly after midnight at East 161st Street and Prospect Avenue , in the South Bronx . Seven youths , including two girls , approached . George Marshall , 18 years old , of 1038 Cauldwell Avenue , and a companion , Richard Vaughan , 17 , of 600 East 164th Street . The two youths had just left young Marshall 's home for a walk . Then , for some reason not immediately determined by the police , the five male members of the approaching group attacked . The Vaughan youth fled , and the Marshall boy was stabbed several times in the back , apparently with a khife . He was dead on arrival at Lincoln Hospital . His assailants fled . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Bronx police , brought police cars , detectives and youth squad officers from adjoining precincts to search for the assailants . " It does not appear at present that the slaying was a result of a gang fight , " Inspector Halk said . Meanwhile special police patrols were added in an attempt to curtail the . city crime wave . During this week-end , special detective teams in patrol cars will cruise areas where trouble seems most likely to occur . Other detectives will be held in reserve for action wherever there might be an outbreak of violence . The entire uniformed force has been instructed to be on guard against illegal juvenile activity . The situation was described as tense because of mounting ill will between rival juvenile gangs . There has been violence , and reprisals are feared . Week-ends , , // ? the police say ; are usually the time when the worst trouble.can be expected . To gain information on potent tial gang fights , or " rumbles , " members of the Police Youth Squad are- making contact with all known gangs- @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hope that the visits will warn the juvenile gang leaders that the police are on the alert sand that , therefore , violence might be prevented . - Deputy Police Commissioner Walter Arm conceded , however , that combating juvenile crime was difficult . " It is like fighting a forest fire . You do n't know where it 's going to spring up next . " He said the police had been concentrating on cuffing. down on juvenile delinquency ever since the Police Commissioner 's annual report showed ? a 42 per cent rise in the rate , of juvenile crime in the city . Commissioner Arm said it was difficult to determine exactly why there had been even more violence than usual of late . " It might be the hot weather or the fact that the kids are off from school with nothing to do . Who can tell ? " he said . If the police were lucky , he observed , , they might learn of an impending gang fight a halfhour before it took place . " But sometimes we 're waiting in one part @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " However , extra uniformed patrolmen on duty , as well as detectives in patrol cars are being put on duty in all areas that are considered dangerous . For example , ten extra patrolmen and a sergeant are doing foot patrol on . each shift in the area between 165th and ' 177th Streets from Amsterdam Avenue to the ' Hudson River . One extra radio car is also cruising in this section . ' The New York Youth Board has assigned gang workers " to cooperate with the police . They will try to assess the gang situation in the area and prevent further violence .. Ralph W. Whelan , the board 's executive director , said it had had to concentrate on more difficult sections but intended to do everything it could to help the situation in the Washington Heights area. , It is understood that Mr. Whelan has placed an extensive plan to cope with the gang situation in the area : before Mayor Wagner , Three gangs-= ' - . the - Egyptia'n Kings , the Jesters ' , W.the.Dragons  --  have been feuding in this neighborhood @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and a 16-year-old is still in serious condition as a result of a fight on Tuesday night . Another youth , Edward Sims , 16 , of 225 Conover , Street , Brooklyn , is in critical ? condition in Long Island College Hospital after being beaten with a television antenna and stabbed Thursday night in. the ' Red Hook section of Brooklyn . ' Two Brooklyn youths charged with this apsault ? were arraigned yesterday in ? Brooklyn ' - Adolescent Court . Theyare David Alexander , 16 , of 31 Central Mq.11 , and Samuel Rhone , 17 ;  --  Of $52 ' St. John 's Place . They were held without bail by Magistrate Vernon C. Riddick on charges of felonious assault . They ' will have a hearipg on Aug. 7 . Other recent juvenile crimes included the stomping to death of a 25-year-old man on East Fifty-first Street near First Avenue .                     