@@717797

txt LONDON , March 18 ? Britainl and France Will submit a revise &; joint plan for world disarmament tomorrow when the five power United Nations subcommittee resumes its work here . The plan is said to provide for broad controls and for " confidence-building " measures . In addition , a comprehensive threestage disarmament program would slash conventional arms and forces and end up with , a complete prohibition of the testing , use and manufacture of nuclear weapons . Andrei A. Gromyko , Soviet ' delegate to the disarmament meeting , arrived by air today . United States sources said his assignment as the chief Soviet representative indicated the importance Moscow attached to the talks . The'subcommittee will meet in the afternoon at Lancaster House under the initial chairmanship of Anthony Nutting , Minister of State for Foreign Affairs , representing the host Government . Other national delegates will include Harold E. Stassen of the United States , Jules Moch , Minister of Defense , France , and Norman A. Robertson , High Commissioner to the United Kingdom , Canada . The meeting will be the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a half years . Its last meeting took place in New York shortly before the United Nations General Assembly adjourned Dec. 20 . There were clear indications tonight that the . new BritishFrench package deal for dis- // armament would not have the full support of the United States . " The Western positions are not entirely reconciled , " one qualified source said guardedly . For the last few days the four Western delegations have been closeted trying to align a common front . Tomorrow they will have a last-minute meeting at 11 A. M. to seek tactical unity before confronting Mr. Gromyko . The basic differences between the United States and the British-French positions are said to lie in the American insistence on creation of far-reaching control machinery and on " confidence-building " measures before virtually any real disarming begins . The aim of the British-French plan is to bridge the gap of suspicion between the two great nuclear powers , the United States and the Soviet Union , and by insisting on effective controls and caution , as the Americans want , and yet on effective disarmament leading @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have demanded . To bridge this gap , M. Moch , aided by Mr. Nutting , is understood to , have drafted a plan that retains as its base the original three-stage disarmament timetable suggested by the Briish and French in June , 1954 . The first stage of the amended draft calls for creation of an effective United Nations control corps of several thousand officials who would be virtually allpowerful in inspecting and correcting " irregularities " in disarmament agreements anywhere . During Stage I there would be a general " freeze " on current force levels and military spending . President Eisenhower 's " open skies " plan for mutual aerial reconnaissance and exchange of military blueprints ' and the plan of Premier Nikolail A. Bulganin for " control posts ' at strategic centers " would both be put into play . Once control machinery was working , there might also be tentative steps toward reducing conventional arms , perhaps by 10 per cent or some similar token figure . The United States delegation is understood to be in sympathy with the ideas incorporated in this stage of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been carried out there should be a long pause for a careful look at the world situation . The ' British and French are not averse to such a pause , it is said , but feel that once Stage 1 has been completed the next two stages are essential to genuine long-term world disarmament , Stage 2 is said to involve further reducing conventional forces until they stand at the halfway mark toward their ultimate base level . On reaching the halfway mark , nuclear tests would be limited and regulated , not banned . Finally , in Stage 3 , conventional forces would be cut by the remaining half until they were down to base level . On completion of this process , as certified by the control corps , the ultimate " moral " ban on all nuclear weapons would begin . Then there would come into effect a prohibition on nuclear tests , prohibition on the use of nuclear weapons ( except as defense against aggression ) and a cessation of manufacture of nuclear weapons . The fundamental differences in the plan from that submitted last March @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ freeze , " President Eisenhower 's and Premier Bulganin 's " confidence building " measures and a tentative small cut in conventional arms . Cessation of manufacture of nuclear weapons has been retarded from the end of Stage 2 to the beginning of Stage 3 . Elimination of existing nuclear weapons has been deliberately dropped from the draft and left over to the dim future when scientific methods can devise ways of detecting nuclear stocks , . The United States , it is understood , is wary of the implied " moral " ban on nuclear weapons in Stage 3 . It wants no implicit or explicit check rein to its " moral " right to use nuclear weapons to resist aggression . The United States , furthermore , does not favor provisions for limiting nuclear tests in Stage 2 . This is part 9f its general thesis that there must be no restriction in American nuclear power until the world situation is a great deal safer . The major question in Western delegates ' minds now is what line the Russians will take . It is quite possible , some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " the new British-French plan in a maneuver to isolate and embarrass the United States , which can not itself accept its allies ' proposals as they stand .                     