@@718617

txt Letters ' to The Times Racketeering in Labor Senate Investigation Will Aid Labor Movement , It Is Felt To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : An article in The New York Times for Feb. 24 , entitled " Senate Inquiry Is Likely to Hurt Labor Movement , " and an editorial appearing on Feb. 26 contain misleading information and reach a faulty conclusion . The underlying thesis of the article appears to be that regardless of the manner in which the Senate investigation of union racketeering is conducted , and regardless of the recommendations for needed legislation which , may ultimately result , and regardless of the probability that corrupt union officials will be unmasked and their power eliminated , and regardless of the possibility that the investigation will have an effect upon the future conduct of union leadership ; nevertheless , the total result will only ( in your own words ) " hobble the labor movement . " We could not disagree more strenuously with this proposition . It is certainly possible , as you state , that for the immediate future " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ anions may find it harder to enact their legislative program ; that white-collar organization efforts may be hampered . This does not mean , however , that the long-run interests of the American labor movement will be jeopardized . Quite to the contrary , if the Senate investigation is conducted with fairness and vigor ( and we hope and expect it will be ) , it will have a dramatically salutary effect on democratic trade unionism in this country . It will help rather than hobble the labor movement . Control of Stock Trading Preceding enactment of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 the same fears were raised on behalf of business when Congressional and other investigations of dubious business practices were undertaken . Who today claims these investigations of the early Thirties and the legislation which emanated therefrom have " hurt the business movement " ? Precisely the opposite is true . So let it be with labor unions . In your editorial on Feb. 26 entitled " Bad and Good Unionists , " while supporting the Senate probe , you chose to perpetuate the widespread apologia to the effect @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ barrel is small compared with those that are sound . " Undoubtedly this is true . This fact , however , should not detract from the widest possible unreserved support of Senator McClellan 's Select Committee . The trade-union movement has long since been weaned from its infancy . Its present power must be matched by an equivalent fidelity on the part of its leaders  --  all its leaders  --  to the high public trust which is theirs . Power at Local Level Finally , your editorial reminds the public that the A. F. L.-C . I. 0 . is fully committed to cleaning its own house . Of course it is . Such commitments are as old as the union movement itself , and undoubtedly are made with genuine sincerity by the top leaders . Unfortunately , these individuals have little power to do anything about expunging racketeers and thugs from positions of power in union locals . To be sure , the A. F. L.-C . I. 0 . has taken commendable action against some affiliates . However , the only available sanction is expulsion from the parent labor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ necessarily a meaningful remedy . If you doubt this , ask any employer or dockworker who deals with the International Longshoremen 's Association , which was expelled from the A , F. L. in 1953 . Self-expurgation is no substitute for scrutiny by the United States Senate . THOMAS JEFFERSON MILEY , Executive Vice President , Corn ' merce and Industry Association of New York . New York , Feb. 27 , 1957 . Secretary Dulles Commended To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : I wish heartily to commend James Reston 's column of March 3 on the vast networks of responsibility that our State Department bears today . It was a just tribute to our Secretary of State amid so loud a noise of critical comment from time to time . The day will come when historians will appraise Mr. Dulles ' efforts at their true worth to the peace of the world . I can think of no other who has striven with greater vigor , intelligence and devotion to duty that international goodwill may prevail . When we consider all of the many and varied provocations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ SAMUEL W. PATTERSON , Professor Emeritus , Hunter College . Fort Lauderdale , ** 4 , 1957 . Assembly Achievements Praised To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : I wish to congratulate you and your readers on the excellent editorial " The Assembly Grows Up " in The New York Times of March 3 . It is ? the finest editorial you hava published for some time . As you point out , the Assembly of the United Nations has done remarkably well in the difficult issues of the Middle East , of Hungary and of Algeria . On the whole , the deliberations of the Assembly stood out by their sense of responsibility and moderation . The Assembly has asserted itself as the expression of an unwritten but nevertheless powerful world law . Only in one minor point do I disagree with your observations . You apparently regret that " the Assembly is still a thing of blocs and groups . " May I point out that outside the closed group of the Soviet Union , which is in a permanent and for it painful minority position , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Asian-African bloc , the South American bloc  --  are not always united ; their members vote in complete freedom according to their interests and moral convictions . Such groups and blocs are , after all , characteristic of all parliaments and of all democratic procedure . In that sense , too , the Assembly of the United Nations has entered , to use your expression , the road toward the " Parliament of Man . " It has not yet arrived there , as you rightly point out . It is full of imperfections as , by the way , all parliaments are . even those in old democracies . But the eleventh , session of the United Nations General Assembly , which is now about to end , has turned out to be a milestone on the long sought and difficult road to a world forum of authority , in which for the first time in history all human races and civilizations meet on a footing of equality . HANS KOHN . New York , March 3 , 1957 . Administering D. P. Camps Aid to Europe 's Refugees in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is Deputy High , Commissioner for Refugees . To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : In the Times of Feb. 20 I have read the article " Refugee Centers Scored by Priest , " in which the Rev. Fabian Flynn is reported as saying that the bad situation in the Austrian refugee camps was entirely the responsibility of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees . May I point out that the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees , being a nonoperational agency , has no responsibilities in the running of camps anywhere . The administration of refugee camps in Austria is entirely in the hands of the authorities . Ix the face of the emergency created by the influx of over 170 , - 000 Hungarian refugees into Austria within a three-month period , the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees has attempted to assist the Austrian Government to meet this unprecedented problem by substantial financial contributions received from the nations of the world , America included . In this situation , - for which no one was prepared , the Austrian @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the world , private relief organizations , individual citizens , have all COT-y bined their efforts to provide for the emigration of more than 112,000 of the original 170,000 , and care and maintenance en route . That the temporary camps set up for this purpose would be temporarily overcrowded , and imperfect conditions would prevail , is almost inevitable . The wonder is that a population equivalent to that of a middle-sized American city has been resettled and at the same time , food , shelter , clothing , medicine provided for the total group . No one went hungry , no one went without shelter , no one went without necessary medical care . It is true , however , that some 55,000 Hungarian refugees , in addition to some 20,000 other refugees still living in camps , remain on Austrian soil . Continued emigration and financial contributions are needed to assist in solving the disturbing human problem to which Father Flynn referred . JAMES M. READ . Geneva , Feb. 28 , 1957 . Passage Through Dutch Waters To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Belgium ? is part of the territorial waters of the Netherlands . The Dutch Government does not interfere in any way with the passage through the lower Scheldt waters of warships or other vessels flying the Belgian or any other flag . HILIER SPOKOIIU . Corona , N. Y. , March 6 , 1957.                     