@@715505

txt All America moved to aid the . tornado-stricken area of Massachusetts today as Worcester County was declared a disaster area by the Reconstruction Finance Corporation ? thereby qualifying it for special loan treatment  --  and President Eisenhower talked with Governor Herter by telephone and extended his deepest sympathy to the people . Promise of all possible federal agency assistance was assured Governer Herter as public safety , civil defense , National Guard , Red Cross , and state and local police , along with more than 10 , - 000 volunteers , were mobilized into service following the worst tornado to hit New England in 75 years . Eleven central Massachusetts communities felt the brunt of the violent 30-minute storm as it roared its twisting , destructive path through the area just before sundown yesterday . $50,000 000 Loss Latest figures available show at least 82 fatalities and more than 500 injured , with 2,500 made homeless , and with property damage running up to S50,000,000 . Ruins of 200. homes still remain to be searched . The Red Cross said today that a preliminary disaster ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Emergency quarters of the Red Cross were established in the State Armory , Lincoln Square , Worcester . and a'call was issued for nurses end blood donors . Meanwhile John Engalls . Department of Public Utilities bridge engineer , was sent to the Worcester area to inspect bridges which must be used by busses , and to look over railroad facilities . Herter on Scene William H. Kirley , director of the railway and bus divisions of the DPU , said that the Worcester Bus Company is maintaining schedules on most lines , although some are being run short because of road blocks . Governor Herter was among the first of the state officials to reach the scene yesterday . With him were Otis M. Whitney . Public Safety Commissioner ; John A. Volpe , . Public Works Commissioner ; and Dr. Samuel B. Kirkwood of the State Public Health Department . Dr. Kirkwood said today there appears to be no danger of water pollution , adding that " everything is under control from the medical standpoint in - the Worcester disaster area . " . Confirming his on-the-spot verbal declaration @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ proclamation to that effect today . In his proclamation the Governor called on all the people of the Commonwealth " to assist and cooperate with the duly constituted authorities in all measures which may be taken to alleviate the tragic suffering of those affected by this disaster . " Everybodi . Helps Throughout the area was a spirit of camaraderie , seldom seen except in times of strain . Neighbors with undamaged homes were aiding those whose possessions were gone . Occasionally amid the tragedy there would be a laugh as some bit of brie-abrac was found lodging in an unaccustomed place . Meanwhile , groups of rescue workers , policemen , firemen , and National Guardsmen probed ruins or warned the curious away from danger zones . Others were busy feeding the homeless who were quartered in various institutions and public buildings . , This morning , most of the main roads in Worcester had been cleared , except in sections hardest hit , where removal of rubble stilt continues . Transport Provided Mai . Gen. Edward G. Sirois , commander of the Massachusetts National Guard , was aboard a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . He left the train immediately to take command of some 2,000 troops on duty in the disaster area . Guardsmen were ordered to patrol the area on the lookout for looters , although none was reported . The 26th Quartermaster Company , MNG , was called to provide transportation and equipment to dig into the rubble . One National Guard officer described the scene in one section of Worcester as " just like a place that had been shelled . " State Police set up an emergency headquarters at the Holden Barracks , which is the base of the State Police troops for this area . State Police also issued an urgent appeal for motorists to stay out of the central Massachusetts area . " Traffic volume in the tornado area is hampering relief work , " the appeal stated . " Traffic in central Massachusetts , particularly near Holden , is practically at a standstill . " Emergeiicv Telephones State Police radio-equipped cars served ? an improvised communications service in the area where some 8,500 telephones were put out of order as the tornado hit . Wires were reported @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Meanwhile , up to noon today , emergency calls to Worcester were reported one to two hours behind , with long waiting lists anxious to put through calls . The telephone company rushed 200 extra workers into the area from western Massachusetts , and emergency public phones were set up in areas which were hardest hit . and where buildings were demolished . All schools in the area have been closed for the rest of the week so that the buildings might be used to shelter the ' homeless . Churches and other undamaged buildings also were pressed into service . The Worcester Civic Auditorium at Lincoln Square was turned into a disaster headquarters . Meantime , the city 's bus lines discontinued regular service and busses were operated on a shuttle system between the Auditorium and various hospitals in Worcester . Holy Cross College and Worcester Polytechnic Institute also were being utilized as temporary relief centers . Indicative of the damage was the fact that a block-long section of Worcester 's great Brook Valley Housing Project was ground to match wood . In addition , a huge section of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ roof falling on 40 automobiles and crushing them like paper . Damage was estimated at more than S1,000.000 . Under the glare of mobile searchlights , rescue workers dug into the rubble of what only a few minutes before had been the comfortable home : of ' hundreds of the upper middle class of Worcester . Related Stories : Page                     