@@718367

txt UNITED NATIONS , N. Y. Nov. ** General Dag Hammarskjold said today that he had appealed to the Soviet . dominated Hungarian regime to Texts of U. N. cable and Soviet note appear on Page 16. reconsider its refusal to admit United Nations observers , Earlier , the Soviet Union inFormed Mr. Hammarskjold that , as far as it was concerned , United Nations observers had no business in Hungary . Meanwhile , there was no word from the Hungarians in reply to Hammarskjold 's offer yesterday to go to Budapest himself to arrange for the distribution of relief supplies in the battered country . The Hungarian delegation here said it expected an answer late today or early tomorrow morning . The United Nations said that the message . would be . forwarded to Mr. Hammarskjold immediately , wherever he happened to be . At the New York Internation // al - . Airport , Idlewild , Queens , Mr. Hammarskjold said ? that since he had not heard from Budapest he could not say exactly what his plans would be . He said that if he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ way hpme from Cairo . Mr. HaMarskjold made these remarks before he boarded a plane for Rome and Caro to arrange for the dispatch the United . Nations police foe : Egypt . The GeneraLAsstmbly adopted a resoMon " Nov. 4 asking that observers be sent to Hungary to investigate the situation . there . The Tegolution also called on the Soviet Union to- withdraw its . troops and said the Hungarians had the right to determine the nature of their own Government . It then called on the member states to send relief supplies to Hungary . Earlier Rebuffs Cited The Soviet ? bloc immediately adopted the stand that what was going on in Hungary was a purely domestic issue . Mr. Hammarskjold received a telegram from the regime of Premier Janos Kadar Monday flatly turning down a request to admit the observers . Yesterday things were eased a bit when he received another message from Budapest inviting him to send " representatives " to Hungary to arrange for United Nations relief supplies . According to Imre Horvath , Hungarian Minister of Foreign Affairs and head of the Hungarian delegation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ go to Budapest personally to supervise the relief program . Mr. Horvath said to , day that he still was waiting for an answer from Budapest and gave no indication that he knew what it would be . 1n his latest message to ' Budapest , sent late yesterday , Mr. Hammarskjold noted " with satisfaction " that the Kadar regime had decided to accept United Nations aid . He then said it was not his job to " enter upon a discussion " of the General Assembly resolution , which also directed him to try to get observers into Hungary . However , he asked the Hungarians to reconsider their refusal to admit the observers " and , as a member of the United Nations , to cooperate with the great majority in a clarification of a situation which has given rise to such concern in the General Assembly . " The Soviet note to Mr. Hammarskjold , which was published in the course of the afternoon , ostensibly was a reply to a note he sent Moscow Nov. 10 . This asked for Sovitt help in getting approval for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its stand on observers had not changed . Soviet Opposes U. N. Observers Regarding the use of its influence on the Hungarians to admit observers . Moscow said that " the Soviet Government considers that that is a matter lying exclusively within the jurisdiction of the Government of the Hungarian People 's Republic . " During the afternoon , reports of continuing trouble in Hungary and the forcible deportation of youths to the Soviet Union held the interest of numerous delegations . They think it is the business of the United Nations to watch developments carefully . They seek to determine whether- those reported to have . been deported by the Budapest radio were being sent away with the approval of the Kadar regime or unilaterally by Soviet officials . If the latter is the case it clearly is a matter for the United Nations , according to experts here . There still was hope in some delegations that the Budapest offer to admit relief " representa- ' tives " was an " opening wedge " for the eventual admission of observers in the sense of the General Assembly resolution . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ feel that Mr. Hammarskjold hopes that by getting into Budapest for the relief question he can try to use persuasion on the Hungarians to permit further cooperation . In the evening the LatinAmerican bloc held a two-and-ahalf hour conference to discuss the credentials of the Hungarian delegation to the Assembly session headed by Mr. Horvath . Miss Anna Kethly , a member of Imre Nagy 's revolutionary government , has been seeking the Hungarian seat .                     