@@714839

txt Europe 's unique and ambitious venture in practical unity  --  the Schuman plan for merging the coal and steel industries of six nations into a single market  --  was formally launched as a going enterprise here today . In the town hall of this capital of the smallest of the six partners in integration  --  the others being France , Germany , Italy , Belgium and the Netherlands  --  the Schuman plan 's High Authority , a supranational body with real executive power , held its opening session before 150 diplomats , newspaper men , Luxembourg officials and other observers . Jean Monnet of France , president of the authority , who is credited with much of the program 's conception and planning , told his colleagues and the guests , " We are only at the beginning of the effort that Europe must accomplish in order finally to achieve unity , prosperity and peace . " " One important sign of hope I wish particularly to emphasize , " he continued . " We are here together , French and Germans , members of the same @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the control of an authority that is no longer either French or German , but European . " To stress further the community character of the authority 's responsibilities , M. Monnet made public the pledge each member had taken when he assumed his post . It reads in part : " We will perform our duties with complete independence in the general interest of the community . In the performance of our duties we will neither request nor accept instructions from any government or organization . " M. Monnet delineated the authority 's main task as the creation and maintenance of a single market for coal and steel throughout the territory of the community , a ; market from which all forms of restriction and discrimination were to be eliminated . Measures taken to end restrictive practices , expand and modernize industry , and mitigate the effects of economic fluctuations will result in higher standards of living for the six nations , he asserted . Struggles for Domination He added that another result would be the re-creation of the natural unity of the great coal and iron basin of Western @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ object of struggles for domination by states and industries . M. Monnet paid tribute to Robert Schuman , the French Foreign Minister , who first announced the plan to the world on May 9 , 1950 , and has worked hard since to bring it to pass . Today 's session was one of ceremony , in which Luxembourgers , who have suffered militarily and economically from past Western European rivalries , showed how pleased they were to see the pool start working in their territory , if only on a provisional basis . Two weeks ago the six foreign ministers failed to agree on the pool 's headquarters but decided , in order not to delay its start , to assign the authority to Luxembourg , and the six-nation common Assembly , to which the authority is responsible and must render an accounting of its direction , to Strasbourg , where it will meet Sept. 10 . The Court of Justice , which will handle legal disputes , is expected to meet in Luxembourg . Heavy Program in View Tomorrow the High Authority , situated in what ten days ago @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on a heavy program . which entails : ilEstablishing contact with coal and steel industries and labor unions , and gathering precise information and statistics on present conditions in each country . A con-rhe Ne Jean Monnetw rock , sultative committee will be formed , ) ( representing industry , labor , consumers and dealers . ciLaying the groundwork for a single market . Negotiations must be begun so that the six nations that are to eliminate tariffs on coal and steel among themselves will not have to give the same treatment to others through the operation of the " most favored nation " principle applied in the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade or in bilateral agreements . An " equalization " system must be set up under which Belgian coal , now higher priced than that of the other nations , will in five years be put in a position to stand price competition . liNegotiating with Britain to determine the form of association the British have said they were willing to undertake with the pool . As with other competing third parties , the community will try to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as lower tariffs and the elimination of dumping .                     