@@714295

txt CHINESE REDS SLEW 2,513 ES . CAPTIVES , 8TH ARMY CHARGES North Koreans Killed 147 War . Prisoners in Last Year , U. N. Records Reveal SOUTH KOREAN TOLL HIGH 250,000 Civilians Are Listed ? Headquarters Is Unable to Confirm Figures By MURRAY SCHUMACH Special to THE NEW WAX TIMES . TOKYO , Nov. ** that Chinese and North Korean Communists have ignored the Geneva Convention by killing more than 2,500 United States prisoners of war in the last year were contained in a report made public today by the Judge Advocate General , of the Eighth Army . Based on figures collected by the United Nations Command , the statement declar9d that the situation revealed " a record of killing and barbarism unique even in the Communist world . " In addition to killing prisoners of war , Communist troops were accused of slaying more than one quarter of a million South Korean civilians . In Washington , the Defense Department reported that it had asked the Eighth Army for clarification of its report on the Communist atrocities . It was believed , that the report @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ United . Nations General Assembly now meeting in Paris . Report Not From Ridgway The report of atrocities was releaesd at Pusan apparently without consultation with Gen. Mit ? thew B. ' Ridgway 's headquarters here . A headquarters spokesman , however , explained the figures based on " evaluated intelligence reports " available to the Eighth lArmy Judge Advocate . The odd numbers are explained by the fact that some groups of slain prisoners were counted from recovered bodies and some on " weighted " estimates made by other means . Though such reports admittedly are a headquarters function , Tokyo could not immediately confirm or deny the Pusan statistics . It was stated there would be " more accurate " figures here later , when detailed reports were received from Pusan upon which the Judge Advocate 's compilation was apparently based . The Judge Advocate 's office at General Ridge . way 's headquarters had not received these this afternoon . In a dispatch from Pusan , The Associated Press reported Colonel Hanley as verbally amplifying his statement . He said the North Korean Communists had killed about 3,000 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ North Koreans were fighting alone , and 147 after Nov. 1 , 1950 . Announcement a Surprise The Eighth Army 's strong denunciation of Chinese and North Koreans came on a day when there was very little fighting along the front , and at a time when the United Nations was seeking to persuade the Communists at the Panmunjom peace talks to end discussions on a demarcation line and to go on to other points , including an exchange of prisoners of war . There was speculation over the fact that the atrocity survey was made public in Pusan by Col. James M. Hanley , Judge Advocate // General , rather than at Eighth Army Headquarters by someone of higher rank . One theory was that the United Nations might use the report as a lever to bring the subject either before the United Nations General Assembly in Paris or make it a part of the discussion at Panmunjom in the near future . The Judge Advocate 's breakdown showed that the Chinese had killed 2,513 United States prisoners of war since Nov. 1 , 1950 . In a similar period @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ States war prisoners . Other U. N. Soldiers Also Slain In addition the report said the Chinese killed ten British soldiers , forty Turks , five Belgians and seventy-five other United Nations war prisoners whose nationality was not known . Colonel Hanley said that the largest killing of United Nations prisoners , including United States troops , occurred near the Yalu River in North Korea . North Koreans , between Sept. 16 and 18 , 1950 , took the prisoners from ? a camp near Pyongyang and shot them in groups , Colonel Hanley said . Colonel Hanley said : " The Chinese forces in Korea have committed most of the Communist atrocity killings of United Nations prisoners of war since the entry of Ritcl China into the conflict last year . " This is in sharp conflict with the Chinese claim of compliance with the Geneva Convention in the Treatment of War Prisoners . " Colonel Hanley pointed out that although the Chinese released a small number of United States prisoners for propaganda . reasons last winter , this policy was abandoned almopt entirely since the spring . The figures @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were not complete . In some instances , he added , United States prisoners were killed by the dozens and in one case 250 were slain at once . Among the civilians murdered were more than 25,000 political prisoners and one German Catholic priest . Figure May Exceed 3,000 It was estimated that the number of *United States prisoners killed since the beginning of the war might exceed 3,000 , since it was believed that before the Chinese came into the war the North Koreans might have killed more than 300 United States prisoners during the hectic period shortly after they caught the first United States division off guard and overran so many United States positions in the drive toward Pusan . Far in excess of the number of United States prisoners killed was the figure for South Korean soldiers . It was believed that about 7,000 Republic of Korea troops were slain after being taken prisoner . In Tokyo , It was believed that the Eighth Army had been accumulating statistics on prisoners killed for several months at least , and that the information received during that period had been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ figure . Clarification Asked Special to Tee New Yonx TIMES . WASHINGTON , Nov. 14 ? The Defense Department disclosed this evening that it was seeking immediate clarification from Eighth Army Headquarters in Korea of an official report that the Chinese Communists have massacred more than 2,500 United States prisoners of war since the start of the Korean war . The Pentagon 's comment made it clear that officials here had not been previously advised of the issuance of the report , but it was emphasized that actions of that sort were the responsibility of the theatre commander . The State Department declined to comment on the atrocity story , but informed sources speculated that a statement might be issued when more was learned of the situation . Some observers expressed the view that the report and the evidence behind it might be submitted to the United Nations General Assembly now meeting in Paris .                     