@@712617

txt Some Republican demands for the resignation of Secretary of State Dean Acheson rose today after the news that the Chinese Communists had seized the United States Consulate in Peiping . Secretary Acheson , for his part , got in touch with Senator Tom Connally , Democrat , of Texas , chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee , and arranged , it was learned , to come before the committee in closed session for consultation about the position in China . Mr. Acheson probably will appear on Tuesday morning . , Senator Connally , the Administration 's principal foreign policy leader in Congress , wordlessly waved aside Republican contentions that Secretary Acheson and other Far Eastern policy makers must go from the State Department . It may be stated , however , that 1Mr . Connally , already hard-pressed by the Republicans in defense of the Administration 's hands - off policy toward Formosa , was aware that his task would keep him even busier now . Plan to Force Debate The complaining Republicans plainly were preparing to try to force a running Senate debate over Peiping , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to intervene in any way to help the Chinese Nationalists hold their island base of Formosa against possible Communist assault . The Senate 's pro-Nationalist Mina bloc , led by Senator William F. Knowland , Republican , of Cali'ornia , was understood to be prewring a long demonstration . Proposals to have the Senate rote a censure of the Administra- ' ion , while under consideration ' vere not strongly backed in this croup . A resolution of censure would Lave to go to the Senate Foreign , telations Committee , which al- , nest certainly would not approve , t . Accordingly , the Republican curse likely to be followed , it was aid in an informed quarter , is anl ffort to force some softening of lie Administration 's China posiion by striking , in the CongresLonal appropriations committees , t the various money bills in which le Administration is so interested . The ouster of Secretary Acheson as most directly suggested by enator Knowland . " The announcement by the tate Department that the Ameriin Consulate in Peiping had been Jontinued on Page 3 , Column S Foes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ // seized underscores the result of our bankrupt China policy , " Mr. Konwland asserted . " It is now time that the men responsible for that policy submit their resignations to the President so that the nation may have a new and non-defeatist team in whom Congress and the nation could have confidence . " Such confidence will not stem from the present leadership responsible for our Far Eastern policies . " The sequence of dates is most interesting . Our policy of appeasement of the Communists was announced by the President on Jan. 5 , when he wrote off further military aid to the National Government of the Republic of China . " This was almost immediately followed by this new unfriendly act by the Chinese Communists . This is always the result of paying international blackmail . Appeasement is but surrender on the installment plan . " Senator H. Styles Bridges , Republican , of New Hampshire , took a line very similar to Mr. Knowland 's . Bridges Scores Appeasement " This news of Peiping , " he said , " emphasizes the depth to which American @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of our constant appeasement and retreat before the Chinese Communists . " It should be clear to the American people that if our responsible officials can not change our policy it is time to change our officials . " The Democrats for the most part took the view that this Governmerit 's recall of all official personnel from Communist China was about all that the United States could do in the circumstances . " The only thing to do , " said Representative John Kee , Democrat , of West Virginia , chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee , " is simply to break off all relations with the Communists and get our people out . " I do n't know any alternative , unless it be to send an army , but that 's an impossible task and too big an adventure right now . " " On the basis of what information I have , " said Senator Walter F. George of Georgia , senior member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee , " I do n't see any other step we could take . " Senator Estes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was " a horrible development . " " We should classify the China Communists as outlaws , " he added , " and cease to do business with them . " Senator Kenneth S. Wherry of Nebraska , the Republican Senate floor leader , offered a contention rather common among members of his party  --  that the seizure at Peiping was " only the natural sequence of our abandonment of Nationalist China . " There was much Congressional talk that United States recognition of the Chinese Communist regime could now be considered out of the question . Some Senators dealing closely with foreign relations commented privately , however , that in their view this was academic talk . The Communists , they said , had now rather clearly demonstrated that they did not want recognition .                     