@@713137

txt County Judge Samuel S. Leibowitz asked the special grand jury yesterday to decide whether the Kings County District Attorney 's office was guilty of unethical practices in conducting its investigation of alleged police tie-ups with organized gambling . The court charged the panel , which for seven months has been hearing evidence on the workings of policy and bookmaking estab lishments , with the additional task of judging whether there was any foundation for the charges made by Mayor O'Dwyer and the five line organizations of the Police Department . The Mayor has publicly charged Miles F. with " witchhunt " methods . The police groups , representing all grades in the department , have accused the prosecutor of employing a " vicious smear against every member of the Police Department . " Crime Inquiry Interrupted The court 's decision will temporarily halt the grand jury 's primary function , since Mr. announced immediately that he was withdrawing all his assistants from the grand jury room until the new inquiry was completed . The prosecutor was emphatic , however , in saying that the investigatory @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ charge to the jury Judge Leibowitz said that it was " imperative that once and for all the atmosphere be cleared so that the main issue , namely , that of " ' gambling and racketeering , be resolved in an orderly , proper manner , as befits the dignity which is synonymous with law and order . " He said that he had given " careful consideration " to the question of who should inquire into the charges and that it was his " firm belief " that the grand jury was the " proper agency . " " If the District Attorney of the county has , in fact , been guilty of conducting a ' witch hunt ' and has usurped the power of his office by taking undue advantage of police officers and their families , then certainly the Court and the public is entitled to know it , " Judge Leibowitz asserted . " On the other hand , if such charges are baseless and without merit , then , in all fairness , the District Attorney deserves to have this publicly confirmed . " Stresses @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be waived aside in a casual manner , " but " deserve serious investigation and consideration , " Judge Leibowitz said he was placing the question in the hands of the jury because " there can be no possible or conceivable doubt of your impartiality . " " The people of the community recognize that you are not a partisan body and that you are not beholden to any politician or to any pressure group , " he said . He then charged the jury to consider the allegations " thoroughly and with expedition . " He told the panel to . hear " every witness who may shed any light on the unfortunate controversy " and suggested , further , that when it took testimony from police witnesses it do so without the presence of the District Attorney or any of his representatives . " This would serve to preclude embarrassment and enable the witnesses to speak their minds freely , " he explained . " And after you have made your investigation come into court and speak out as the grand jury of Kings County without fear or favor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ duty of inquiring into five " specific complaints " made by the line organizations . These included charges that the District Attorney had released to the press the names of all policemen who were called to testify prior to their actual testimony ; that there was no distinction made between policemen who were suspected and those who were called to aid the inquiry ; that there were no exoneration of those policemen cleared after questioning ; that the late Capt . John // G. Flynn was subject . to " cruel psychological torment , " and finally , that there was no statement made to exonerate the captain " although the minutes which were made public prove he was loyal to his trust . " Captain Flynn killed himself on July 16 . A witness before the grand jury , he left a note saying his act was not a result of the gambling investigation . Can Call Police Families One point in the complaint  --  that there was no justification for the summoning of families of policemen before the grand jury  --  was dismissed by Judge Leibowitz . He held @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , he said that " unless I can be shown otherwise I 'll stick to my decision . " At 2 o'clock in the afternoon , the grand jury opened its new inquiry . In a two-hour session , it heard from the heads of the five police organizations . They were Sgt. James A. Sheridan , president of the Sergeants Benevolent Association ; Detective Joseph R. Harley , president of the Detective Endowment Association ; Lieut . Joseph J. Regan Jr. , president of the Lieutenants Benevolent Association ; Capt . Michael . J. Boyle , acting president of the Captains Endowment Association , and John E. ' Carton , president of the Patrolmen 's Benevolent Association . The grand jury will meet again this morning . Raymon H. Chadeayne , foreman of the panel , was asked whether Mayor O'Dwyer and Police Commissioner William P. O'Brien would be called as witnesses . " We have n't decided yet , " he , replied .                     