@@712626

txt In an unprecedented action against racial discrimination in sports , Attorney General Nathaniel L. Goldstein moved yesterday to bar the American Bowling Congress from sponsoring tournaments and carrying out other activities in New York State . Mr. Goldstein pointed out that the fifty-five-year-old international organization , with 1,000,000 bowlers enrolled in its 1,500 local associations , limited its United States membership to " white males " only . This is a restriction contrary to the public policy of the state , the prosecutor declared . " I know that the American people do not tolerate bias in sports , " he said last night . " Racial stand ; Ms must never be set up as a test of athletic ability . All of us have been proud of such champions as Joe Louis , Jesse Owens and the great Jackie Robinson of my own Brooklyn Dodgers . " An investigation of the congress was opened by his office , the Attorney General added , as a result of " an increasingly disturbing series of incidents which have taken place in this state during the last few @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cited one case in which a bowling team composed of Negro members of an American Legion post was refused entry into a tournament . After serving a summons late ' Tuesday on James A. Wilson , a ' vice president and treasurer of the Congress , the Attorney General's1 office filed a complaint against the " " tenpin " outfit at 11:10 A. M , yes- terday in Supreme Court here . The complaint alleged that unless the ' congress , organized in 1895- and , incorporated in Illinois in 1903 , Was ' enjoined from operating in this state it would continue its activities " to the imminent , and irrepara-1 // ble injury of tile people of New York . " The bowling group got twenty days in which to answer the charges . When it makes a reply , a hearing date will be set by the court . Mr. Goldstein also is proceeding against the organization on what may have been its oversight of the law . The Attorney General assertea that the defendant corporation was doing business in the state " without first having obtained from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by Section 10 of the General Corporation Law . " In Milwaukee , where the Congress maintains its general offices , Frank Baker , assistant secretary , commented last night that " we are a membership organization and as such have a right to set our own rules for competition . " " We seek to exercise no juris- , diction over who uses bowling alleys and claim no authority to dictate to non-members , " he added.1 " If they are trying to say that we are trying to keep everyone but whites out of the game of bowling , 1 we deny it . " Charges Ban on Some Alleys The " white male " rule , the Attorney General said , is in Section 4 , Article 3 of the organization 's constitution . He further accused the group with approving for tournament play " only those bowling alleys in the state which deny use of their premises and facilities to any league or tournament which does not restrict admission and play to members of the white male sex . " Article 2 of the organization 's constitution @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " to foster the spirit of good-fellowship , increasing by organization an interest in the bowling game , and to exercise care and supervision over all affiliated bowling organizations , associations and establishments in the Western Hemisphere . " The congress also adopts and enforces uniform rules , laws , qualifications , conditions and method of playing the game and conducts annually an American Bowling Congress Championships Tournament . The next ' one is scheduled fo start in Columbus , Ohio , on April 15 . At last year 's convention , held in March at Atlantic City , the bias issue was forced into the open , due mainly to the efforts of the . Rev. Charles Carow of the Catholic Youth Organization of Brooklyn . He proposed that the congress vote an amendment to its constitution to permit bowlers outside the white race to participate in its yearly tournaments. , The amendmentWaVs turned down py the organization 's 700 delegates . The bowlers ' stand was later ? deplored by Mayor Frank Zeidler of Milwaukee . Joseph L. Bustard , assistant commissioner of education in New Jersey , also @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ General , John S. Boyle , filed a suit asking revocation of the charter of the congress because it incited to racial discrimination . Earlier that month , ' the Congress of Industrial Organizations announced in Washington that it also was seeking revocation of the bowling group 's charter on the grounds that the organization violated the United States Constitution , the Illinois Constitution , several state laws and the Sherman Anti-Trust Act . The congress has been attacked on its " white male " clause by the National Association - for the Advancement of Colored . People , the United Auto Workers , the Japanese-American Citizens League , the National Labor Service , AntiDefamation League , the American Veterans Committee and the National Committee for Fair Play in Bowling . 