@@717914

txt By a Stag Corretpond , gt The Christian Science Me ) nttor Should the United States give aid to underdeveloped areas ? Should this aid be military , economic , or both ? Should military and economic aid be linked ? If both military and economic aid are to be given , what should be the relative magnitude of Lne to the other ? How should this aid be channelled ? by bilateral agreements , through a regional grouping , or through the United Nations ? ? These were some of the questions thrown out during a vigorous Asia - meets - America seminar held this week at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology under the sponsorship of the United States National Commission for the United Nations I- Educational , Scientific , and Cultural Organization . Aid Criterion Debated The questions , posed by fiery , intense Dr. V. K. R. V. Rao , director of the Delhi School of . Economics , occasioned spirited debate among the five Asian and 12 American participants during the four-day seminar . the first three sessions of which were closed and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Participants were agreed that the United States should give aid to underdeveloped areas , not only for humanitarian reasons , but because democracy can not flourish in isolation , nor an island of plenty long survive in a sea of poverty . Most of the Asian participants felt that the United States had . been misunderstood in Asia because , in giving aid , it had stressed the resist-communism theme rather than the positive virtues of democracy . Dr. Rao eloquently pleaded that the cri terion for giving aid should not be . - Is the country on our side ? " but " Is this country a true democracy ? " Strength in Morality The strength of democracy is in its morality , he said , and an attempt to line up countries on one side simply because they are anti-Communist may deprive democracy of one IV its strongest bulwarks by conceding that a goon cause ? in this case the preservation of a free world ? can justify unscrupulous means . Dr. Vida ! A. Tan , president of the University of the Philippines , argued that military and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ funneling of aid was preferable to a regional grouping , because both the giver and the receiver would know exactly where they stood . This view was echoed by Dr. Bander Djohan , president of the University of Indonesia , who pleaded not only for economic aid but for more and closer cultural interchanges between his country and the United States . Human Values Held Key Sam Sary , Cambodian Minister of Education , and Tay Keolouangkhot , Laotian Director-General of Education both stressed that , American aid to their countries had been heavily weighted on the military side . Mr. Tay said the United States tended to favor those who pleased it , an dthat because Laos was a small country it would prefer aid distributed through a regional grouping than directly from the United States . Basic underlying theme of the conference , as defined in a work paper by Dr. Guy Pauker of Harvard University , was a problem common both to Asia and to the United States : the relation . ship of human values to the process of social change . The participants agreed that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Asia al spiritual was invalid , and that elements both of materialisrr and of devotion to spiritua : ideals could be found in both so-called East and so-called West . American participant John Carter Vincent , retired diplomat , thought this was one of the most valuable results of the conference . Rigid Definition Avoided The panelists also agreed that fundamental human values were the same both in East and West , and steered clear of an attempt to define too precisely what those values were . It was when these values were applied to specific problems that the sharpest debates arose . The participants acknowledged that in their common search for an answer to these problems they had gained better insights into the viewpoints of their respective countries . Dr. Rao , for instance , said that he ha ! come to the United States expecting to find a certain rigidity of viewpoint , an unyielding conviction that the American way was the only way , not only in ideal democracy but in practical world politics . The discussions had convinced him , he said , that American thinking is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ though not necessarily to agree with , that of Asians . Asian History Reviewed In an . eloquent concluding speech at the closing session May 4 . Mr. Sam reviewed the history of the Asian countries represented in the conference , pointed out that almost all of them had become independent since World War IT , and stressed that possibilities of future cooperation lay in four directions : the United Nations an Asian regional organization , the United States , and the Communist countries . Only if the first three possibilities failed would there be likelihood of the Asians turning to the Communists , Mr. Sam said . Dr. Rupert Emerson of Harvard University served as chairman of the closed sessions , and Dr. Max Millikan , Director of the MIT Center for International Studies , who organized the conference , chaired the public session .                     