@@716521

txt Increased British willingness to participate in European affairs appears to be a salient feature of Foreign Secretary Anthony Eden 's new plan for a German solution . But details of that increased participation remain to be clarified here  --  and in the interim doubt persists that any broad step-up in British commitments is in prospect . The Eden plan already is reported acceptable to West Germany , Italy , Belgium , Holland , and Luxembourg  --  all would-be participants in the former European Defense Community program . Whether the Eden proposals prove acceptable to France , the nation that rejected EDC , clearly will depend heavily on whether or not the French feel Britain will be more willing to participate in the rejuvenated Brussels Treaty Organization than it was in the late EDC concept . Early indications are that France does interpret the Eden mission to Western European capitals as foreshadowing stronger British ties with the continent . No Concrete Evidence Yet , despite Mr. Eden 's ingenuity in unearthing a face-saving formula that might allay French objections to German rearmament as well as German demands for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ concrete evidence that Britain is ready to take the steps being inferred abroad on the basis of the Eden tour . London still regards West German membership in the North Atlantic Treaty Organization as the only feasible follow-up to EDC . British moves are calculated to remove French and German objections to that step . Introduction of the dusty Brussels Treaty structure of 1948 as a vehicle for attaining this end thus does not necessarily guarantee a British policy flip-flop , it is pointed out here . When United States Secretary of State John Foster Dulles visits London shortly , he doubtless will endeavor to ascertain not only the prospects for the Eden plan as a substitute for EDC but also whether the British have indeed undergone a change of heart about European participation in the wake of EDC 's demise . The American secretary , however , is expected to wait until the French position has been made clear to Mr. Eden  --  and perhaps also to Assistant Secretary of State Robert Murphy ? before heading for a new confab . Brussels Pact Weighed The feeling here , meanwhile , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ neglected provisions are polished up . As a combination of Britain , France , and the Benelux copntries , it would parallel EDC if West Germany and Italy were added as Mr. Eden reportedly proposes . As a West European organization , it could be made every bit as effective as the modified EDC which Britain earlier was willing to endorse . Presumably London will be willing to give the Brussels institution at least the amount of support proffered to EDC . But how much more  --  if any  --  remains veiled so far in the vagueness of diplomatic phraseology . As the Paris correspondent of the Manchester Guardian asks : " Is a renovated Brussels Pact being offered as a psychological soothing syrup or as something real ? " Pointing out that the 1948 pact 's functions already have been absorbed into sub-sequent organizations , the Guardian queries : " What then is to be the activity of this sleeping beauty once she is awakened ? " The answers are no more available here than in Paris . But hope persists that Mr. Eden , M. Mend  --  s-France , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a solution that somehow will satisfy all partners without overcommitting any of them . Concrete Proposal ? Without any public guar4antee of increased British commitments , Mr. Eden appears to have fostered the impression , as the Guardian states , that " Britain is taking the lead in the negotiation , . Britain is speaking as a Euroupean power , Britain is not limiting herself to encouraging others to dive in while she does not even put on a bathing suit . This is already an important change . " Some sources here as in France , however , are speculating that British support for the Brussels Treaty will go beyond its previous stand only in the psychological rather than in any AL concrete sense . This may prove to : little for France , but anything further probably would be too much for England . It is known here that the French demand greater British military commitments on the continent  --  at least enough to counter the 12 divisions to be allotted West Germany . The Eden-Adenauer statement at Bonn containing the phrase about the United King-dam playing " a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ .                     