@@713519

txt When President . Truman delivered his State-of-the-Union message a year ago he was able to say that " today the free peoples of the world have new vigor and new hope for the cause of peace . " He could honestly praise " the bipartisan cooperation in foreign affairs which has been enjoyed by this Administration . " He could add that he believed " we shall succeed in our struggle for peace . " He went on to propose that " federal expenditures be held to the lowest levels consistent with our international requirements and the essential needs of economic growth and the well-being of our people . " To name these objectives today on the eve of the President 's new Stateof-the-Union message is to remind ourselves again what a disappointing year 1950 was . It is true that " the free peoples of the world " have shown vigor in resisting aggression . It is unhappily not true that they have " new hope for the cause of peace . " It is unhappily not true that the Administration is enjoying bipartisan cooperation in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shall be held to anything that can be described as a low level . The Eighty-second Congress will certainly suggest some economies in domestic expenditures  --  wise and unwise  --  but we face , as everybody knows , tremendous increases in ex ' penditures and great increases in the tax burden . It is , of course , useless to spend too much time looking back . Some errors might be discovered in the history . of the last twelve months , but it is too late to correct most of them . We hope that Mr. Truman will have the courage to look ahead and to face squarely the problems of the next twelve months . We hope that he will lay great emphasis on the fight against inflation ; that he will advocate such controls over materials , wages . and prices  --  including farm prices  --  as may be necessary to win this fight , and that he will do his best to close the breach in our late lamented " bipartisan cooperation in foreign affairs . " He can not achieve these objectives by himself or by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ liberal-minded men in both parties . He must rise to a new height of leadership . The challenge is not to him alone . It is to all men in our Government who put the welfare of the Republic first . If the President is to succeed , he must *put down the selfish interests who will oppose necessary economic measures . He must find a way to deal justly with capital , labor and agriculture  --  and play no favorites . Finally , he ' must formulate or reformulate a foreign policy that will command the support of the majority of our people . And there must be statesmanship on Capitol Hill as well as in the White House and the State Department . There must be statesmanship in both major parties . In these days of peril small-minded partisanship might be a deadly enemy of the national welfare . So could the type of confused thinking which occurred in some parts of Senator Taft 's speech on Friday . Mr. Truman will deliver his message as the news of further defeats and retreats comes in from Korea and as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a unified defense force in Europe . Events in Korea and in Europe can not change the basic principles of ? our policy but they may alter its application . Certainly we are on the eve of difficult decisions . We hope the . President - will discuss those decisions tomorrow and give at least . some indication of the manner in which he intends to handle them . Possibly the most significant decision we have to make is for just what kind of emergency we are preparing and how much of our national strength I we are to divert into military preparedness . The forthcoming budget message should spell out at least a tentative program in this field . Somehow we have to find a middle ground between the extreme point of view which would have us get ready immediately for an all-out war and the overconfidence which led Mr. Truman a year ago to describe our armed forces as " a strong and well-balanced defense organization . " The events of the year have proved that they were not strong enough , although in the Korean operations we have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has been no more crucial or difficult choice in our whole history than that which must determine the magnitude of our armed strength . If we spend too much on arms Russian propaganda may be able to convince wavering nations that we are a menace to peace . If we spend too much in that area we may also weaken our total economic strength and lower the level of well-being . If we spend too little we may be so weak that the whole amount will be worse than wasted . It would be a rash layman  --  and perhaps Senator Taft proved this much  --  who would venture to expresslin figures where the line should be drawn . Yet drawn it must be by events , and drawn it should be by foresight and careful calculation . We hope Mr. Truman will deal with this fearful enigma tomorrow . We may not envy him the job but he happens to be the man on whom the responsibility rests .                     