@@720787

txt A Presidential fact-finding board appeared to be losing ground in Its attempt to get the steel strike settled before the panel finishes its work . George W. Taylor , crisirman of the threeman board , told newsmen it would really be a miracle of the number one first order to get a settlement by agreement this week . " Previously , the chairman appeared to be optimistic about chances of the board promoting a voluntary agreement before Friday , when it is scheduled to give President Eisenhower a report on the issues in the steel contract dispute The board 's mediation efforts , which have attracted far more interest and taken on much more significance than its formal fact-finding hearings , have been complicated by the difficulty in defining the points at issue . Mr Taylor said In fact , Mr. Taylor said . " When we undertook these mediation efforts . I thought we d he further along ( by now ) to a definition of the issues " Progress a Minor Miracle " It would he a minor miracle if we could define all the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ also said the only reason - - a phrase he emphasized- that he could see now for asking Mr Eisenhower to extend the board 's life beyond Friday would be " the physical problem " of preparing Its report by Friday night . When the President receives the board 's report , the Taft-Hartley law provides that he can instruct the Attorney General to seek an Injunction from a Federal court to send the strikers hack to work for SO days The President , however , does not have to take this action . and it has been considered possible he could delay the injunction request if it seemed a settlement were possible . Both the steel industry and the union have expressed opposition to the use of the injunction The union got the backing of the A F L - C.I 0 for this stand in a letter from Federation President Means* to the hoard He declared the national health and safety is not endangered because of a shortage of steel The only national emergency , he said , was one of morality and simple justice to striking members of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Government to force strikers bark to work at the very moment their strike has cut steel inventories and put the pinch on the industry , Mr Meant ' argued " I expect in terms of simple humanitarian . ism this board will render a report which makes it clear to the American worker that he can expect justice from his Government , even w hen that Government is armed with an anti-strike weapon . " he wrote . When the board began its work Sunday , Mr Taylor had implied it ought ask more time if it felt an agreed settlement were possible through its efforts Asked if it would he fair to say ne appeared to be more pessimistic than he had been then , the chairman replied : " I have never kidded myself about the nature of this disagreement " Nevertheless , he said , " we 're not giving lip our efforts to narrow the issues . nor will we We ye got a lot of ideas " The three-member board has been meeting privately with both industry and union representatives since : t began its hearings @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ asked him to stay in Washington after the union completed its formal testimony last night Mr said he talked over some aspects of the dispute with Frederic G Donner. chairman , and L C Goad , executive vice president of General Motors Corp at a party here Monday night , but he did not answer directly a question about reports that he urged the auto executives to urge steel management to accept an offer the union was preparing . The discussion , Mr. said , dealt only with what he called the basic philosophy of the Steelworkers Union that more money for workers would lead to more purchases of consumer goods , including autos The union head said he hoped and thought he had gotten the G M. officials to understand the - Steelworkers ' views more fully . Steel industry sources in Pittsburgh attached no real Importance to Mr. 's conversations with the auto executives . They expressed confidence G M. , and other large steel consumers generally , would continue to back the steelmakers ' bargaining stand . " We have had extensive conversations with General Motors @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said a spokesman for one concern that numbers the auto maker among its largest customers Stes1 executives also said they had heard of no new union offer . Some of them speculated the union may be devising a new version of its frequent proposal that company demands for changes in work rules be submitted to a study group or to arbitration while the two sides settled on wages and other benefits . The companies have steadfastly stated they must get more freedom in setting work schedules ? so they can save money on operating costs  --  to offset wage Increases The union has just as strongly opposed any change in contract provisions on work rules . Mr. Taylor left no doubt the board was working on a day-to-day basis " I have n't even thought of next week , " he commented . The board expects to begin taking testimony today from company representatives and aims to wind up the formal hearings by mid-afternoon tomorrow . Emphasis Changed The emphasis of the hearings has switched from the specific contract and economic disputes to the broader issue of the failure of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Tay lor , at his afternoon press conference . said of the two sides in the dispute " They have not been bargaining , at least not bargaining as those of ys who have been long in the field know it " At the hearings , Mr Taylor and board member John A Perkins scolded both sides for letting their free bargaining collapse . " I put to you the suggestion , " Mr Taylor said , " that the issue of the failure of collective bargaining to work imposes a far greater issue for the nation than the Issues that he between you " Mr Perkins asked pointedly , " whether you genetlemen I on both sides ( have lost the technique of collective bargaining in your industry " Government a Crutch He suggested that a third party- the Federal Government- has become " a crutch in collective bargaining " Mr retorted that , in many contract disputes in the past , the union and the industry have been able to settle without Government Intervention . Board Chairman Taylor in effect blamed both sides for taking hard and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in collective bargaining apply if there is no possibility of accomodating issues that are irreconcilable or on with there is no give . The essence of democratic procedure is to reach an accomodation " Mr argued that the process of collective bargaining broke down because of " the deliberate design of the steel companies " He called the dispute over local work rules a " peony issue " that the steel companies " deliberately raised to provoke this shutdown . " The union chief said he had been trying since April to have serious discussions with ranking company officials , but so far has failed In every attempt He challenged chief executive officers of the industry 's companies to telephone his office or his hotel room and arrange a bargaining session .                     