@@719832

txt Morris L. Ernst said yesterday that " a full-scale Congressional investigation is now necessary in order to get the facts and truth " of the disappearance of Dr. Jesus de Galindez before the American people . The lawyer , who had been employed by Generalissimo Rafael L. Trujillo , dictator of the Dominican Republic , to investigate the case , said he would cooperate " fully " with a Congressional group looking into the matter . Mr. Ernst said he would tell the investigators why the . full story could not be given in his own report and " why it will be unable to be told except before a recognized authority of the United States Congress . " In his report , Mr. Ernst // cleared Generalissimo Trujillo of any responsibility in the disappearance of Dr. Galindez . Mr. Ernst 's statement yesterday said : " The time has come for all of - the facts to be made known in connection with the Galindez mystery . I had hoped that the grand jury , which had been sitting in Washington for more than a year , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of this enigma . Frankly , I expected no indictments of the alleged American accomplices , because there is no evidence pointing to a crime in Galindez ' disappearance . " And , although under the - law of our land , as recently enunciated by the United States Supreme Court , an indictment may be found even though based only on hearsay , apparently there is n't even sufficient hearsay to establish a crime in connection with the Galindez " disappearance . " I am of the firm opinion that 4 full-scale Congressional investigation is now necessary in or Oer to get the facts and the ; truth properly before the American people . Thus the present ' discussion will cease to concern itself with distortions , misquo ations and all of the tawdry ! devices available to those who ' " ) , re dedicated to the proposition that facts and truth should not lie permitted to interfere with a large newspaper headline or a good television story . " I am not unmindful of the fact that our Congress is burdened with an overwhelming mass of vital business concerned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Galindez operation affected ? and today affects  --  not only the people of America in relation to one another , but also the United States of America in relation to other nations outside of the Western Hemisphere . " I therefore respectfully urge that the appropriate committee of either the Senate or the House undertake a comprehen'sive and thorough investigation of the Galindez affair in order to make known to the public what willfully , deliberately and assiduously has been beclouded and confused in order to divert , attention from the truth . " I will cooperate fully and Will testify frankly before such a Congressional forum , as I expect the Executive branches of our . Government likewise will do . This investigation will dis-close : " Where Galindez obtained a million dollars ; why he got it , and what he did with it . " Why Galindez vanished when he did , and the relationship of his disappearance to the million dollars . " What governmental agencies I consulted with before undertaking this assignment . and what agencies I worked with throughout my investigation . " What @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has been available to our Government which points to the truth behind the million dollars and Galindez ' operations as a double agent . " What were the real operations of Gerald Lester Murphy and why his Congressman is so anxious to prove that he was a kidnapper or party to a murder , rather than to have those real operations disclosed . " How , and for what purpose , Gerald Lester Murphy obtained large sans of money long before the Galindez disappearance . " What is the true nature and character of Galindez ; and what are the contents of more than 160 documents which were made available by our investigation to an agency of the United States Government ? " Why the full story could not have been told in my report and why it will be unable to be told except before a recognized authority of the United States Congress . ( In this regard , I might say that I am prepared to testify in executive session if the Congress , in its wisdom , decdes that full public disclosure would be contrary to the best @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but a few of the questions which a Congressional investigation will have answered by referring to my report ; to the testimony of myself and others ; to the complicated record of Galindez ' passports ; to his books of account kept in his own handwriting ; to his financial accounts with banks and brokers ; to his personal income tax returns and the assessment based dpon undeposited monies , as well as the precipitous settlement thereof ; to the files of - the Surrogate Court in New York County , and to the countless other items of evidence which clearly point to the solution of the million-dollar Galindez mystery .                     