@@713236

txt Gen. Mark W ; Clark , chief of the Army field forces , arrived here today to study the " combat readiness " of United States troops in Germany and other areas outside the United States . He said that the first United States troops sent to strengthen garrisons in the European command would arrive within four months , in accordance with President Truman 's announcement yesterday . General Clark said there would " not be much delay " in augmenting United States forces here and rejected suggestion that the bulk of the reinforcements could not be brought over until next spring . He would not say how many reinforcements would arrive but reliable sources are thinking in terms of at least five divisions . There was comparatively little formal German reaction to President Truman 's announcement on the augmentation of United States troops in Europe . ' The Bonn Government , of course , was delighted and spokesmen pointed out that this was exactly what Chancellor Konrad Adenauer , as well as Socialist opposition leader Kurt Schumacher had urgently requested . A Reuters dispatch from Bonn @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ troops in Europe as a " very good guarantee of peace . " 100,000 to Participate General Clark arrived in time for large-scale United States maneuvers , which are to begin at dawn tomorrow . About 100,000 ground troops and airmen , including French and British contingents , will test tactics and resources against a mythical attack emanating from behind the Iron Curtain . Tanks , artillery caissons , planes d troops were moving into position tonight for the initial phase ) f " Exercise Rainbow , " which be ; ins with a Western " retreat . " The exercise calls for a regrouping phase and concludes with a victorious counter-attack . These games will go on for eight lays . Then on Sept. 24 the British mill sponsor large-scale joint maieuvers , ' including United States , French and Danish ground and air forces . General Clark was greeted at the Rhein-Main airfield by Gen. Thomas T. Handy , chief of the United States Forces in Europe ; Lieut . Gen. Manton S. Eddy , commander of the United States Army in Europe , and other local Army commanders @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , quartermaster of the Army field forces , and Maj. Gen. Glenn 0 . Barcus , commanding general of the United States Tactical Air Force . Press photographers were not permitted to take pictures of General Clark as he emerged from the plane or after he had landed but were restricted to a barrier outside the terminal building . Brought New Instructions In a press conference in the terminal building , General Clark said Gen. J. Lawton Collins , chief of staff , had ordered him to report on the combat readiness of all United States troops outside the United States . The former Fifth Army commander said he had brought new instructions for General Handy to introduce " battle inc. ) . eination training " in this command . This type of training , already begun in the United States , includes the use of live ammunition during war games . Turning away questions involving political aspects of German participation in Western European defense , General Clark , nevertheless , responded to some technical questions of political interest in this area . Asked how long it would take to create @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it was possible to form a battle-ready division from raw recruits in nine months . He supposed that where it was " closer to the fire " there was a greater incentive and one could " do better than that . " In response to a question , General Clark said that in mixing nationalities an armed force would have to depend on single national units of at least a division in size . General Clark said he would be in Germany five days , then proceed to Austria and Trieste and conclude his trip in London where he would hold discussions with British Army authorities on questions of standardization of training and equipment . Troops Arrive From Austria This afternoon a reinforced United States regiment from Austria arrived at the Rhein-Main airfield in an " airlift " preparation to the maneuvers . In addition to the First Infantry Division , the first and second constabulary brigades , a United States regiment from Trieste and the regiment from Arstria , ground troops participating in Exercise Rainbow will include the Seventh Algerian regiment of the French occupation zone and the British First @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Third Fighter Wing and the Sixty-first Troop Carrier Wing of the United States Air Forces in Europe will be joined by ** French fighter squadrons . Even the United States Navy will be involved in the war games . Small United States craft will receive assignments on the Rhine River . Of political interest here . ; as the tactical line drawn by the " defenders in the projected stand against the green-clad invaders , " a United States cavalry regiment , who will attack from the border of the Soviet zone of Germany and Czechoslovakia . This line runs from Frankfort through Heidelberg , Karlsruhe and Stuttgart for 120 miles and forms , on paper , a defense line for the Rhine Valley . Representatives and observers from the Atlantic pact nations will be present during the exercises .                     