@@720449

txt Christian A. Herter is still occasionally addressed or referred to among American diplomats here as governor rather than as secretary . Partly this is a habit carryover . Dwight D. Eisenhower was addressed by some as general for months after he had become President . Changes of title require a period of adjustment . With Mr. Herter the adjustment among persons who long served John Foster Dulles is not yet entirely complete . But it can be reported there has seldom in the annals of the United States Government been a transition as smooth as from Mr. Dulles to Mr. Herter in command of American diplomacy . There is not the slightest doubt about his authority over the American foreign service establishment . Nor is there any serious doubt among our allies about accepting him as the successor to Mr. Dulles . Of course , the allied diplomats were all watching carefully when Mr. Herter took the chair here on the third day of the foreign ministers conference . This was his first real solo in high-level international conferences , and inevitably everyone else in the room @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Herter passed the test for the simple reason he is not a person who worries about such things . In the eves of others he was taking his driving test , but in his own he was merely doing the job assigned to him and for which he has been eminently prepared . He had no doubts himself . There was no reason why he should . He handled some very tricky problems that day to the full satisfaction of his colleagues . The issue pending when Mr. Herter took the gavel was the question of Poles and Czechs . Soviet Foreign Minister Andrei A. Gromyko had proposed their admission the previous day . The matter had been left unsettled . Technically it was the pending business . Mr. Herter had to dispose of that pending business without neglecting parliamentary proprieties . and also without wasting time . He let Mr. Gromyko talk , offered others their chance to rehash an old subject , and deftly turned the conference to constructive business . Behind the smooth easy takeover and the quick grant of loyalty to Mr. Herter by United States @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ things are a lot easier for him than for either of his predecessors . Both Dean Acheson and Mr. Dulles before him were in many ways at times prisoners of political circumstances . Mr. Herter is the freest Secretary of State the United States has had since the great domestic political issues of the New Deal era opened . Mr. Acheson was the favorite target of Republican political attack almost from the outset of his term of service . Democrats did their best to even the score when Mr. Dulles succeeded . Both men were extremely controversial figures . It is not easy for a man to make the judicious decision in highest foreign policy when he is constantly being dragged through political mud . The political context within which Mr. Acheson had to work prevented him from doing some things he might have wanted to do  --  and induced him to do some things he might have avoided in a calmer emotional atmosphere . Mr. Dulles , operating in an equally charged atmosphere , declared many a policy he never practiced and never really favored . Mr. Herter is free @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is politically noncontroversial because the situations which plagued Messrs . Acheson and Dulles have largely passed and because he himself has avoided political controversy . He is a loyal lifelong Republican but never felt it necessary to make wisecracks about horses and Senator Wayne Morse or to resort to the political smear . He side-stepped the Stassen maneuver against Vice-President Richard M. Nixon of 1956 without identifying himself with any Republican faction . He is respected as a foreign-affairs expert in both wings of the Republican Party and by the Democrats . Both Messrs . Acheson and Dulles are entitled to a twinge of envy as they watch Mr. Herter start off . Both predecessors could have done better had they enjoyed Mr. Herter 's priceless advantage of being politically a free agent . He was nominated by the President and is supported by the opposition leaders in the Senate . He is persona grata in both Nixon and Rockefeller wings of his own party and trusted among Democrats as an honorable man . His unanimous confirmation in the Senate is the strongest shield the American people have given their Secretary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ power . His opining performance matches his equipment . There is no reason why anyone should be concerned about his ability to handle the job . None has ever been better equipped for the job .                     