@@715228

txt PresiH dent Eisenhower 's first message on the State of the Union , delivered personally today to a joint session of Congress in the packed House of Representatives chamber , got a rousing reception . However , as the new President made his exit , arms linked with Senator Robert A. Taft of Ohio , Senate Majority Leader , whom he defeated for the Republican Presidential nomination , the speech appeared to leave in its wake a trail of issues that spelled Congressional controversy to come . Although the President 's speech brought praise from Democrats as well as Republicans , President Eisenhower 's decision to end the United States Seventh Fleet 's role as a barrier against raids by the Chinese Nationalists on the Communist-held mainland seemed to bring much concern to many Conessmen . It was difficult to deter-. mine whether the Republican view that the action would end the stalemate in Korea outweighed fear , expressed largely by Democrats , that it might extend the Korean conflict and involve the United States more deeply in Asia . Resentment Expressed Senators and Representatives repeatedly asked @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Chi-1 nese mainland would imply that , the United States would have to ; back up such actions with American men and planes . This , they contended , would mean deeper involvement and perhaps another world war . Influential Democrats in Congress expressed resentment oiler the section of the President 's address in which he contended , in effect , that the present assignment of the Seventh Fleet , made by former President Truman , constituted a protection for the Communist mainland while other Communists were fighting United Nations troops , mostly American , in Korea . Representative John W. McCormack , Democrtt of Massachusetts and House Whip , called it " hitting below the belt . " He charged that ' President Eisenhower , while asking for bipartisan foreign policy , , , was acting " to destroy it . " Opponents contended the . Seventh Fleet decision would not , change the situation materially , except to add new dangers if it meant an extension of American fighting in Asia . They held that Generalissimo Chiang 's forces already had launched " unauthorized and unpublicized assaults on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ around Formosa . There appeared to be general and enthusiastic acceptance of President Eisenhower 's decision to call upon Congress to express , with him , a denunciation of international agreements reached at secret meetings . A cry went up from the Republican side that there " would be no more Yaltas , no more Teherans , and no more Potsdams . " Many Democrats appeared to join tills refrain . President Eisenhower 's demand that Europe make a determined effort to attain military and political , unity made a big hit with Congress . There appeared to be almost general agreement among the Republicans to follow the President 's advice and not try to reduce income and other taxes until it was found just how much Congress could reduce debt and expenditures and take other measures looking to a balanced economy . It appeared that the President was taking pains in his address to head off a movenment in the House , headed by . Representative Daniel A. Reed . Republican of upstate New York and new chairman of the Ways and Means Corn-. mittee , to enact a 11 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Congress from farm areas were disappointed in the President 's address . While he promised to . follow existing law concerning Federal support that would assure producers 90 per cent ' of parity prices for their products , he did , not say what he would do when this , law expired in two years . Parity is a theoretical figure that , attempts to establish a fair relatiOnship between the price a farmer receives for his produce and the cost of . what he must buy . General Eisenhower 's pronounceIments on civil rights , including the long-controverted fair employment practices issue , appeared to disappoint the liberals in Congress , They had looked , it seemed , more for support of compulsory Federal programs than for the educational , 1 conciliatory and ' ? hat they viewed as ' the " states ' rights " approach to the . problem . The President 's position that loyalty matters in the Executive Department should be handled by it and taken up by Congressional investigation only if it did a poor job did not sit well with all members of Congress . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , who . has long ! charged Communist infiltration- of . the ' State Department and - w/Ivris -. chairman of the Senate 's general ' irly.estigative subcommittee , said : xecuti.Ve Branch will handle , the . that 's good . They should have been doing it all ? President . tiienhower 's charge that the new McCarran-Walter Immigration Act ' was discriminatory and his call for amendments brought the statement from Representative Francis E Walter , Democrat of Pennsylvania and coauthor of the law , that " the President is entirely in error " or has been misinformed . " It was predicted in Congress that , while the Immigration Law might undergo amendment during the current session , it would not be " rewritten . " The speech brought declarations front the Republicans ; that the country had " returned to constitutional government , " that " class appeal " in the writing of law had come to an end , that programs for national unity , rather ? than for divisions among the people , were coming , and that " the pattern " for the Eisenhower Administration @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @               