@@719966

txt Secretary of State Dulles expressed the hope today that negotiations between the United States and Communist China would lead to a cease-fire in the Quemoy and Matsu area . To this he added the hope that a halt in hostilities would be.follOwed by a peaceful settlement of " claims and counterclaims . " Mr. Dulles spoke in the Genleral Assembly , where Andrei A. IGromyko , the Soviet Foreign Minister , urged later that the United States withdraw its forces , completely and " for all time , " from Taiwan and the Taiwan Strait . Mr. Gromyko did not mention the Warsaw negotiations , to which Mr. Dulles referred , The Soviet Foreign Minister said that the " liberation " of Taiwan by Communist China " is as inevitable as the coming of day ! after night " and that the Peiping Government did not stand alone . Soviet Warning Recalled He reminded the General Assembly of the recent warning to the United States by Nikita S. Khrushchev , Soviet Premier , that the Soviet Union would help " beat off the aggressor . " Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ States Would seek in the Warsaw negotiations . Authoritative sources ruled out any possibility that the United States would favor a United Nations trusteeship for Taiwan or the offshore islands , but left open the possibility of demilitarization . Anticipating the argument of Mr. Gromyko , who likened the position of the offshore islands to that of Long Island , Mr. Dulles conceded that Quemoy and Matsu were near the Chinese mainland . He insisted , however , that " we can scarcely adopt the view that nations are entitled to seize territory by force just because it is near at hand . " Mr. Dulles added that the United States reserved the right to bring the dispute before the // United Nations if it appeared that the Warsaw talks were not , going to succeed . The question whether the Peiping Government should take over China 's seat in the United Nations produced an acrid exchange between the two foreign *ministers . Mr. Dulles contended that the behavior of Communist China in the current crisis demonstrated that it did not conform to the United Nations charter 's requirement , that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . states . Mr. Gromyko denounced the presence m the United Nations of the " masquerade figure of a Chiang Kai-shek clique , " while , " China with a population totaling about one-quarter of the world 's inhabitants " was out-I side . Meeting Is Cancelled A meeting of the Assembly 's Steering Committee , which was scheduled to take up an Indian proposal that the Assembly place the Chinese representation issue on its agenda , was canceled a few minutes before it was to begin . The official explanation was that Mr. Gromyko 's two-hour speech had made it necessary to postpone the meeting until tomorrow morning . Reliable sources said , however , that the postponement resulted from a movement led by Ireland to postpone committee debate on the Indian proposal until the outcome of the Warsaw talks was known . A United States spokesman said that his delegation would oppose any delay in the discussion . Mr. Gromyko , in one of the most bitter speeches the Soviet Union has made in the United Nations , accused the United States of using the " big club , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " and resorting to action worse than " international piracy . " After having attacked United States actions in Lebanon , Cuba , the Taiwan Strait and elsewhere , he said that the Assembly should prohibit " all states from carrying out such movements of their navies and air forces for purposes of blackmail , intimidation and preparation of aggression , and should insure that these forces be kept within the limits of their national frontiers . " Renews Old Demands Mr. Gromyko renewed previous Soviet demands for the elimination of the United States bases overseas , and again called for a reduction of 10 to 15 net cent in the military expenditures of the United States , the Soviet Union , Britain and France . He suggested that the savings be used for the economic advancement of under-developed countries , a proposal similar to that made by President Eisenhower in 1953 . Mr. Gromyko used conciliatory language in the concluding part of his speech , when he said that stable , peaceful coexistence of nations was dependent to no small ' extent on relations of " mutual trust and cooperation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Gromyko recalled that the Soviet Union had proposed a treaty of friendship to the United States and had submitted " broad and concrete proposals aimed at developing economic cooperation . " He asserted that the United States was responsible for the fact that these proposals " remain unfulfilled , " but emphasized that an improvement in Soviet-United States relations would respond to the interests of both countries . Lauds Both Candidates Mr. Dulles did not go into the basic question of SovietUnited States relations . His speech , with the exception of the passages on Communist China and his denunciation of " the continued brutal suppression of the Hungarian people by a puppet regime imposed by Soviet military power ; " was ' mildly worded . The Secretary began ' with complimentary references , to both Dr. Charles Malik , Foreign Minister of Lebanon , who ' was elected president of the Assembly with United States support , and Mohammed Ahmed Mahgoub ; Foreign Minister of the Sudan , who was defeated . - Mr. Dulles discussed a wide range of topics . He called attention to the ( fact @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its forces from Lebanon . He added that the United States would discuss with Presidentelect Fouad Chehab , who will take office- next Tuesday , a schedule for final withdrawal . He said he hoped Secretary General Dag Hammarskjold 's coming report would make withdrawal possible . Mr. Dulle. ; also requested the Assembly to consider President Eisenhowee 's proposal , ' made last month at the emergency special session on the LebanonJordan question , that the United Nations monitor inflammatory " ' radio broadcasts " from whatever source , ? crossinee national borders in the Near East . " Peace Force Defined Of planning for a United Nations Peace Force , also proposed last month by President Eisenhower , Mr. Dulles said this would not be a combat force ; but one for observation and patrol , and that the great powers should not . contribute contingents . Mr. Dulles expressed the hope that negotiations starting in Geneva Oct. 31 would lead to an agreement on a system for enforcing a nuclear-test I cessation . He expressed hope that talks on preventing a sur1 prise attack would also be held @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ outer space for peaceful purposes , Mr. Dulles made public part of a graft resolution under which the Assembly would establish a committee to study international cooperation and report to the next session . Mr. Dulles advocated a varlet program of economic development of under-developed countries , including increases in the capital of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the international Monetary Fund , and United States support of its own and of the United Nations technical assistance programs including the proposed new special projects fund . Memorandum Offered Mr. Dulles assailed " double standards " in international morality . He said that while most members of the United Nations respected Assembly recommendations , others , as witness Hungary , defied them when they interfered with national policies . He said this ' double standard " poses a challenge which we shall have to meet . " Many of these reconunendations were assailed by Mr , Gromyko , who f submitted a long memorandum on ' disarmament policy and demanded tile immediate withdrawal : of United States and British forces from Leb*on'and Jordan . *Parked that the proposal regardirig. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " was an attempt by . ; those . Wwho ' have . suffered a political ' Based with their intervention in ' the Near East to invent this ? time new , somewhat ' camouflaged forms of interference in the affairs of ArabI countries and other states under the United . Nations name . " As for control of outer space , Mr. Gromyko said that this : was an attempt to deprive the Soviet Union of intercontinental missiles while the United States ' retained heavy bombers for attacks on the Soviet Union . Francisco Negrao de Ima , Brazilian Minister of State for External Relations , who was the East speaker in the opening ( debate , and . Miguel Moreno ' Tr. , Foreign Minister of Panama , emphasized the need of underdeveloped countries for outside assistance . Afichiro Fujiyama , ' Japanese Foreign Minister , expressed the hope that " both parties " would refrain from the use of force in the Chinese question . He said the United Nations should take up the problem only if the Warsaw talks failed . Later Mr. Fujiyama said that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I The Assembly will meet ' at 3 P. M. tomorrow to continue the , opening debate .                     