@@718756

txt Forty-one persons aboard a Braniff air liner spent more than three tense hours aloft tonight while crewmen sought Asuccessfully to locate trouble in a faulty nose wheel . The pilot finally brought the plane in safely by landing on two wheels and holding the nose wheel off the runway until the last possible moment . When the pilot lowered the nose , the wheel collapsed and the plane buried its nose in the ground . No one was injured , however , and all had praise for the skill of the crew . The plane , a Convair 340 , left Corpus Christi arid made Istops at San Antonio and Dallas en route to Kansas City . No Safety Light Over Oklahoma City , where it was scheduled to stop , the crew found that the landing gear was down but they did not have a light to indicate it was locked . They said the gear jammed when they moved it . A landing at Oklahoma City was ruled out because of a large crowd that gathered when news of the plane 's plight became known @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ minutes after it appeared over Love field . It had been in the air about 3 hours and 15 minutes . On instructions from the tower ; the plane came in on a long glide . As it touched down , the crew cut its power but did not apply the brakes . Lands on 2 Wheels The plane floated down the almost 7,000 foot runway on two wheels . As it reached the end of the runway , the pilot , Capt . R. 0 . Mittendorf ; lowered the nose . The plane fell on its nose and came to rest with its tail section tilted crazily skyward . Capt . Mittendorf said the passengers took it calmly . Hostess Susy Bruck , 22 , Austin , Tex. , also complimented the passengers . Passengers did not appear unduly perturbed as they filed from the plane . Bert Hathaway of - Oklahoma City , a passenger , stepped off the plane and said , " Everybody is happy . It was the most beautiful landing I have ever seen . " No Children Aboard There were no children aboard the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Pete Peterson , both of Kansas City , said , " Be sure to compliment the pilot . He was a very , good one . " Several thousand people alerted by news that the plane was in trouble lined the runway from vantage points as the plane made several passes at the field . As it touched down scores of e m e r gency vehicles followed it down the runway in a screaming pursuit .                     