@@719239

txt Neil H. , Secretary of Defense , acted today to remove any technical problems or regulations impeding the development of long-range ballistic missiles . in a memorandum to the Secretaries of the Army , Navy and Air Force , Mr. called on the services to pinpoint any problems slowing the scheduled development of ballistic missiles . Meanwhile , the Air Force confirmed some earlier agreements in announcing contracts for more than 5183 , - 000,000 on the production of ballistic missile components . Mr. , in one of his first major actions as Defense Secretary , made clear that he was intent on breaking bottlenecks . " The great importance to our national security of maintaining these programs on schedule is obvious , " he told the Secretaries . More Personal Command The memorandum indicated that Mr. , who has been in office only ten days , was going to assume more personal command over the ballistic mis. sile program than did his predecessor , Charles E. Wilson . He ordered , for instance , that the services submit to him weekly reports @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ assured the Secretaries and their staffs " of my constant availability to assist in any way in the resolution of any problems that you or they may encounter . " Three years ago President Eisenhower directed Mr. Wilson to keep in close personal touch with the missiles program . Mr. Wilson also called for regular reports of progress and problems . Mr. stepped into the picture in the midst of Congressional demands for a speedup on development of missiles with ranges of from 1,500 to 5,500 miles . The Congressional demands were provoked by recent Soviet technological strides in rocket development , culminating in the launching of the first earth satellite . Some Democratic Senators , such as Stuart Symington of Missouri and Henry M. Jackson of Washington , . have ' said the ballistic missile program has been slowed by Administration economy orders . ? The memorandum , however , clearly indicated that the Administration did not plan to pump any great additional sums into ballistic missiles . The consensus of defense officials , after a reappraisal following the launching of the Soviet satellite , was that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were mostly technological . Significantly , the memorandum concentrated on " technical or scientific problems . " or " regulations " that might be impeding development . At no point did the memorandum mention financial problems . Rivalries Not Mentioned Nor was there any mention of inter-service rivalries that some officials had blamed for the lag in missiles development . ? All three services have been working on intermediate range ballistics missiles  --  those with a range of 1,500 miles . The Air Force alone has been working on an intercontinental ballistics missile . The Atlas , which has been twice fired unsuccessfully , has a designed range of 5,500 miles . The Air Force Titan still is in the component test stage . The main competition is between the Army and the Air Force over the intermediaterange missile . The Army 's Jupiter is competing with the Air Force 's Thor for selection as the missile that will go into production . However , the Air Force , not the Army , will operate the longrange missiles . Mr. Wilson limited the Army to anti-aircraft missiles with a range @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ship and submarine-based missiles are technically different from those of land-based missiles . The Navy was authorized to continue development of its intermediate range Polaris missile . Before the Soviet launched its satellite , the economy drive cut the Air Force 's supersonic ramjet winged missile , the Navaho : This weapon , with a designed range of 5.000 miles , had cost S775,000,000 . Others that appear slated for cutbacks include the intermediate range Triton , also a ramjet type . The services also are competing on the smaller . guided siles . A guided missile is , in effect , a pilotless airplane . It is powered throughout its flight and guided to its target by any one of a number of devices , including radar and radio . A ballistics missile is guided in the first stages of its flight but after its engines burn out it travels like an artillery shell aimed at a particular target . As part of an economy scrutiny of the ballistic missile program last summer , the Defense Department curbed the amount of overtime for scientists and technicians . Mr. said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " all requests for permission to utilize overtime in the missile program S * " have been approved by this office . Mr. , who made an , extensive tour of missile projlects before taking office , said appears that our missile ! schedules now represent the : best balance of technical knowledge , trained manpower and test installations that we can make at this time . " " I am not aware of any regulations that . have been imposed which are presently hampering our efforts to carry out these schedules , " he said . Mr. toldahe Secretaries , however , that " we should give continuing attention to the removal of modification of any regulations which conceivably could impede progress in these fields . " Early Advisement Urged Mr. also told the Secretaries to advise his assistant for guided missiles and the Defense Department 's Ballistic Missile Committee " immediately of any assistance which another military department or the Department of Defense can provide which will insure the maintenance of our schedules in the missile program . " Mr. said that as a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " greatly encouraged by progress that we , are making on missiles and ! by the ability , confidence and the enthusiasm of all of those who are working on these programs . " Meanwhile , the Administration 's ballistic missile program ! came under Republican attack . Senator Ralph E. Flanders of Vermont said it was time for the Administration to " shake off its complacency and act . " Senator Flanders suggested that Dr. James R. Killian , president of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology , be given " full- authority " to develop missiles for the military . Dr. Killian , he said , is a " a time-tested organizer of scientists and engineers " and " can summon to his aid the best brains in America and in the free world . " Senator Styles Bridges of New Hampshire , a senior Republican on the Senate Armed Services Committee , suggested that the ballistic missile program had been hampered because some scientists had turned politicians and were " beguiled by the peace and light emanating from the Kremlin . " Writing in Human Events , a weekly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has come not to ask our scientists what to do , but to tell them what must be done . "                     