@@718886

txt John Foster Dulles appealed to Congress today not to be led into any weakening of the Western alliance by " unsupervised Soviet promises " of disarmament . The Secretary of State said in effect that the United States had not the smallest intention of being caught in any " folly " of overtrustfulness . He appeared before the For-1 eign Affairs Committee of the House of Representatives in be- ' half of the Administration 's for eign aid program , He was amiably , if noncommittally , received in his request that the full sum asked by the President ? $3,864,300,000 ? be allowed by the House . Meanwhile the Senate Foreign Relations Committee filed with that chamber its formal report recommending an authorization of $3,637,000,000 , or $227,300,000 below the President 's request . The authorization bill will be taken up in the Senate itself for debate before the week is out . Program Lauded The Senate committee , which had cleared the authorization by a vote of 12 to 3 , recommended the program as one that , for all its admitted faults , had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ free . " Secretary Dulles used the House committee 's forum to express skepticism of Soviet good faith in disarmament discussions as Harold E. Stassen prepared to resume further negotiations in that field . Mr. Stassen , a special assistant to the President , is returning shortly to London to put before the British , the Russians , the French and the Canadians this country 's limited arms reduction plan . Mr. Dulles ' manner before the House committee made it appear that he had some anxiety that Congress might be ' encouraged by an atmosphere of restrained hope about the disarmament negotiations to cut the foreign aid ) utlays . " We are actively seeking , through United Nations procedures , ways whereby armaments : : an be safely reduced , " he testi ! led as the ? House hearings ) pened . " But the task is immensely // complicated by the fact that it is not safe for us to alter and weaken the military dispositions which protect us merely because of Soviet promises . There must be dependable supervision and control of all promises , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ promises that are illusory . " Today , the Soviet rulers propagandize volubly about peace and disarmament . But we do not yet know whether they are in fact willing to accept the safeguards and procedures which will make disarmament safe for the free nations and make it prudent to base peace more on disarmament and less on deterrent and defensive strength and cohesion . " Let us never forget these significant facts : " International communism has seized by force or the threat of force all or major parts of nearly a score of nations , with aggregate population of about 900 , - 000,000 people . No one of these seized nations was , at the time of the seizure , protected by treaties of mutual security and the common defense system created thereunder . But not one nation which did share in such a common defense has been lost to international communism . " Such a record shows what folly it would be for us to agree to dismantle our common defense system in reliance on unsupervised Soviet promises . It would be equal folly to dismantle that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the collective defenses which provide a proved deterrent against aggression at the least cost . " While Mr. Dulles was seeking to protect the Adminstration 's foreign aid bill in the House , a gathering force was preparing to attack it in the Senate . Senator Wayne Morse , Democrat of Oregon , one of the three members who had voted against the bill in the . Foreign Relations Committee , was drafting a minority report - for the coming floor debate . And a bipartisan group joined Senator Joseph C. O'Mahoney , Democrat of Wyoming , in serving notice of an effort to put " safeguards " around the Administration 's expenditure of ? foreign aid funds , Senator O'Mahoney offered an amendment that would require Secretary Dulles and Charles ? . E. Wilson , Secretary of Defense , to keep six Congressional committees  --  three in the Senate and three in the House ? " fully and currently informed ' of all foreign aid activities .                     