@@717912

txt Eighteen meetings of the United Nations Disarmament Subcommittee which gathered in London in mid-March have wound up May 4 in virtually complete deadlock between the Soviet Union on the one side and the four Western powers on the other . This was the fourth series of East-West disarmament talks since 1952 . They explored a few more miles of rocky uphill road to international arms reduction and control  --  with some benefit but not much progress . But they also uncovered differences serious enough to jeopardize any prospect for general agreement for some time to come . The salient imnression gained by the Western Dowers during these London sessions is that Moscow now is interested in conventional arms reductions  --  but that this is due to probable intention of building up its nuclear arms as a counterbalance . " There is considerable probability that the Soviet Union will make sizable armed forces reduction within the year , " according to a qualified American source . However , if building of Soviet submarines and bombers continues the effect wo n't be a real disarmament , the source ! @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ arms reduction is meaningless without bringing nuclear arms under airtight control at the same time . That , it is felt , would only substitute nuclear for conventional arms race . The conference plainly foundered as a result of failure of the two Soviet leaders to give it the hoped-for boost during their recent visit to this country . If anything , Soviet Premier Nikolai A. Bulganin and Party Secretary Nikita S. Khrushchev went out of their way to torpedo such hopes . The United States , Britain , France , and Canada agreed on a final declaration summing up their outlook after seven weeks of discussions in Lancaster House here . The Kremlin . in effect , agreed to nothing but its own proposals made during the talks  --  all of which will be included in a verbatim report to be submitted to the parent UN Disarmament Commission in New York . sons are believed responsible for Moscow 's apparent desire to cut down the large Soviet armed forces . Expansion programs for Siberia and elsewhere reportedly will make heavy demands on Communist manpower and money in the future . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , is expected to lead the Kremlin to place greater reliance in the future o- submarines , jet bombers , and hydrogen bombs than on massive ground forces as hitherto . Moreover , since the Soviet Union seems to have no intention of meeting the West 's demand for political settlement of such problems as Germany and Korea prior to sweeping armed force cuts , Moscow may be ready to make its reductions unilaterally , according to comment here . Atom Army j'ondered The outcome may well be that the Soviet Union will turn new emphasis on an atom army which will in no way reduce its international striking power -- while at the same time gathering propaganda kudos in the neutral world for extensive cutbacks in outmoded conventional forces . In short  --  play it both ways . Optimism was felt here on the grounds of Soviet conventional arms reduction and control proposal of March 27 . It did not go far enough to suit the West , but it was a beginning , and hope flourished that Marshal Bulganin and Mr. Khrushchev would provide something more while they were here .. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ responded more warmly to the March 27 proposal it would have helped . Since they did not that put them in a position of demanding more when the Soviet Union already had made a first faint bow in the direction of aerial inspection . At any rote , nothing more was forthcoming and the atmosphere cooled drastically toward the close .                     