@@717432

txt is itself being subjected to Federal Bureau of Investigation loyalty check . Meanwhile , the federal pro-grain will concern itself from here on mainly with new applicants for government jobs . They will get a " full field investigation " if applying for sensitive Jobs , such as with the Atomic Energy Commission or the Central Intelligence Agency . Otherwise , they will receive a " national agency check and inquiry " or name check . This means a check through the files of the government 's intelligence and security system  --  the Federal Bureau of Investigation and Army intelligence , for instance ? to see whether the applicant 's name appears anywhere with derogatory information listed against it . If nothing shows up , the applicant is hired . If something shows up , he is investigated further . A security milestone thus has been reached . The great , politically heralded review of all federal employees ordered by President Eisenhower when he came to office is virtually finished . But the acrimony resulting from the attempted misuse of security findings by politicians lingers. 1Charges Stirred @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Republican politicians before and during the 1954 election campaign sought to give the impression that the several thousand federal employees dropped from the rolls on various grounds of insecurity were mainly Communists or fellow travelers . Democrats accused the administration of propagandizing a " numbers racket " with these figures and seeking to develop the impression that the government was " crawling with Communists " during the Truman administration . Latest manifestation of the controversy was the inquiry into the ' ' numbers racket " and the security system conducted this autumn by a Senate Post Office and Civil Service subcommittee . Here the Democrats , a majority on the committee , sought again to show that of the less than ten thousand persons discharged from the government under the program , most had been fired for reasons other than security or had left without knowing that their file contained derogatory information . Republicans  --  including Senator Frank Carlson of Kansas , only Republican member of the subcommittee ? countered with the argument that the program had been effective in removing the stigma of disloyalty from the government roster and in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ while simultaneously protecting individual rights . A change in the Washington atmosphere is evident since the days when Democrats were seeking to compel the administration to break down the list of government firings and show exactly how many . Communists , if any , were involved , or whether most of the security firings meant discharges on grounds of drunkenness , perversion , talkativeness , or other types of non-traitorous insecurity . Few Fail to Pass Test President Eisenhower has said that he " welcomes " the bipartisan inquiry into the security system which will soon be set in motion . Meanwhile appearing at the Senate subcommittee hearings , Philip Young , chairman of the Civil Service Commission , declared : " I am proud , and the American people should be proud , ri the security record of their 2,300,000 public servants . " A very small number of the 2,300,000 investigated have failed to meet the security test , Mr. Young stated . Exactly 3,586 employees were discharged because of security questions . There were also 5,684 employees who resigned when their files contained unfavorable information . In some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; in some cases they did not know , so that theirs was a routine resignation with no attempt to contest the information . Resignations where files contained , security information amounted to about 1 per cent of the total of 495,724 resignations from the federal service in 25 months . This is lower than the rate in private industry , Mr. Young testified . Figures Broken Down By diligent probing at the Senate hearings it was brought out that of the 51 employees discharged by the Government Printing Office , " most " were discharged for reasons other than security . At the State Department , four ousted employees had , according to security officer Scott , been Communists . While of the 499 discharged as " security risks " from the Veterans Administration , " a great majority were ousted for unsuitability under regular civil service regulations , " according to H. V. Higley , Veterans Administrator . Thus the " numbers game " was somewhat broken into , ' to show that by no means all , or even a majority , of the dischargees were Communists @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than ordinarily unsuitable and inefficient employees . The bipartisan commission to convene later will delve more especially into the operations of the system , whether hearings are fair and conducted with sufficient regard for individual rights , and what improvements should be instituted .                     