@@714967

txt Success for the first time in growing in chicken eggs a virus that causes poliomyelitis was - reported here today . The accomplishment led scientists to hope that it might point the way to the development of a potent vaccine against polio that could be produced on a large scale and at low , ' cost . The disclosurel was made by Dr. Herald R. Cox of Lederle Laboratories of Pearl River , N. Y. , during a symposium marking the opening of a *2,000,000 biochemistry and virus laboratory at the University of California . Dr. Cox related that the vaccine , produced after polio virus had been adapted to grow in the chick embryo , had not been tested on human beings but had been used with apparent success on monkeys . It was administered by mouth to six of the animals . Thirteen other monkeys , used as controls , received none of the material . All nineteen of them several weeks later received injections of a virulent polio virus directly into their brains . During this test , - it was related , the thirteen control @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of polio and all of the thirteen became paralyzed within two weeks . The six vaccinated monk4ys were described as emerging from the experience alive and well . Up to ? now nearly a dozen polio vaccines have been produced in the widespread laboratory , battle against the crippling disease , but they have been developed through the growing of polio viruses in brain tissues from humans , monkeys or rodents . The resultant vaccines have not been available in huge quantities and have been expensive . Dr. Cox , while much encouraged over his own laboratory 's success in growing polio virus in chick embryos and not hiding his belief that it constituted an important step toward producing an immunizing vaccine on a large scale , cautioned that no vaccine for polio was available immediately through this research . Nor would he predict whether or when such a vaccine might become a reality for use on humans . The immunized animals have been studied only a few months and it is regarded as too early to know whether the immunity will last . Moreover , the new vaccine used on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so-called Lansing strain  --  among a number of types of the polio virus . Scientists were not ready to predict whether a vaccine could be developed that would immunize against all strains . Dr. Cox declared , however , that the use of the chick embryo as the propagating medium for " the mass production of live virus vaccines " greatly simplified the poliomyelitis problem . He said that one team of his laboratory workers had succeeded early last spring in inducing the Lansing type of the virus to grow in tissues of the chick embryo and that the strain had been maintained continuously in the embryos since March 3 . A separate team had confirmed and amplified the findings of the first and carried ' the strain through successive em1.ifyos since April 15 . Dr. Cox , formerly principal bacteriologist of the United States Public Health Servide mid an expert on vaccines against Rocky Mountain spotted fever and epidemic typhus fever , set out two years ago with a group of associates to find a safe virus through the technique of growing it on chicken eggs . Associated with him @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , erle biochemist ; Dr. Manuel RocaGarcia , former head of the Carlos Finlay Institute for Yellow Fever Research in Colombia , and Dr. Victor Cabasso , formerly of the Pasteur Institute in Paris and Tunis . The virus , a " living chemical , " is injected through tiny holes in egg shells with a hypodermic needle . The eggs , sealed with collodion , are placed in incubators for a number of days and , before hatching , are cracked and great quantities of virus are " harvested " and processed . In this way are produced living virus vaccines . Since last March 3 , when the virus first began growing in chick embryos , it has been much modified , so that it assertedly causes in monkeys only a mild infection that produces immunity . Dr. Cdx declared that , " without doubt , the moet'desirable approach toward solving the polio problem is to develop a safe and practical immunizing agent  --  a vaccine that will give long-lasting active protection against the disease . " Among a group of other speakers in the symposium Dr. Vincent Du @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , New York , announced the isolation of two important hormones  --  oxytocin and vasopressin ? in almost entirely pure form . These hormones first attracted the attention of scientists a half century ago , but pure forms never before had been obtained . Oxytocin is used in many clinics to bring on labor in difficult childbirth , while vasopressin causes a rise in blood pressure and reduces kidney secretion .                     