@@713188

txt Lieut . Gen. Walter Bedell Smith , commander of the First Army with headquarters at Governors Island , New York , will become director of the Central Intelligence Agency at the end of September . He will succeed Rear Admiral Roscoe H. Hillenkoetter , who has filled the post since its creation under the National Security Act of 1917 . Charles G. Ross , White House Secretary , in making the announcement today said that Admiral Hillenkoetter had been asking for several months to be relieved to return to sea duty . He will receive command of a cruiser division . The Central Intelligence Agency was set up by Congress as an arm of the National Security Council . Its function is to coordinate the intelligence activities of Government agencies , collating the information they receive and disseminating it to interested and authorized quarters . Agency Under Fire The agency came in for considerable Congressional criticism because of the element of surprise with which the North Koreans were able to stage their invasion of South Korea , Admiral Hillenkoetter was called before the Senate Appropriations Committee within @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ committee that the duties of the Central Intelligence Agency did not , in his view , include evaluation of the information it passed on . He testified that his agency had warned of heavy North Korean concentrations and other indications of military activity for several months before the invasion , but that it had not attempted to predict any actual date for the outbreak of hostilities . There were indications at the White House that Admiral Hillen-il koetter 's relief by General Smith had nothing to do with the Congressional criticism . This was borne out by the fact that General Smith 's appointment was strongly rumored here as far back as last May . At that time , the General was not in good health , and was undergoing periodic treatment at Walter Reed Hospital . Today 's announcement was taken to indicate that he had recovered his health . General Smith 's appointment is subject to Senate confirmation . In making the announcement , the White House also said that the general would name William H. Jackson as deputy director . Mr. Jackson , whose home is at Princeton @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Whitney &; Co. , New York investment bankers . During World War II , he served in Europe as . deputy chief of staff to Gen. Omar N. Bradley . He left the Army with the rank of colonel . Born in 1901 , Mr. Jackson got his Bachelor of Arts degree at Princeton University and his law degree at Harvard . He is president of New York Hospital and a trustee of St. Mark 's School . General Smith , who is 54 years old , served for three years as Ambassador to the Soviet Union . He was selected for that post after he had served as Chief of Staff to Gen. Dwight D. Eisenhower in his command of the Allied forces in ' Europe . In that capacity , General Smith had considerable contact with the Russian military leaders in Berlin . Was Shunned in Moscow In Moscow , however , he soon found that the military comradeships he had formed would not help his diplomatic mission . Soviet generals with whom he had been on cordial terms in Berlin shunned him in Moscow and made it plain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had never seen them . General Smith began his military career in 1910 by enlisting as a private in the Indiana National Guard . He was commissioned a second lieutenant in the Officers Reserve Corps in 1917 . In his subsequent military career , he has been known as an exceptionally able administrative officer . When General Eisenhower went to London in the spring of 1942 , to take command of the United . States forces then building up in Great Britain , he soon sent for General Smith to be his chief of staff . He took him to North Africa as his chief of staff for that invasion , in which British , French and Australian troops came under his command . When General Eisenhower returned to London to take command of the European invasion , he brought General Smith with him . It was General Smith to whom went the honor of receiving the German surrender at Rheims in 1945 on behalf of the Allied forces .                     