@@716329

txt President Eisenhower sought support for his lagging legislative program in both major parties tonight . This program , he declared in a speech broad , ' cast to the - cation by radio and television , is essential to a free , strong , happy America . " Here , in our time , in our hands and in our own courage , in our own endurance and vision , . Text of the President 's address is printed on Page 16. rests the future of civilization and of all moral and spiritual values of enduring meaning to mankind , " he declared . " Part , but only part , of our responsibility for preserving these values can be discharged through the legislative structure we propose to enact this year . " The President spoke at a meeting of district chairmen of the National Citizens for Eisenhower Congressional Committee . An enthusiastic audience punctuated his speech with applause thirty-three times . Allusions to the Army-McCarthy hearings and his own program of uprooting subversion evoked thunderous applause . " Scarcely need I assure such an audience as this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will keep everlastingly at the job of uprooting subversion wherever it may be found , " he said . When the aplause subsided he turned from his text to remark soberly : " I do not believe I am. egotistical when I say every American believes at least that about me . " Mentions ' Distractions ' A few minutes later , when he spoke of the work of Congress " in spite of highly publicized distractions , " there was both laughter and applause . Again , near the end , the audience applauded when the President termed the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Department of Justice " our best weapons against secret Communist penetration . " More than 501 ) men and women ? Republicans , Democrats , and independents  --  here for a threeday meeting , heard President Eisenhower appeal for support of his program . The President mentioned neither Republicans nor Democrats , but his appeal to the minority party as well as his own was clear . Ee stated at one point that his program contained nothing that was partisan , sectional , or partial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ program had , a bipartisan origin and that he was completely unmoved by the argument that his farm program was not " winning politics " this year . And he declared : " May I suggest that we have less political fission and more political fusion . " At his news conference earlier in the day , the President said he still , endorsed Republican candidates for Congress in general because he believed control of Congress should be held by the party of the President . Otherwise , he said , there is always an oppor- tunity to dodge party responsibility . The President faces the possibility of working with a Congress controlled by the Democrats in the second half of his term . While saying that his endorsement of Republican candidates was a general one , he added with a grin that a question about specific situations could be embarrassing . With adjournment of Congress tentatively less than two months off , some major items on the President 's program have been trapped or trimmed in the legislative process . In his address , the President described his program as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a growing , prosperous , epacetime economy ; and to fulfill the Government 's obligations in helping solve the human problems of our citizenry . " Among the legislative achievements that President Eisenhower mentioned were tax reductions , the St. Lawrence Seaway authorization , and the Mutual Security Treaty with the Republic of Korea . The President spoke vigorously for hisflexible farm support program . The Agriculture Committee of the House of Representatives voted 21 to 8 on Tuesday for a one-year extension of present high , rigid supports on major crops . His program , the President said , " proposes price supports with enough flexibility to encourage the production of needed supplies and to stimulate the consumption of those commodities that are flooding and depressing the American markets . " Now , he said , the Government must spend $30,000 an hour ? every hour  --  just to store farm surpluses . In the last twelve months the Government increased its investment in price-supported commodities by $2,800,000,000 and in the next twelve months the present law would force another increase , he declared . - - Minority clamor has concealed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ price supports to flexible supports would affect less than one-fourth of the income our farmers receive , " he said . " Rigid supports do not in any way affect crops that produce 77 per cent of our farmers ' income . " The President asserted : " Now ? I want to make this one point clear : In this matter I am completely unmoved by arguments as to what constitutes good or winning politics . And may I remark that , though I have not been in this political business very long , I know that what is right for America is politically right . " The President also dealt at some length with the tax revision bill , which appears to have a good chance of passage , but gave only passing attention to his housing proposals , which have been substantially modified in the voting thus far .. The President ran down the list of bills he has sponsored , many of them facing opposition . These include proposals to extend unemployment insurance coverage and strengthen protection against subversive activity , such as the legalization of wire-tapped @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from private plants essential to defense . The total objective , he said , is " to help assure every willing American a practical opportunity to enjoy good health , a good job , a good education , a good home , a ' good country . "                     