@@715771

txt In the face of increased tension from the Soviet H-bomb , support is building up at the United Nations for a fresh approach to the disarmament problem . Awaiting President Eisenhower 's promised speech on this enormous challenge to man-:kind , western delegates have begun to test the international atmosphere to determine if the time is possibly ripe for this phase of East-West ' negotiation . The latest group to suggest that such talks might come to something is a committee of American peace scholars known as the Commission to Study the Organization of the Peace . Operating under the American Association for the United Nations , the group includes such citizen leaders as Clark Eichelberger and James T. Shotwell . This group insists that the , reopening should be through " quiet explorations " and " diplomatic approaches " to learn " whether the Soviet Union may not now be willing to enter into serious disarmament discussions and negotiations . " UN action at the present Assembly , the commission said , will probably have to be limited at best to a reexamination of the technical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Bernard M. Baruch presented the United States plan for atomic control to the UN seven years ago . But this did not mean , the group declared , that steps should not be taken to feel out the Soviets ' attitude . New Efforts Sought " We must continue our efforts to progress toward a disarmed world , not as a bargaining process to strengthen our pesition in the next war , but as a means of reducing ' the danger of that war and the fear of aggression , " the commission said . The UN Disarmament Commission , consisting of 11 members of the Security Council plus Canada , reported to the General Assembly in August , after the U.S.S.R. announced it had the hydrogen bomb , that " recent international events will create a more propitious atmosphere for the consideration of the disarmament . " Then hopes were dashed again by Soviet delegate Andrei Y. Vishinsky 's speech in the Assembly 's general debate in which he turned on an old record against " American monopollsts " who he said have " placed their stake on a war @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ U.S. Urged to Lead This did not deter the citizen peace commission from urging that the United States Government again assume leadership in a field which the U.S.S.R. has virtually ceased during the past few years to discuss seriously . All 60 UN delegations have had their attention called to passage by the United States Congress of a resolution saying it is the purpose of the United States to seek durable peace and world disarmLmerit . In its conviction that negotiation moves toward the Soviet Union would either forward world peace or show up Soviet intentions to divide the West , the AAUN commission agreed with a premise that was put forth last spring by British Prime Minister Sir Winston Churchill and- has been catching on slowly in other world capitals , including Washington . Scope of East-West negotiations , the commission said , might include ; in addition to disarmament , the following proposals : Korea : To achieve success at the Korean peace conference , the UN must be prepared to contribute to economic rehabilitation of all Korea and to recognize the relation between democratic unification of Korea and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ East : Conditions should be sought that would restore and keep peace in all Asia , includiassignment of the UN peace servation commission to wa over such trouble areas as Indochina , Burma , and Malaya . Participation of the Chinese Communist Government should be sought in Far East economic discussions and the problem of Chinese representation.in UN reconsidered . Germany : A-formula for a unified Germany should be sought under conditions assuring its independence and peaceful disposition and establishing a wide area for peace between presently poised rival armies of the North Atlantic and Soviet blocs . Austria : Action should be taken to complete the Austrian peace treaty and bring Austria into UN membership . UN membership : Practical means are needed to break the UN membership deadlock .                     