@@718529

txt Dave Berk . oresident of the Inte:7-national B r o therhood of Teamsters , was accused by senate investigators today of dipping into union funds to pay personal bilis Bock and for repairs on a home which he sold in 1955 to the union for $ 162.000 . Brewster Also Accused Frank W. Brewster , chairman of the Western Conference of Teamsters , an organization of 2.58 local unions in 11 western states , was similarly charged with receiving a minimum of $30,000 from union funds , in addition to his salary , over a seven year period . Brewster , a white haired man , fashionably garbe d , who might be mistaken for a La Salle st. broker , was alleged to have mainti.ined a stable of horses and to have purchased an expensive automobile with money paid by union members as dues . Beck Begs Off Beck , bead of the nation 's biggest union , was advised on . Jan. 5 that a charge of misappropriation of union funds1 would be lodged against him . at hearings before the senate permanent investigations subcommittee @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ED. , Ark. said , but wired from Seattle yes- terday that his physician hadi ruled against his coming to Washington . lie recently returned from a European trb . When the hearing was recessed , McClellan announced that Beck , hitherto extended yin D. , N. C. and Revercomb FR. , W. Va. tried unsuccessfully to discover if Brewster would submit to questioning by any other committee or legal body . " Congress makes the laws and the executive department administers them , " remarked Symington . " Do n't you think we in Congress have a right to see how those laws are adI ministered ? " Warned by McClellan " This is illegal , questioning , " insisted Brewster . " If we ca n't ' get answers from you , I think there 's a way to get them some day , " McClellan remarked . This was a repetition of warnings to previous witnesses that contempt citations would be fort hcoming . After the hearing , McClellan told reporters that " willful contempt has been committed at these hearings " and instructed his staff to prepare @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contempt of Congress is punishable by a year in jail or 81,000 fine , or both . McClellan noted that Einar Frank W. Brewster , chairman of Western Conference of Teamsters , testifying before senate subcommittee . earlier , but had thought " it was all cleared up . " He was surprised , he commented mild ; ly , when he received a letter saying he faced criminal prosecution . The sending of such a letter , Sen. McCarthy IR , Wis. said , was " not normal , " according to the subcommittee 's ax expert , and was " highly unusual " in view of its UmAid Also Is Named by Senate Probers // an " invitation . " would be subpenaed to appear at a future hearing . if Beck again pleaded illness , a government appointed physician would examine him to determine if his health permitted him to testify . Brewster was present in person to hear the charges against him . Placed under oath , he refused to answer any questions , asserting that the senate subcommittee had no authority to interrogate him . Like @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ asked if he would re : ; pond to inquiries put by any other senator or congressional committee , by a grand jury , or court . He smiled when seiatorr indignantly asked him if the Teamsters ' union regarded itself as " above the law . " Voice Fear of Violence McClellan disclosed that a number of witnesses , questic ned in executive hearirtg , had expressed fears of physical violence if they told what they knew . All had been instructed , he said , to report Immediately any attempt at intimidation and " appropriate ' steps would be taken . " A broad hint that Teamsters ' union influence may extend into the prosecuting arm of the government was thrown into the proceedings after John Lindsay , a Seattle contractor , was summoned as a witness in connection with the charges against Beck . Lindsay , according to subcommittee Counsel Robert F. Kennedy , had agreed to cooperate with the subcommittee inquiry into labor racketeering and misuse of funds when first approached on last Dec. 18 Tells of Warning Less than a month later , on Jan. 11 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ B. McCarthy , chief of the intelligence division , bureau of intemal revenue , Seattle , stating that a criminal prosecution was contemplated against him for income tax evasion during the 1948.1953 period . Because of this " threat , " Lindsay said , he was . on advi se of counsel , canceling his previous promise to produce his books and give information to the subcommittee . He refused to answer questions , pleading possible self-incrimination . Kcnredy , sworn as a witness , said Lindsay had told him on Dec. 18 , in a telephone conversation between Chicago and Seattle , that he was the contractor who built Beck 's palatial home and made repairs on it . He was also emp.oyed as a contractor for the teamsters ' union . Admits " Surprise " Lindsay informed the subcommiltee counsel , the latter said , that repairs for Beck 's bome , later sold to the union . were partially paid for out of union funds . He agreed to produce his books and testify at the senate hearings . Lindsay told the subcommittee he had been aware that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Lindsay agreed to testify . Aware of " Pressure " " This witn ess apparently started out to cooperate with the subcom mittee , " he remarked , " and then retreated after being threatened with criminal prosecution . I amt not accusing the internal revenue bureau with trying to shut up our witnesses , but we all know of the tremendous pressure being exerted to sweep this whole matter under the rug . " Lindsay said he did not know if the internal revenue bureau knew he had been contacted as a witness in the senate hearings . " Did you tell officials of the Teamsters ' union that you had talked to our counsel and were going to cooperate with the subcommittee ? " McClellan I asked . Lindsay refused to an- ; swer . Brewster , one of the union 's highest ranking officials , re , fused to answer any questions put by the subcommittee . He repeatedly asserted , " You have no right to question me . " Senators McClellan , McCarthy , Symington ID. , Mo.I Er0 . Mohn , executive assistant to Beck @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vice presidents , including Brewster , on Jan. 11 , advising them there would be no union penalty for refusing to answer subcommittee questions . The telegram characterized the inquiry as a " fishing expedition . " " Would n't you say that there are some pretty big fish who need catching , including you ? " he asked Brewster . Rebuked for " Smirking " When Brewster grinned , McCarthy warned him to " stop smiling and smirking . " When confronted with a charge by Kennedy that he had taken $30,000 from union funds , in addition to his salary , from 1943 to 1950 , and had maintained a stable of horses , purchased an automobile and paid other personal bills with union money , Brewster merely repeated : " You have no right to ask me these questions . "                     