@@719328

txt Ever since last year 's dissolution of the Cominform the free world has wondered what mechanism would be employed to secure an integrated world Communist strategy . The answer has now come in the communique issued after the conference of leaders of twelve Communistruled countries clearly in Moscow 's orbit . Despite the disclaimer that Communist parties not represented at the meeting will decide for themselves what action they will take , it is clear that this communique represents an edict for all Communist parties of the world  --  an edict having the force and authority of those that used to be issued in the Twenties and Thirties by the congresses of the Communist International . It is proof of how well the freeenterprise system has worked in many countries since World War II that the communiqu ? has had to refer to such aspects of world reality as " the relatively good economic activity still observed in a number of capitalist countries " and the " wage increases " won by workers in the West . Such grudging comments from Communists analyzing capitalism are equivalent to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ give an honest analysis of free - world economic trends , of course , for such an analysis would end the raison d ' ? tre of the world Communist movement . But it is refreshing to see that even ? assembled Communists must admit by implication that their oftrepeated predictions about the imminent economic collapse of capitalism and the inexorable worsening of workers ' conditions have proved false in reality . But the failure of Marxist predictions to materialize has not stopped the Communists from pursuing their primary aim , which is the overthrow of all other economic and political systems and the establishment of universal Communist dictatorship . Certainly no assumption of the communique is more breathtakingly false than its identification of all non-Communist societies in the world today with the distorted picture of capitalism painted by Marx and Engels a century ago . The tactic recommend to Communists the world over is essentially that of the " popular front . " The tactic is not new and was used , fpr example , in France in the Thirties . Khrushchev 's wooing of foreign Socialist parties goes back @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ country knew the major direction of world Communist etrategy even a year ago when it began plumping for what it calls a **people 's anti-monopoly coalition , " its " Americanized " variation of the popular front . The communique tries hard to give this strategy respectability by speaking of an intent to win parliamentary majorities and.to transform national parliaments into instruments of communization . But that the basic Communist aim is armed seizure of power by a Communist minority organized on Leninist lines is abundantly evident from the communique itself . That document speaks of " non-parliamentary mass struggle " and weeps crocodile tears about the necessity of smashing " the resistance put up by the reactionary circles to the will of the overwhelming majority of the people . " We have only to go back to Mikoyan 's speech at the twentieth Communist party Congress in Moscow last year to see that when the Communists speak of peaceful conquest of power they have in mind the model of Czechoslovakia , of the time in February , 1948 , when armed gangs of Communist thugs smashed Czechoslovak democracy while the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Nearness of the Red Army . It is clear that the popular-front tactic has been planned with Asia , Africa and South America as the primary areas in view . Certainly on this continent and in Western Europe genuine Socialist forces have few illusions , about what awaits them in the event of a Communist victory , while there is simply no mass base , except perhaps in a few isolated countries , of farmers or small business men so discontented that they are at all likely to fall victim to Communist blandishments . But conditions in the underdeveloped countries are different , and it is there that the present official world Communist strategy presents the free world with the most serious challenge .                     