@@716833

txt Yes Sir , I 'm Keeping Watch tion that General Chiang 's Chinese Nationalists will never return to the mainland of China as the result of the exercise of military force . There is still a residual hope that internal changes in China will open the way for his peaceable return , but no hope , intention , or expectation that he ever will return by force . A- A A This adds up to a basic conflict between Taipei and Washington . It is a conflict of intent and interpretation , which in part explains the ambiguities of the policy which the United States is pursuing . It is not like the policy toward Korea which supports Syngman Rhee behind the truce line in Korea but openly and avowedly restrains him from reopening the war on that front . General Chiang is not openly restrained from reopening the war . Washington never has publicly repudiated his hope of a return to the mainland some day . But there is an essential difference between the South Koreans and the Chinese Nationalists on Formosa . The former live @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ They have no desire to leave it . They do desire and intend to defend it . The latter do not regard Formosa as their home . They are not natives of it . They have no desire to stay on it . Their one desire is to return to China . The Chinese Nationalist troops on Formosa have been trained to think of a military A A A This is why Washington disassociates itself from the idea of a fighting return to the mainland , but does not repudiate it . This is why it is willing to bring the Nationalist troops from the Tachens to Formosa , but dares not require General Chiang to withdraw from Quemoy and the Matsus . Washington has a policy of defending Formosa . General Chiang has a policy of reconquering the mainland . The two can not be reconciled . One must change . This is also why there is so much anxiety about the future defense of Formosa . The Eisenhower administraa tion has no intention what. : ever of fighting a war with China to save Quemoy and the Matsus . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by United States ground troops . But if Quemoy and the Matsus go , General Chiang will not be able to conceal from his troops the fact that there will be no fighting re . turn to the mainland . What happens then ? There , not in the Tachens , is the point of real danger to Washington 's purposes . At that point Washington may well have to put United States ground forces ashore in Formosa , or see it go to the Communists by the defection of those of General Chiang 's troops who will have decided that defection is their only means of returning home .                     