@@717952

txt Pope Pius XII said today there was nothing immoral about transplanting corneas from the eyes of dead persons to those of the blind . The Pope 's long-awaited pronouncement on the ethics of eye banks was made to an international gathering of oculists and surgeons . Also present were the promoters of the newly founded Italian Eye Donors Association . It was this group that had asked for a papal ruling on corneal transplantations . The cry of the blind man of Jericho , " Lord that I may see ! " ( St. Luke , XVIII , 41 ) resounds in the ears and hearts of all , the Pope said . " You assure us that the transplantation of corneas represents for many patients a means of holding out the hope of recovery or at least of alleviating and improving illness , " he said . " Well , use it to help the patients as far as it is possible and permissible ! " On the possibilities of corneal grafting the Pope quoted scientific literature submitted to him long before today 's audience that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not likely to benefit from this technique . The literature , the Pope added , warned the public against " utopian " hopes because no other eye tissues except that of the cornea , let alone whole eyes , could be transplanted . As for a religious judgment on the removal of corneas from the dead , the Pope declared in that even if it were perfectly permissible in itself , it might become illicit if it violated the rights and sentiments of close relatives . Praising persons who bequeath their eyes to eye banks the Pope recalled the example of Don Carlo Gnocchi . This priest who died in a Milan clinic last February at the age of 54 had bequeathed his eyes to blind inmates of institutions he had founded for war-maimed children . A 12-year-old boy and a 17-year-old girl received Father Gnocchi 's legacy . The boy 's sight was not helped , but the girl 's was . Father Gnocchi 's deathbed gift sparked a public movement against the archaic law prohibiting the removal of body tissue within the time limit in which corneas can be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but regular eye banks could not be founded unless the old law was repealed . A private bill to sanction eye banks is under consideration in the Parliament , It received the backing of the Roman Catholic Church with today 's papal ruling . On the subject of eye banks , blood banks and similar institutions , the Pope said " it is a merit for the donor to refuse a reward ; it is not necessarily wrong to accept one . " The Pontiff urged the medical profession to respect the dignity of the dead . Dissections should not normally be permitted , he said , without the consent of the next of kin . Nor should the bodies of poor hospital patients be made automatically available for medical study while those of wealthy ones are spared , the Pope added . But he said the public should he educated to help the advancement of science . The Pope made it clear he did not yet want to discuss the transplantation of cornea taken from living persons . The Pontiff declared " transplantation of corneas of a nonhuman organism @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if it were biologically possible . " Specialists in the audience commented that they did not know of any cases in which animal corneas had been grafted successfully into human eyes . The Pope expressly approved " cellular therapy . " " A practitioner of " cellular therapy , " Dr. Paul Niehans , gerontologist of Montreux , Switzerland , has been treating the Pope for several years . The treatment is said to consist of injecting living cells of animals into a patient 's body . The Pope condemned the so-called " monkey gland " operations . " The transplantation of animal sex glands into man is to be rejected as immoral , " he said . The Pope spoke in French with frequent quotations in Italian and Latin , Contrary to the usual practice , no official English translation was . issued by the Vatican ,                     