@@716161

txt Indefinite postponement of the March 30 Brussels meeting of the six " little Europe " foreign ministers comes at a time when Time to Cool Down However , cancellation of the Brussels meeting is believed here to be due mainly to Foreign Minister Georges Bidault 's belief that it is highly inadvisable to try to link the European Defense Community to establishment of a European political authority at this point , even if this negative decision means disappointing the most ardent French " Europeans . " One result of the postponement is that Chancellor Adenauer and M. Bidault no longer will be able to count on an automatic meeting at the end of the month and will have to make other arrangements to meet and cool down an unusually hot dispute around the Saar . For M. Bidault , divisions in the French Cabinet loom large in the immediate political background . Those ministers who belong to Gen. Charles de Gaulle 's party maintain their opposition to the European Army and their firm intention of leaving the government if the latter fixes a date for ratification debate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ internal politics , is not unnaturally hesitant in the face of this imminent threat of resignations from at least five and possibly more of his Cabinet . This hesitancy explains his indication to the Foreign Affairs Commission of the Assembly that first the Sear must be settled and assurance of Anglo-American guarantees obtained before any firm date can be chosen . It is therefore , the Saar that remains the real nub of the issue , though the French also object to recent West German hmendments to the Constitution calling for a restoration of German military sovereignty . France also demands German ratification of the so - called " EDC protocols . " Viewed as Counterattack These protocols were drawn up a year ago to reassure France that the French Army would , in the main , remain under French control . Since they did not automatically require ratification , they are apparently being used now by the French as an additional bargaining point . It is difficult to see how those EDC nations which debated the Bonn , Germany France 's decision to prevent final action of the new West @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ protocols to the European Defense Community treaty generally is interpreted here to mean that the French desire for real European cooperation is still very weak . This decision also raises in many quarters discussion whether some alternative means must be found to enable the Germans to begin defense measures on their own . For the past three days . western Allied high commissioners here have been deliberating their attitude toward the recently passed defense amendments to the Bonn Constitution . The United States representative is pressing for an early decision , the French are playing for time ? awaiting what happens in Paris  --  and the British are seeking to effect a compromise acceptable to the French . A British proposal , which the United States supported , would permit West Germany to go ahead with ratification of EDC but rearming would begin only after the six contracting states had ratified . French Add Proviso The French accepted this provided also West Germany approves the additional protocols . This could be in the form of a special letter from Chancellor and Foreign Minister Konrad Adenauer . Under such conditions , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ amendments until such approval be given . in this new situation , it is not surprising that there is great disappointment in official German circles here . Also , that two points are raised . First , since EDC probably will take a long time to ratify and the Germans are not responsible for the delay , it is fair that the latter should not be burdened longer with the occupation statute but should be given their sovereignty by separate approval of the Bonn treaty . Few people here , however , imagine France would make such a concession . Secondly , because EDC may not be ratified in France or Italy , what about another way of agreement on rearming West Germany ? Unofficial talks between German and western Allied circles on alternate solutions have taken place . But whether the suggestion be , for example , inclusion of West Germany in NATO . or bilateral agreement by Washington and Bonn , or trilateral Washington-I , ondon-Bonn accord , etc. , France 's geographical situation makes it essential as ' a partner . Urgency Stressed The urgency of the matter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ preparations for a German law to permit recruiting of volunteers for the proposed new Army 's forces are well . advanced , according to officials of West German Defense Commissioner Theodor Blank 's office . These include plans to recruit up to 150,000 men who would form a cadre of the new half million-man contribution of the federal republic to the ground , air , and sea forces of EDC . Will these developments be halted by France 's new decision ? It is obvious , from press comments here , that this new action , together with postponement of the Brussels conference of the six member states of the European political community ( scheduled for the end of March to deliberate on a draft political statute for Europe ) and the confusion over the future of the Saar , can only contribute to making West Germans weary of talk about European unity . An editorial in Die Welt which is accompanied by a cartoon showing French Marianne at her window pouring a bucket of water into the trombone of German Hans , who is serenading her from below , concludes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ do right as far as the French are concerned . "                     