@@720111

txt A drive to have every policeman in the United States wear a Teamsters Union membership button alongside his police shield was announced here today by James R. Hoffa , the president of the country 's most investigated union . He said the campaign to organize policemen would be part of an effort to bring 10,000,000 state , county and municipal employes into the Teamsters Union . The union was expelled from the merged labor Federation a year ago on charges of domination by corrupt elements . Senate rackets investigators have accused it of being the focus of underworld influence in organized labor . New York will be the first major target of the police and civil-sevice unionization effort . To Fight Kennedy 's Ban Mr. Hoffa made it clear that the teamsters were prepared to draw heavily on their $37,000 , - 000 treasury to upset the ban on police unions imposed in New York by Commissioner Stephen P. Kennedy . Mayor Wagner has endorsed the Commissioner 's refusal to allow unions among the 24,000 members of the uniformed force . Henry Feinstein , president of City @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ general executive board this morning that his local already had made plans for a court test of the Kennedy ruling . He said a first-grade detective , a member of the Police Department 's Honor Legion , had volunteered to risk dismissal by filing a card to have teamster dues paid by checkoff from his police salary . Mr. Feinstein disclosed that the detective had been promised a lifetime job as a union organizer at pay equal to the police scale if he were discharged . The disciplinary action , he added , would provide the basis for a reinstatement suit to be brought in State Supreme Court , by Local 237 's counsel , Louis E. Yavner , former Commissioner of Investigation in the city . Most New York policemen now belong to the Patrolmen 's Benevolent Association , an independent organization that has been seeking unsuccessfully to have grievance machinery set up within the department . Mr. Feinstein asserted that 3,000 members of the association already had enrolled secretly in the Teamsters Union , despite warnings that they might be dropped from the force . The Hoffa Civil Service @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ outcast Teamsters and the American Federation of Labor and Congress of Industrial Organizations . Mr. Hoff a accused the federation of being " lax " in bringing higher wages and improved working conditions to public employes . He put chief blame for this condition on George Meany , the federation 's president . The Teamster chief reported that his own union had been found free of any taint of gangster conteol in an initial survey by its own corps of " anti - racketeering " iavestiga - tors . He made his statement after the chairman of the panel , former Senator George Bender , Republican of Ohio , had appeared before the union 's executive board . The teamsters appointed the Bender group last summer to give the union an " independent " appraisal of the charges directed against its leadership by the Senate Select Committee on Improper Activities in the Labor or Management Field . Mr. Hoffa said the panel had written to all of the union 's 900 locals and to " twice that many " district attorneys and public prosecutors to ask whether they knew of any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " The replies showed very conclusively that there was no basis for the charges made by the press or by the Senate committee that there was any racketeer domination in the ' Teamsters Union , " Mr. Hoffa declared . He added , however , that the Bender Committee would remain in being to study the transcript of the Senate hearings and make a further report to the union . The teamsters have called for abandonment of the Senate inquiry on the ground that its sole aim is to " carry on a feud " with the truck union and its president . A new indictment of the Senate group 's tactics came from Mr. Hoffa today . He accused the committee of attempting to " intimidate anyorie who tries to apply legality and fairness to any situation within the Teamsters Union . " This criticism was based on censure directed by the Senators against Federal Judge James C. Connell for refusing to let a rebel slate seek election in a. teamster local in Youngstown , Ohio . The rackets investigators asserted that his decisions helped a group that included a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Parley Called - A detailed program for spreading the police and civil service unionization drive from New York to the rest of the country will be drawn up at a special conference to be called by the Teamsters Union in January or February . Mr. Hoffa said union representatives from all regions would attend and a full-time coordinator would be appointed to keep the campaign from lagging . " We do not want to leave the impression that we expect to organize all civil service workers ' overnight , " he told newsmen . " We recognize the tremenddous resistance that will come from politicians and anti-union elements . But we will make this one of our major projects and there will be no lack of funds to bring the benefits of unionization ' to these workers who need it to badly . " He declared that his union would not " raid " established unions in the civil service or police field . However , he made it clear that the Patrolmen 's Benevolent Association an Other organizations that lacked union affiliation would have to chose between joining the Teamsters @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Hoffa said the Teamsters were ' opposed to any contention that policemen or other groups of public employes did not have a legal right to unionize . But he conceded that members of police or fire departments should not strike . He said this created an obligtaion on the part of municipalities to set up outside arbitration machinery , with direct employe representation , to pass on all wage disputes or other grievances . Extent of City Unionizing Mr. Feinstein reported that his ' local had 6,000 members among nonprofessional employes in the New York Department of Hospitals and 2,000 others among custodial employes of the New York Housing Authority . Ten thousand Sanitation Department workers belong to another teamster unit in New York , Uniformed Sanitation Men 's Union , Local 831 . The city has a total of 220 , - 000 employes , of whom 40,000 are under the autonomous Transit Authority and 40,000 others are under the Board of Education . Mr. Feinstein , who is superintendent of transportation in the office of Borough President Hulan Jack of Manhattan , said invitations to come into the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ city and state employe associations in New York . Among the specific groups he named were the Patrolmen 's Benevolent Association and the State Civil Service Association . Despite the pledge that there would be no raids on established unions , Mr. Feinstein warned of a possible showdown with Michael J. Quill , whose Transport Workers Union now holds exclusive bargaining rights in the city subway system . Mr. Feinstein took exception to an announcement by Mr. Quill in New York Monday that unionization of police , hospital and other city employes should be the first goal of the newly merged A. F. L.-C . I. 0 . in the state . The teamsters leader asserted that many transit employes had applied for membership in his local but that they had been turned over to the Quill union to avoid friction . However , any effort by Mr. Quill to push organization in the police or hospital field would constitute an act of war , in Mr. Feinstein 's opinion . " If Quill seels to move in on the places where we are organizing he will wind up with an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ never seen , " ' Mr. Feinstein declraed , " Thousands of transit workers are still pleading to enter our union , and Mr , Quill will have a war on his hands . " The biggest A. F. L.-C . I. 0 . union in the civil service field is the American Federation of ' . State , County and Municipal Employees . It has 250,000 members in New York and other areas . Rebuff by Police Here At Police Headquarters here yesterday both Commissioner Kennedy and a spokesman for the Patrolmen 's Benevolent As : - sociation rejected Mr. Hoffa 's proposal to unionize the city 's policemen . Commissioner Kennedy said Mr. Hoffa 's drive was " exactly the kind of pressure I anticipated and warned the P. B. A , against . " The spokesman ' for the benevolent association , which represents at least 18,000 patrolmen , said : " Mr. Hoffa certainly will not get any cooperation from the association , We are opposed to unionizing in general for policeman and the teamsters in particular . We will fight our own battle fol. gievances . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ now ask the people of New York City these questions : " Do they , the people , want to turn the Police Department over to Jimmy Hoffa ? " Are the people of New York City aware that those in the Police Department who seek a so-called grievance machinery are wittingly or unwittingly playing into the hands of Jimmy Hoffa and his ilk ? " As far as I am concerned , our mandate comes from the people and not from any labor boss or any weak imitation of one . "                     