@@717671

txt Letters to The Times Negotiating Treaties Powers of Legislative and Executive Branches Considered To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Your distinguished columnist Arthur Krock in his interesting and provocative comments published Feb. 2 ' regarding the participation of the Senate in foreign policy negotiations states that the power the President " * * * has assumed to make ' Executive agreements ' often treaties in effect is limited in practice only by the power of Congress to decline to pass legislation when that is required to put the agreements into operation . " Surely Mr. Krock is not asserting that there are no constitutional limitations on the validity of an Executive agreement or denying that Congress can override an Executive agreement in its internal operation ' by subsequent legislation , but rather , as the context of his column suggests , . is touching upon the difficult . question of the respective areas in which a treaty submitted to the Senate for its consent , an Executive agreement authorized by both houses of Congress , or an Executive agreement entered into under the President @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the only permissible form in which a particular agreement should be cast . Testimony ' Quoted The present Secretary of State in his testimony before a subcommittee of the Committee on the Judiciary of the United States Senate on March 31 , 1953 , stated that he had been authorized by the President to advise the committee as follows : " It has long been recognized that difficulties exist in the determination as to which international agreements should be submitted to the Senate as treaties , which ones should be submitted to both houses of Congress , and which ones do not require any Congressional approval . " Differences of . opinion resulting from these difficulties have given rise in the past to disputes between the Executive branch and the Congress concerning the handling of international agreements . It must be recognized that it would be extremely difficult , if manner in which agreements are to be dealt with . While recognizing this , the Executive can not surrender the freedom of action which is necessary for its operations in the foreign-affairs field . In the interest of orderly procedure , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ know the considerations that enter into the determinations as to which procedures are sought to be followed . To that end , when there is any serious question of this nature and the circumstances permit , the Executive branch will consult with appropriate Congressional leaders and committees in determining the most suitable way of handling international agreements as they arise . " Separation of Powers In my opinion this was a statement not merely of the policy of the present Administration , but rather of a corollary of the constitutional principle of separation of powers , and binding on the Executive branch as such . The broad constitutional principle , of which this is but a specific manifestation , was succinctly stated by the late Justice Jackson : " While the Constitution diffuses power the better to secure liberty , it also contemplates that practice will integrate the dispersed powers into a workable government . " Youngstown &lea; and Tube Cp. v. Sawyer 343 U. S. 579 , 635 ( 1952 ) ( concurring opinion ) . ARTHUR H. DEAN . New York , Feb. 4 , 1956 . Upkeep of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ TIMES : A few days ago it was reported that the City of New York has asked the Federal Government to make Grant 's Tomb a national mon'ument . ? The reason for making this change was said to be the saving of eleven thousand dollars annual upkeep by the City of New York . The reason saddens me . Grant was a very great military leader . Next to Lincoln , Grant did more than any other man to win the Civil War . I ' regret that we should haggle over the upkeep of his grave . CHANLER A. CHAPMAN . Barrytown , N. Y. , Feb. 4 , 1956 . View From Denmark To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : The affair of Autherine Lucy has reached as far as Denmark , and I am writing just to tell what impression it makes in Denmark as well as in other European countries . It will be read by millions . I am only one of these , unknown . too , but my opinion will be shared by them . Do the students of Alabama realize @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ eyes ? I doubt it . Who are these students and what right have they got to treat Miss Lucy as they do ? It is a disgusting example ' of race discrimination and ' persecution . Do they not know such words as toleration and humanity ? They ought to know that just as there is " a world outside Verona " there is a world outside Alabama , and this world is going to condemn them because of their acts . Besides , is n't Miss Lucy paying taxes as anyone else , is n't she an American citizen ? Why then should n't she have the same rights when she has got the same obligations as the whites ? The United Nations are doing go they can to remove some of the stupidness and prejudice from the world  --  their efforts certainly deserve a better result than this . Those students are the future of America . They are going to build up something and teach others , but what good can they do and what good can they teach ? They are unworthy to their task . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to see themselves with other nee ? tions ' eyes and understand their own stupidness . ANIA VOSS-JENSEN , Copenhagen , Feb. 6 , 1956 . Refugee Fund Proposed Arab Leaders Asked to Launch Appeal for Relief To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES ; . The letter of Dr. Mark Shishakly in The New York Times of Feb. 2 carries a challenge which should be met in all fairness , having due consideration for the welfare of Israel and the Arabs . To a man who calls the establishment of the State of Israel " the greatest crime in modern history " it is probably useless to offer any enlightening facts . But to ' the average American reader who might be influenced by the line of reasoning which the doctor employs we offer the inescapable facts which the letter failed to disclose . Among the many issues which the doctor raised there is one which is particularly distressing . " About a million Arabs , " he states , " lost their homes and property in Palestine and fled the terror of Zionism . " The exact number @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the point at issue . The true facts are that the Arabs fled because their own Arab brothers pushed them out of the country in order that the Arab terrorists might have a free hand in attacking the infant state which , like the Arab states , had been established by the international tribunal . The terrorists boasted that they would drive the Jews into the sea , and then the refugees could return . What happened has now become one of the most inspiring chapters in the history of mankind 's struggle for justice , liberty and independence . The Arab refugee problem could be solved overnight by a very simple method . Let the Arabs organize a United Arab Appeal similar to the United Jewish Appeal . Instead of buying arms from the Communists , which they do not need , because it would be suicidal for Israel to engage in an aggressive war , let the money be channeled in the direction of alleviating the suffering of the refugees . By this time the Arabs should be aware that the world is no longer moved by the ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " of the refugees . Without " suffering refugees " the whole Arab case would collapse like a stack of cards . The oil royalties of Saudi Arabia could  --  suppoi4 twice as many refugees , and would serve a more humanitarian cause than to foment trouble in Jordan sand elsewhere . When the Arabs consent to sit ' down at the table with their Jewish cousins and talk things over like all other civilized human beings , in acknowledging the fact that the divine right-to- live is the inalienable possession of the Jew as well as the Arab , all differences would dissolve . REUBEN KAUFMAN , Editor , American Jewish Post . Paterson , N. J. , Feb. 2 , 1956 . Against Arming Israel To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Now when our Secretary of Sttae is being so frequently attacked on many- fronts , we should certainly praise him publicly on , one : that is , for standing firm on the arms for Israel question . Surely this would be the most unfortunate and inappropriate moment to give or sell arms to Israel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ United Nations for the third time for attacking her neighbors . If anything can drive the Arab states into the open arms of Russia , this would . VIRGINIA C. GILDERSLEEVE . Bedford Village , N. Y. , Feb. 7 , 1956 . Post Office Action Criticized To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : A report has come from Washington that the Post Office Department has developed a device that says " Thank you for buying stamps . " The first seven of these machines cost about $4,000 each , but additional ones will cost ' only about $1,000. n the one hand we hear the Post Office bleating about its big deficit and on the other we see them throwing thousands of dollars away on a piece of childish claptrap . R. C. GILBERT . New York , Feb. 3 , 1956.                     