@@718051

txt Letters to The Times nomic trouble &; PHILIP CORTNEY.A DEMOCRAT WHO VOTED FOR WILLIAM J. BRYAN IN 1 ... Letters to The Times Effects of Steel Strike New Wage-Price Spiral Fared as Result of Increases To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : I beg to submit that a strike is only a climax to a state of war which we call " Collective bargaining . " First , those entrusted with negotiating a labor contract have no rational criterion to decide on contract issues , and particularly on the level of wages and other fringe benefits which result in an increase in costs . Therefore the negotiations are carried on necessarily under a constant threat of strike . The so-called " collective bargaining " is nothing else than a show of force . Secondly , so-called " collective bargaining " creates by its very nature among the workers a state of agitation , tension and when the negotiations begin , and this condition prevails for a couple of months after the terms of the new contract have been agreed upon . To reach their ends @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the workers against the boss or against management . The workers are led to believe that if only the management would be more generous the issues could be easily disposed of and the demands , submitted in the name of the workers , met . I am afraid that this state of affairs inherent in the very process of collective bargaining unless the labor bosses acquire a very high sense and consciousness of their responsibilities . There is no country I know of where collective bargaining creates so much between management and the workers as in our country . In countries like France and Italy it is not the collective bargaining which is the cause of the but the profound dissatisfaction of the workers , which makes many of them join the Communist party . Communism is not an expression of dissatisfaction against any specific employer or management , but a manifestation of dissatisfaction with the way the affairs of the country are conducted , Plant Negotiations Alas , I have reached the conclusion that , human nature being what it is , even if we had enlightened labor bosses @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the answer to negotiations of labor contracts . It may well be that only collective bargaining at the plant level with labor represented at the negotiations by workers employed in that particular plant could provide a sensible solution to a difficult problem . If the just mentioned solution is not feasible , then it may well be that we shall have to adopt a procedure like that used in Sweden and Holland . Whatever conditions for a new labor contract are reached between a trade union and the employers , it has to receive the approval of the other labor unions and of the Governinent as representative of the interests of the consumer as a whole . It may even be advisable to require the approval of the new contract by a group representing the consumers chosen mainly among high school teachers and college professors . May I also stress on this occasion that even the widely accepted view that increases in wages are reasonable provided they are not greater than the increases in productivity is erroneous . I submit that this postlion is compatible . only with inflation " as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ generally accepted investments would become unprofitable , and the monetary means necessary for an economy based on this principle could be secured only by monetizing of government debt , which is pure inflation . The strength of our economy has been built on the sound principle'that technological progress should be translated into lower and lower prices , so that all consumers should be able to benefit . Reduction in Price If good-sense and rationality had any chance to prevail in collective bargaining this would certainly be the time for the steel workers not to ask for increases in wages but for a reduction in the price of steel . A new wage-price spiral which would be fostered by an increase in wages of Iteu workers is bound to bring the day of reckoning upon our heads sooner env - Hake it more troublesome . The last annual report of the United States Steel Corporation bresight out the fact that our price level was abnormally high when compared with what happened after ' the first World War . It should not be forgotten that the price inflation since 1939 is due primarily to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ price level has been sustained after the end of the war by the spending of savings which people collected during the war and by the private debt creation since . The new wage-price spiral which would be fostered by ' an increase in steel prices will have to be covered up 4nd supported by either a considerable increase of private debt or by the monetizing of government debt . The end of all this can mean only a further depreciation of the dollar and serious economic troubles . PHILIP CORTNEY . New York , July 5 , 1956 . Democrats Viewed as Winners TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : The Democrats can win the election this year if they put the right man at bat . History tells us that if a man ran once for the office of President and was defeated and ran again for that office he always was defeated . William J. Bryan ran once and was To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Representative Eugene J. Keogh or Brooklyn has introduced a bill in Congress which would grant tax relief to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of every fair-minded American . The undersigned is a member of The Lamplighters , a New York organization affiliated with the Joint Handicapped Council , which sponsored the Keogh bill . The council is a nationwide federation of organ . mations and individuals interested in the common problems of persons . with severe orthopedic disabilities . Physically handicapped ourselves , we do n't want Government handouts . But we do ask for . tradtional . Amerocan fair play in taxes when we go out to earn our living . The present tax structure contains several features which actually discourage the severely handicapped citizen from trying to earn a livelihood . A single example will suffice . Any business man can rightfully deduct legitimate transportation expenses like cab fares for production of income when computing his income tax . Yet the handicapped typist in his office is not permitted by law to deduct the cost of her taxi trips to and from work , even though her wheelchair ca n't get into subways and buses . Handicapped workers who live farther from their jobs must be able to drive and maintain hand-controlled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ H. R. 11546 would allow severely handicapped taxpayers ? persons physically unable to use public transportation  --  to deduct unavoidable travel expenses from their taxable income . The privilege would be limited to persons who have actually lost , or lost the use of , one or both legs or arms , and medical proof of the handicap would , of course , be required . The bill would also grant every such severely handicapped person ( or his or her spouse ) an annual additional exemption of $600 ? long since in force for blind taxpayers  --  to cover the extraordinary expenses incident to living with a severe orthopedic disability . What extra expenses ? Wheelchairs take a beating going in and out of automobiles , up and down stairs ; they must be repaired and replaced frequently . Sharp-pointed metal braces play hob with the clothing worn over them . This is also true of crutches , and the clothing bills mount . Installation and maintenance of - automobile hand . controls is expensive . Special arrangements or assistance is necessary nearly everywhere you go in a wheelchair ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ get us wrong . We want to pay taxes . In fact , of all sections of the community , the handicapped is possibly the only group which actually enjoys paying taxes . Being taxpayers gives us a sense of belonging , of participation , which is what most of us want more than anything else . By encouraging physically handicapped persons to hold self-supporting jobs and stay off welfare rolls , the Keogh bill will keep tax costs down for all taxpayers , not just the handicapped . BERNARD BERKOWITZ , Vice President , The Lamplighters . New York , July 5 , 1956 . Robert Moses Backed To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : I zeg where the Citizens Union " wants the City Council to learn at first hand what the public ' thinks of the multiple activities of Robert Moses . " ( I quote from your paper of July 9 . ) Well , I am the public , and I will tell the City Council right out in the open what the public thinks about Robert Moses . Robert Moses is New York @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ say for Governor Harriman and Mayor Wagner is that they know It too . PAUL HOLLISTER . New York , July 9 , 1956. defeated and he ran twice afterward and was defeated both times . The same thing happened to Governor Dewey of New York . Adlai Stevenson would make a wonderful President , but he was defeated once and if President Eisenhower is nominated he will beat him again . Governor Harriman of New York with a good running mate from one of the Southern states will defeat any team the /Republicans put in the race . Governor Frank Clement , twice Governor Of Tennessee at the age of 36 , a wonderful speaker and vote-getter , would make a splendid Vice Presidential candidate . A. DEMOCRAT WHO VOTED FOR Wife LIAM J. BRYAN IN 1896 . Akron , Colo. , July 4 , 1956 . Tax Aid for Handicapped Passage of Keogh Bill to Permit Deductions for Disabled Urged                     