@@714684

txt Fiftynine more delegates will be named to the Republican National Convention this Week but there is little prospect that the selections will greatly alter the nip-and-tuck race for the Presidential nomination . The Territory of Hawaii chose eight ltninFitructed Republican delegates today . General of the Army Dwight D. Eisenhower cut the lead of Senator Robert A. Taft of Ohio to fewer than forty votes with clearcut victories in Oregon and Vermont last week , - but he could hope for little more than an even break in the week ahead . The camps of both candidates eagerly wooed the delegates named in Hawaii . Of the eight chosen , only two indicated they had a preference and that was for Mr. Taft . The others said they had " open minds . " William L. Pfeiffer , New York State Republican chairman and a strong Eisenhower supporter , was present as the convention acted . He told the island Republicans that he fully expected a Republican Administration to " vote for Hawaii its long-overdue statehood . " , Senator Taft sent a radiogram saying he thought Hawaii @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and pledging that he would " do what I can to bring this about . " State conventions will name the rest of the delegations this week . No further primaries will be held until June 3. when both California , and South Dakota name delegations . The largest delegations will be named this week by Maryland and Washington , each of which will have twenty-four votes in the convention . They will be selected Saturday . Montana Republicans will name eight delegates on Friday . Minnesota Republicans , who named twenty-five delegates in a primary election May 18 , will select another three at large in convention Saturday . With 903 of the 1,206 delegates to the national convention already picked , Senator Taft has 375 pledged to him , according to The Associated Press tabulation which gives General Eisenhower 337 . The United Press gives Mr. Taft 378 to the General 's 359 . Russell Expected to Gain Democrats name delegates this week who will cast seventy convention votes and Senator Richard R. Russell of Georgia is expected to benefit largely . He is assured of virtually all of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be picked in Louisiana on Friday . Other Democratic conventions naming delegations will be held in Montana tomorrow , where twelve convention votes are at stake , and in Delaware on Saturday , which will have six . As of the end of last week , Senator Russell was running third in t race for the Democratic Presidential nomination . The Associated Press credited him with fortyseven pledged votes , while giving Senator Estes Kefauver of Tennes , see 1011A and W. Averell Harriman of New York ninety-two . In the face of an almost certain advance by Mr. Russell , Senator Kefauver declared today he believed he would have almost enough votes by July 21 , when the Democratic convention opens , to be nominated on the first ballot . If nominated , he said , he would be ' happy " to have President Truman campaign for him . He added that he would welcome such assistance from the President " even before " the convention acted . Comments on Steel Seizure Interviewed on the National Broadcasting Company 's televised show , " Meet the Press , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ steel mills if he had been in the White House but would , instead , have gone to Congress for legislation to meet the problem . He emphasized , however , that he would have shunned the TaftHartley Act , as Mr. Truman did , because it would not have prevented a strike . When asked about his endorsement of Atlantic Union , the Tennessean declared that , if elected President he would call a conference of nations in the North Atlantic Treaty Organization to seek means to establish greater cooperation among them . Senator Kefauver was questioned about what action he would take regarding William O'Dwyer , former New York Mayor , as Ambassador to Mexico . The Tennessean replied that he thought that " Mr. O'Dwyer for his own good ought to come back and answer the various and sundry charges that have been made and * * * I would insist that he come back " ? until the matter could be completely straightened out . " Asked about the President 's failure to actin the . O'Dwyer case , Mr Kefauver said that " Mr. Truman knows @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said he saw Mr. O'Dwyer only when he was before the Crime Investigating Committee in New York and added that the matter of whether the Ambassador " should be back or not " was one for the President to determine . On the " Man of the Week " program , Columbia Broadcasting Systern television interview , Senator I Styles Bridges , Republican leader of the Senate , sidestepped expressing a preference between Senator Taft and General Eisenhower . He agreed under questioning that his views on foreign policy were closer to those of his Senate colleague at this time . His objective , he said , was to be one of those who would " draw the boys together " after the convention had acted .                     