@@716290

txt WASHINGTON , May ** latest instance of the historic dispute over the boundaries of Executive and Legislative power , and just when the frontiers of one have been invaded by the other , is a very minor illustration of the problem . President Eisenhower 's order that what was said , written and decided at conferences among his subordinates could not be furnished on demand by Congress or any of its , groups or individuals was so clearly within his constitutional province that the Senate subcommittee of inquiry into the facts of the McCarthy-Stevens controversy quickly left the Senator from Wisconsin alone in this demand . There was nothing else it could do in law , common sense or political wisdom , since the President also had directed the Secretary of the Army to supply the subcommittee with the single fact to which it was plainly entitled and which was essential to the pursuit of its inquiry . This was whether , at a conference of high Executive officials in which Secretary Robert T. Stevens was advised by Sherman Adams of the White House staff to document @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Schine against Senator Joseph R. McCarthy and others , command of the battle was taken from Stevens by higher authority . When the Secretary made a public statement to the contrary the question was disposed of that had troubled the committee after John G. Adams , counsel to the Department of the Army , told them of the conference and Sherman Adams ' suggestion . It was a proper question because the charges against the McCarthy group were made under the imprimatur of Stevens , the counter-charges were made in the name of McCarthy ; therefore , the subcommittee watt ing with these as the chielprincipals . If , as the Senator argued , Stevens ' superiors had relieved him of command and initiated the battle in the form in which it was presented to the subcommittet : , the inquiry group was the wrong Administration priszcipal. and McCarthy was , as , , marked , doing an " injustice " to the Secretary . Dick on the Track But the Secretary 's assertion of full responsibility , both before and after the high Executive conf arence , and the President @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inquiry back on the track . McCarthy may or may not contend that the Executive order dropped an " iron curtain " between the subcommittee and the essential facts and , on that contention ; refuse to testify or further participate in any way . But the historic issue on which he sought to stand will provide him with no footing . And if he withdraws he will risk the immense hazards of retreat from a political battle he joined and then did not fight . Nevertheless , the incident is another reminder of an ancient power struggle that will continue as long as Article I and Article II remain in the Constitution of the United States . Article I defines the area . of Legislative authority , with implications of a broad power of Congressional inquiry which the ? courts have generally sustained and which perforce includes the right of Congress to get information of Executive action essential to the defined legislative function . Article sets forth the powers of the President as Chief ' Executive and Commander in Chief of the armed forces , with implications of unspecified powers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ implications are asserted by either branch in twilight areas that evoke charges of trespass . the Executive-Legisla ' tive conflict resumes . And such assertions , not plain instances of usurpation of specified powers by one or the other , are what have reopened the irrepressible constitutional conflict from time to time . It is irrepressible and continuous because the writers of Articles I and II deliberately designed it to be . In the history of the Old World , particularly that of the mother country from which the American colonies had violently separated , were constant and vivid lessons of the evils of overweening power , whether lodged in the Parliament or in the Crown . Especially vivid was the figure of an autocratic monarch , George III . So the Founding Fathers set up a system of separated powers and then restrained them with checks and balances , with the Judicial arm finally , under the leadership of Chief Justice John Marshall , asserting the implied but unspecified power over legislation and the acts of tics Executive of deciding whether these were in conformity with the Constitution . Judicial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ supremacy as it is Viso known , became generally arepted in the last decades of the nineteenth century , though the first ? Supreme Court decision that an act of Congress was unconstitutional was delivered by Marshall in 1803 ( Marbury v. Madison ) and though on at least two occasions Presidents reserved the right not to enforce its decrees . But the Executive-Legislative conflict is embedded in the Constitution and the frequency of its recurrence depends on the current disposition of Congress and President and on the nature of the times . It depends also on the appearance in the White House of a " strong President . " If he is the dominant leader of his party , and working party majorities in the Senate and the House do his bidding , his successor is likely to encounter a resurgent Congress , intent on becoming the chief force in the Government . But if his party in Congress is deeply split over his program , even a " strong " President will be plunged into the historic conflict . And , whether a President be " strong " or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the absence of working party majorities will revive the drawn battle between Articles I and II . Curbs by . Judiciary Presidents can be curbed in their interpretation of implied powers by the judiciary , as when the Supreme Court denied Mr. Truman 's power to seize the steel industry ; by Congress through its control of the public purse and the process of impeachment . But usually the Executive-Legislative conflict is resolved by the circumstance that possession.is nine points of the law . In this latest instance all ten points of the law are in President ' Eisenhower 's possession . His , place in the history of the ancient struggle with Congress will not , therefore , be determinable until he has fewer points in his favor and stands on them . But he has , already discovered that , despite his resolve on taking office to give the widest acceptance tol Article I , a time may arrive when he , like the many predecessors listed in Attorney General Brownell 's memorandum on the issue raised by the testimony of John G. Adams , will have to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                  