@@716623

txt Political broadcasts stirred more reaction in broadcasting circles yesterday than most of this fall 's regularly scheduled programs . The day 's developments inchided these : ' The Democrats asked the television and radio networks for free air time because of recent on-the-air speeches by President Eisenhower that were billed as nonpolitical . One network immediately granted the request and two others rejected it . gIndustry observers said a precedent had been set Monday , evening , when one television network incorporated the President 's Cabinet meeting as the major portion of a regular program sponsored by a headache remedy maker . This type of unusual coverage , however , had been approved by the White House , tlTelevision and radio executives were amused over President Eisenhower 's receiving an award from Frank Folsom , president of the Radio Corporation of America , and referring to him as " Mr. Stanton . " Frank Stanton is president of the Columbia Broadcasting System . The time request to the networks was contained in a telegram from Stephen A. Mitchell , chairman of the Democratic National Committee , who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ speeches this week by Adlai E. Stevenson , 1952 Demo. ' cratic Presidential nominee . Mr. Mitchell said that he was asking for the time because of " the unusual amount of partisan political content in the talks by Mr. Eisenhower before nonpolitical audiences which have been carried by the national radio and television networks . ? ? free of charge , " The Democratic . chairman did not mention any specific broadCasts by the President , ? but presumably he : referred : to his address . on Monday on the nation 's economy and other broadcasts last ' week . Mr. ' Mitchell asked for a half-hour period " for a statement . of Democratic views . " The National Broadcasting Company sent.sa telegram to Mr. Mitchell offering television time at 8:30 and radio time at 10:30 on Saturday evening , . when Mr. Stevenson will be speaking . here . The Columbia Broadcasting System and the American Broadcasting Company declined to grant free time . Stanton Replies ' Mr. Stanton sent a telegram to Mr. Mitchell that ? read in part : " Our established policy has been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the United States , or members of his Cabinet , appearing and speaking as such , or reporting to the people on their official activities , over our ? facilties . We believe this is  --  a sound policy , fully , in accordance with laws and regulations , and ' we have applied it alike to Republican and Democratic Administrations . " Robert E. Kintner , president of A. B. C. , sent Mr. Mitchell . a similar reply . He said that his network was giving balanced . news coverage to Democrats and Republicans . The Mutual Broadcasting System said that it was considering Mr. Mitchell 's request ; There was no immediate comment from the Du Mont television network . Du Mont did make some comment , however , about the unusuail manner in which it had covered the President 's Cabinet meeting on Mondamening , the first time that such a meeting had ever been broadcast , The meeting went on the air over some networks- at ' 7 P. M. , but Du Mont had arranged to cut lin after Morgan Beatty 's regular news @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , sponsored Eby Alka Seltzer , came on with the casual introduction , presented headline news and , then switched to the Cabinet meeting . When the Cabinet meeting ' ended , the program returned to Mr. Beatty for the sign-off , ineluding a twenty-second commercial for Alka Seltzer . Industry observers believed that it was the first time a broadcast involving the President direct from the White House had been incorporated within a commercial program . Du Mont ' said it had cleared the arrangements with the White House . James C. Hagerty , the President 's press secretary , said permission had been granted because the White House regarded the Cabinet meeting as a news event . Mr. Hagerty said that Du Mont 's coverage was no different in principle from the technique used by several others news commentators , who used filmed shots of the meeting on their commercial programs later in the . evening . Mr. Hagerty added , however , that the White House would not approve the use of a Presidential speech as ' the whole of a commercial program . It is quite possible @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ led to President Eisenhower to refer to Mr. Folsom as " Mr. Stanton . " This occurred later in the'evening in a televised address when Mr. Folsom presented  --  the first annual James Forrestal award to the President . Meantime , the Republicans made plans for their paid political broadcasts on election eve . They have purchased the 9 to 9:30 P. M. time period next Monday on various television and radio networks . They have chosen the hour when " I Love Lucy " is normally on the air .                     