@@720867

txt A profound though officially unavowed split appeared today to be developing between President Charles de Gaulle and his followers , ' who are grouped in the Union for the New Republic . The issue concerns Algerian policy , which dominates the nation 's problems and has impassibried debate here during the union 's first congress since it was formed last autumn . A majority of the congress , led by Jacques Soustelle , Gaullist Minister for the Sahara and Atomic Affairs , seemed , bent on going considerably further in ' committing the party to a policy of integration of Algeria with France than the President himself desires . Speakers among the 1,800 delegates here all protested their full fidelity to General de Gaulle and were roundly applauded . Outright Step Unlikely This fidelity , based on a realization that the party was placed in a dominant position in the National Assembly and the Government because of the President 's popularity , is expected to hold in check any outright opposition to his plans for Algeria . But the congress made it evident that the party was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ someday . M. Soustelle spoke only of as a political figure to be reckoned with was made with extreme prudence . In a speech last night he presented his integrationist thesis in the name of Gaullism and carefully avoided pronouncing the word " integration , " or " francization , " as General de Gaulle terms it . M. Soustells spoke only of " the most French solution " and condemned any that might lead to secession . His meaning was clear , that of the three options General de Gaulle has offered to Algeria through a referendum ? secession , association or integration  --  only the last will be acceptable . President de Gaulle , on the other hand , is generally believed to favor the middle-road solution of association between France and an autonomous Algeria . He has declined to take a public position for one of the threee options and has sought to discourage his followers from doing so , insisting that the Algerians must have a completely free choice . Party Leaders Divided The party split was personified in the disagreement between M. Soustelle and the outgoing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ M. Chalandon said it was not , the union 's role to choose a solution for the Algerians . He warned the congress not to " compromise " the President 's policy by throwing the sincerity of his proposals open to question in the eyes of the world . M. Chalandon 's remarks won a considerably less warm reception than M. Soustelle 's . The manner in which the delegates reacted indicated that they were rigorously opposed to any compromise with Algerian Moslem nationalism and were prepared to carry on the war as long as necessary to keep Algeria completely French . The dispute was also carried on behind the closed doors of a special committee attempting to draw up a motion on Algeria . M. Soustelle was understood to be fighting a statement that would simply express confidence in General de Gaulle to settle the problem and to be seeking some wording that would Indicate , if not openly state , the party 's allegiance to integration , The case of nine Deputies who resigned from the party because they were not allowed to speak in favor of integration caused @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be readmitted and those in the party who wish to commit it to integration at least in spirit are supporting them . Tonight M. Soustelle became emotional in asking that the next central committee readmit them immediately . Roger Frey , Minister of Information , said that he favored examination of the question by the committee but said the four should be kept waiting . He criticized them severely for having abandoned the party just before the National Assembly was scheduled to give its approval co President de Gaulle 's Algerian plan . Previously Louis Terrenoire , chairman of the Assembly group , declared that the 210 Gaullist Deputies had been elected not because of themselves but because of General de Gaulle and that they must recognize that he was " the boss . " One of the Deputies seeking to return is Lion Delbecque , who was instrumental in transforming the dissident movement in Algeria last year into a move to bring General de Gaulle back to power .                     