@@718310

txt President Eisenhower drew on the full prestige of his miltary reputation for the major point in his Hollywood Bowl campaign speech . This point was by implication and intention a ringing rebuttal to Adlai E. Stevenson 's twin proposals  --  stopping the draft and curtailing H-Bomb testing . Mr. Eisenhower did not even concede that the issues were debatable . He called them " a strange new formula . " He spoke of them . not only as President but as commander in chief of the armed forces . He said their advocate , without mentioning his name , was " speaking incredible folly . " But the President expanded upon his prepared text to allude further to Mr. Stevenson in the words , " I do not question his sincerity . " The vigorously campaigning head of the Republican Party , making this his last West Coast stop after Portland and Seattle , obviously enjoyed his huge Los Angeles reception . Special Word for Dick ' It began in the morning at Lockheed Air Terminal in suburban Burbank when , accompanied by Mrs. Eisenhower , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ upwards of 25,000 people . Probable 250,000 more lined the 14-mile route to the Beverly Hilton Hotel . Thousands more saw his later trip to Hollywood Bowl . Certainly no man could have been more welcome by California Republicans , at whose behest Mr. Eisenhower 's visit had become a last-minute addition to the Northwest tour . With Democrats making strides in the state 's congressional campaigns , the impetus to Republican hopes of an Eisenhower rally had become indispensable . Even at the presidential level , of course , Republicans could not risk the loss of any chance to secure California 's 32 electoral votes . The President began his bowl skech with a brief plea for support of Senator Thomas H. Kuchel and all Republican congressmen . Then he added " a special word for my great friend sand running mate , Dick Nixon . " Obviously taking cognizance of Democratic opposition to the Vice-President here , and even of some evidence of his unacceptability to independents , the President urged California .. Republicans to " squash " the " futile attempts " to discredit Mr. Five Main Points @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Lockheed Aircraft Company employees released by the management to greet the Eisenhower plane , was friendly but not tumultous . There were numerous Stevenson placards  --  the first , one White House aide commented , he had noted at any Eisenhower reception . But the President responded to the welcome with a tribute to all aircraft workers and a genial admission that " there might be one or two among you that would not agree with me politically . " To the bowl audience of somewhat comparable size , he fulfilled his morning promise that he would give a partisan talk . He made five main points . They were Republican confidence in a free economy , faith in collective bargaining , concern for a stable dollar , progress in i civil liberties , and insistence on adequate national defense . Against these , Mr. Eisenhower charged Democratic indifference , doubt , and mere oratory , and said the two positions illustrated the " sweeping differences " between the parties . Defense Outlined It was on the fifth point , national defense , that he spoke with greatest feeling . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ military career to underscore his civilian conviction . The audience response was marked . The crowd applauded vigorously his advocacy of a continued draft and H-bomb testing . It applauded his appeal to Americans ' deep patriotic instincts supporting any necessity for sacrifice to keep the country strong . But Mr. Eisenhower made his final point the Lincolnian adage that " defense is in the spirit which . prig.es , liberty as the heritage of all men . " This is . the truth , the President concluded , that " makes a single , meaningful sacrifice of those lives that have been given in battle by the French soldier at Verdun , the British Tommy at Dunkirk , the GI in Korea . " Capricious voters tax candidates : Page 3 . President scorns corruption charge : Page 14 . Triumphs ' Doubted " When the histonians write of our era , they may , I fear , find grim irony in the fact that when Russian power and influence were for the first time firmly established in the Near and Middle East , our government was loudly . and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the President reported good news from Suez . " This is the sort of thing that Mr. Stevenson has been telling audiences at whistle stops . He does n't detail the precise points where he feels the administration has been in error in the Suez ; in. fact , differences are seen among Democratic strategists on this involved question . But the point is directed to the peace issue . Mr. Stevenson says Suez is in turmoil  --  when Mr. Eisenhower says there is " good news . " And what Mr. Eisenhower is saying about Suez , Mr. Stevenson says , is symbolic of the administration 's ? policy of falsifying the facts about the so-called peace throughout the world . He says that the administration is not only failing in coping with the new problems of an awakening modern world under Soviet influence , " but it is compounding the difficulties by painting setbacks as triumphs . " GOP Split Charged He adds that the blunders were not inevitable . Instead , he declares , " I can not remember any other series of diplomatic strokes so erratic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the past few years , through which Russia gained a welcome to the Near and Middle East . " His quarrel with the administration , in addition to the difference over the presentation of the facts , is that he feels that in no place in the world has the administration shown any real capacity to adjust its policies to new conditions . He says the Republicans are inherently handicapped in dealing with foreign affairs because of the party 's division . He charges that if the President would call now for action which is needed in foreign trouble spots , it would split the Republican Party right down the middle . He says this division has handcuffed the Republican Party " ever since the League of Nations battle , and the triumph of the isolationists 35 years ago . " He asserts that the President knows of this weakness , that it was this that led him to think seriously of forming a new political party . " Peace is our goal , " exclaimed Mr. Stevenson , " I am in politics as a result of a personal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a peaceful world . That decision carried with it an obligation  --  the obligation to talk sense , to tell the truth as I see it , to discuss the realities of our situation , never to minimize the tasks that lie ahead . " I do n't know whether that is the way to win at politics , but it is the only way I want to win . "                     