@@720154

txt Confidential polls indicated today that Senate liberals would lose all pending rests on curbing the filibuster . These polls are conducted every few days in behalf of Democratic and Republican leaders when major questions are at issue on the floor . They indicated that the Senate , after defeating all substitute proposals , would approve by a heavy majority the Johnson formula for closing debate , possibly Tuesday or Wednesday . This proposal , sponsored by Lyndon B. Johnson of Texas , the majority leader , would allow the Senate to limit debate by a two-thirds majority of Senators present and voting . The present rule requires a two-thirds majority of the entire Senate membership , or sixty-six votes . Disposal of the filibuster issue will clear the decks for early action on several bills that may provoke vetoes by President Eisenhower . All involve increases in Federal outlays . Leaders of both the Senate and the House have laid plans to speed their consideration . The Senate is expected to vote Monday on the debateclosing rule proposed by Senators Paul H. Douglas of Illinois and Hubert @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Case of New Jersey and Jacob K. Javits of New York , Republicans . This proposal would make it possible to cut off debate by a majority of the membership , or fifty Senators , after f-fteen days , or by two-thirds of those present and voting after two days , Members of the liberal camp conceded today that the proposal would be rejected . Their hopes were rising , however , for a good showing on still another formula . This one , proposed by Senator Thruston B. Morton , Republican of Kentucky , calls for closure of debate by a three-fifths majority of the Senators present and voting . Senator Case told reporters he believed there was a " real chance " for favorable action on ' the Morton proposal . Polls indicated , however , that the liberal bloc would have to recruit several more Senators to put it across . The counts indicated that about forty votes was their maximum present strength . The Senate meets Monday der a unanimous agreemerit whereby debate on each ruleschanging proposal brought up in the present fight will be limited to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ possibility , consequently , of a final vote Monday night . A more likely prospect is for disposal of the issue Tuesday or Wednesday . This will permit the Senate to proceed with the organization of its housekeeping machinery , a chore interrupted on opening day when the battle over rules began . The most pressing task is the appointmerit of committees , so that hearing on bills can be started . The measures scheduled for early action include liberalization of Federal programs for housing and airport construction and Federal assistance to chronically depressed areas in various parts of the country . A depressed-area bill was vetoed by President Eisenhower last year because it went beyond his recommendations . He also vetoed an airport construction bill . Both were killed by pocket ' vetoes after Congress had adjourned . The early action planned this year will give the heavily Democratic majorities an opportunity to override the vetoes if the President again invokes them . Senator Javits said in a statement issued by his office today that adoption of the Johnson formula for limiting debate " will probably sound the death knell @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " " That includes the proposals the President promised to send to us in his State of the Union message , " he declared . The same point was made by Senator Thomas H. Kuchel of California , the Republican whip ( assistant minority leader ) . Mr. Kuchel is the representative of liberal Republicans in the party 's Senate leadership . Other leaders are supporting the Johnson plan . " The civil rights issue , " he said , " is the key to this controversy . " The argument is that it would be no easier to close debate by a hao-thirds majority of Senators , present and voting than by the present requirement for two-thirds of the membership . The liberals contend that all ninety-eight Senators would be likely to participate in such a crucial vote . They concede , however , that ite would no longer be possible under the Johnson plan for absentees to help sustain a filibuster . Another advantage of the Johnson formula cited by its advocates is that it would allow the Senate to limit debate on future changes in rules . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Senate rules .                     