@@715913

txt Igor Gouzenko , who in 1945 exposed the operation of Soviet spy rings in Canada , has agreed to talk with representatives of the United States Senate Internal Security subcommittee . Stuart S. Garson , Minister of Justice , made the announcement m the House of Commons today . He said that a meeting between the former Soviet cipher clerk and , Senator William E. Jenner , Republican of Indiana , and Robert , Morris , chairman and counsel of the subcommittee , would be presided over by a high Canadian official and would be attended by United States Ambassador Douglas Stuart or his representative . The meeting will be held under the conditions laid down by the Canadian Government , of which , the main one Is that no statement resulting from the talks should be made public without ' Canada 's prior consent . In Washington Senator Joseph R. McCarthy on Thursday refused to allow a witness to deny under oath that he had ever spied against the United States . The Wisconsin Republican had the witness , who had refused to answer questions about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Senate 's Permanent SulScommit , . tee on Investigations . It is not known when or where ' the United States investigators will question Mr. Gouzenko , who I is living in an undisclosed village Iwith his wife and two children , under an assumed name . He is ' protected , by the Royal Canadian Mounted Police . Some time ago , Mr. Gouzenko made it known that he was eager // to speak with United States espionage investigators so as to advise them on how best to combat Communist activities in North America . In an interview with this reporter Sunday in an Ottawa suburb , he said that since the meeting had been so long delayed through the exchange of notes between the United States and Canada concerning the conditions under which it should be held , he would prefer for the talks to take place after the new year . Mr. Gouzenko said that his decision to see the subcommittee representatives had already been made on Sunday . He was still waiting , however , for an assurance from the Canadian Government that his security  --  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ If such assurance was forthcoming as he had been led to believe , he said , this was in substance what he would tell the subcommittee representatives when he saw them : CThat he was certain that Soviet spyings were continuing to operate in North America . liThat these rings could be broken up or at least effectively weakened by the use of vigorous and , if necessary , unorthodox measures . On the first point , Mr. Gouzenko said that at the time of his defection from the Soviet Embassy in Ottawa , there were altogether five separate Soviet espionage networks operating in Canada . Documents in his possession when he gave himself up to the Canadian authorities proved their existence . They are mentioned in some detail in the report of the Canadian Royal Commission that later carried out a full investigation into espionage activities in Canada . However , Mr. Gouzenko , a former Soviet Army lieutenant , was attached to only one of the five networks and thus could disclose the names of only those working with his Red Army intelligence ring . The four other networks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Key Agencies Penetrated These networks , he said , were operated by the N. K. V. D. , naval intelligence , the political or Comintern ( not Cominform ) committee , and by the Red Army intelligence , which operated two parallel networks , the one for which Mr. Gouzenko was-employed and a second system that worked independently of the first . Documentary evidence produced before the Royal Commission , Mr. Gouzenko asserted , proved that the N. K. V. D. network was operating in Canada as early as 1924 . Such a network , he argued , would therefore have dug itself deep and safe , meanwhile having every opportunity of great expansion . Mr. Gouzenko said that to his knowledge and supported by the evidence he produced in 1945 two Canadian Communists operating from within his own military intelligence group were able to build up an espionage network that in three years penetrated the Canadian External Affairs Department , the National Research Council , the Munitions and Supply Department and other vital Government agencies . These men were unmasked as a result of Mr. Gouzenko 's action . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the other four networks were still carrying on their activities , and that what was true of Canada was true of the United States . At the same time , Mr. Gouzenko expressed conviction that there were weak lines in these spy rings that could be broken if the will were there . To this end he had five suggestions to make to the Senate subcommittee that he believed would do away with the doubts and fears of those who might want to break away . He urged : 1 . A special type of citizenship law to give every " escapee " who brought with him valuable documentary evidence on Communist spying activities the right to citizenship easily and quickly . 2 . A law giving lifelong protection to such an individual if he desired it , this law to be detached from personality factors and ensuring the safety of anyone whether he was a. pleasant or unpleasant person . 3 . A Government grant to give material security to such a person on the ground that the greater his financial security , the greater his safety . 4 . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be given such an individual . 5 . A document ? " and this is important " Mr. Gouzenko said ? in which the Government acknowledged this person 's services to the country concerned , entitling him to the assistance of all citizens , to be given to such escaped person . Mr. Gouzenko said that the effect of such laws would sway others to " cross over " by giving them something firm to cling to and would place their future on a recognized legal basis . An Example Is Cited He added that he knew of at least one other employe of the Soviet Embassy with vital knowledge of anti-Canadian espionage activities who would have given himself up to the Canadian authorities in 1945 , had such provisions existed . Mr. Gouzenko was most emphatic when he said that at present both North American Governments appeared to . be blind to what he was sure was a fact that there were " friends " even now among the various Iron Curtain agencies in North America . " If we do n't give them a helping hand as I suggest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ faith in oux own system . The tragedy is that if nothing is done now it will be too late . " But most important , according to Mr. Gouzenko , would be the effect of such legislation upon the entire Communist spying system . Moscow never would be sure of its men abroad , he said , nor would its indoctrination and threats be nearly as effective . In talking with Mr. Gouzenko , one gets the impression of his burning sincerity on the need to act now and act ruthlessly to destroy the illegal espionage rings that he says pervade many vital spheres of activity in North America .. Although he has been constantly described as a cipher clerk  --  which of course he was  --  the fact has been lost sight of that he is a highly educated man with a wide knowledge of history and literature and a serious student of ' world affairs . But so , according to the evidence before the Canadian Royal Commission , may have been ' many Soviet Embassy employes of apparently menial or clerical status . One of the embassy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and was considered to be as important in the general embassy set-up as the Ambassador . Another Red Army captain had access to the cipher secrets , but was technically only a chauffeur.                     