@@718351

txt Advance units of a United Nations police force , made up of soldiers from 17 nations , prepared to move to the Suez Canal Nov. 10 to take on the task of keeping peace in the Middle East . Establishment of the world peace patrol received at least qualified approval Nov. 9 in Cairo . The other nations involved in recent fighting  --  Britain , France , and Israel  --  already had promised to turn over occupation duties in Egypt to the UN force . But there was growing evidence that Israel intends to remain in the Gaza strip , a 25-mile Mediterranean coastal area from which Israeli forces ousted Egyptian defenders last week . The UN General Assembly resolution that set up the peace patrol called for withdrawal of all other foreign forces from Egypt . The general feeling in Israel was that Israeli forces would leave Egypt 's Sinai Peninsula , but that Gaza , which the Egyptians have administered for eight years , actually is part of Palestine , and Israel would seek to retain it . A gigantic airlift was under way to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ East . Siass Planes Ready The vanguard of the force , between 300 and 400 troops from Norway and Denmark , were to be flown in United States Air Force planes to a staging area near Naples . After a brief stop , they are to continue on in Swiss planes . Two other United States planes went to Bogota , Colombia , to get another contingent of the peace patrol . A cease-fire has been in effect in the Suez battle zone three days . Maj. Gen. E. L. M. Burns of Canada , who was chosen by the General Assembly to head the peace patrol , apparently secured assurances of cooperation during two days of conferences with Egyptian officials in Cairo . The Egyptian official spokesman , Abdel Kader Hatem , said his government had agreed provisionally to the peace patrol . He said Egypt was considering the make-up of the patrol , and that it must be able to exercise a veto on places where the force will operate . Some concern that the Soviet Union was moving to intervene in the Middle East lessened somewhat . Duncan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Conservative party rally : " So far as we know , there is no foundation for the belief that there has been any significant movement of Russian aircraft into the area . Neither has there been any large-scale build-up of Egyptian forces which would lead us to believe they were likely to attack British troops on the canal . Indeed , they would be unwise to contemplate it . " ' Volunteers ' Discounted Both the Soviet Union and Communist China have announced that thousands of their citizens have offered to go to Egypt 's aid but there has been no concrete move to send Communist " volunteers . " Reuters ? reports that Soviet Communist Party Chief Nikita S. Khrushchev has demanded that Britain , France , and Israel ? " unwanted intruders " in Egypt  --  should be " severely punished , " according to the official Soviet news agency Tass . Tass said Mr. Khrushchev made the demand in a speech during a meeting of the Moscow Communist youth league Komsomol . The party leader claimed that " the voice of the Soviet people in defense of Egypt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Union . " Mr. Khrushchev said , " We must . unremittingly strengthen the might of our socialist state and the power of our heroic Soviet Army . " Strongly condemning the " imperialists " who had attacked Egypt , he demanded that " all the unwanted intruders should leave Egyptian territory for home . " .1                     