@@719024

txt A master plan for zoning the city 's public schools has been prepared by Dr. William Jansen , Superintendent of Schools . The plan sets out the basic criteria for redistricting the schools . In essence , it differs little from existing practices . The superintendent 's comprehensive program provides that the neighborhood concept of the school system be continued . The plan , which is called " tentative " by Dr. Jansen , has not been made public , but a copy was made available to The New York Times . It was the basis of considerable discussion , much of it bitter , at a conference Thursday morning in the office of Charles H. Silver , president of the Board of Education. - A number of field superintendents , administrative officials and members of the board 's Commission on Integration attended the meeting . State Controller Arthur H , Levitt , who with Mr. Silver is co-chairman of the commission , also attended . Delay Laid to Jansen Dr. Jansen was charged with " holding back " the integration program . Several Negro members of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ moved faster . The zoning report was a particular target . Many suggested that the previous report prepared by the subcommission on integration , headed by Mrs. Morris Shapiro , had been watered down and rewritten . The Urban League of Greater New York is sending letters to Mayor Wagner , Deputy Mayor John J. Theobald and Mr. Silver expressing its displeasure at the steps taken by Dr. Jansen to implement integration here . In his zoning plan , Dr. Jansen listed the basic criteria in districting elementary and junior high schools as distance from home to school , maximum utilization of school space , racially integrated schools , transportation , topographical barriers and continuity of instruction . Plan Based on Community The heart of the zoning plan is this principle : " The neighborhood school concept posits that the public elementary and junior high school are essentially neighborhood or community institutions which serve the children of families living within an area contiguous to the school building . " The report declares that the assistant superintendents shall have the responsibility for determining school district lines . No mention is made of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the Board of Education . At the Thursday board meeting , Dr. Francis A. Turner was elected assistant superintendent to head this new agency . Edward S. Lewis , Urban League director , warned that " if zoning is left in the hands of the assistant superintendents , it will Jansen Gives School Zone Plan ; Critics Fear Integration Delay // continue to encourage de facto segregated schools . " On the controversial question of bus service for children , the Jansen report declares : " Pupils should not be transported by bus from one school to another solely for the purpose of integration . " However , when its becomes necessary to transport pupils by bus to relieve overcrowding and for better utilization of the school plant , integration of racial groups should be one of the con , siderations in determining Which pupils shall be moved and to which school . " The comprehensive plan expresses opposition to " permissive zoning . " Under this practice , parents could select the school ti which their child might attend . The subcommision on integration had recommended that some permissive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ also is the question on zoning on the high school level . The report urges that the neighborhood concept be retained , in large part , in the high schools as well as junior high and elementary schools . " Distance from home to school for high school pupils should be considered even though it is not given the same emphasis as in the case of the elementary or junior high school , " Dr. Jansen says . " A compact high school zone insures desirable community interest , strong parent associations and an active afterschool program for pupils . " The report declares that if the Dr. ' William Jansen practice of zoning variances is to be extended , there are certain " inevitable outcomes to be considered and understood : " " Schools that are located in ethnically homogenous areas will become under-utilized if the pupils of the feeder schools in the area are permitted to apply to schools out of the area , " Dr. Jansen maintains . " Eventually the high schools in the zone will become so underpopulated that they will have to be abandoned . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be approved by the Board of Education .                     