@@716264

txt The royal yacht Britannia , bringing Queen Elizabeth home from her world tour of ' the British Commonwealth , reached the end of her voy=age at Tower Bridge , London . - today at 1:35 p.m. ( 8:35 am. e.d.t . ) . The Queen , the Bake of ' Edinburgh , and their two children were met by Queen - Mother Elizabeth and Princess ? Margaret , who put out from shore by launch . ' This ancient city of London has probably never given a more grateful and warmhearted " welcome home " than it did May 15 to Queen Elizabeth II when she sailed up the Thames at the end of her six months ' , globe-encircling tour of the British Commonwealth . " In the final phase of her journey Which has touched five continents and covered nearly 50,000 miles , the Queen and her husband and two children landed from a royal barge at Westminster pier to be welcomed by Prime Minister Sir Winston Churchill and his goverrunent and by crowds of en , thusiastic Londoners . There was a truly Elizabethan touch to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Henry VIII with their own pageantry made the Thames the nation 's top highway , while the merchants of those times founded the greatness and riches of England on the sea traffic berthing at Thameside . Matchless Performance But despite all the splendor and romance of the past , this latest river episode is rated as likely to be the ? most significant of them all . As the crowds were spontaneously cheering their Queen for her matchless performance of the most etxensive tour ever undertaken by a reigning monarch , the statesmen were contemplating the deeper impact of the tour on Commonwealth affairs . Even the most sober comments are categoric in their belief that the foundations for a new landmark in supr5national cohesion within the Commonwealth may well have been laid . And this could well be a development of more than ordinary interest beyond the bounds of the Commonwealth in . a world wrestling with new problems of nationalism , colonialism , and race and color relationships . For in these past six months Queen Elizabeth has experienced many different shades and levels of national pride ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ceylon , central Africa , Malta , and Gibraltar . And in each case those who have attended the Queen have reported that greater cohesion has been achieved . Transition of Royalty Moreover , the whole concept of the British sovereign being anchored as at present to the mother country is already being reconsidered . The dream of the Queen sharing her time between her dominions and dependencies is taking on some of the aspects of reality . The sovereign would then in truth be one of the key factors in keeping the Commonwealth together when other forces were tending to pull it apart . And in that same way the role of royalty in Britain itself might gradually change , as indeed , it has been doing over the years . Devotion to Duty There is reason to believe that the Duke of Edinburgh in particular with his streamlined views is giving keenest thought to the idea of a new era in royal affairs . His ideas on this subject have undoubtedly been sha , rpened and broadened by his contact these past six months with the young dominions and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Then there is another no less important lesson in the royal tour . It is the supreme example Queen Elizabeth has given of selfless devotion to duty , of capacity to rise above physical trials and climatic conditions to which she was unaccustomed , of her inspiring ability to look serene and behave happily throughout a most onerous tour of duty . Wherever she went and whatever the circumstances , she was hailed as personifying all that is best in human character and relationships . British royalty has long been renowned for this capacity for selfless devotion to duty . But on all sides it is agreed that this latest tour has shown the present young Queen can touch new heights in this quality . Whether Queen Elizabeth was coping with sand in her shoes at Kasyapa Rock Fortress , Ceylon , or with overenthusiastic crowds at Sydney , or with how to eat sucking pig with no knives and forks while sitting on the ground with Queen Salote of Tonga , or with the embarrassment of small child bouqet-presenters , or with the dazzling Oriental splendor of Ceylon in steamy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ freshness and charm of her appearance never failed to arouse . Admittedly she had a wardrobe of 150 dresses . But considering the packing and repacking in nearly 50,000 miles and the pressure of engagements and the great heat , the Queen achieved a great satorial triumph , too , which will long be remembered .                     