@@714936

txt Irwin Steingut , minority leader of the New York State Assembly , of which he was Speaker in 1935 , died yesterday afternoon at the Long Island College Hospital , Brooklyn , of a heart attack at the age of 58 . He had been in the hospital for two weeks . The death of Mr. Steingut ocicurred less than . a month . after that of State Senator Elmer F. Quinn , tremocratic minority - leader of the State Senate . Mr. Quinn died on Sept. 2 . Mr. Steingut , who lived at 708-Eastern Parkway , Brooklyn , had been active in his legislative work until his last illness . A member of his family said after his death that his service as a legislator in this state ? he had been-in. the Assembly for thirty years  --  was believed to be the longest on recbrd in New York .. He was largely credited with the passage of social security and unemployment insurance measures . Surviving are ills widow , Mrs. Rae Kaufman Steingut ; a son , Stanley ; a daughter , Mrs. Jeanne Weiss @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ grandsons , ' William and James Weiss and Robert and Theodore Steingut . A . funeral service will be conducted at the Riverside Memorial Chapel , Park Circle . and Ocean Parkway , Brooklyn at noon tomor , row . Burial will be in the family mausoleum at Montefiore Cemetery , Springfield Boulevard , Queens . Mr. Steingut long was a power in the Democrat party , both in the state and in his home borough of Brooklyn . He had been nominated , this year for re7election to the Assembly by the Republican , Democratic and Liberal parties . As Speaker and minority leader , he rendered valuable services to Franklin D. Roosevelt , while Governor , and Herbert H. Lehman , Mr. Roosevelt 's successor , in putting through reform legislation they had sponsored . After Thomas E. Dewey took office on Jan. 1 , 1943 , Mr. Steingut 's role was mostly as an opponent to legistion sponsored by the Republican Ad'ministration . A prot ? -V of the late John H. McCooey , Brooklyn Democratic leader , Mr. Steingut entered the Assembly in 1922 . He soon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his legislative duties and won the friendship of many of his colleagues . Mr. Steingut attained his position as Democratic leader of the Assembly under circumstances deeply tinged with tragedy . At the beginning of the 1930 session , Maurice Bloch , a Tammany member with progressive tendencies , had been re-elected to the leadership . While the session was in progress , Mr. Bloch died after an appendectomy , and Peter J. Hamill , Assemblyman from the First Manhattan District , of which he was the Tammany leader , was elected to the leadership . Mr. Hamill died soon after and Mr. Steingut was chosen to fill the vacancy . With him , the leadership of the Democrats in the Assembly fell to a Brooklyn man for the first time in fifty years and for the first time since Brooklyn was incorporated into the city of New York as a borough . Mr. Steingut was born on the East Side of Manhattan on Oct. 17 , 1893 , the son of Simon and Lena Steingut . He moved to Brooklyn as a young man and was educated in the public @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Law School with an LL . B. degree , but never practiced . Mr. Steingut became interested in politics even before he reached voting age . A resident of the Eighteenth Brooklyn Assembly District , he attracted the attention of Mr. McCooey , then its leader , and became president of the Madison Club , as the district organization was called . In January , 1934 , on the death of Mr. McCooey , Mr. Steingut succeeded him as leader and held that post for many years . Though Mr. Steingut fought hard for legislation sponsored by Governors Roosevelt and Lehman , he never hesitated to oppose , as an organization Democrat , legislation he believed to be harmful to the party organization . Helped Defeat ' Economy ' Bill In 1934 , for example , he led a fight that brought four successive defeats to the so-called " economy " bill , sponsored by the late Mayor Fiorello H. La Guardia , even though both Governor Lehman and President Roosevelt had approved the measure . The bill eventually was passed by the Assembly , but only after a dozen amendments @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Democrats for the first time in many years had a majority of one , and Mr. Steingut was elected Speaker . He was only 41 years old and did well in a difficult position in which every Democratic vote was required to pass any bill . It was while he was Speaker that Mr. Steingut sponsored the unemployment insurance bill , and was co-sponsor of the social security bill that was passed two years later . At the end of the 1935 session , Governor Lehman paid tribute to Mr. Steingut 's leadership by saying that the work of this session of the Legislature had been the most highly constructive of any that he could recall . Members of the Assembly then were elected for one-year terms and Mr. Steingut 's service as Speaker was short . The Republicans took control of the Assembly in 1936 and Mr. Steingut returned to his post of minority leader . He opposed much of the legislation sponsored by the Dewey administration and fought , generally unsuccessfully , for greater State aid for municipalites , including New York . He also fought for stricter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pay for teachers . With other Democrats , he opposed the construction of the State Thruway under the method of financing favored by Governor Dewey . He also opposed submission of the proposed amendment to the State constitution that would have linked candidates for Governor and Lieutenant Governor in the voting . This position was sustained when the amendment was defeated by the voters . On one measure connected with " Mae New York Times Irwin Steingut the establishment of a state university , Mr. Steingut stood with Governor Dewey . An argument developed on whether medical and dental schools should be included and Mr. Steingut , despite an adverse report from a committee , contended that they should . As a result , enough Democratic votes were obtained to offset some disaffection among Republicans and the bill was passed by the Legislature and signed by the Governor . Mr. Steingut frequently said that the establishment of the State University with a Medical College in Brooklyn gave him more gratification than anything else he had done in Albany . During his long public career , Mr. Steingut frequently was subjected to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . His most serious difficulty came in 1945 , when Supreme Court Justice Daniel F. Imrie cited him for contempt for " evasive " answers to questions put to him by Hiram G. Todd , special prose- , tutor , dealing with personal ex- , penditures above his income . It was in reply to these ques- ' tions by Mr. Todd that Mr. Stein-1 gut testified he had found 396,0001 in a safe belonging to his father ' after the latter 's death . Mr. Stein-1 gut was cleared of the contempt , charge by the Appellate Division of the Third Department . The Assembly subsequently adopted a report of its judiciary committee de- , claring that the investigation ufl Mr. Steingut had been unwarranted . Mr. Steingut was head of an insurance and real estate firm with offices at 32 Broadway . He was a director of the Brooklyn Federation of Jewish Charities and a trustee of the Hebrew Orphan Asylum . Among other organizations in which Mr. Steingut held membership were the Masons , Knights of Pythias , Elks arid the Unity and Lakeville Country Clubs .  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @          