@@719487

txt Democrats increased pressure on the Administration today to come up with a speedy and comprehensive reorganization of the Defense Department . Despite a reported informal agreement on Capitol Hill to give the President sixty days in which to produce such a plan , scattered sniping from prominent Democrats emphasized their awareness of its value as a political issue . Their continuing fire came as authoritative sources disclosed that a principal target , the Joint Chiefs of Staff , had no outstanding disagreements and had not had any since last summer . Scores ' Corporation ' System Senator Mike Mansfield of Montana , the assistant Democratic leader , said in an interview that he hoped the President would get away from the " corporation " system of having some thirty-three assistant secretaries and their assistants run the Pentagon . This system was established by Charles E. Wilson when Secretary of Defense . " The President should know the Pentagon is ' not a private corporation and can not be operated along corporate lines , " Senator Mansfield said . He said he hoped that the President would have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Democrat of Tennessee , a member of the Senate Preparedness subcommittee , said that the President was going to have to " arrange some way of getting decisions made " in the Penta- , gon . He said the mechanism for making decisions at present " is so cumbersome that sometimes before a decision is even made an idea is obsolete . " Denounces Adams Senator Kefauver appeared on a television program with Representative Kenneth B. Keating , Republican of upstate Nei York , for television stations in , that area . He also denounced Sherman Adams , the Assistant to the President , for " trying to II blame " former President Truman and the Democrats for the country 's failure to beat the Russians in the earth satellite race . In a separate statement Senator Kefauver charged that the President 's own " lack of decision " had permitted the Russians to get ahead . He said that this country could have beaten Russia in launching a satellite if the President and his Defense Secretary , presumably Mr. Wilson , " had just made decisions and stuck with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Georgia , chairman of the Armed Services Committee , and Leverett Saltonstall , Republican of Massachusetts , a committee member , said in interviews that they favored Pentagon reorganization . Both , however , balked at the idea of giving a single military chief supreme control over all services . Senator Russell said he would not favor any change that would " jeopardize civilian control now or in the future . " The Unity of the Joint Chiefs extends to the three major strategic fighting plans for the defense of the United States , sources disclosed . The three are the joint longrange strategic estimate , covering the four-year period begin : ping eight years from now ; the joint strategic objectives plan , covering the three-year period beginning four years from now , and the joint strategic capabilities plan , which is the country 's fighting plan for immediate action in the event of a sudden outbreak of hostilities . It can be assumed that the agreement of the chiefs in strategic planning and related agreements dealing with military operations will count heavily in the discussions at the Pentagon on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Joint Chiefs , particularly advocacy . of a single chief for all the services , has built up recently . For example Dr. Vannevar Bush , former ! head of the Carnegie Institution , has said that there is no unified strategic plan . Decision on Missile Others have said that interservice.rivalries have led to conamong disagreements among he Joint Chiefs . Gen. Nath F. Twining , Chairman of the int Chiefs , recently sought to refute these statements , declaring that the chiefs were in agreement on unified plans . According to official sources , there were three disagreements among the Joint Chiefs before last August , when General Twining succgeded Admiral Arthur W. Radford as Chairman . The disagreements concerned the appointment of a chief of staff to head one of the unified commands , a decision on a missile and  --  probably the most important  --  the inability to obtain a unanimous view on the joint strategic objectives plan . It is understood that President Eisenhower personally settled the dispute over which of the services would provide the chief of staff post . It could not be ascertained @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were reached after the disputes were referred to higher authority  --  the Secretary of Defense , the National Security Council or the White House .                     