@@720890

txt Britam , Sweden , Norway . Den- in setting out to favor their own mark . Switzerland , Austria . and products at the expense of those Portugal have taken a decisive of Britain . Scandinavia , Switstep by meeting here to initial a zerland , and the others . And convention setting up a Euro- too . at the expense of the United Dean Free Trade Association . States . The time and the place will make their mark in history . With the formation of the EFTA . the so-called " Outer Seven " in contrast to the six members of the Common liarket , it may be said that the Seven 's economists burned their boats so that the building of a bridge by their countries ' politicians should become imperative . The bridge . of course , is , or should be , one with the Common Market of France , Italy . West Germany , Belgium , the Netherlands , and Luxembourg , so that Western Europe is not now irrevocably divided into two blocs . But the EFTA convention is a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Whether the bridge is built or not , the boats arc burned already . First of Its Kind There will be no higher ins at the ' EFTA's- significance . It can . be , seen:as one step , - and Ottite=a considerable one toward the freeing of trade on-a - worldwide scale. - For it is the  - -  first free trade association of its kind in history . It can be seen as an admission , initialed if not yet signed , sealed , and delivered , that Britain is after it establishes a new position in Europe for Britain . It provides a place and assigns a role in the West to the neutrals . Sweden , Switzerland , and Austria . And it may indeed by further association stretch out to enfold Finland . Above all , its founders would say , it proves that it is possible after all to form an area of free trade which has no high and common barrier against the outside world all around it  --  as the Common Market has ? and which reconciles many different types of economy and phases of development . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may be focused in the United States is that the EFTA will discriminate in trade against the United States . IU.S . Disadvantaged I No , there will be no higher tariffs against the United States . There will be no new quotas ; in fact , such restrictions will be taken off almost altogether . But as time goes on the members of the association will have increasing tariff advantages one with another which the United States , as things stand now , will not share . For instance . British cars are going to get cheaper in Sweden . American cars are going to face the same tariff as before . It may be some compensation , however , that a bigger and richer market for everyone to sell in will be enjoyed . The discrimination also operates against West Germany , France , Belgium , the Netherlands , and all members of " the sbt. "                     