@@718063

txt Now a threatened steel strike adds to Britain 's already acute economic difficulties . The British steel industry has a remarkable record of 40 years without a major strike  --  except for the 1926 general strike when the nation 's workers as a whole walked out in sympathy with coal miners . Steelworkers have been high earners by British standards . Weekly wages of skilled workers average about ? 16 , or about S45 , and go as high as ? 60 . But there has been trouble lately because the maintenance craftsmen demanded a bigger wage increase than the ordinary steelworkers , to compensate them for not being able to earn output bonuses . In consequence , the maintenance men have been refusing to work overtime or on weekends . More than 300,000 tons of steel have been lost at a time when Britain is urgently in need of steel and is having to import it at higher cost than British steel . Talks Break Down Talks between unions and management broke down July 4 , and the steel maintenance men gave strike notice effective July @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ strike , the hation 's booming 21,000,000-tonsa-year industry would come to a halt in a matter of weeks , bringing idleness to 130,000 steelworkers and countless others . The effect of such a blow to British economy is incalculable . The situation is serious enough already , as was stressed by this week 's debate in the House of Commons on the nation 's economic outlook . The Laborite opposition submitted a motion of censure on the Eden government for alleged failure to find answers to the nation 's economic troubles . Opposition speakers were particularly critical of the government 's squeeze on the motor industry , which has led to widespread short-time work and firings , including the dismissal of 6,000 automobile workers from the British Motor Corporation , making Austin and Morris vehicles . Mean Economies ' The opposition is also contemptuous of the government 's long-heralded economies in national expenditure , which have turned out to be only ? 76,000 , 000 ( $212,800,000 ) , and to be made up of what Laborite Harold Wilson called " mean little economies , " like charging a penny extra @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ development and welfare . Mr. Wilson and other Laborite spokesmen charged Chancellor of the Exchequer Harold Macmillan with trying to break the power of the trade unions by causing unemployment and going back to the labor-management relations of " bad old days " of the 1920 's and 1930 's . Why , it was asked , had the government allowed the British automobile industry to undertake a huge and costly expansion program , and yet had recently knocked the bottom out of the motor market by restricting credit and easy payment and imposing a penal 60 per cent sales tax on automobiles ? Reshuffle Cited That was Conservative free enterprise , scoffed the Laborites . Better to have the orderliness of socialist control through : steel allocation , they argued . Chancellor Macmillan replied that the motor industry dismissals were part of a reshuffle of the country 's workers . They were not a catastrophic collapse of the nation 's economy . It . would be wrong to assume that there was danger of a general recession , he said . The Chancellor added that the automobile firings were one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the industrial boom which he had been trying to curb since last year because Britain eould n't afford it . He said far too much steel and manpower had been going into motorcars for home consumption . Men and materials must be switched into rising industries which could earn Britain its livelihood . Lack of Confidence ? He said it was the memory of the slump of the 1930 's with its mass unemployment which inspired him to take unpopular steps to prevent a repetition . The greatest threat to full employment in Britain . he declared , would come from unfitness to compete in world markets . The biggest contribution to such unfitness would come . Mr. Macmillan added , from inflation , which the government of Sir Anthony Eden is striving to halt . ? But unfortunately , the Chancellor charged , workers are not showing much confidence in the government 's economic policy , and the pressure of wage demands continues . These demands largely account for continued rumors. especially on the Continent , that the pound sterling will have to be devalued before the end of this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                