@@717625

txt Yugoslav Communists , sitting on the fence between East and West , have , as one would expect , refrained from comment on the violent anti-Western diatribes indulged in by Soviet Premier Nikolai A. Bulganin and Communist Party chief Nikita S. Khrushchev during their recent India-Burma tour . Privately , many of them profess themselves shocked by the exhibition , but they are not to be tempted into saying so openly . They are , however , handing Moscow some mild rebukes and correctives on their own account over recent examples of Soviet " candor " on subjects about which the Yugoslav leaders are most sensitive , namely , the social and economic experiments which , in the Belgrade view , have proved far superior to the Soviet methods formerly practiced here . The Yugoslav are very proud of their social experiments such as the new civic setup envisaged on the basis of the commune , workers ' management in industry , and decentralization of the economy . In their view , recent Soviet appraisals of the regime here have either glossed over or wilfully distorted their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Soviet journalists was shepherded on a lengthy tour of the Yugoslav republics , just as earlier Yugoslav scribes were shown around the vast empire of the Soviet Union . There followed a series of newspaper articles on either side about what both groups felt they had seen . The Soviet press paid little heed to the uncritical observations of most of the Yugoslav " tourists , " but Soviet articles on Yugoslavia carrying echoes of old Stalinist attitudes to supposed friends or allies have stung commentators here into circumspect reply . The Yugoslays complain not of criticisms of specific shortcomings in their country but of what they regard as a deliberate Soviet attempt to disregard the acceptance in the so-called TitoBulganin declaration of the idea of " differing forms " and roads to socialism . This , in the Yugoslav view , was the most important " concession " the Soviets made during their talks with President Tito last June . But Borba , the official Yugoslav Government and party paper , complained recently that the Soviet journalists , in their articles on Yugoslavia , " scarcely mentioned " the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Instead , the Pravda writer placed an ideological cat among the Yugoslav pigeons by declaring that Soviet-Yugoslav friendship constituted " one of the decisive conditions " for Yugoslavia 's efforts to establish socialism . Yugoslavia , retorted Borba , appreciated cooperation with the Soviet Union , but the Pravda view was mistaken because , the Belgrade paper said , " internal factors " were the decisive elements in any country'g internal social development and this , as the Soviet leaders had agreed in Belgrade , was a domestic matter of the peoples concerned . Subsequently , Borba attacked the Soviet monthly , Economic Affairs , according to which " all went well " in Yugoslavia until 1948  --  the year of the Moscow-Belgrade split  --  but , since then , the Yugoslays had abandoned collectivization and enforced deliveries of farm products to the state , freed the market , and relinquished centralized controls in the administration . As the result of all this , the writers of the Soviet article asserted , Yugoslavia was today suffering from rising prices , graft in the economy , an adverse balance of payments @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ "                     