@@713466

txt Massachusetts residents are pondering a warning of state and local civil-defense costs of possible " shock " proportions . The warning has been sounded by Governor Dever , just back from a Washington conference with President , . Truman . While the Bay State chief executive 's talk with the President did not include civil-defense costs , the governor was deeply concerned over the tense international situation and impressed by the White House atmosphere . " Conditions are extremely volatile , " the governor asserted at a press conference , " and while I hope not , it might be that financial demands of necessary civil-defense will come . as a shock to the people . " Change in Emphasis As Governor Dever discussed the effect of a presidential state of emergency proclamation on his own inaugural message on Jan. 3 , he indicated strongly that the two major issues will be civil defense and taxes . A major part of the inaugural message will be based on the President 's action , he said . " The whole emphasis , " he said , " might @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ aerial or subversive attacks . " From various developments , Governor Dever has deduced that civil-defense costs will be borne partially by the federal government and the rest by the states and municipalities . And he is already preparing for its effect on Massachusetts as he wrestles with his inaugural message and his budget . While the governor had originally planned to submit his budget very shortly after his inaugural message , developments may force a delay until close to the Jan. 24 deadline . These developments include the possible effect on presidential action and the magnitude of the state 's tax problems . The governor said he had hoped to have a detailed tax report from the special recess commission for consideration prior to making decisions on the mounting tax question . He disclosed , however , such a report will not be forthcoming in time . No Decision Reached As yet , he has come to no final conclusion as to the solution of this problem , on which , he said , he is doing his own exploring . Concerning his conference with President Truman , the governor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of $12,000,000 to Motor Parks , Inc. , for construction of a combination bomb shelter and garage under Boston CoMmon . The construction could start within two months after RFC approved of the proposed loan , he estimated . He added that he believed Boston was the only city prepared with detailed plans for a gigantic bomb shelter . The chief executive , obviously deeply concerned over interna tional developments , reported the atmosphere at the White House " one of real earnestness and consciousness that our American way . of life is facing a real peril . Personally , I feel it is a situation fraught with real . menace and that the American people are altogether too complacent or too unaware that their basic liberties are in danger . " They must be awakened . It is altogether likely that no longer can we expect politics , or government as usual . " Liberties Seen in Danger The chief executive added that " our liberties are in danger not from government controls but from foreign Soviet domination . I am not content with the notion that the United States @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the governor indicated his probable attitude on costly legislative proposals . When the question of salary boosts was brought up by a newsman . Governor Dever said the issue would be " determined by other demands . " He added , " All employees , private and otherwise , may be called upon to make sacrifi6es for the demands of civil defense . " Already in the legislative files for consideration at the 1951 session are bills calling for $400 to $600 a year increases for state employees . The salary move is backed by employee organizations . Meanwhile , the governor gave indications of banking heavily on forthcoming state government reorganization proposals to be made by . the special commission on the structure of the state government . Road Situation Studied He strongly supported the proposal in the commission 's recent preliminary report for elimination of the present earmarking of state moneys for specific purposes . The commission urged abandonment of , such earmarking , except in the case of the highway fund where earmarking is mandatory under the state constitution . There are widespread hopes that when the commission @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to substantial savings , through increased efficiency and elimination of waste . Road construction came in for gubernatorial discussion during the press conference , when the governor disclosed that William F. Callahan , Commissioner of Public Works , is in Washington , conferring with officials of the Bureau of Public Roads . Mr. Callahan , he said , is seeking to accelerate a number of important highway projects , including the new Meridian Street bridge , East Boston . Considerable attention is being paid to the possibility that the present emergency may affect road construction , particularly those projects requiring sizable amounts of steel , such as the Boston arterial highway .                     