@@716844

txt 350,000 Delayed on the B. M. , T. Asks Power Fails in 2 Boroughs Nearly 350,000 riders of the B. M. T. transit system were delayed yesterday morning from ten minutes to an hour and a half because of a power failure . Most of the delayed riders ? those who traveled in the rush hour , which begins shortly before 8 A. M. and ends an hour later  --  were held up only ten minutes . The power failure brought to a halt all B. M. T. trains in Brooklyn and Queens , with the exception Of the Astoria line . It also stopped the division 's trolley-buses in Brooklyn and parts of Queens . A spokesman for the Transit Authority explained that the failure , ? which began at 5:34 A. M. , had been caused by a faulty auxiliary power line insulator in the powerhouse in Brooklyn at 500 Kent Avenue . The insulator 's failure stopped a generator . This in turn knocked seven other generators out of commission . Several trains were stalled between stations . Three were halted in the Montague @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the cars went on when the power failed , and there was no panic . Station lights were out for eleven minutes until emergency Consolidated Edison Company lines restored them . Forty-five or fifty employes in the powerhouse , at the East River , started repairs . At 6:34 A. M. enough power had been restored to begin moving trains at half speed . At 7:24 A. M. the power returned to normal , but the accumulation of passengers at stations caused the tea-minute delays that lasted until about 9 o'clock . The B. M. T. trains in Manhattan , fed by sub-station power , and the Astoria line of the B. M. T. , which draws power from the I. R. T. , continued to operate without interruption . In Manhattan , trains bound for Brooklyn were halted at the Whitehall Street station during the breakdown. , At 7 A. M. the Police Department issued an order directing all patrolmen to remain on duty until they were relieved . This was done because it was felt many patrolmen on their way to station houses would be caught in the tie-up @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 350,000 figure was reached by the Transit Authority on the basis of a check of riders of the // B. M. T. last Oct. 13 . It was found then that there were 10 , - 620 passengers between 5 and 61 A. M. , 46,327 between 6 and 71 A. M. , 141,694 between 7 and S A. M. and 151,345 between 8 and 9 A. M. There was no report of any injury because of the power failure . One generator , slightly damaged , will be repaired in two days , it was said . I. R. T. train movements in the East River Tunnel of the Flushing line were halted at 8:25 A. M. for five minutes between Grand Central Station and the Jackson Avenue-Vernon Boulevard Station in Long Island City , Queens . The cause of this trouble , authorities said . was power failure in a feeder line .                     