@@718195

txt Foreign Minister Christian ' Pineau reasserted today . France 's will to use force if necessary against Egypt in the Suez Canal dispute . hf . Pineau declared the Egyptian President , Gamal Abdel Nasser , was a " dictator " Who had inclinations no less dangerous than Hitler 's . " Is it not our duty to stop him right away ? " he asked . " If we say ' no ' to Mr. Nasser with the very clear will to use force , if necessary , " he added , " that will be better than the international situation that our hesitations would lead to , a situation that would perhaps constitute a greater danger to peace . " The Foreign Minister spoke on the eve of the meeting in Cairo between President Nasser and a five-nation committee that will present to him a proposal for international control of the Suez Canal . This proposal was drawn up in London with the approval of eighteen nations following Egypt 's nationalization of the Suez Canal Company on July 26 . The strong French line toward @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ concession beyond the London proposal , came only shortly after President Eisenhower had spoken of a " peaceful solution " in his statement last Wednesday . Next Wednesday the canal crisis will be put before the permanent council of the North Atlantic Treaty . Organization in , what may , be , an important test of Western-solidarity . ? M. Pineau adopted an equally . string line toward the Soviet Thilon , which he accused of proPresident President Nasser into taking an intransigent attitude . Moscow risked endangering , - . world ' peace , he declared . He said he was certain President Nasser would accept internationalization if it were not for Soviet influence upon him . His criticism of Moscow represented something of a change in French attitude , which previously had tended to concentrate all the blame for the present crisis on President Nasser himself . Moscow 's support for President Nasser became apparent at the London conference and Secretary of State Dulles , at a news conference last Tuesday , was critical Of what he described as Soviet efforts to block an agreement , The French Foreign @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But he did not seem to share Mr. Dulles ' conciliatory 1 attitude toward President Nasser . He referred again to the . Egyptian President as a " dictator. ? He declared that , in view of circumstar .. - 49 , " we have no rigid to practice la pokey of et ender and to bow oefore the act of violence of the Egyptian dictator . " Asks Soviet to Desist Speaking at an agricultural fair in the Sarthe Department , southwest of Paris , . the Foreign Minister called on the Soviet Union not to press its advice on iPresident Nasser , advice that , he said , " incites him to refuse to negotiate on the only possible basis . " The Minister 's remarks were reported here by the semiofficial French news agency . M. Pineau disputed the argument that France 's firmness could lead to war . He cast doubts , on Arab solidarity , saying that , some . Arab states thought Presi-1 dent Nasser had gone too far.I This was one of the reasons hel gave for his belief that President Nasser would yield @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Soviet , support . The other reasons M. Pineau gave were the firm will of the ' eighteen nations that backed ' internationalization and the hesitations of India , Indonesia and Ceylon , which attended the London conference but , like the Soviet Union , would not support the majority . plan . The Foreign Minister gave no precise indication of what France would do if President Nasser- re fused to accept what is officially regarded as the limit of French , concessions concerning the canal , He spoke . of French desire for peace and justified French and , British military preparations in the Mediterranean by the desire to safeguard the lives of British and French nationals in Egypt . He spoke of " threats " made by President Nasser and said account also had to be . taken of the desire that - foreign canal pilots might have to be repatriated . He ' said an Egyptian law , threatened these pilots with prison if they left their posts . France began sending troops to the British eastern Mediterranean base of Cyprus last week . Considerable shipping , including troop @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ virtually I all of the French Mediterranean squadron is now reported to , have left its base at Toulon.                     