@@715780

txt The Aircraft Industries Association announced It has received assurances from the Air Force that the Pentagon 's new tight policy on partial pavnients to contractors , as their defense work progreases. will be applied in " an equitable and fair way . " " We 've been led to understand the Air Force will handle the policy in a businesslike way , " a spokesman for the trade association said . Assistant Defense Secretary Charles S. Thomas set the new policy last month He directed the military services to take " all possible measures to maintain a tight and effective control over progress payments " and to urge contractors to borrow money " to the greatest extent possible " rather than rely on Government financing . The new rilicy immediately caused some concern to aircraft manufacturers . Their contracts traditionally call for payment as work progresses . regardless of whether their customer is a civilian airline or a Government agency . They feared the Pentagon move to slam the brakes on progress payments would force them to turn to hanks for the financing they needed . They @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on such borrowing would reduce their piofits . " Selectise " Application The A l.A spokesman said this concern Is apparently unfounded . He said the Air Force intends to apply the new policy " selectively " and that there is no reason for any " furor . " " The whole thing is a tempest in a teapot , " commented an Air Voice official , on the reaction of the aircraft industry to the Thomas directive . " In the first place , the directive is n't a chaner to polio , it 's just an admonition to make sure the lutes on progress payments are tieing follwved " The direeti.e will he applied on a " case by case basis " by Air Voice ptocut einem officers , the official said When requests for Progress payments come ( tom contractors . they 'll be examined carefully and only the minimum payment necessary will be granted . he added . The Air Force will try under the new directive to avoid overpayment of contractors , the Air Force official said . This can occur when a producer 's costa @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Since the Government extends progress payments as contractors incur costs , it 's possible for a producer to get as much as 80% of the fact value of his contract In progress payments while achieving only finr ; , completion . Would Finance Only Work to Progress " In extending progress payments . " said a top Pentagon budget official , " we do n't want to pay a company 's future liabilities , like depreciation or next spring 's taxes . We want to finance only the company 's work in process ? and even then , we thing the companies should invest some clonal 's of their own . " The Defense Department aide added that he hoped a tighter control of progress payments would encourage companies not to buy materials and components far ahead of their need . Advance buying of parts can result in needless , heavy losses when the services find it necessary to redesign them before delivery of the finished product , he explained . The Thomas directive said tighter control of progress payments is necessary because of the " need to keep the expenditure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Treasuty Secretary Humphrey and other Government budget officials have warned the Government will come very close to the $275 billion legal limit on the size of the debt before tax revenues pick up early next year . Defense Secretary Wilson said the reference to the debt limit was " unfortunate . " He said the tighter policy was just " normal business procedure " All the military services have taken steps to put the Thomas directive into effect . The Air Force and Aimy acted late in September , while the Navy " implemented " it October 6.                     