@@719896

txt A heavy political fall-out is detected oti Capitol Hill as Congress goes into long hours with short tempers in the closing days of the session . Much is being made on the Democratic side of the aisle of a report that the Pentagon has under way a study to determine at what point the United States should surrender in a nuclear attack . In a statement issued Aug. 15 President Eisenhower described reports of such a study as " ridiculous nonsense . " The President authorized his press secretary to say that . " there has been no public money spent to study how or when the United States might surrender . " There will be no such money spent for such a purpose .... The President wants me to say this : Even if he were given money for this purpose it would not be spent . The whole matter is ton ridiculous for any further comment . " Before this some Democrats moved to the attack , suggesting that what the administration contemplates is an appeasement policy . Debate Heats Up HOwever , Senator Lyndon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ position clear after the White House statement by saying that " no thinking American ever gave any credence to such a rumor ; I do n't believe any public money has or ever will be spent for such a purpose . " Senator Richard B. Russell ( D ) of Georgia earlier proposed an amendment . to a supplemental appropriations bill which would cut off funds for any governmental study as to " when and how or in what cir cumstances the government of the United States should surrender this country and its people to any foreign power . " Senator Johnson said the ' Russell proposal " should be acted on favorably . " Obviously little credence is given to the existence of a study premised on such a development , even by those who have been making political capital of the report . But the intense debate over this , and over another attack on administration foreign policy by Senator John F. Kennedy ( D ) of Massachusetts , he-came so heated that two unsuccessful attempts were trade to force the Senate into secret session , clearing both press @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sessions since World War H. First reference In the exist -- f-we or a study on all-out nuclear warfare , including a possible point of surrender , was contained in a story in the St. Louis Post-Dispatch by Brig . Gen. Thomas R. Phillips . retired . This article was introduced into the Congressional Record by Senator Stuart Symington ( D ) of Missouri , who also called attention to an attack on United States preparedness by Lt. Gen. James M. Gavin in Life magazine . The nuclear warfare study was reported as being made by three nonprofit scientific agencies working for the Defense Department . President Eisenhower first learned of the project from Republican congressional leaders at a ** flouse conference . The administration was put in an embarrassing position by this disclosure and it will have to come up with an official explanation to clarify the situation . One press conference scheduled by Secretary of Defense Neil H. was cancelled . apparently to give him more time to explore the issue anti prepare a statement concerning it . Both Senator Kennedy 's attack , in a prepared speech on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ report , " riled GOP leaders who accused their Democratic colleagues of playing politics with national defense , trying to scare the American people by suggesting Soviet military superiority . It was at this point that Republican leaders tried to invoke Rule : 35 calling for a " closing of the doors " of the chamber . Senate Majority Leader Lyndon B. Johnson ( D ) of Texas in the late hours of the night finally called a halt to the controversy by moving to recess until the next day . Meanwhile , with the controversial farm bill ' forced into the background and other important legislation moving toward completion . Congress appears headed for adjournment early in the week of the 18th . Increase Pushed The Senate Finance Committee finally has readied a social security increase measure for action on the Senate floor . The bill is the one passed by the House to which the committee has added amendments considered to improve its chances of acceptance by the White House . The administration has warned against the " inflationary " nature of the measure at this time when inflation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , such legislation has an election-box appeal which is not to be ignored . There is little hope for action on the omnibus housing bill , carrying funds for slum clearance and urban renewal . It is still bottled up in the House Rules Committee where no action seems in prospect which would clear it to the floor for a vote . Labor legislation , calling for a cleanup of corruption in unions , also appears to have come to a dead end in this session , with the Kennedy-Ives bill unacceptable to the House Labor Committee and the committee unable to agree on a substitute .                     