@@717326

txt Some eight years ago the atmosuhere in Washington decreed that everything that was big except Government was bad . Since making tires is big business it followed that the tire nzakers were in for trouble . The Federal Trade Commission finally decided that giving discounts on tires above a certain quantity was bad because it might aid larger dealers to the injury of smaller dealers . So the F.T.C. issued a rule in 1951 which limited discounts to a single dealer to a single carload . After four years of litigation . Federal Judge Holtzoff the other day in Washington threw out the F.T C. rule . The purpose of the rule was to prevent one dealer from ordering vast quantities ? of tires at once and then underselling a competitor who could n't afford to buy a similar amount and so could not benefit from the discount . But it was a silly rule , and it would have been an ineffective one if the courts had not suspended its enforcement pending a decision in the case . For while it prevented Dealer " A " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of tires and tubes in one shipment , it did n't prevent Dealer " A " from ordering a carload a day and thus from soon getting all the tires he wanted at the discount the rule attempted to deny . The reasoning behind the rule was , in the judge 's view . also unreasonable . The Government did not show that the discount practices of the tire manufacturers transgressed in any way the Robinson-Patman law against monop- oly practices . Neither did the Government show any other statute empowering the F.T.C. to regulate such discount practices . Discounts are a normal business practice and they possess a historic . validity . Usually they are a compensation for quantity buying , as a housewife finds in the market place when she pays fifteen cents for one can of beans and twenty-nine cents for two . But they also are used to adjust cost differentials in the normal ebb and flow of business where , for example , a dealer assumes and thus relieves the manufacturer of certain distribution costs . Indeed , the F.T.C. in its rule recognized the validity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for certain amounts . Where the F.T.C. went wrong was in trying to say that it was all right to buy one carload at a discount and all wrong to buy two carloads at a discount . And even if one admits ? as we do not  --  that discounts are immoral in the market place , the Government does n't make a very moral case . For if a big discount is injurious , so is a small discount ; to argue otherwise is to argue that a small wrong is all right . The F.T.C. may appeal to higher courts and though we wo n't chance a prediction on the outcome it seems to us that the whole case is based on the error that led to the rule in the first place . The error is found in the old suspicion that a business , like a discount , is bad if it is big .                     