@@713360

txt Letters to The Times Direct Primary Favored New York Elections ' Believed to Emphasize Necessity for New Law ? To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YoRK TIMES : The 1950 elections contain many lessons , and not the least for New Yorkers is the urgency of enacting a law to require a direct primary for the nomination of candidates for state-wide office . For three successive Gubernatorial elections the Democratic party has nominated at controlled conventions candidates for Governor and other state offices who lacked popular appeal and in many cases were unknown not only to the electorate but to the members of the Democratic party . It is difficult to believe that a state-wide Democratic primary in 1950 would have nominated . Representative Walter A. Lynch forGovernor , that a primary in 1946 would have nominated James M. Mead , or that one hi 1942 would have nominated John J. Bennett . Westerners have trouble in understanding that progressive , forwardlooking Neav York State does not have the state-wide direct primary to which they have been accustomed for almost two generations . They are amazed to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not have the right of selecting their own candidates for Democratic and Republican nomination for such offices as Governor and United States Senator , as do Democratic and Republican voters in most other states , but that in New York the right of selecting such nominees is vested in a handful of party bosses . Gov . Charles Evans Hughes was the original proponent of the direct primary in New York State . He succeeded in having enacted a direct primary law for localities , but he did not succeed in having it include nominations for state-wide office . Section 131 of the Election Law still provides that party candidates for offices to be elected by vote of all the people of the state shall be nominated at a convention . The eminent Tammany statesman and philosopher , Senator George Washington Plunkitt , said of the Hughes primary proposals : " The primary election law threatens to do away with the boss and make the city government a menagerie . I 'm goin ' to propose a bill for the next session of the Legislature repealin ' this dangerous law and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as they used to be . Then will return the good old times when our district leaders could have nice comfortable primary elections at some place selected by themselves and let in only men that they approved of as good Democrats . Who is a better judge of the Democracy of a man who offers his vote than the leader of the district ? Who is better equipped to keep out undesirable voters ? The men who put through the primary law are the same crowd that stand for the civil service blight and they have the same objects in view  --  the destruction of government by party , the destruction of the Constitution and hell generally . " New York is the showcase of the world . The representatives of sixty nations were witnesses to the elections which . we have held . From what they observe they take a reading on the inherent soundness of our democratic way of life . They look upon us as the laboratory experiment in which the democratic ideal receives its practical application . We owe it not only to ourselves but to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ government here truly democratic . If by the time of our next state-wide election we have provided for nomination of candidates by the people in primary elections , instead of by party bosses of either party , we shall have done much I to ' accomplish this . RICHARD H. WELS , New York , Nov , 11 , 1950 . Use of Library by Disabled To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YoRK TIMES : In THE NEW YORK TIMES on Oct. 6 there was a letter suggesting that consideration of the - needs of the handicapped be given in the construction of the new library on West Fifty-third Street . The suggestion was that entrances be made flush with the sidewalks so that disabled persons forced to use wheelchairs ' or crutches could make free use of the building . We would like , to go on record as approving this suggestion and adding to it the hope that the building be equipped with elevator service so that all parts of the library would be equally available . The pleasure of reading and the many other interests that our libraries offer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and we do know that the libraries have always been in the foreground in trying to develop new and better services for handicapped persons . The physical set-up of the new library would mean a real step forward ill enlarging its value to the public it serves . MARY C. DRAPER , President , Brooklyn Bureau of Social Service and Children 's Aid Society . Brooklyn , Nov , 1 , 1950 . Opposition to U. N. Flag To THE Eorroa or THE NEW YoRK TIMES : The logic expressed in the letter of Grace E. opposing the use of the U. N. flag is interesting and frightening . The objection to the U. N. flag is based on the fact that Soviet Russia is a member of the United Nations and that by inciting North korea , ' Soviet Russia forced Americans to fight and die in Korea . Would those patriots in opposition to the U. N. flag prefer that only Americans give their lives in Korea ? The war against aggressive communism is an international one . Even the . United States is hardly strong enough to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The U. N. makes it possible to conserve American strength . Does the objection to the U. N. flag stem from the conviction that Americans should not be fighting in Korea ? , This can hardly be the case , since the objectors are most insistent that Russian infiltration must be stopped . Is it that the U. N. flag stands for peace ? The Communist propagandists have won their battle if it is unpatriotic in America to prefer peace to war . The U. N. in the few years of its existence has invariably supported the policy of the United States . It makes no sense at all for American citizens to reject an international organization which can offer invaluable assistance in peace as well as in war . STEPHEN S. FENICHELL , Major , U. S. A. F. R. New York , Nov. 2 , 1950 . Article on ' Russia Criticized Issue Taken With Harrison Salisbury , on Views of Soviet People To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : The article by your Moscow correspondent , Harrison E. Salisbury , of Oct , 14 has just @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Union for five years during the most crucial period of the history of that country and had an opportunity to meet daily the ordinary citizen . I disagree with Mr. Salisbury 's statement that " there is little difference between the views expressed by ordinary Soviet citizens and those placed on the record by such leading organs as Pravda and Izvestia . " I doubt very much whether Mr. Salisbury had the opportunity to discuss the Korean matter or any other external or internal political affair with " the ordinary St viet citizen . " The ordinary Soviet citia zen does not enjoy the privilege of discussing international problems with a foreign correspondent , and , moreover , to disagree during the interview with the Soviet policy . He must agree . Mr. Salisbury discussed the Korean conflict , but not with average citizens . Those to whom Mr. Salisbury had the opportunity to talk were officials of the ' regime who posed as ordinary citizens . This is a part of the well-created Soviet propaganda . The average American would believe after ? reading Mr. Salisbury 's article that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " with his Government 's policy . If this were true there would be no problem in lifting the Iron Curtain . *The unanimity of the Soviet citizen 's view with his Government 's policy is identical to the unanimous vote during Soviet elections . It seems ridiculous to me , and to anyone who has lived in the Soviet Union , to read that " Soviet citizens are not forbidden by law to listen to the Voice of America . " The overwhelming majority of the Soviet people have no facilities to listen ' to the Voice or to any other foreign broadcasts . The prevailing radio equipment in the home is the so-called " tochka . " This receiver enables the owner to listen only to Radio Moscow , or in large cities to the local broadcasts . Yes , the Soviet citizen enjoys freedom of speech , which in the U.S.S.R. means freedom of praise for the regime . To criticize his Government 's policy would endanger his life . I wholly agree with Mr. Salisbury that the , effect of the ? Voice is not seen at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be effective under the circumstances in Soviet Russia . I read your remarks concerning the article , but I remain with the impression of the article itself . It is well understood that the correspondent had unusual cooperation in transmitting these dispatches . Even Pravda would not hesitate to carry those dispatches . In fact , Soviet Foreign Minister Vishinsky quoted Mr. Salisbury in a speech at the U. N. to prove the " peaceful intentions " of the Soviet Union . YEDIDIA HAMBURG . Brooklyn , Nov. 10 , 1950 . Our Role in World Affairs To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : I have noticed , somewhat shakily , the recent cries of R. Taft , etc. , as to the state of United States leadership in world affairs . Especially in recent days , their shouts have been louder that in the international realm the United States shall be The Leader  --  two words so obviously and unfortunately translated directly into German ' as Der Filhrer . Might I raise a small and possibly overly alarmed voice in protest against a policy which casts the National @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in domestic affairs and a vigorous Leader in international affairs . I would much prefer Washington as the leader ( small " 1 " please ! ) in domestic affairs and a devoted follower in world affairs-Lthe leader ( again small " 1 " ) in this case being the United Nations . WESTON S. MCKANE . Schenectady , N. Y. , Nov. 11 , 1950.                     