@@718054

txt Letters to The Times FRANCIS J. MCNAMARA , WACKLAW ZAJACZKOWSKI.MANUEL I. PRADO . pg . 14 Letters to The Times SecurityPrograniDefended Reply Made to Recent Criticism , Statements Queried To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Herbert E. Gaston , in his , letter published June 22 criticizing the security program , made some misstatements that should be corrected . In referring to the Supreme Court decision that Federal employes should not be dismissed as security risks unless they hold positions declared sensitive , Mr. Gaston attempted to discredit the minority opinion by saying it is " not unfair " to recall that Justice Clark 's strong dissent was consistent with some of his actions as Attorney General . One example : " He was the author of the original ' Attorney General 's list . ' " This is not so . Attorney General Francis Biddle compiled the first Attorney General 's list under Executive Order 9300 , issued by President Roosevelt on Feb. 5 , 1943 . Justice Clark was merely the first Attorney General to make the list public  --  a vast @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Also incorrect is the charge that Justice Clark , as Attorney General and without authorization , assumed to make mere membership in any organization on the list " an offense against the United States . " President Truman 's Loyalty Order ( under which Justice Clark promulgated his list ) , like President Eisenhower 's Security Order , stated explicitly that membership in an organization on the Attorney General 's list was just one of a number . of criteria that would be used in judging an employe 's status . Use of List There are many people in Government service today who were once members of subversive organizations . They have never been charged with " an offense against the United States . " Furthermore , it was Presidents Roosevelt , Truman and Eisenhower , not their . Attorneys General , who determined how the list would be used in security procedures . Since these two misstatements are the only evidence Mr. Gaston offers to support his charges against Justice Clark , and they are both unfounded , his charges collapse completely . Mr. Gaston wrote that it is not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ play to make public employes answer anonymous charges . The people of this country and the courts apparently disagree with his claim . The courts have upheld the use of anonymous informants and , despite the efforts of certain individuals and groups , there has been no grass roots pro ' test against their use in security matters . The letter writer then went on to say that J. Edgar Hoover is not guiltless in the abuses of the security program , that his claim that the V .. 13 . I. reports only facts and does not evaluate them " is obvious nonsense . " This , too , is unfounded . The truth is that the F. B. I. accepts and files all information turned into it . It rejects nothing ( it will be a bad day for America , and will mark the beginning of a Gestapo here , if it ever does otnerArise and thus assumes the right  --  which it does n't have ? of accepting certain information and suppressing other ) . The complete files on employes are given to security officials . Nothing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ way of evaluation . The judgment of what is material and what is not , etc. , is made . by security officers and boards , not the F. B. I. Naming Informants - Mr. Gaston , trying to disparage the claim that anonymous informants ' usefulness would be lost if they were named , writes " actually more of them are simply people who will talk more freely if their names are not used . " How does he know this ? Has he made an extensive check of F. B. I. files and the people whose reports are in them ? In this conclusion he states that the security program is badly in need.of review by unbiased citizens devoted to American ideals and with some judicial or legal training . A body of just such people  --  the Commission on Government Security ? is currently making a thoroughgoing review of all aspects of the program . America 's interests will be much better served if critics of the present program , while waiting for the commission 's report , are more careful to see that their charges against the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Director , American Sovereignty Campaign , Veterans of Foreign Wars of the United States . Washington , June 29 , 1956 . Backing . Poland 's Stand To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : As one of the active participants of the July 7 mass demonstration against the Poznan massacre I wish to stress a point which probably escaped the attention of your reporters . We demonstrated in front of the U. N. buildings not only to give outlet to the growing indignation of our people over the inertia'of Western diplomacy when faced with new proof of Soviet colonialism in Eastern Europe , but also to protect the heroic defenders ' of our freedom on the Oder and Warta Rivers from the accusation which is being hurled in their faces of being agents of Germany . Therefore , in our press release we emphasized the fact that Poznan , Szczecin , Wroclaw , Katowice , where the Polish patriots are rising against foreign oppression , are Polish lands and not a part of Germany " t ; : raporarily under Por-h ro THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the press have been kind enough to devote close attention to the Presidential election held in Peru on June 17 . When reports abound , conflicting views and evaluations are likely to appear and have appeared , resulting in a confused picture which it is the purpose of this letter to clarify . Being the son of Manuel Prado , the Presidentelect , my personal opinions may be discounted and so I shall limit myself to accepted facts and figures which you can easily obtain front The United Press , The Associated Press , or similarly objective sources . In Peru we do not have voterecording machines . Therefore the counting is done by hand , in every voting center all over the country and in the presence of representatives of the three Presidential candidates . That explains the apparent delay in obtaining official results ; but by now the volume of votes computed unquestionably singles out my father as the victor , even though the votes of the remaining outlying communities are still unofficial and turn out to be 100 per cent in favor of my father 's closest competitor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ indicated that my father 's victory is attributed solely to a supposed pledge between him and a political party called APRA . As any news agency can confirm , this party publicly announced before the elections that they were not backing any of the three Presidential candidates and that each party member could vote as he wished . After the elections they denied any pact whatsoever . However , perhaps more convincing evidence is the result of the voting in Lima . There the APRA party supported an independent and unaffiliated list of candidates for Lima 's senators and representatives . That list won over the lists of the three Presidential candidates . But in the Presidential issue it sa happens that my father 's runner-up carried Lima . If the APRA were voting exclusively for my father , then he would have obtained a majority in Lima , as he did elsewhere . Therefore , it is self-evident that either the APRA party voted , as far as the Presidential issue was concerned , as each individual party member felt , or its voting strength is such that its support @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Probably each of the three candidates got some votes from the APRA party members . Manuel Prado ? the President-elect ? must have gotten some votes , as in his former administration ( 1939-45 ) he granted the APRA legal status . Belaunde  --  the runner-up ? appealed to and undoubtedly received APRA votes , inasmuch as his father , . during his political life and activities , was notoriously pro-APRA and very friendly to the APRA. party founder . Lavalle , the Government-supported candidate , who came in a poor third , may have obtained some votes , as'the APRA party originally made an election pact with the Government which was repudiated at a date . so close to the elections that it is probable some party members in the more removed parts of the country may not have received the word to vote as they saw fit . May I also thank you for having mentioned that these elections were completely free , as is supported by the fact that , the other two . candidates received between them about 80 per cent of the votes in comparison to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ PRADO . New York , , July 6 , 1956. administration " which should be given to the German masters immediately after the withdrawal of the Soviet forces , as suggested by Congressman Reece of Tennessee recently . Such an assumption would not only defeat the purpose of the Polish uprising , but also furnish the Red regime with grounds to prosecute its originators as " foreign agents " working for the new partition of Poland . We feel that the greatest moral help the Free World can offer to the heroes of Poznan is the withdrawal of its support for the German colonial " Drang nach Osten " which is directly responsible for the existence of the Red specter ominously looming today from the vast Eurasian continent over the frightened West . The Polish defenders of freedom are not dying in order to have the Soviet imperialism replaced by a new version of the German colonial empire of Barbarossa , Bismarck and Adolf Hitler . WACLAW ZAJACZKOWSKI . New York , July 8 , 1956 . Voting in Peru Results of Election Are Evaluated , Freedom of Vote Stressed 