@@715559

txt Robert and Gerald Finely , the two Jewish war orphans who have been the inno cent centers of the worst religious storm of post-war France , were , returned to this country today from Spain where they had been hidden for almost five months . Their return came forty-eight hours after the protracted legal battle for their custody had been settled by a final Appeals Court decision an favor of their Jewish relatives and against their former Catholic guardian , Mlle. Antoinette Brun . But even though the " Af-1 faire Finaly " is approaching an end , much of it will remain to hinder French unity by accentuating deep divisions in this country . It has come to involve much wider and more powerful forces in French life than the two parties involved in the court litigation . The two boys crossed the frontier at Hendaye at 3:30 P. M. today . They were accompanied by Mlle. Germaine Ribiere , who , as an envoy of Pierre Cardinal Gerlier of Lyons , had crossed into Spain many times since early March in an attempt to get @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mlle. Ribiere by Spanish authorities at noon in San Sebastian just over the border . It was reported that while the search for them had continued and tempers had reached boiling point in France , Robert and Gerald had been living with Spanish Catholics in the little fishing port of Guetaria on the Bay of Biscay , eleven miles west of San Sebastian . Tonight the children , both of whom were reported in good health and spirits , were heading toward Paris in an automobile driven by a French police inspector . They will be taken to a private estate at Saint Leonard , north of here , where they will be joined by their aunt , Madame Hedwig Rosner of Gedera , Israel , who is their legal guardian . It was not yet clear how long they would remain in France . Whether they go to Israel or stay here they will be given a French education and will be subjected neither to Catholic nor Jewish pressure as to their choice of religion , according to a promise made by Madame Rosner and the heads of the French @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The latter , in turn , promised to try to recover the children . If the search for the boys is ended the bitterness that their disappearance caused is not . Jew has been set against Catholic , while the French Catholic Church as an organization has been subjected to severe attack by anti-clericals , who have formed a considerable part of the French population ever since their ancestors burned and looted churches as their contribution to the French Revolution . The whole story began in hatred . Doctor and Mrs. Fritz Finaly fled from Austria to France before World War II to escape Nazi persecution of the Jews . Robert was born in 1941 , his brother a year later . In 1944 , Nazi persecutors reached the Alpine country around Grenoble where the family was staying . Robert and Gerald were put in a private children 's home in La Tronche just before their parents were taken to Germany and killed in a concentration camp . The home could not keep them and turned them over to Mlle. Brun , a social worker who had taken in several @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ France . Mlle. Brun gave them a Catholic education , culminating in a baptism in 1948 . After the war , surviving relatives , including Mme. Rosner , their father 's sister , asked for them but Mlle , Brun refused . She later said she had based her refusal on her love for the children who in turn had come to consider Iher as their mother . The boys were quoted today as inquiring after her when they reached Hendaye . A Grenoble court decided in favor of Madame Rosner June 11 , 1952 , after prolonged legal wrangling . When Mlle. Brun persisted in her refusal to give up the boys , the court threatened here with a criminal action in a second order Jan. 29 of this year . It was at this moment , according to evidence pieced together by the police , that the boys began their long , clandestine journey across France and into Spain under the guidance of priests , nuns and lay Catholics in Grenoble , Marseilles and Bayonne . Criminal charges are pending against all of them , as well as against @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Became a Cause Cefare A tremendous uproar began when the boys disappeared . The baptism was scored as an aggression against Jewish religion . Catholic writers joined in criticism of the baptismal act on the ground it had been done without specific authorization of the parents , as canon law prescribes . However , most Catholics who publicly expressed an opinion appeared to regard the baptism as valid none the less and declared that it was the church 's duty to protect the boys ' newly-conferred faith . It was made clear that those Catholics involved in the children 's disappearance were operating on the same theory , since they feared that the boys would lose this faith if handed over to their Jewish relatives . The Catholics ' action caused an enraged outcry from Jewish leaders who termed it " ritual kidnapping " and from anti-clericals , who denounced it as a violation of French secular justice . Many Catholics also were shocked and high French Catholic dignitaries , although they never publicly denounced the " kidnapping , " were known to be much concerned over the attacks on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ likely to die hard , just as that engendered by the case of the falsely accused Jewish captain , Alfred Dreyfus. more than fifty years ago still lives on as a part of the French tradition of disunity . Jews Applaud Action The American Jewish Committee , and Dr. Israel Goldstein , president of the American Jewish Congress , issued statements in New York yesterday expressing gratification at the return of the children .                     