@@719237

txt Secretary of State Dulles declared tonight that a closer alliance with Britain was needed " if we are to cope successfully with the new problems of the future . " This was part of the . ' Secretary 's toast to Queen Elizabeth II at a dinner he gave in her honor at the PanAmerican Union . Mr. Dulles thus followed up President Eisenhower 's proposal of last night for the pooling of scientific talent and resources by North Atlantic Treaty Organization nations . Mr. Dulles called for mounting " new efforts " to deal with world problems within a few hours after he and Selwyn Lloyd , British Foreign Secretary , had laid the groundwork for next week 's talks between President Eisenhower and Prime Minister Harold Macmillan . Afterwards Mr. Lloyd told reporters that the ninety-minute conference had been devoted to " what the nature of the discussion is to be , and the organization of our work . " Neither the State Department nor Mr. Lloyd gave any details of the subjects to be covered in the top-level talks . But the assumption here @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Middle East and the need for closer scientific cooperation among Western allies to keep ahead of Soviet successes . At the dinner for the Queen tonight , the Secretary of State appeared to broaden beyond // present political ties and closer scientific endeavor the proposal the President had made at the White House dinner last night . Mr. Dulles noted in his toast that the United States aas " cherished ties with many countries . " But , he went on , " none of these other ties need be or would be prejudiced by increasing exchange and contacts and cooperation as between the United States and the United Kingdom . " " And , indeed , " he declared , " our close association would en able us to better serve a cause which is common to all of those who having freedom will preserve it , who not having freedom as yet would achieve it . and who having lost freedom would retieve it . " The Secretary said the Queen 's visit would prove historical " if it leads , as I hope and believe it will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we jointly possess . " Earlier , Lincoln White , the State Department 's press officer , had said in response to questions that he knew nothing about newspaper reports in London that Mr. Macmillan would discuss with the President the desirability of a new top-level meeting with the Soviet Union . Mr. Lloyd was accompanied to his meeting with Mr. Dulles by Sir Harold Caccia , the British Ambassador . Mr. Dulles called in three Assistant Secretaries  --  William M. Rountree for Near Eastern Affairs , C. Burke Elbrick for European Affairs , and Francis 0 . Wilcox for International Organization Affairs . Despite intense concern over the Syrian-Turkish situation , general interest here today centered largely on President Eisenhower 's proposal last night in his toast to the Queen . The President 's suggestion came on the ' heels of dispatches from London that Mr. Macmillan would urge upon the President a resumption of the British-United States scientific cooperation that ' existed in World War IL ' At that time Britain made available to the United States the work of her scientists in radar and proximity fuses and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The British have long resented the secrecy injunctions of the 1946 Atomic Energy Act . At his news conference last Wednesday Secretary Dulles said he believed the whole question of atomic secrecy required another look , since the Congressional ban on divulging atomic information had been imposed when the United States had a monopoly of atomic weapons . The President 's proposal last night , it was evident today , took many officials in the State and Defense Departments by surprise . There were reports that the Administration was in the process of drawing up a concrete proposal to be laid before the North Atlantic Treaty Organization nations , but there was no information as to how far Administration thinking had gone . Meanwhile , some officials said the machinery for carrying out the President 's idea was already in existence or in proce-s of creation , and that all that was needed was " some policy decisions " and " some push " in the White House . The same views were expressed on Capitol Hill . Since the launching of an intercontinental ballistic missile and an earth satellite by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Western scientific efforts and an intensification of joint research and development . Any exchange of atomic weapons information would require changes in the law . However , the only legal obstacles to the exchange of other scientific information , officials said today , would be the espionage laws prohibiting the disclosure of information with the " intent or reason to believe " that such disclosure would be harmful to the United States . It has been decided , these officials ' said , that the espionage laws do not prevent disclosure of military information , provided such disclosure serves the interest of the United States and is protected by agreements that the information be kept classified . Therefore , these officials said , the President could himself proceed to negotiate a pooling of scientific knowledge and effort , except in the field of atomic weapons . For the last seven years NATO has sponsored an Advisory Group for Aeronautical Research and Development , which serves as an advisory group to the NATO supreme commander . Some officials believe that the advisory group could be expanded to carry out President Eisenhower @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for other scientific work . Last December the ' So-called Committee of Three , composed of Foreign Ministers Gaetano Martino of Italy , Halyard Lange of Norway and Lester B. Pearson of Canada . submitted a report to the NATO Council , recommending that the alliance take steps toward fuller exchange of scientific information and the training and recruitment of scientists . As a result of this recommendation , a task force was set up under Dr. Joseph B. Koenfli , physicist of the California Institute of Technology . This group met in Paris last . Tune and July , then returned home for instructions . It is now meeting again in Paris , and is expected to report before the end of the year on the setting up of NATO machinery for scientific cooperation . A third approach is being made to the problem as a result of a ' proposal made by Senator Henry ' AI . Jackson , Democrat of Washington , at the NATO Parliamentary Conference in Paris in November , 1956 . He urged establishment of a committee on scientific and technical personnel . The proposal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . He set up an American advisory group , which included Dr. Detlev W. Bronx , president of the National Academy of Science ; Dr. J. R. Killian Jr. , president of Massachusetts Institute of Technology , and Dr. Edward Teller of the Radiation Laboratory at the University of Cali-fornia ,                     