@@716277

txt The District of Columbia may become the trail blazer in bringing its public schools in line with yester-1 day 's Supreme Court ruling out- ' laming segregation . President Eisenhower spurred quick action in the District today when he told the District Commissioners that he hoped the National Capital would be a model for other areas that had changeover problems because of the Su-I preme Court 's ruling . He asked , the Commissioners for regular re- ' ports on their progress in ending ' school segregation . Vernon West , district cor-1 poration counsel , advised the Commissioners and the Board of Education that they need not wait for further Supreme Court action to commence the integration process . The court has reassigned the five cases on which it ruled yesterday for reargument next term on the formulation of decrees to effectuate its decision . The District of Columbia is ruled by a board of three Commissioners appointed by the President . , The law requires that two of them be civilians and the third a member of the Army Corps of Engineers . The high @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Kansas and Delaware that segregated schools deprived Negroes of the equal protection of the law guaranteed by the Fourteenth Amendment . District 's Plans Discussed In the Dist.rict of Columbia case , it held that educational seggregation violated the clause of the Fifth Amendment that said that no person should be deprived of life , liberty or property with- ' ' out due process of law . Since the Supreme Court held that the " separate but equal " ' doctrine was inapplicable Under ' any circumstances to public edu- , cation , the tribuilial may extend its ruling from primary and secondary schools to state-supported colleges and universities . When the cases were argued last December , lawyers for the Negros asked that the District schools be integrated by the beginning of the next school year . The District 's plans were discussed at a conference between the Commissioners and the Board of Education today . This meeting followed the Commissioners ' visit to the White House . In the light of President Eisenhower 's attitude , the opinion of the Corporation Counsel and the quick conferences that followed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the schools here might not be delayed beyond the beginning of the next school year . Commissioner Samuel Spencer said after the meeting with the President that no specific plans for ending segregation in the schools on a fixed date had been discussed . He added , however , the officials had been advised that // there was no legal reason for awaiting the Supreme Court 's decision on procedure before ending the separated schools here . Mr. West will draft legislation , for submission to Congress , that will be designed to bring district laws into line with the court 's ruling . Besides the reargument on formulation of decrees in the public school cases , the Supreme Court has pending appeals in six other cases involving racial segregation . Three cases involve the admission of Negroes to colleges and universities . The others deal with segregation in low-cost housing developments and in public parks . Some of these appeals were filed several months ago , but have not yet been considered by the court . Should the justices agree to hear the cases , they would go over @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at this term . In Florida , Virgil Hawkins , Oliver Maxey , Rose Boyd and Benjamin Finley applied for admission to the University of Florida as graduate students . Their applications were rejected under state laws that provide that only white students were admissible to the university . The Negroes brought suit on the ground that the state law was in conflict with the Federal Constitution 's guarantee of equal protection under the law . The Florida Supreme Court dismissed the case , and the Negroes have appealed to the Federal Supreme Court . Louisiana Bar Fought Alexander P. Tureaud Jr. , was refused admission to the University of Louisiana . He asked that a statutory three-judge Federal court be convened to issue an injunction restraining the university from excluding Negroes . A Federal district judge refused to convene the three-judge court , but granted a preliminary injunction . The State of Louisiana took this decision to the Federal Court of Appeals , which held that the district judge was without jurisdiction to grant the injunction and should have convened the statutory court . It vacated the district judge 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Court . The third higher education case involves six Negro students who sought to matriculate at Hardin Junior College , Wichita Falls , Tex . Texas law requires " separate but equal " facilities , and admission to Hardin was denied on the ground that equal schools were provided elsewhere for Negroes . A Federal District Court ruled that they should be admitted because the equal Negro schools were outside the Wichita Falls district , and that attendance at them would involve costs and inconvenience that the Negroes should not be required to incur . The school authorities appealed to the Federal Supreme Court on the ground that previous rulings of the courts had required equal facilities , but no court order ever had held that equal facilities must be provided in every hamlet , town , village and city within a state . Texas is involved in another of the suits . A. W. Beal , and other Negroes , brought suit against the City of Houston because persons of their race were barred from municipal golf courses . Like the Tureaud case , one of the questions involved is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The Fifth Federal Circuit Court of Appeals at New Orleans reversed a District Court ruling upholding the constitutionality of the state statute under which Houston maintained segregated recreational facilities in public parks . Mayor Oscar Holcombe of Houston brought the case to the Supreme Court . In Louisville , Ky. , James Muir was barred from a public amphitheatre in Iroquois Park where the Louisville Park Theatrical Association was giving a performance of " Apple Blossom Time . " He sued on the ground that refusal to admit Negroes to public parks violated the equal protection clause of the Constitution . The lower courts di hissed the case , and Mr. Muir is now asking the Supreme Court to decide the issue . Housing Policy Opposed The sixth , case involves a public housing project in San Francisco . Under what was called a " neighborhood pattern policy , " " certain housing projects were restricted to occupancy by tenants of the racial composition of the neighborhoods where the projects were located . Three Negroes sought admission to a development that had been built at North Beach to house Italian families @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ policy " violated the equal protection clause of the , Constitution . The Housing Authority of San Francisco is appealing that ruling . In the wake of the Supreme Court 's ruling yesterday , some questions have arisen as to its application to auxiliary school services and related problems . One was whether segregated buses would continue to serve nonsegregated schools . There was no firm ruling on any of these questions . It is presumed that they are details that will be worked out after the high court formulates its final decree .                     