@@719941

txt Special to The New:kart WASHINGTON , Sept. 6 ? The general ' expectation that the Supreme Court 's decision in the Little Rock case will vitally affect the pace of school integration everywhere was given formal expression this week by one of the most respected Federal District judges in the South . Judge Albert V. Bryan , sitting in Alexandria , Va. , postponed until after that decision his own ruling on a move for immediate admission of thirty Negro children to white schools in Arlington County , Va . The effect of his order was to permit reopening of the Arlington schools Monday on a segregated basis . Judge Bryan said he expected some advice from the Supreme Court on the " fundamental question of timing . " What he had in mind was plainly more a matter of mood than one of explicit legal directions . The fact is that no mingle opinion of the Supreme Court could deal explicitly with all the varied situations in the South . Nor , more particularly , could any one decision settle all the state laws that have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Each of the eleven states described politically as The South has passed one or more statutes designed to prevent or delay admission of Negro children to white schools . What follows is a discussion of the major types of anti-integration legislation . PUPIL PLACEMENT ' A variety of laws changing both the procedure and the standards for assigning students to schools has been enacted . Their fate in the courts has generally varied according to their stringency . At one extreme are statutes purporting to turn all pupil assignment authority over to a central body for the entire state . Such a law in Louisiana was held unconstitutional by the Federal District Court . Virginia set up a single Pupil Placement Board with state ' wide authority over assignment of pupils . The United States Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit , avoiding the question of constitutionality , held the administrative procedure too cumbersome to require Negro applicants to follow it . On the other hand , state laws giving boards flexible authority to assign pupils on criteria other than race  --  health and mental aptitude , for example @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have passed laws permitting or requiring the Governor to close any school where integration occurs , or where Federal troops are dispatched . Such a measure was in the package just passed in Arkansas at the request of Gov . Orval E. Faubus . TUITION GRANTS A. number of states have authorized payments to parents who withdraw their children from desegregated public schools and send them to private inStltutions . APPROPRIATION CUTS A Virginia appropriation /et provides that all state funds for any city 's or ' county 's elementary schools shall be cut off if one of those schools is integrated . REFERENDUM A Texas statute forbids integration of any school unless the voters of that community have approved the move in a special referendum . The validity of this law  --  for which most lawyers predict a short life ? is now being tested in a Texas court suit that has put integration in Dallas off a year . ? The constitutionality of the school closing , tuition and appropriation laws has not yet been tested : The obstacles that such state legislation and related policy throw in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ particular place and lawsuit than in the abstract . And perhaps the best example is the Arlington case heard by Judge Bryan this week . Judge Bryan ordered the county to end school segregation more than two years ago ? in July , 1956 . But that order was stayed pending appeals . It became final in 1957 . When seven Negro children sought to enforce the decree last fall by entering white schools , they were met with the claim by the school board that its assignment authority had been removed by the Pupil Placement Act . Judge Bryan rejected that defense , but again he stayed his decision pending more appeals . Board Acts This year , assuming the Pupil Placement Act was invalid , the school board went ahead and examined the applications itself . Applying five criteria ? geography , academic achievement , school overcrowding , psychological stability and adaptability to new environments ? it found all thirty Negro applicants wanting . Without state legislation , but with the encouragement of Gov . Lindsay Almond Jr. , the school board had in effect set up a local @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fairness of the criteria as conceived and as applied . He may decide that pone , all or some of the Negro children have really been excluded because of race  --  unconstitutionally . If any Negro applicants are ordered admitted , Virginia law will automatically shut the affected schools , A number of white parents in Arlington have tentative plans to go into Federal court and ask for an injunction against the school closing law on the ground that it is unconstitutional . But the school closing problem is as likely to be settled politically as legally . Everyone recognizes that it will be enormously unpopular among the affected families te , keep the doors shut for long . How that feeling will affect the state government is uncertain , but the best guess is that Governor Almond will allow the schools to reopen . Then , also under state law , state funds will be withheld from the Arlington schools . The school board may go into court itself to have that law declared unconstitutional . But , in any case , the state pays only about 18 per cent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ surely find means to maintain the schools without that money . If all those obstacles are overthrown , there may be some small amount of integration in Arlington schools this year . But unless state and local authorities change their pattern and present an orderly plan for general desegregation in the county , Negro applicants will have to fight their way through another legal thicket before Judge Bryan next year and into the future . There is the importance of what the Supreme Court says about Little Rock , A decision permitting delay in Little Rock might bring integration to a standstill generally . A decision the other way might be taken by Federal judges as an admo ? nition to cut through the thicket of state laws and speed the process of desegregation.                     