@@713492

txt Mrs. Ann Remington , divorced wife of William W. Remington , testified in Federal Court at his perjury trial yesterday that he had told her in the spring of 1938 that he was a member of the Communist party . She told Judge Gregory tv . Noonan and a jury of seven women and five men that the former Commerce Department employe , who is charged with lying when he swore he was never a Communist , informed her of his membership at a series of meetings in that year , and that he swore her to secrecy . The soft-spoken brunette was the second witness on the second day of Remington 's trial . The Government is charging that the accused " prostituted his position of trust " in behalf of Soviet spies . In defense counsel 's opening statement , William C. Chanler challenged the Government to prove that Remington was a cardcarrying member of the party , rather than a college youth who embraced the philosophy of " fellow travelers " as he " sowed his mental wild oats . " Mrs. Remington testified @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the American Student Union and the Young Communist League at Dartmouth College , where he was an undergraduate ; that she , a senior at // Bennington College in Vermont , was a member of the league , and that she became a member of the Communist party with his knowledge just before their marriage that year . Under questioning by Irving H. Saypol , United States Attorney , Mrs. Remington told of one conversation with her former husband , in which he told her of his employment in Knoxville with the Tennessee Valley Authority . Speak . ing in a low voice that bore a faint trace of a Southern accent , she said Remington told her " he was beaten up in Harlan County in connection with his work for the Workers Alliance , and he told me he was a member of the Communist party and adjured me to secrecy . " Mrs. Remington said this was the first time he had informed her of his party membership , though she had known he was " radical " and had " Communist literature " in his dormitory @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Remington told her he was planning to leave the Young Communist League because it was " more expedient and that he could do more good outside . " She told the court she could not remember anything specific that led her to believe he was changing his basic philosophy . She testified that she and Remington were married in New York in the fall of 1938 when she came to Columbia University to do graduate work . He continued his studies at Dartmouth . Mrs. Remington said her former husband had visited the home of her mother , Mrs. Elizabeth Moos , at Croton-on-Hudson , N. Y. , and there met a " Joe North , " described as a writer for The New Masses . Now Lives in Virginia The mother of two children , 6 and 8 years old , Mrs. Remington now lives in Alexandria , Va . She appeared in court wearing a tan , tweed suit , brown blouse , brown beret and brown handbag . She said she lived on money left to her by her grandparents and that she had received no support from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out at yesterday 's session whether she had renounced Communism . The first Government witness yesterday was Hugh V. Doran of 2058 Broadway , who was a Federal grand jury secretary from Dec. 16 , 1948 , until June 15 , 1950 . Mr. Doran , a retired sales executive , testified that Remington had denied under oath that he had ever been a member of the Communist party when he appeared before the grand jury last May 25 . In his opening statement , Mr. Saypol had said the Government would prove Remington 's membership in the Communist party through witnesses and documents . He said Remington 's " deliberate , malicious untruth " before the grand jury on May 25 would be established by " those who saw him and heard him speak as a member of the Communist party " in the ten years between 1934 and 1944 Mr. Saypol pictured Remington as ' having a " facile mind and agility for slithering " and . as being adept at " manipulation in out-ofthe-way places , street corners and doorways " for the benefit of the Soviet Government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that Remington " never once in his life did anything to favor Russia over the United States . " He said the . evidence would show rather that Remington " by word and by deed " fought for America as against the Russian point of view . Mr. Chanler held that Remington as a young man might have talked like many other Americans who embraced the " common front , " but added that the question was not whether Remington " talked like a Communist at the age of 16 or 17 , but was he a card-carrying member ? " He cited a number of instances to show that Remington , before and during his employment by the Government , displayed a consistently anti-Communist attitude . Mr. Chanler said Remington visited his mother-in-law at Croton , which he described as a " Communist colony , " and there met " Joe North , " a tenant at the home of Mrs. Moos , because " one does n't turn up his nose at his mother-inlaw 's friends . " He also said Remington 's conversations with Miss Elizabeth T. Bentley @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ newspaper woman when she met Remington , were proper and part of the public relations policy of the War Production Board at the time . As the afternoon session opened , Judge Noonan refused to vacate a subpoena on Mr. Saypol 's motion . The subpoena was issued to make available records of an old loyalty board hearing through which the defense hopes to show that Miss Bentley 's testimony would be invalid . Judge Noonan held that the records should be available when and if Miss Bentley takes the stand . Mr. Saypol held that the request of defense counsel for this material was " unreasonable . " He said the records did not concern the Remington case , The trial will continue at 10:30 A. M. today . 