@@715897

txt Great Britain and Iran have renewed diplomatic relations as part of a plan for keeping the Middle East oil-producing country outside the Iron Curtain . A spokesman for Premier Fazollah Zahedi 's government was quoted by the Associated Press as announcing the resumption of diplomatic relations with Britain , Dec. 5 . The move , forecast earlier by informed Iranian sources , came despite strong internal opposition , particularly on the part of Ayatullah Kashani , powerful Moslem religious leader . The government spokesman said : " Relations have been resumed in as much as both sides are confident that with good will on both sides better relations and settlement of any disputes in the past can be arrived all Eden 's Role Lauded It is expected here that the effect of the move will be to make easier an adjustment of the Anglo-Iranian oil dispute which led to a rupture of relations between the two governments in October , 1952 . Renewal of diplomatic relations has come as something of a personal victory for British Foreign Secretary Anthony Eden now engaged in the Western Big Three @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Eden 's patience and persistence in seeking friendship with the Iranian Government that the renewal of relations has come about . The meaning of this development today is much different from what it would have been a year or more ago . Then it would have been hailed here as securing Iranian oil supplies for . Britain and the West . Now the main purpose of British moves to solve the oil problem is to rescue Iran from the distressing economic conditions which might give communism big opportunities there . Another purpose is to get whatever compensation pos sible for the Anglo-Iranian Oil Company whose properties were taken over by the Mossadegh Government in 1951 . Oil Now Surplus This lead to closure of the great oil refinery at Abadan and the ousting of British technicians . The oil flow from Iran  --  the main source of the nation 's income  --  ceased . Since that time Britain has been trying to get an agreement in which Iran would recognize Britain 's satisfaction and Iranian responsibility to make compensation to the former owners ' nationalized oil industry . This now @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to get the money for this and for support of the government Army and the needy populous has been the key question . For it no longer is a matter simply of reopening Abadan and letting oil flow to the world markets . The oil shortage which existed when former Premier Mohammed Mossadegh began his campaign against the British interests no longer exists . Oil now is a surplus commodity on the world markets . The question now is how to find markets for oil which Iran must sell if the nation is to be secured against grim want and Communist infiltration . This is the problem with , which the United States has been helping . Some progress is understood to have been made as a result of the mission of Herbert Hoover , Jr. , to Iran recently . Mr. Hoover , in London on his way back to Iran , now is discussing the situation with British officials . The task of getting Iranian oil back into the world markets against stiff competition is understood likely to take a long time and it is doubtful whether any plan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of sound economic conditions in Iran can be worked out in less than six months . Vast oil strike in Australia hailed as economic bonanza : Page 5.                     