@@719389

txt The Army 's . leading rocketmissile authorities testified today that the United States might soon be eliminated from the race for control of outer space unless it produced a rocket much more powerful than any now being developed . The Soviet Union 's lead will become insurmountable , they suggested , unless the United States moves quickly to devise such a rocket . The witnesses were Dr. Wernher von Braun , civilian chief of the Army 's ballistic missile program , and his military commander , Maj. Gen. John B. Medaris . They appeared before the Senate Preparedness subcommittee , which is conducting an inquiry into the missile and satellite programs . " My personal opinion , " General Medaris asserted , " is that unless we develop an engine with a million-pound thrust by 1961 we will not be in space -- we will be out of the race . " To date , het said , the Army has failed to win Defense Department approval for the de- velopment of a rocket even onefourth that powerful . Dr. von Braun , the German V-2 rocket expert of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ convinced " the United States would be " in mortal danger " if the Russians first gained control of outer space . He proposed the creation of a national space agency with an annual budget of about $1,500 , - 000,000 . He said he was convinced that the scientific talent already was available " to get a space program going . " He suggested that the new agency undertake a ten-year project for a manned space station and a five-year program " to have a man orbiting the earth on a returnable basis . " General Medaris and Dr. von Braun said the contest for outer space was of greater importance than any of the missiles programs . Other high points of their testimony included the follow , ing : 91The missiles program is being impeded by the inability to get reasonably prompt and firm decisions from the Pentagon . One man should be given authority to make decisions and provide resources to put them into effect . 43While the Defense Department ordered the Jupiter missile into production Nov. 27 , the necessary money has not been provided . q @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but was unable to get the Pentagon 's permission until last month . Dr. von Braun also tempered his earlier criticism of the Government 's failure to press ahead with the development of missiles in the period from 1945 to 1951 . " I thought it was entirely understandable , " he remarked . " We all thought the war was over . " Von Braun Makes a Hit The youthful-looking German scientist , now a United States citizen , made a hit with the subcommittee . He drew many sympathetic laughs as he smilingly grappled with questions by the panel 's counsel , Edwin L. Weisl , and its chairman , Senator Lyndon B. Johnson , Democrat of Texas . He is credited with having developed the German V-2 rocket in World War II . Since the end of the war , he has worked on the United States missiles and is now in charge of the Army Ballistic Missile Agency at Huntsville , Ala . His team perfected the Redstone , a 200-mile missile , and brought the Jupiter , the Army 's 1,500-mile intermediate range weapon , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ von Braun , blond , broadshouldered and square-jawed , joined General Medaris in stressing the importance of developing a rocket capable of carrying man ' into space . The general said he had recommended in 1956 that the United States undertake an engine with a thrust of 220,000 pounds  --  about the same as the one that launched the first Soviet satellite on Oct. 2 . He said there had been no action , even though the proposal had also been made by a special Pentagon committee headed by Dr. Abe ' Silverstein of the National Advisory Committee for Aeronautics . " What happened td the committee recommendation ? " he was asked . " It disappeared into the Department of Defense , " was the reply . Both witnesses complained of the lack of a central missiles authority , of indecisiveness , and of failure to obtain sufficient funds for the Redstone and Jupiter projects . " Some place there has to be a man who can make decisions and can provide the resources to carry it out the same day , " General Medaris declared . Heller 's Role @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had begun " to move " in the Redstone program after K. T. Keller , then board chairman of the Chrysler Corporation , was brought into the Pentagon as director of guided missiles in 1951 . He said Mr. Keller had " swamped " the project with money and orders " so ambitious that we told him ' you have got to go a little slower ' . " Authority to develop the Jupiter was obtained late in 1955 , he testified , and at first " things were going very smoothly ? we got everything we asked for . " Then , after a year or so , he went on , " the termites got into the system again . " By that , he explained , he meant that there had been " continuous delay " on a decision over whether the Jupiter would be canceled . " So the thing just dragged on , and at this very moment we have n't got the money for the Jupiter production yet , " he reported . General Madaris said he had " borrowed " some money from his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Johnson said It was " nothing short of disgraceful that you would get an order of full speed ahead and General Medaris would have to pull a sleight-of-hand trick to get the money . " Senator Stuart Symington , Democrat of Missouri , asked if it were true there had actually been no speed-up of Jupiter production as yet . " That 's right , " Dr. von Braun replied , The Pentagon has said that Congress will be asked for a supplementary appropriation for the current year to finance intensification of various missiles programs , including the Jupiter and the Thor . The Thor is the Air Force 's 1,500-mile intermediate range missile , paralleling the Jupiter . General Medaris said trouble with the Pentagon had failed to slow development of the Jupiter . " We have kept our schedule by superhuman effort , " said the erect , graying officer with a big mustache and five rows of ribbons . Senator Johnson asked whether the Russians ' success in launching a second satellite indicated that they could " put a hydrogen warhead on the city of Washington . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Braun said , his answer was " Yes . " Dr. von Braun said he believed the Russians ' next move would be to " try to shoot the moon . " The Soviets , he added , probably have a rocket with sufficient power to send a " payload " of , 100 to 300 pounds on a one-way trip to the moon . The manned space stations that he proposed could be used for reconnaissance , bombing and for jamming radar detection of intercontinental ballistic missiles , he said . ' Dr. von Braun blamed a maze of Pentagon committees for the difficulty in obtaining decisions from the Defense Department . " You ca n't get a decision out of the Pentagon until these committees have made their recommendations , " he complained . He said the committees were helpful in the planning stages " when you kick the question around as to whether a certain proposal is sound . " " But they should be left out of the program after the program is rolling , " he asserted . Admiral Arleigh A. Burke , chief of Naval @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " has built the largest submarine fleet in existence . " Admiral Burke saw in this fleet , when armed with missiles carrying nuclear warheads , one of the gravest problems for American defense . The subcommittee counsel pressed Admiral Burke closely on whether the Navy had enough funds for its anti-submarine program , for research and development , for electronic and sonar equipment , for replacement of obsolete ships , for , new aircraft , for more flight time for pilots . To all these questions , Admiral Burke answered , " No , Sir . " Both Admiral Burke and Thomas S. Gates Jr. , Secretary of the Navy , . disagreed with a proposal put forward yesterday by Lieut . Gen. James M. Gavin of the Army for the abolition of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and its replacement by a " competent career staff . "                     