@@719589

txt Forthcoming announcement of a midwinter unemployment increase of around 600,000 is the dominating economic and political event here . Democrats anticipated the rise by stepping up demands for drastic antirecession action . President . Eisenhower reacted with a seven-point program featuring a proposed extension of unemployment benefits . Federal funds would be used to lengthen the period of benefit payments for workers who have exhausted existing benefits . The proposal requires congressional action . It would be effective " for a brief period . " Commerce Secretary Sinclair Weeks says the United States economy is strong . But he added in a letter to the Paterson Evening News that recovery from the current recession " could be postponed if the pub-lie believes some of our profes sional scaremongers " the Associated Press reported . Senator Lyndon B. Johnson ( D ) of Texas ? appealed before the Senate Committee for an accelerated federal public works program and declared , " What we want is action  --  not credit , not an issue ; we want to get rid of the issue by putting people on jobs . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " is most disquieting and will have to be watched closely , " Milton C. Lightner , president of the National Association of Manufacturers , said in . Hollywood . Florida , March 10.1 Weather Fact or A feeling of urgency mounted over the weekend . The administration braced itself for the impact of the forthcoming new unemployment figures , which are believed to be already compiled but which have not yet been released officially . They will bring the story up to mid-February . The rise in unemployment between mid - December and mid-January ? the last figures released  --  was 1.1 million persons , to a total of about 4.5 million . This was one of the biggest jumps in recent years . The new figure is expected to bring the total to 5.1 million workers or more . Unemployment normally reaches its seasonal peak in mid-February . Then it falls off in March as construction and similar outdoor trades resume . In this case , bad weather covered parts of the country in January and February and will show up in the forthcoming fig-tires , plus the deepening @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ limited section of the economy  --  consumer durables ( such as autos ) , industrial equipment , and the like . On the political front , Mr. Eisenhower probably faces the hardest task of his entire presidency to restrain the Democratic-controlled Congress from jumping into antirecessionary action of the most drastic kind , including a tax cut . dent can hold back Congress be-1 yond another month . On March 8 , Mr. Eisenhower sent up his seven-point package . Most of the proposals were interim recommendations calculated to hold off more drastic legislative action . Chief criticism in Congress is that these proposals  --  good in themselves  --  do n't go far enough .. , Eight senators of Mr. Eisenhower 's own party urged him to move faster , with " immediate action on a scale big enough to do the job . " Other Republicans , on the other hand , fell in behind the White House program . " President Eisenhower is fully a live to the recession , " said GOP wheelhorse . Representative Joseph W. Martin , Jr . ( R ) , of Massachusetts , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ urged faster action . Senator Paul H. Douglas ( D ) of Illinois recommends an immediate 4 billion dollar tax cut . Eisenhower hares economic action : Page 14 . Tax Cut Favored It is still Mr. Eisenhower 's thesis , repeatedly emphasized , that the recession is " mild " and that signs of improvement will be seen soon . He is supported by his economic advisers , who argue that there is a good chance the slump will adjust itself without the need of high-spending programs or a tax cut .                     