@@713821

txt Letters to The Times NORMAN ANGELL.LOUIS H. PINK.J.H . LANDMAN.KENSHIN MORI Letters to The Times Military Aggression Coordination Asked of Nations Facing Danger The writer of the following letter , lecturer and writer , was the winner of the Nobel Peace Prize in 1933 . To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Your correspondent Nikita D. Roodkowsky , in your issue of May 6 , challenges the proposition that our enemy is primarily aggression and only secondarily communism . He suggests , on the contrary  --  as others in exalted positions have been suggesting of late ? that the purpose of the West 's military power is not first of all to defend nations against military aggression irrespective of their internal policies but primarily to make war upon communism as a doctrine or system wherever it may exist ; presumably , at this juncture , in Russia and China . Shall we do so in Yugoslavia , and make an enemy of Tito ? The point is not academic . The collective power of the Western community can be used effectively to defend its members @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ used effectively against a doctrine or social system or party platform or the traditional habits of a people within a given nation . For that purpose quite other methods and instruments must be used  --  and which will not be effective if national security is wanting . Failure to realize the distinction helped to produce the ' second war and may help to produce a third . Results of War We seem to have forgotten that neither of the two world wars which this generation has witnessed arose out of communism but that communism arose out of the wars , and the wars out of the failure to use collective power effectively for common defense . Russian communism arose out of the First World War ; the expansion of Russian communism into the satellite states of Eastern Europe and China out of the second . Mr. Roodkowsky cites in support of his position the case of Czechoslovakia , where Soviet aggression has been carried on by means of Communist ideology , which , he truly remarks , " manifests itself in every field of human endeavor , such as art , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ communism has that power in Czechoslovakia today largely because the West failed in 1938 to give that country the defense it might have against the aggression , not of a Communist nation but of a violently anti-Communist one , Germany ; that the chances of a stable non-Communist Government in China would have been better today if the West in 1932 had been ready to defend this latter country against another violently anti-Communist-nation , Japan . Where our collective power might properly have been used to deter aggression we did not use it . Where we did use it was to intervene in an internal conflict  --  the Russian civil war  --  in such a way that it not only failed ignominiously but had the effect of identifying the Bolshevik cause with that of Russian nationalism . The fact has lessons for today . Totalitarian Systems Mr. Roodkowsky implies that we should " remove the cause of aggression " by using our power to " uproot totalitarian systems . " Experience in that connection has not been happy . We were quite- sure In 1918 that the main cause of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It was abolished and the model Weimar Republic established . Out of it came Hitler . Czarism was undoubtedly evil . We rejoiced at its abolition . But the Czar has been ? followed by Stalin , who is certainly no improvement . We were sure that the old Habsburg Austro-Hungarian Empire was a wicked institution . It was dissolved . Today nearly all the people who lived under the imperial Government of Vienna live under that of Moscow . I doubt whether those who enjoy the blessings of life in the Kremlin empire regard it as an improvement on life under the Habsburgs . For a whole generation the weight of progressive idealism was directed against British imperialism , which truly possessed many faults . Yet if there had been no British Empire  --  particularly in the Mediterranean and North Africa  --  in 1940 after the fall of France it is almost certain Hitler would have triumphed . British India in that war mobilized a volunteer army of two million men who fought valiantly for the cause of the West . Nehru 's India is hardly likely to be able @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ world , we were told by . the Progressives , demanded that Britain get out of India completely . She did so . It did not bring either India or the world . a greater measure of peace . That subcontinent , which for two hundred years had been unified , immediately split into two bitterly hostile states quarreling over a third . They are unlikely to make a very effective common front against aggression . Dissolution as Remedy When during the war Churchill pleaded urgently for a strategy which would at the close have left the Allies in a position to check Russian territorial expansion , liberal ideology of the time opposed him . He was , we were told , just playing power politics on behalf of the British Empire , then regarded as a reactionary force , while Russia as - late as the middle Forties was regarded by most liberals as the spearhead of a world movement which was to make this the Century of the Common Man . We have since learned that power noliticR are sometimes . as someone has remarked , the politics of not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( as , say , in Malaya ) may be preferable to the only available ' alternative . It is , after all , in many respects a very old story . The Roman Empire was full of evils which should have been corrected . But sheer dissolution was no remedy . For dissolution was not followed by anything better but by something much worse : the Dark Ages . We do n't want history to repeat itself . The need now is to put first things first . The first thing is to assemble and coordinate the power of several nations of very diverse characters , but all of whom face the danger of aggression . Some , like France , are partly Communist . But even her Communists are beginning to make the distinction for which I have been pleading . The powerful Italian Communists may follow suit . Britain ( for the moment ) is Socialist , which some regard as the mere preface to being Communist . But if British socialism can make no concessions to American capitalism , and vice versa , and similar differences in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ effective defensive cooperation , then Russia will triumph . NORMAN AN GELL . New York , May 10 , 1951 . For World Trade International Reciprocity Asked As a Force for Peace The writer of the following letter is Chairman of the Citizens Conference on International Economic Union . To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK'T1MES : Your editorial of May 10 , " Trade Barriers Come Down , " should encourage Congress to follow a broad , sound policy on international trade . Certainly the State Department 's announcement of May 8 of our agreement to new tariff concessions to seventeen Western countries in an effort to expand world commerce is heartening . The results of the seven-month conference held in Torquay , while noteworthy , fail to include Great Britain and the Commonwealth nations having preferences in the British system , and in addition the reductions are not as comprehensive as was expected . The Torquay Agreement is nevertheless a real accomplishment , for it does uphold the principle of multilateral trade . As you pointed out , quite as important as the Torquay Agreement is the passage by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ before Congress , without " crippling " amendments . This act affects fortyseven nations , and the treaties have been part of our economic policy since 1934 . Extension of Act The Reciprocal Trade Ag : cements , Act has been much delayed and there is serious danger that it will be ? sc amended that it will be of little use even if Congress should finally pass it , It seems obvious that the reciprocal trade agreements which have worked so well should be extended as a matter of course and with little change or controversy . Delay would be understandable if the act were a new venture  --  experimental and untried . But the facts are that these trade treaties have been in existence since Secretary . of State Hull initiated them in 1934 . Our trade has increased more rapidly with treaty nations than non-treaty nations , We now do almost 80 per cent of our normal foreign business with treaty nations . Furthermore , experience has shown that under the reciprocal trade treaties commerce has materially advanced , contributing to our higher standard of One questionable amendment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ under the most-favored-nations clause in tariff adjustments . We all favor barring strategic materials from Russia and that has begn achieved , but the reciprocal trade agreements are based upon normal international commerce . Such amendments , barring equality of trade with countries merely because they are Communist , would greatly embarrass our European allies , who must of necessity trade with the satellite nations . Effects of Amendment There are many reasons why we should consider seriously the effects of such an amendment . If we prevent goods from flowing to Russia and her satellites we also prevent Russia and her satellites from sending goods to us . We further strengthen the Iron Curtain around . Poland , Czechoslovakia , Hungary and other countries with which we were once friendly and with which we will again be friendly . We , more than any other nation , contributed to the establishment of Czechoslovakia as an independent nation . Has it now become our purpose to drive Czechoslovakia and the other satellite nations further under the control and domination of Russia , or do we want to encourage trade and intercourse @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ peace ? Until very recently the people of these satellite countries have not- only been our friends , some of them have been free , democratic peoples . We should do all we can to see that they are again brought into this relationship . The Citizens - Conference on International Economic Union believes that the Reciprocal Trade Agreements Act should be continued as a vital part of our nonpartisan foreign policy and without unnecessary amendments which seriously threaten its effectiveness . The development ' of trade and intercourse among nations is one of our best hopes for a lasting peace . Louis H. PINK . New York , May 10 , 1951 , Taxing Excess Profits Loopholes , Inequities Seen in Law ; Remedies Suggested The writer of the following letter , a member of the Income Tax Committee of the American Bar Association , is Professor of Tax Law at the New York Law School . To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : The price for civilization is taxation . Now that our , democratic culture is menaced we should be willing to pay our respective reasonable shares @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ defray these expenditures is an excess profits tax . It is sound ethically . Citizens should not enjoy excessive profits arising out of our defense program . An excess profits tax is consequently a necessary evil , but it should be equitable in its application . Our current excess profits tax law provides automatic formulae to compute first normal and then as a consequence taxable excessive earnings . Though it removes the doubt and speculation rampant in the law of the Second World War , it does not and can not provide for enough formulae for normal earnings , with the result that too many worthy corporations fall between them and are unjustly taxed . Appropriate equitable excess profits tax relief measures with a revived excess profits tax council to implement them are therefore inevitable . One present method of arriving at corporate normal earnings is to take a given percentage return on invested capital . Too much of such capital has long been dissipated or is semi-sterile , and is for these reasons a faulty determiner of normal profits . An earnings credit based on sales is a much more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one of several contributing factors . Industry Classification Injustice also arises in the application of the excess profits tax law by relegating all corporations to sixtyfour statutory industries . Normal earnings may be computed by employing a return on capital of one of these alleged industries , among other formulae . No economist worthy of the name would endorse such an over-all national industry classification . This number of industries must be increased and an exclusive earnings credit which is based on sales must be employed if justice is to be done in collecting excess profits taxes , More reasonable industry classifications are now available because the Office of Price Stabilization has already pegged prices to 85 per cent of the average earnings of the years 1946 to 1949 of such industries as barber shops , laundries , hotels and meat . Only corporations are subject to excess profits taxes . Individuals are already heavily tax-burdened . But why should the partnership as a business entity be free from the impact of excess profits taxes ? The partnership is now a tax escape . This tax loophole should be plugged . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1951 . Japanese Peace Treaty To THE EDITOR OF THE NE1117 YORK TIMES : Recent news dispatches both from London and from Washington had it that the British Government was pressirg the " demand " for restrictions on Japanese shipping and shipbuilding capacity in the prospective treaty of peace . These reports have caused a considerable misgiving and uneasiness among the Japanese , who have been endeavoring , under the American guidance and encouragements , to reorient themselves from the wrecks and strains of the late war . Possibly Britain , a victor , might successfully carry out her usaltruistio plans through the present negotiations and otherwise take advantage of the existing international situation if she were so disposed . As things now stand , the Japanese are in no position openly to impugn the justice of the alleged British claims ? they have to suffer the consequences of the circumstance into which they had been driven by the bigoted militarists . Still the question remains , Is it fair or wise to deprive a genuinely mortified nation of eighty million people , shorn of all their oversee , possessions upon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the only available means of livelihood for some ulterior reasons ? Why not let the commercial interests involved here arrive at a natural adjustment of their stakes through a well.egulated and above-board competition 7 , After all , the principle of reconciliation and equal opportunity seems to afford the best solution of these AngloJapanese problems , and this will be found no less true of other vexatious issues connected with the mooted treaty , including that of reparations : no divided house can really be expected to become an adequate safeguard against the spread of communism . KENSHIN Moir . Professor of International Law , Chuo University . Tokyo , April 30 , 1951.                     