@@718548

txt Selections From Recent Letters to the JAMES K. FINCH . New York.LUTHER A. WEIGLE.HENRY REGNERY . Chicago , Ill.HANS HABE . Selections From Recent Letters to the Editor Bridges To THE EDITOR : I HAVE not react John Prebble 's story of the Tay Bridge failure , " Disaster at Dundee . " The review by Walter Lord , however , clearly indicates that both the author and the reviewer fail to understand many of the conditions and difficulties of engineering practice . Mr. Lord states : " The hundred years before World War I were years when , in technology at least , man 's reach often exceeded his grasp . " The pressure ? of need and the daring to do are no newcomers to engineering practice . The story of engineering , especially of bridge engineering , reveals many , many bridge failures throughout the fifty centuries of engineering history . It has been remarked that the engineer 's reputation rests on his ability to always do the right thing although he often has to base his decisions on insufficient evidence . Bridges were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any mathematical means of checking their strength and stability . ? ? ? The important point is that in daring to do something new the engineer has seldom made the same mistake twice . I hold no brief for the Tay Bridge designer , Thomas Bouch , but it is unfair to criticize his lack of mathematical training ? " only a schoolboy 's knowledge of math . " A complete grasp of all the " math " known to men would not have prevented the disaster at Dundee . This was unquestionably primarily a wind failure . Shoddy workmanship may have been a contributing factor , but the basic difficulty was " insufficient evidence " on the pressure which transverse wind might exert on such a long , high and exposed structure . In fact , this failure emphasized the importance of providing for a force that in earlier , more massive structures had been of negligible importance . A parallel lesson was to occur years later in the wind failure of the Tacoma suspension bridge in 1940 ; yet no one could accuse its designer of lacking in mathematical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the price of DroeTeSS . JAMES K. FINCH . New York . Even To THE EDITOR : IN your " Treasure Chest " Column an extract from my book " The Living Word " referred to the unnecessary word " even " in Genesis x , 21 : " even to him were children born . " Your correspondent Joseph ! Caster is of the opinion that this translation is , correct . However , his opinion is not in accord with the translation of the Jewish Publication Society , which reads " to him also were children born . " It was only after several weeks of interviews that General Hurley finally gave him permission to go through his papers ; I am sure he would give the same permission to any other serious researcher . Later in his review , Mr. White says , " Apart from the fact that there is nothing new in this devil-interpretation of the history of that period , Mr. Hurley 's own participation in it is presented in such a way as to suggest that he was almost always right and that almost @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that Mr. White wishes to imply that this was not the case ; I would like to suggest that , if the history of the loss of China to communism is honestly reviewed , it would convince any fair-minded person that Hurley was almost always right and that John Stewart Service John Patton Davies and John Carter Vincent , to name bul three of General Hurlers antagonists in that historic battle , were wrong- ? ? ? HENRY HEONERY . Chicago , Ill . " Off Linsite " To THE EDITOR : HAVE read with great interest Frederic Morton 's review of my novel " Off Limits " In The New York Times . ? ? ? Far be it from me to argue with the literary judgments of Mr. Morton . Yet , for the first time , personal remarks ? ? ? have penetrated the columns of your section : ? ? ? " For a long time thereafter Babe ) seemed to create more commotion than literature " must convey the impression that " Off Limits " has been my first book since " A Thousand Shall Fall @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the life of adventure . This will come as a great surprise to my numerous American readers and win cause considerable damage to my publishers . The truth is that , in America alone , the following novels were published after " A Thousand Shall Fall " : " Katherine " ( Viking , 1943 ) ; " Aftermath " ( Viking , 1947 ) : ' Walk in Darkness " ( Putnam , 1048 ) : " Black Earth " ( Putnam , 1952 ) . Ali these books , in addition to the nonfictional " Our Love Affair With Germany " ( Putnam , 1952 ) , were reviewed in The New York Times . Two more of my books were published outside the United States in more than ten Western countries . Except for a few years , as you see , I " created literature " every year since the publication of " A Thousand . Shall Fall . " The remark of your reviewer : " I know of at least one prominent Central European author who tore up a book contract because his blood pressure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " ? this remark conveys a harmful innuendo . The " prominent Central European author " is no author at all . He is ? ? ? now publishing a widely unread propaganda periodical in Austria . For several years before I ever became connected with the German publishing flan of Kurt Desch , Munich , the " prominent Central European author " had a contract with the firm without delivering his promised book . He was , incidentally , the same man who " tore up " another unfulfilled contract with a publishing house in Frankfurt , claiming that he would not be published under the same roof with  --  Thomas Mann . Among those who continued to be published in Germany by Kurt Desch , together with me , are : John Steinbeck , Jean Cocteau . Pearl Buck , Thomas Mann , Hans Helmut Kirat , Jean Anouilh , Erskine Caldwell , Albert Camus , Julien Green , Erich Maria Remarque . HA NS HAI3E . St. Wolfgang am see , Austria . wised versions of today . It is also the verdict of the Latin Vulgate and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ James version stands alone in the statement that " even to him were children born . " There is nothing in this Hebrew text or in the Biblical account of Sham to lustily the misleading " even . " LUTHER A. WEIGLE . New Haven , Conn . Hurley To THE EDITOR : lN his review of Don Lohbeck 's " Patrick J. Hurley , " William S. White characterizes the book as " a long , loving book that has all the earmarks of highly authorized biography . " If by " authorized biography " Mr. White means that General Hurley asked Mr. Lohbeck to write the book , or in any way supported its publication , it is not an authorized biography .                     