@@720739

txt Premier Khrushchev proposed today that all the nations of the world abolish their weapons and armed forces within four years and turn to competition in the arts of peace . The Soviet Premier , speaking to the General Assembly , warned that " a single spark " would be enough to start a nuclear war . With " general and complete disarmament , " he said , " there would remain no material possibilities for the pursuit by states of any other than a peaceful policy . " He proposed that only forces needed to maintain internal security be retained . Mr. Khrushchev recalled that when Maxim M. Litvinov , the Soviet representative at the League of Nations , proposed total disarmament in 1927 and 1932 , critics attributed it to the weakness of the Soviet Union . It would be " preposterous " to make such a statement now , Mr. Khrushchev emphasized . Anticipates Objections The Soviet Premier , anticipating Western objections that his proposal was " Impracticable , said that his Government would agree to partial disarmament if the Western powers did not accept @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ call for the withdrawal of United States forces from Western Europe and the liquidation of United States bases overseas , and are unacceptable to the Western powers . Secretary of State Christian A , Herter promised ' ' very careful examination " of the proposals , but drew attention to the necessity of " control , " because " up to now the previous proposals have foundered on the Soviet Government 's refusal to agrbe to effective controls . " Other Western delegates were more critical , and expressed the belief that the speech , which said that some of the money saved by disarmament should go to under-developed countries , was a propaganda appeal to the peoples of Asia , Africa and Latin America . Under the three-stage Soviet program , the armies , navies and air forces of the world would be abolished , and foreign bases would be liquidated . All types of armaments , including nuclear , rocket , bacteriological and chemical weapons , would be destroyed , and the manufacture of replacements would be prohibited . . Nuclear energy and rockets would then be used solely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ state would ' retain any type of military force beyond that required to maintain internal security . He promised " strict " international control by an organization in which all states would have membership . He said that the control organization " may set up a system of aerial observation and air photography over the territories , " thus reviving the proposal for the detection of surprise attacks made by President Eisenhower at the summit conference in 1955 . However , Mr. Khrushchev 's program apparently would defer the establishment and operation of the control body pntil the third and final phase of total disarmament was reached . Ceilings on Forces Asked In addition , a Soviet " declaration " outlining the program said that the first stage would be confined to the establishment of ceilings of 1,700,000 men on the armed forces of the Soviet Union , the United States and Communist Chinn , and 650 , - 000 for Britain and France . Armed forces and bases on foreign countries would be abolished in the second stage . The prohibition of air forces , nuclear weapons and outer space @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The essence of all proposals is that over a. period of four years all states should effect complete disarmament and should no longer have any means of waging war , " Mr. Khrushchev said . " This means that land armies , navies and air forces shall cease to exist ; that general staffs and war ministries shall be abolished ; that military educational establishments shall be closed . Dozens of millions of men shall return to peaceful creative labor . " The partial disarmament program , as Mr. Khrushchev noted , was based on the Soviet propo sacs of May 10 , 1955 , which for a time gave new life to negotiations in the subcommittee of the United Nations Disarmament Commission . The partial program is as follows : The establishment of a control and inspection zone , with the reduction of foreign troops in the territories of the corresponding countries of Western Europe . gThe establishment of a denuclearized zone in Central Eurtme. gThe withdrawal of all foreign troops from the territories of European states and liquidation of military bases in foreign territories . gThe conclusion of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Organization and the Warsaw Treaty states . gAgreement on the prevention of surprise attack by one state against another . Plan Proposed by Pole All these points have been championed by the Soviet Union in recent years , although it has given only sporadic support to the proposal for an atom-free zone . This was first advanced by Adam Rapacki , Foreign Minister of Poland , in a speech in the General Assembly in October , 1957 . The first point did not make clear whether the " reduction " of foreign troops in Western Europe would be matched by reductions in Soviet forces in the Soviet satellites . No machinery for inspection and control to determine compliance was suggested by Mr. Khrushchev . V The first half-hour of the Premier 's seventy - two - minute speech repeated the arguments he had advanced in favor of peaceful coexistence since his arrival in the United States Tuesday . He took occasion to emphasize once again the advantages he hopes will result from his exchange of visits with President Eisenhower . Mr. Khrushchev , who was the sole speaker at today 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Soviet representatives ? Andrei A. Gromyko , Yakov A. Malik , the late Andrei Y. Vishinskyhave used in the past when presenting disarmament proposals to the Assembly . He was applauded when he walked into the Assembly hall with Dr , Victor A. Belaunde of Peru , the Assembly President . But the only major applause during his speech was when be denounced the Nationalist Goveinment of China as " a corpse , " and said that the Assembly should " carry it out " and seat the representatives of Communist China . The nine members of the Soviet bloc , together with some Asian delegates , applauded determinedly at this statement . : The ten seats allotted to Nationalist China Were vacant . Dr. T. F. Tsiang , the permanent delegate , had announced in advance that the delegation would boycott Mr. Khrushchev 's appearance in the belief that the special arrangements made for his appearance at the United Nations went too far . There was a shorter round of applause when Mr. Khrushchev began to discuss the disarmament situation . Indian and most Asian and African delegates applauded when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ most Western delegations were silent . The Assembly adjourned immediately afterward , and Mr. Khrushchev , accompanied by Foreign Minister Gromyko left with Secretary General Dag Hammarskjold on a tour of the United Nations headquarters . Later Mr. Khrushchev had a short talk with Mr. Hammarskjold , and he returned tonight for a dinner given by the Secretary General in his honor . Welcomes New Members Mr. Khrushchev gave a warm welcome to the new members of the United Nations from Asia and Africa  --  he did not include Israel since the Soviet Union now backs the Arab states . Aside from his disarmament ' program , the only comment he I made on other United Nations problems was his insistence that the organization must not take decision except by unanimous vote . Both the Assembly ' and the Council of the League of Nations were required to . take I most decisions by unanimous vote , and this played a part in the failure of the predecessor of the United Nations . - Mr. Khrushchev 's insistence upon the necessity of the veto seemed to be a comment on ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ negative , vote of the soviet Union , Ito establish a subcommittee of inquiry into the situation in Laos . However , the Soviet Premier did not mention Laos . He appealed to the United ' States ; Britain and France to ' agree ' to a settlement of the Berlin question ; but . did not elaborate on the Soviet position . It was assumed that if Mr. it Khrushchev has anything new to say on either Berlin or the prohibition of nuclear test explosions , he is saving it for his final talks with President Eisenhower . These will be held at Camp David in Maryland at the end of the Premier 's visit to the United States . Mr. Khrushchev 's failure to offer any concessions on the test explosion question was perhaps the most disappointing feature of his speech .. Negotiations between the United States , Britain and the Soviet Union , which began in Geneva last October , are to be resumed in a few days . The differences have been narrowed to the point where only a few mutual concessions could produce an agreement . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ refusal to drop its opposition to a dependable inspection system . Mr. Herter told reporters tonight that the Soviet disarmament proposals would be considered by the new ' ten-nation disarmament group that the Big Four has set up outside the United Nations . This will meet , in Geneva early next ' year . Mr. , Herter said he was uncertain whether the Soviet proposals would be considered in the Assembly . This might mean that the Western majority will insist that the proposals be considered by ? the disarmament group rather than by the As- ! sembly . In any event , ? Mr. Khrushchev 's proposal for total diearmament stands no better chance of acceptance than the proposal by Mr. Litvinov between the world wars . The League of - Nations Disarmament Commigslon ended ! in failure , and Mr. : Khrushchev pointed out today that the years of- negotiations ? in the United Nations have produced no result .. Many delegates believe it to be unrealistic , ift the existing state of international tension , to talk about total disarmament after the failure of earlier efforts . Their hopes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on such a peripheral question ' as the ' prohibition - of nuclear ' test explosions .                     