@@719306

txt A financial maneuver as thrilling to economists as a 30-yard forward pass to college football enthusiasts is under way . The maneuver is almost incomprehensible to laymen . Yet it affects every citizen of the United States and a good part of the free world as well , because it involves the value of the American dollar . The Federal Reserve Board has , in short , modified its tight money policy . It is going to make credit easier rather than tighter . Bank Credit Involved In practical terms this means it has taken its foot a little way off the credit brake . Its decision is implemented through a complicated mechanism of bank credit . To the financial world this is clear and dramatic evidence that the Reserve Board now feels the national economy needs acceleration , rather than a brake . " And high time , too ! " say many economists in and out of government , who have seen the national economy trying  --  with the brake on  --  to climb what looked like a hill of adverse business reports . There @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ change of signals . Even while most of the public still regards inflation as the primary problem and privately financed advertisements warning against inflation are still appearing in newspapers , the Reserve Board signals that it thinks the danger of inflation  --  temporarily , at least  --  has flattened out . Timing Holds Key It means that the Reserve Board now feels that the danger of deflation is currently greater than that of inflation and that of a business decline greater than that of a galloping business boom . . lust like the thrilling 30 yard forward pass in the college football game everything now depends on timing . Will the Reserve Board 's pass now be " completed , " or will economic events which it has not foreseen knock the ball down ? The problem is extremely difficult because involves psychological as well as economic factors . Furthermore , a third complication has now appeared  --  the propect of increased federal defense expenditures to answer Moscow 's sputnik . Whatever President Eisenhower may feel to the contrary , Washington observers largely believe that public opinion is going to make @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more than the administration now itself expects . Such expenditures are powerful business stimulants . Unless controlled they will be inflationary . Thus the new Federal Reserve operation may resolve into three stages on the time sheet : I. An immediate upsurge : Word of relaxation , or reversal , of the Reserve Board hard money credit policy , is stimulating news for the stock market . After a five-year rise of stock prices on Wall Street this peaked Aug. 9 , 1956 when the New York Times sensitive composite stock average made an all-high of 354 points . Since then it has driftqd into a slump , and was down Nov. 14 to 267 points . 2 . Middle distance enigma : A change in psychology will not of itself , however , change hard economic facts which brought stock market values down in the first place and caused the Reserve Board to alter its credit policy now . Too Much Delay ? Stock prices fell , basically , because proportionate dividend yields fell notably in relation to bond yields . These yields wo n't go up again until business @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . A dozen different economic statistics now show business in a mild contraction , " rolling adjustment " or " lull " ? which some economists argue is accurately described as a recession . Whatever an ebullient stock market may do in the first rush of good news , the long range state of business will be more decisive . Some economists think the Reserve Board waited too long to give the joyful word  --  once the economy loses momentum , they argue , it is not easy to revive it . 3 . , Long range : defense rise ? . Antisputnik defense spending may well outbalance all other factors . It will take a year , a year and a half , or two years after Congress meets in January to get a massive new defense push under way if this is , ordered . Power in Reserve Mr. Eisenhower has not yet spelled out what he wants in his two preliminary " chins-up " speeches ; many here believe the decision will be fdrced by public opinion in any case . A bigger federal defense budget can be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other parts of the budget , ( b ) higher taxes , ( c ) deficit spending . Deficit spending is not abnormal , it is customarily used in wartime ; if controls are resolute enough , inflation can be curbed.                     