@@713906

txt On May 27 the Secretariat of the United Nations Economic Commission ' for Europe released its annual review of economic conditions in that area . In the final section of the review it urged that the only practical answer to the present threat of inflation in those countries was an upward revaluation of their currencies in terms of the dollar . Whether by coincidence or not , on ' that same day the International Monetary Fund issued its second annual report on exchange restrictions . The . agency that was set up at Bretton Woods to coordinate international cur : rency policy in the interest of world exchange stability took the occasion to remind its forty-nine member nations ' that they would be required soon to - make good on their commitments to ? ? eliminate or modify exchange restrictions in trade discrimination . Exchange restrictions , it pointed out , could be retained beyond March , 1952 , only by special permission of the Fund . The report anticipated the possibility that many countries in which the " dollar shortage " problem had now largely disappeared @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the postwar transition period on the ground that they were needed as protection against the impact of the rearmament effort . With this in mind the officials of the Fund observed : Historical experience indicates ? that greater efficiency or productivity in the economic field is encouraged by an international economic environment relatively free from hampering restrictions and discrimination . Whether the United Nations report was meant as a trial balloon to test American reaction to the idea of another " revaluation of convenience " we have no way of knowing . But there is little doubt that it has been widely construed as such , and that it has provided those with a vested interest in the continuance of post-war restrictions with a rationalization of their hopes . In the circumstances , we think the Statement just issued by Secretary of the Treasury Snyder on this subject was urgently called for and should be warmly applauded . Mr. Snyder made it unmistakably clear that as between the monetary philosophy reflected in the E. C. E. report and that of the Monetary Fund this country stood uncompromisingly behind the Bretton Woods @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ working I toward an international solution of in ternational economic problems , not toward regional solutions . And he added : " The appreciation of currencies is not , in my view , a solution of the world-wide inflationary situation . " At I the same time he vigorously seconded the demand by the Fund that member countries relax their exchange restrictions and put an end to arbitrary discrimination against the trade of nations . In short , if we read the Secretary 's statement correctly , what he is saying is that any country that has improved its exchange position vis- ? - vis the United States sufficiently to be thinking of raising its dollar value of its currency is strong enough to begin putting that currency on its own feet , as was contemplated in the Bretton Woods Agreement . We can not agree with The London Economist that there " need be no moral overtone " in this debate , and that it is " a straight question of economic expediency . " Yet it is interesting to note that even as a matter of expediency , so far @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Nations group , in the opinion of that informed journal , would do more harm than good . Looking at the plan from the standpoint of foreign exchange , The Economist argues that revaluation would be justified only if it could be assumed that the present situation promised to be permanent ; which , it thinks , is not the case . If we are to accept it as a transitory phenomenon , then it can best be turned to Britain 's advantage by permitting gold and dollar reserves to accumulate , meantime reducing some of the existing restrictions on imports . From the standpoint of Britain 's domestic problem , The Economist points out that the Budget of the Chancellor of the Exchequer contemplated , and is in fact based upon , the expectation of " rising prices reflecting the higher cost of imports . " The only substitute course of action would be either a sharp cut in subsidies or still higher taxes . And the editors of this weekly conclude : " It is , of course , deplorable that some form of inflation can not be avoided @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at least be the kind that pushes the economy in the right direction . "                     