@@713486

txt The Chinese Communists ' rejection of the United Nations cease-fire proposals is contained in an interesting document . It may help to clear the atmosphere in revealing the present state of Chinese Communist mentality and also in showing the basis upon which the Chinese Communists are willing to discuss the return of peace to the Far East . Communist Foreign Minister Chou En-lai , as monitored in Tokyo , put forward a six-point argumpnt It . can be summarized as this : 1 .. The cease-fire proposal is unlawful oecause the Chinese Communists did not call upon themselves to stop shooting . 2 . The United States has not acceded to Chinese Communist demands that all United Nations forces be withdrawn from Korea ; hence the United States has no sincere desire for peace . 3 . The United States approved the cease-fire proposal in the hope of setting a trap . 4 . The issues at stake are larger than Korea , and the United States has acted aggressively in respect to Formosa and the Manchurian boundary , while the Communists have acted lawfully in sending @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ states have been tricked by the United States and should get away from United States domination . 6 . The Chinese Communists may be ready to discuss the cease-fire proposal only after all United Nations troops are withdrawn from Korea , after the United States withdraws its Seventh Fleet from the Formosa Strait and after the Chinese Communists are admitted to the United Nations . The first five points in this rodomontade are obvious window dressing . They may have been necessary for domestic consumption . The repeated confusion of the United States with the United Nations is a deliberate falsification directly in line with the Soviet Union 's drumfire of distortion in the United Nations . The accusation of stupidity brought against the thirteen Asian and Arab states lays the ground for the future charge that they are mere American puppets . The correspondence of this attitude toward the Soviet thesis that the whole of the United Nations with the exception of the Soviet bloc is a manipulated tool of " Anglo-American imperialism " is significant . The sixth argument , however , is clear and to the point . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ terms for the surrender of the United Nations . First , Korea must be abandoned . Second , Formosa must be left . to the Chinese Communists if they can take it . Third , the Chinese Communists must be admitted to the United Nations before peace can even be discussed . There need be no misapprehension , now , as to what Peiping wants  --  and especially how Peiping proposes to go about getting it . Those terms pose some problems for the United Nations in its search for peace . The international organization is committed to the establishment of a free and united Korea , and authorized the dispatch of United Nations forces to the peninsula to repel an invasion , denounced as aggressive , and to assist in carrying out that aim . The Chinese Communists now demand a repudiation of that commitment . The Formosa position was taken unilaterally by the United States to protect the flank of military forces in Korea . ( It also protected the flank of the Chinese Communists with its neutralization of the Strait , but Peiping does not seem to realize @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to submit this unilateral action to United Nations scrutiny at any time , but is not prepared to change a policy at the behest of Chinese Communist blackmail . Sim larly , the . United Nations has had th question of Chinese Communist repr ( sentation before it for some time , NJ the United Nations has not hithert had to face the problem of a prospec tive member that proposed to come i not by ballot but at gun point . President Trumann and Prime Minis ter Attlee declared jointly that the : contemplated no policy that would bi a " reward of aggression . " Yet the Chi nese Communists are now demanding such a reward and putting it forwarc openly as the price of a cease-fire . Thi : is not " compromise " or " negotiation ' or " peace-seeking . " It is a demand fat a surrender of principles and commitments . It is hard to see how the United Nations can do anything in honor except to stand its ground . The overwhelming force of Chinese Communist manpower may require a military retreat simply @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ resources commensurate with those that the Chinese Communists are willing to throw against it . There is no need , however , for a moral retreat . There is need , on the contrary , for a moral offensive , and the United Nations will be well advised to mount it without further delay .                     