@@716239

txt The United States delegation to the Far Eastern conference now concedes that several months will be required to negotiate the Southeast Asia defense pact that was proposed by Secretary of State John Foster Dulles before the start of the conference . Mr. Dulles , accompanied by Mrs. Clare Boothe Luce , United States Ambassador to Italy , will fly to Milan tomorrow morning for a talk with Italian Premier Mario Scelba , then will continue to Washington . On his arrival in Washington Tuesday Mr. Dulles plans to confer with Congressional leaders after reporting to President Eisenhower and assaying reports on Indo-China developments . The United States position , which apparently would make any American military help for Indo-China during the critical days ahead depend on Congressional action , is based on the following reasoning : First , military action by the United States without Congressional authorization is possible only if there is an armed attack upon the United States or military action is called for by defense treaties . Second , the Southeast Asia defense agreement will take time , just as the North Atlantic Treaty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , in the meanwhile , therefore , any military action in IndoChina depends upon Congress . This position was implicit in Mr. Dulles ' rejection before the conference opened of France 's urgent request for military aircraft , with crews , for the defense of Indo-China . However , the po- sition as now revealed seems to make any kind of military action dependent on Congress . Observers assume that even if Congressional opinion were in favor considerable time would be required for the necessary legislation . Ever since he became Secretary of State , Mr. Dulles has been suggesting to the French that they bring the Indo-China questions before the United Nations . Presumably , though this has not been stated in detail , if the United Nations decided on military action to halt the aggression the United States could act without Congressional authorization as it did in Korea . However , France has been unwilling to adopt such a course , fearing a general debate in the United Nations on her colonial policy and it is understood that Mr. Dulles has not Made a point of this suggestion in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ information is available about the United States delegation 's views on what action the executive department should recommend to Congress . In any case Mr. Dulles ' reports on developments here will have to be put together with the information available in Washington . However , as though to emphasize that he is going ahead with his proposal for the Southeast Asia defense pact , Mr. Dulles called a meeting of the ANZUS Council here this afternoon to discuss plans for the new agreement . The council , which consists of the foreign ministers of the United States . Australia and New Zealand , was set up under the United States treaty of mutual defense with the two Pacific powers . Casey Returning Home Richard G. Casey , Australian Minister of External Affairs , said afterward that Indo-China was naturally the most important matter discussed and recalled that Gen. Walter Bedell Smith , Under Secretary of State , and the Australian and New Zealand Ambassadors in Washington had been consulting there in recent weeks as deputies of the foreign ministers . Mr. Casey said that the ideas put forward during the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Australia and New Zealand . Mr. Casey is returning to Australia tomorrow and said that en route he would discuss the suggestions with other Commonwealth leaders and representatives including Malcolm Macdonald , British Commissioner for Southeast Asia . The importance of the council meeting was illustrated by the fact that the United States representatives also included General Smith , who arrived today , Walter C. Robertson , Assistant Secretary of State for Far Eastern Affairs , Livingston T. Merchant , Assistant Secretary of State for European Affairs , and Vice Admiral Arthur C. Davis , director of the Office of Foreign Military Affairs of the Defense Department . It was understood that Mr. Dulles called attention to France 's appeal for military help , which Britain and the Commonwealth countries , including Australia and New Zealand , have not heeded . In any case the Australian Government had already announced that it would not be able to consider the question of military help for Indo-China until after the Australian general election on May 29 . United States circles declined today to discuss France 's request for the aircraft . It has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and here until the defense agreement is negotiated and signed , sufficient help can be provided under it to save the situation . However , the French view is that it would come too late . The United States program for a Korean settlement also has encountered difficulties , since most of the other United Nations members with troops in Korea disapprove the United States-South Korean program for elections in North Korea only . This , however , is less important since virtually no one thinks there will be a Korean settlement anyway . Also , the United States delegation feels that the North Korean proposals , as elaborated yesterday , are so unacceptable to nonCommunists that South - Korea 's position has been strengthened . The delegation takes particular satisfaction in the fact that the Soviet maneuvers to give Communist China official status at the conference as one of the five great powers have been defeated at every turn in the encounters up to now .                     