@@716353

txt A fiord of mailed ballots yesterday boosted Sen. McCarthy 's majority in ' THE CHICAGO TRI3UNE poll on the Pentagon-McCarthy hearings . Tabulations last night showed the Wisconsin senator had persuaded 88.8 per cent of the voters in the poll he had proved his charges against Army Secretary Stevens and his aids . This was a gain of 1.5 percentage points over the McCarthy total of 87.3 per cent Friday night . There was a decline in the percentage of ballots marked by voters who considered that Secretary Stevens had proved his charges against McCarthy in the televised , 36 day hearing . The Stevens percentage , which stood at 10.4 Friday *night , dropped to 9.5 per cent . Mail Votes Lead The remaining ballots were marked by persons who believed either that both sides had proved their charges or that neither side had won . For the first time since the poll started Thursday , mall ballots far outnumbered telephoned ballots . Aitho voters continued to dictate ballot markings to Tribune telephone operators , the mail returns now constitute nearly threefourths of the total . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ auditors counted the ballots . The letters came from Illinois , Wisconsin , Indiana , Michigan , and Iowa in large numbers , and there were scattered mail returns from more distant states . Provides Last Chance Telegraf returns also began to appear . A few came from New York , Florida , Mississippi , and Nebraska . Mail voters may use the ballot printed in today 's issue ? the last opportunity to register a verdict in one of history 's most widely publicized controversies . telephone ballots may be cast by calling SUperior 7-0200 and dictating ballot markings to the operators . Names and addresses of all callers are recorded with the ballots to prevent duplicate b a 11 o tin g . Names and addresses also are required on mailed ballots to make them valid . Stevens Runs Stronger The mail returns showed S t e v ens running somewhat stronger than in the telephoned returns altho McCarthy 's lead was overwhelming in both . The senator had a favorable verdict on 92.8 per cent of the telephoned ballots as compared with an 87.1 per percentage in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ballots . Altho THE TRIBUNE has pledged not to disclose names of voters , many writers asserted they would be glad to have their names identified . In some instances facsimilies of the ballot were prepared so that several votes could be forwarded with the 7me letter . One letter from 0 ? gisconsin contained a petition form drawn to duplicate the ballot and more than 30 persons had signed it .                     