@@716576

txt Justice Robert -H . Jackson of the Supreme court died here today of a heart attack . He was 62 years old and a member of rite court since 1941 . A spokesJackson man for the court announced that Jacxson died at 11:45 a. m. , Washington time , about 41/2 hours before the announcement was made . He was en route to the court in his automobile after making purchases at a department store and was stricken in the street near the home of his secretary , Mrs. Elsie Douglas . Second Heart Attack Jackson turned into his secretary 's home and his physician , Dr. Hill Carter , was called . Jackson died a few minutes after the physician arrived . The cause of death was announced as an attack of coronary thrombosis  --  formation of a blood clot in or near the heart . , Last April 1 he had suffeder a " mild " heart attack . Jackson leaves his wife , Mrs. Irene G. Jackson of , Va. , a son , William E. , New York City , and a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Va . Speculate on Successor The capital immediately began . speculating upon a successor . There was mention that the President might name State Secretary Dulles to the court and appoint Gov , Deweyof New York to replace Dulles . However , Dewey has an ? nounced his retirement from polities to practice law . Others mentioned tfor the seat include Chief Judge ( his L. Phillips . of the 10th circuit at Denver and a personal friend of the President ; Chief Judge John J. Parker of the 4th Circuit at Charlotte , N. C. ; Chief Justice Arthur T. Vanderbilt - of the New Jersey Supreme court , and Chief Justice John C. Bell Jr . of the Pennsylvania Supreme court . Nuernberg Prosecutor Jackson was one of the most controversial members of the court . He was a frequent dissenter even among his New Deal colleagues , but is best known for his unprecedented role as chief United States pro : secutor in the Nuernbergwar crime trials , during which lehd : ing figures in the Hitler regime were tried and convicted . Jackson also helped draw @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were to be conducted . He remained a member of the Su : preme court during the trials conducted between Nov. 20 , 1945 , and Oct. 1 , 1946 , when ' , the decisions were released . While in Germany ; Jackson stirred up another tempest by - cabling to the senate and house judiciary committees an unexampled attack on a fellow member of the Supreme court , Justice Hugo Black . He accused Black of conduct tending to bring the nation 's highest tribunal into disrepute by sitting in judgment on a case in which Black 's former law partner , Crampton Harris of Birmingham , Ala. , was interested , a n d. concerning interpretation of the fair labor . standards act , which Bl a c k sponsored as a senator . Black refused to ' disqualify himself . At the time ; associates said Jackson Vas piquetl. at Black for opposing his ambition to become chief justice . Twice Jackson lost out for ' the post which was believed promised him by President Roosevelt when he was appointed to the bench June 12 , 1941. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1952 when he agreed to step down from the tribunal and testify before a special house ' committee investigating the Katyn forest massacre of 15,000 Polish prisoners by Russians to 1940 . Rep. Sheehan R. , Ill. had , demanded Jackson 's appearance to explain why the Russian atrocities were not included in the war crime trials . Jackson agreed to testify and defended exclusion of the Katyn massacres , saying there was n't sufficient proof of Russian . hlame at the time and the international court was established only to try war criminals of the Hitler-Mussolini axis . Jackson 's death reduces the court to six Democrats  --  Justices Black , Reed , Frankfurter ; Douglas , Clark , and Minton ? and two Republicans  --  Chief Justice Warren and , Justice Burton . President Eisenhower is expected to nominate another Republican . Jackson rose rapidly during the New Deal administration as he won high favor with President Roosevelt . lie was born in Spring Creek , Pa. , en Feb. 13 ; 1892 , and was a small town lawyer in Jamestown , N. Y. , when called to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Jackson had never been to college but spent one year at an Albany , N. Y. ; law school . He was appointed general counsel of the bureau of internal revenue in 1934 . There he handed down a ruling , later attacked , allowing Mrs. Eleanor Roosevelt , the . President 's wife , to deduct more than the usual maximum 15 per cent of earnings for charitable contribu : In 1936 , Jackson was transferred to the justice department as assistant attorney general in charge of trust-busting . Two years later , Roosevelt appointed him solicitor general , representing the government in cases before a p p ellit e courts . He argued 24 cases before the Supreme court , losing three . In another two years , Jackson was top man in the justice department , being appointed attorney general in 1940 . The next year he became an associate Supreme court justice .                     