@@715732

txt Democrats assembled here profess anxiety over the administration 's foreign policy . Led by returned global traveler Adlai E. Stevenson , they charge that America 's prestige abroad is slipping while defenses are being cut at home . European observers watching this big off-year Democratic rally are deeply interested in the development . Nobody is surprised that the Democrats are n't quite happy over the way things are going in Washington , for that is the tra ditional prerogative of the " outs " against the " ins . " It had been assumed that the targets would be relatively safe subjects , such as declining farm prices and generalized charges of " big business government , " while the divided Democrats sought to close their own rifts and heal their own wounds . Stevenson Opens Drive Under the prestige and initiative of Mr. Stevenson , however , there seems a strong tendency to add foreign affairs to the list . After years of Republican attack on Democratic foreign policy , there is evidence of the start of a major Democratic attack on Republican foreign policy  --  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is being carried out . Mr. Stevenson opened a two-day drive on the subject by repeating the customary Democratic oharge that President Eisenhower has been saved by the minority party 's votes in Congress . " I only hope he realizes it , " Mr. Stevenson said in a direct reference to the President . Mr. Stevenson charged that many controversial issues in domestic matters had been postponed by the last session of Congress . " I suppose you might call it ' government by postponement , ' " he said . Hollow Gestures ' Blasted Then , swinging into foreign affairs , he said . " There is much in my heart that I would like to say here tohight about morale in our foreign ' service , about the effect of hollow political gestures like the much-advertised order to the Seventh Fleet and the abortive resolution denouncing secret treaties , about cuts in our defense , interference abroad , reckless smears at home , ambiguities in authority , recriminations and contradictions in policies and pronouncements . " Mr. Stevenson charged that the administration 's defense cuts , followed by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ me as though the administration was saying to the Reds : " ' One false move from you guys and we will cut the defense budget by another billion dollars . " Say Party Saved ' Ike ' Mr. Stevenson and other Democratic speakers , including former President Truman , did not so much attack the Eisenhower administration for taking new lines of foreign policy as for administration of old lines . " The struggle of alliances is shaken , " Mr. Stevenson charged , while " Moscow is using more seductive tactics . " He added that " the job of Democrats is to help every way that we can . " Like other Democrats , Senator Paul H. Douglas of Illinois charged that his party " on many votes " had " saved the nation from the isolationists and ultranationalists of his ( Mr. Eisenhower 's ) badly divided party . " Senator John J. Sparkman of Alabama asserted that in the first session of Congress " Democrats saved the President from his own party . " Bricker Amendment Hit Mr. Truman denounced the so-called " Bricker amendment , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ President 's treaty-making power . Mr. Eisenhower , and Secretary of State John Foster Dulles both oppose the proposal in its present form . So does Mr. Truman . " A bunch of Republicans in the Congress , " he declared , " is trying to put through a constitutional amendment that would tie the President 's hands in foreign affairs and write isolationism into the Constitution itself . " The Democrats at this party rally are saying , in effect , that they are saving Mr. Eisenhower from his own party . But they are going further . Some doubts are being expressed over the concessions made in the Korean truce . Thus Senator Douglas praised Candidate Stevenson for " his refusal to make impossible promises " in the campaign . Prestige Tumble Seen " He offered no hope of a cheap peace in Korea which might give away our security , " the Illinois senator added . Back from Denmark , Mrs. Eugenie Anderson , former Ambassador , charged that America 's prestige abroad " has suffered serious setbacks in the last six months , " accompanied by anti-Americanism @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , absence of clear-cut plans , disunity with Allies represented by the recent majority United Nations vote against the United States on the question of letting India sit at the Korean truce table , and " unchecked growth of irresponsible extremists in the administration " who , she asserted , violated the Bill of Rights and " labeled all things communism . " It surprised nobody at this big Democratic rally that the Republicans were the targets of attack . Democratic Debt Cut The administration will have its reply- at the GOP regional meeting here later this week . Democrats paid off a sizable chunk of their party debt by the $100-a-plate dinner , where 1,500 or more guests were on hand . Earlier there was a minor flurry at a breakfast gathering over the South 's opposition to the " loyalty oath " rule , but the whole thing was adeptly referred to a study committee . In fact , so mellow had visiting Democrats become that Mr. Stevenson observed that the Republicans would be accusing them next of " creeping harmony . " The gleeful audience laughed when Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Congress was worse  --  yes , worse even than his b  --  te noir , the celebrated " 80th Congress . " And Mr. Stevenson observed that Democrats were going to have a job " to keep the administration 's eye on the ball " and added , " and I did n't say golf ball . " Democrats smooth loyalty rift : Page 3.                     