@@713099

txt Nothing less than a cease-fire by the North Korean invaders and their withdrawal to their former territory above the Thirty-eighth Parallel will be accepted by the United States as a basis for settling the Korean war . These " minimum and irreducible conditions " were set forth by the State Department today in response to questions about efforts by other countries to mediate the Korean conflict . For this country , said a State Department spokesman , the " rock-bottom " demand would be a return , in effect , to conditions that prevailed before the North Korean Communists struck at the Republic of Korea . The United States also regards the United Nations as the " proper forum " for settling the Korean issue , because the action being taken against the invaders is a United Nations action , the spokesman said . Lincoln White , press officer , speaking , for the State Department , also ruled out bilateral negotiations on the Korean war between the United States and the Soviet Union . Note Is Under Study Three Secretaries of State ? Dean Acheson , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said " not once but a thousand times , " according to Mr. White , that this Government would not negotiate directly and bilaterally with the Soviet Union on issues of vital concern to other countries . Asked specifically about the United States reaction to a note delivered to the State Department yesterday by Mane . Vijaya Lakshmi Pandit , the Indian Ambassador , reportedly offering India 's assistance , as it also was offered in a note to Moscow , for a Korean settlement , Mr. White said only that the note was under study and presumably would be answered . " The United States position , however , is that we are acting in support of the Security Council which has made clear the basis of the United Nations action with respect to Korea , " Mr. White said . " The United Nations itself has set forth the solution of that problem bythe Security Council resolutions of June 25 and June 27 . " " The aggression of North Korea against the Republic of Korea was recognized by the United Nations Security Council on June 25 when it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it had become abundantly clear that the North Koreans had invaded and would not cease fire , then the Security Council called on all members of the United Nations to come to the support of South Korea . " The solution , said Mr. White , " is a cease-fire and a return to the Thirty-eighth Parallel . " Asked specifically whether those were the " minimum and irreducible conditions " for a settlement , the Department spokesman an-swered : " That 's right . That 's rock-bottom . " It was also made clear that the United States did not intend to accept as a condition of settlement the seating of the Chinese Communists in the United Nations . Informed sources have said repeatedly that the Chinese Cornmunist issue is not a quid pro quo of a Korean settlement . And the State Department has stated frequently also that , while it would oppose the entry of the Chinese Communist regime into the United Nations , it would not exercise the veto on its application . Today 's developments brought out openly this Government 's caution in regard to mediation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the Indian note of yesterday , many State Department officials are frank to admit that conditions for wediation just do not seem to exist . Secretary of State Acheson refused to coLiment of his new ; c .0 ference on Wednesday on the suggestion that any Soviet offer to call off the North Korean Communists , would be made only at a prohibitive price . Officials acknowledged today , however , that the Soviet Union was not likely to make any concessions while the course of the war favors the North Koreans , and that the United States could not make any compromises while its conditions for settlement are what they are .                     