@@718303

txt Secretary General Dag Hammarskjold warned today that Israel was jeopardizing the Palestine armistice by deciding that she could deal with border violations without United Nations supervision . Israel is boycotting the United Nations truce machinery . Mr. Hammarskjold maintained it was a dangerous situation when one party  --  meaning Israel ? decided unilaterally to make its own investigations and to take action by military forces on that basis . The warning was given in a letter to the Security Council , which opens another full-scale Palestine debate tomorrow on separate complaints from Jordan and Israel . Jordan has demanded that the Council punish Israel by diplomatic and economic sanctions for an attack last Thursday on a Jordanian police post in which Joraan said twenty-five Jordaian soldiers were killed . 48 Bodies Reported . Seen A report by the Palestine truce chief , Maj. Gen E. L. M. Burns , said United Nations observers had seen the bodies of forty-eight Jordanians . Israel has called the raid a reprisal for Jordanian acts of violence and asked the Council to take up " persistent " border violations by Jordan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the report of General Burns of Canada , which showed that in the first nine months of this year 199 Arabs and fifty-eight Israelis had been killed . The totals include both military and civilian losses . The Secretary General 's brief letter made two main points : that the Thursday reprisal attack had caused a " further deterioration " of the already tense border situation , and that one of the parties  --  meaning Israel ? had ceased cooperating with the truce machinery . Burns ' View Supported On this point , the Secretary General quoted General Burns ' reports that/ Israel had decided to make her own independent checks of alleged violations , to publish her conclusions and take military action on this basis ? all without United Nations confirmation . Mr. Hammarskjold added : " I endorse the view of the Chief'of Staff that this is a dangerous negation of vital elements of the armistice agreement . It represents a further step in the direction of limitation of the functions of the United Nations truce supervision organization . " An Israeli spokesman commented tonight that under Article @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the Mixed Armistice Commission but that they are not obliged to do so . He observed that there was nothing to prevent a sovereign state from conducting its own examination . The Secretary General wound up his remarks with a reminder that the Council 's line of action was clearly laid down both as regards the condemnation of " all acts of violence , " and also as regards the need for an efficiently operating truce organization . Israeli representatives walked out of the Jordanian-Israeli // Mixed Armistice Commission Oct. 1 after the United Nations chairman had accepted Jordan 's explanation that a crazed soldier had fired on an Israeli archaelogical party , killing four persons . Israel insisted that fire from two machine guns had attacked the party . Two days later , the Israeli Foreign Ministry announced that there was " no useful purpose " served in having the commission conduct an examination of incidents . Both Israel and Jordan were expected to be invited to make statements when the Council meets at 10:30 A. M. But it is expected that the regular Council members will hold off @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ element in the new Palestine debate was the difficulty that the Jordanian Government was experiencing in dealing with political unrest at home . Elections are scheduled for Sunday . They would add to the troubles of King Hussein if they were to result in a victory for anti-Western aired extremist groups . For these and related reasons , it was expected that Jordan would make a strong demand ' for a United Nations condemnation of Israel in the most forceful terms . She was believed to be counting heavily on the support of Britain , which has been trying to bolster the threatened regime in Amman by rushing military help to Jordan . New Outbreaks Are Feared JERUSALEM ( Israeli Sector ) , Oct. 18 ( UP ) ? The United Nations truce supervisor , Maj. Gen. E. L. M. Burns , said today that inclaents along the IsraeliJordanian border might result in an even more serious outbreak of hostilities . The Canadian general stressed that political considerations and the unwillingness of either side to make the concessions " to pay for peace " made a settlement at the present time @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's failure to repress marauding from Jordanian territory into Israel , together with the present Israeli policy of severe retaliations , " General Burns said in an interview . " Recent Israeli raids into Jordan have clearly been of an organized military nature and not infiltration , " he said . General Burns , who has headed the truce supervision staff since August , 1954 , said both Israel and her Arab neighbors must exhibit a strong " will to peace " if the United Nations truce mission is to succeed . Israeli Diplomats Confer JERUSALEM , Oct. 18 UP ) ? Israel 's Ambassadors to the Big Four capitals , who were summoned urgently to Jersualem Sunday , went into conference today with the Foreign Minister , Mrs. Golda Meir . Dulles Cautions Israelis Special to The New York Times . WASHINGTON , Oct. 18 ? Secretary of State John Foster Dulles was understood tonight to have told Abba Eban , the Israeli Ambassador , that Israel 's violent reprisal raids would aggravate the tense Middle East situation . The conversation took place Monday before Mr. Eban left for home @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that Mr. Dulles in his talk with Mr. Eban either attempted to censure their recent actions or to appeal to them in any sense . They were said to be impressed by what one diplomat called the " high level " of the discussion during which Mr. Dulles gave complete attention to the Israeli point of view .                     