@@716912

txt EISENHOWER GIVES PROMISE TO KEEP TROOPS IN EUROPE Says U.S. Role on Continent Will . Continue Indefinitely if Paris Accords Win URGES SOVEREIGN BONN President Pledges Full Aid to Western European Union in Notes to 7 Premiers Text of Eisenhower message is printed on Page 2 . By W. H. LAWRENCE Special to The New York Times . WASHINGTON , March 10 ? President Eisenhower affirmed today the intention of the United States to continue its efforts in the defense and development of Western Europe if the Paris agreements were ratified . The pledges were contained in parallel letters to the prime ministers of France , Italy , Belgium , Britain , West Germany . the Netherlands and Luxembourg . The aim of the policy statement was to hasten parliamentary ratification of the accords . These grant sovereignty to West Germany and provide for its arming in collaboration with the North Atlantic Treaty powers . By his personal message the President sought to cut the ground from under opponents who have spread fears that the United States might withdraw its forces when the twelve German divisions came @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ President 's promises were a repetition of the commitments he had made on behalf of the United States last ; April 16 provided the European Defense Community treaty be ratified . But the defense community project was defeated by the French Parliament . The Paris accords providing for a ' Western European Union were negotiated as a substitute for the defense community . , As before , the President promised that the United States would continue to maintain in Europe , including West Germany , armed forces at a level so that this country would contribute " its fair share of the forces needed ' for the joint defense of the North Atlantic area while a threat to ! that area exists . " Such forces will be deployed " in accordance with agreed North Atlantic strategy " for the defense of the area , he added . President Eisenhower pledged further that the United States would consult with other Atlantic alliance powers " on questions of mutual concern , including the level of forces from the // respective NATO ' countries to be placed at the disposal of the Supreme @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ States would not reduce at present the ground , air and naval forces without consultation with its allies . Once again the President said the United States obligations under the Atlantic treaty were " of indefinite duration rather than for any definite number of years . " " The United States calls attention ' to the fact that for it to cease to be a party to the North Atlantic Treaty would appear quite contrary to our security interests when there is established on the Continent of Europe the solid core of unity which the Paris agreements will provide , " he declared . He added the United States would " regard any action from whatever quarter which threatens the integrity or unity of the Western European Union as a threat to the security of the parties to the North Atlantic Treaty calling for consultation in accordance with Article IV of that treaty . " Substantially similar language was used in the April 16 statement . One New Promise Made There was one new promise . The President said the United States would be ready " to consult , if so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of ' the Western European Union with a view to assisting in the achievement of its objective of controlling armament and preventing unjustified military preparations within the members of the Union . " Pierre Mend ? s-France , former French Premier , proposed this arms control agency as a safeguard against a rebirth of German militarism . At present , the United States maintains six divisions of troops in Europe , most of them in West Germany . They are supported by eighteen wings 3f United States bombers , fighters , transports and troop carriers . The United States Sixth Fleet is in the Mediterranean . The area is dotted with big bomber bases . The President did not say that all these forces would remain in Europe . He did say the United States would continue to bear " a.fair share " in the defense of Europe . In any event , he added , the United States forces will not be reduced without consultation with others in. the Atlantic alliance . The White House said the new message spelled out assurances already given orally to the West European powers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Presidential statement was aimed at forthcoming votes in European legislative assemblies . Only Britain has completed ratification . ' The lower houses in France , Italy , West Germany and Belgium have approved the agreements , but the upper houses have not completed their actions . The Netherlands and Luxembourg have not acted yet , but ratification by those two countries is assumed . Besides the specific pledges . the President 's message was a broad argument for European unity . He emphasized again and again the good that would flow to Europe from approval of the Paris agreements . He also stressed that West Germany must get its sovereignty . He said that during the last ten years the German people and their Government " have demonstrated that they are capable of worthily discharging their responsibilities as a self-governing member of the free and peaceful world community . " He said it was his belief that the Paris accords " will promote progress toward unity in Western Europe and draw together those whose past differences have led to recurrent war and gravely depleted Europe 's human , material and moral @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @              