@@716721

txt Britain now is assessing . the North Atlantic Treaty Organization decisions taken in Paris  --  and finding them wise , necessary , but not necessarily pleasant . As the nation whose historic agreement in September to commit British troops to the European continent did most to make possible a new European defense arrangement , this country feels intimately concerned at how the expanded NATO is to function . Considered wise here is the NATO decision to compromise by facing , yet straddling , the issue of who may authorize use of atomic weapons . As things stand now , the military leaders are regarded as authorized to plan their European defenses on the assumption that atomic weapons can be used to resist attack . Precaution Praised This will provide the strength for Western Europe that Britain is so anxious to see attained  --  anxious enough to make an unparalleled ? commitment of its own . Balancing this , authority to set the time and place of using atomic weapons is to be retained by the Atlantic Council , NATO 's political master . This likewise is deemed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not become a big war become one because NATO prematurely indulged in all-out preventive measures . Reassurance is felt that future incidents of the Sarajevo type need not develop into a world war . No genuine Pearl Harbor , on the other hand , is to pass unchallenged . Nor , presumably , will the West now be left without adequate means for swift retaliation , agreed upon in advance if certain conditions prevail . Britain , meanwhile , is taking perhaps a clearer view of the costs and responsibilities involved in the new NATO decisions than some of the other signatories . It is being made plain here that NATO 's " new look " will cost more , not less . The relaxation of the past year and the low targets for 1955 will need to be foresworn . This applies to all , but especially to the Scandinavian and Low Countries , which have been pruning military budgets and reducing or failing to raise conscription rates and service terms . This , experts here conclude , is due partly to Kremlin conciliation attempts , partly to the prospect @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that NATO 's minimum goals long have been based on early availability of 12 German divisions . Atomic Problems , Too So the feeling is that the " new look " also will involve continued financial and manpower sacrifices for a long and probably indefinite interval . Moreover , now that it is committed to some use of atomic weapons , NATO 's problem becomes far more than " restraining rash militarists "  --  a phrase which does NATO generals an injustice , since they hardly are anxious to take responsibility for so grave a decision . NATO 's shift toward atomic weapons , meanwhile , is recognized here as indicating that its stockpile of conventional weapons and regular divisions will be diminished . NATO admittedly can not attain preponderance in both types of arms . Britain , for instance , already is spending a third of its defense budget on atomic research and production . The conclusion being reached here , therefore , is that a future European war , if it can not be prevented , is more likely than ever to be fought with atomic implements . Yet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be able to fight conventional warfare as well as atomic war remains undiminished , and is recognized by British authorities . Otherwise , in event of conventional attack , NATO 's unpleasant alternatives would be to accept defeat or change the clash into an atomic affray.                     