@@716760

txt No one , not even the members of the Atomic Energy Commission who are most familiar with the field , can foresee how the Commission 's new program for the industrial development of atomic power will work out . Yet despite the uncertainty of the future , or even perhaps because of it , the program is one to be welcomed . Until the enactment of the 1954 Atomic Energy Act at the insistence of President Eisenhower atomic energy remained what it had been from the beginning , not only a Federal Government monopoly but a monopoly shut up in a closet , frustrated and sterile for all purposes save destruction . Men talked of freeing it because it was plainly a resource of magnificent possibilities for mankind ; yet no one knew how to begin and many feared to try . The fear has long since been altered , if not diminished , by the awareness that whether we wished it or not knowledge could no longer be hidden ; nothing could halt its uses for destruction if others chose to use it against us . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for other purposes , how it could be made fruitful , is still with us . The 1954 Act removed some of the legal barriers to private construction and experimentation with power producing reactors . But it offered no blueprint on how . And of course it answered none of the scientific , technological or economic questions . What the A.E.C. has done now is to say , " The way to begin is to begin , so let us start and see what happens . " The Commission has invited proposals from private industry to construct privately owned power plants . The Government will offer the basic raw material , uranium , and buy back one of the by-products of power production , plutonium , which it requires anyway for its weapons program . The electric power that is produced will be sold or put to use in the usual fashion . The plan may attract many private industries or none . If any try , they may find this particular plan feasible or impractical ; all the technical questions are just as unanswered as they were yesterday . But @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ way to begin . That alone is enough to make it welcome . The long fear of atomic power has been understandable ; Hiroshima was not something men could view with equanimity . So too has been the uncertainty ; the problems of its peaceful use are ones for which we have neither precedent nor prescience . But men solve their problems only by beginning on them , and without a beginning atomic power would surely remain primarily the power of destruction .                     