@@720188

txt President Eisenhower relaxed with close friends in his nearby mountain hideaway , Camp David , Saturday , in apparent unconcern at the strafing directed his way by fellow Republicans holding a party strategy conference in Des Moines . While the President kept his silence , some observers considered it strange  --  and some Republicans considered it unfortunate  --  that he chose to vacation with wealthy business man cronies in the same week that his party was calling for a no-holiday rebuilding drive and for erasing the " big business " image from the G. 0 . P. in the public eye . Asks Year Around Work On Thursday , the day before he left Washington for a week-end at the Catoctin mountain camp , Mr. Eisenhower in a message to the Des Moines conclave called upon Republicans seeking a comeback from their 1958 col lapse to make political activ. ity an unremitting , 365 days a year effort . Highly placed Republicans at Des Moines , in ? eluding the House and Senate campaign chairmen , Rep. Richard Simpson Pa. and Sen. Barry Goldwater Ariz. , contended @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ President took off in a chauffeur driven limousine Friday afternoon for a leisurely sojourn at Camp David , without replying to the sharp jabs from his own political camp . To some Republicans Mr. Eisenhower showed poor timing , too , in choosing , as usual on his holidays , to include two of his favorite wealthy friends in private business as companions for the week-end . National Chairman Meade Alcorn had told the Des Moines meeting that a major party goal in looking toward 1960 must be to wipe out the " party of big business " tag that the opposition has hung on the G. O. P. Bridge with Rich Pals The President 's companions this week-end include William E. Robinson , president of the Coca-Cola company , a n d George E. Allen , Washington attorney and financier and a pal of both Democrats Franklin Roosevelt and Harry Truman when they were President . The only other house guest at the camp is Gen. Alfred M. Gruenther , president of the American Red Cross . The President and Allen motored 25 miles Saturday morning to inspect the Eisenhower @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they were joined by Robinson and Gruenther for an afternoon and evening at the bridge table . The President 's affinity for spending most of his leisure time with wealthy executives is considered by many party workers as a political liability to the party . Mr. Eisenhower has never paid much heed to this complaint . He takes the view that when he can get away from the White House for a week-end or a longer vacation , the company he keeps is a personal matter . Fascinated by Success A man of humble origins himself , Mr. Eisenhower seems to find a certain fascination in successful big business men . His hobnobbing with them dates roughly back to the late 1940s when as army chief of staff he began golfing frequently at the plush National Golf club at Augusta , Ga. , which is still his favorite vacation spot . The club membership of 200 is made up largely of nonresident millionaires who use the lush links and swank clubhouse as a holiday retreat . The President 's holiday tastes , apart from Augusta , run usually to other swank @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; plantation surrounded Thomasville , Ga. ; Palm Springs , Cal. , where Hollywood millionaires abound , and the Monterey , Cal. , peninsula , dotted with mansions on rolling estates . Surrounded by Wealth The President 's companions on such sojourns are almost invariably business executives with annual incomes in six figures . He seldom golfs , hunts , or plays bridge with Republican professionals or with members of his official family , except that in Washington he golfs now and then at the Burning Tree club with a G. 0 . P. senator or congressman .                     