@@715672

txt Possibility that the slaying of Ald. Henry H. Noel , 71 , in his " home here yesterday was a political assassination rather than the act of a quick triggered burglar was pointed up today by an anonymous letter threatening the lives of the mayor and chief of police . The letter , which was addressed to Mayor Edwin A. Seibel , political ally of Noel , was mailed in Holyoke and postmarked at 8 p. m. yesterday . Its crudely written message was : " You , Mayor Seibel , and Potvin are next . " William H. Potvin , 36 , a business man , has been chief of police since April by appointment of the mayor . At the bottom of the letter , names of Noel , Seibel , and Potyin appeared with a box drawn after each name in the manner of a ballot . The box after Noel 's name contained an " X. " Lays Letter &; to Crank Seibel , a Republican and executive secretary of the Holyoke Taxpayers ' association for 16 years prior to his surprise victory @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mayor , said he thinks the-Anonymous letter is the work of a ' crank . He said he thinks the writer is a political enemy trying to take advantage of the Noel slaying to frighten city officials . Chief Potvin said he agrees with the mayor and that neither he nor the mayor plan any special precautions to protect their lives . However , a police guard has been on duty at Potvin 's home for several days since bricks were thrown thru a window , endangering his children , and air was let out of tires of. , his car . Both Noel , Seibel and the chief had , been receiving numerous telephone calls in recent weeks from persons shouting profanity and obscenity . Most of these calls came in early morning hours and none has been traced . They have been attributed to resentment against police reforms put into effect by Seibel with Noel 's backing and carried out by Potvin . Introduced Economies In his years as head of the taxpayers ' association , Seibel was noted as an outspoken foe of waste in municipal government , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ him into office last April in this traditionally Democratic stronghold , S eibel ' proceeded promptly to introduce economies he had long advocated . Seibel dismissed Timothy F. Grady , veteran police chief , supplanting him with Potvin , who had no previous police experience . He decreed an end to the practice of using police cruisers to take officers home for lunch . He halted assignment of two or more men to cruisers , and put men thus freed for other duty to walking beats . ' Noel , a veteran of the city council , had been prominent for years in Massachusetts Republican politics . A light sleeper , he awakened early yesterday when an intruder entered his home by foping a downstairs window . Carrying a .22 caliber rifle , Noel walked downstairs to be met by a masked gunman who killed him with a bullet from a .32 ralihor nista. 