@@713438

txt A citizens ' atomic defense system costing 3.1 billion dollars in ' three years was proposed today by President Truman 's n e w civil defense admin istr a tion . Shelter construction alone would take 2 ? A. billion dollars of the fund to be provided by federal , state , and local governments . The plan was laid before congress by James J. Wadsworth , acting deputy civil defense administrator , as officials representing American cities blasted the government for delay in getting started on civil defense . Delegates to the annua ' congress of the American Municipal association declared that threatening world conditions required prompt action to protect American cities against A-bombings . Millions for Equipment Wadsworth outlined the civil defense program as follows : 2V4 , billion dollars for " communal " shelters and 200 million dollars for heavy equipment to be paid in equal shares by the federal government on one hand , and by state and local governments on the other ; 200 million dollars for local personnel and administration to be borne by state and local governments ; 400 million @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and 32 million dollars for communications for the air raid warning system to be provided by the federal government . Wadsworth ? aid the federal government would supply 54 per cent or 1 billion , 670 million dollars of the total 3 year cost . Wadsworth discussed the program at an open meeting of the joint congressional atomic energy committee . Legislation to authorize the program has been introduced in both houses . Referred to Committee Vice President Barkley , as presiding officer of the senate , referred the pleasure ig that house to the senate armed services committee , deciding a jurisdictional quarrel between that group and the atomic committee over which should deal with civil defense . Sen. D. , Conn. , chairman of the atomic committee , said his group will help in the civil defense study . Public hearings on the civil defense legislation were ordered for later this week by the house armed services committee , which set up a six man subcommittee for the purpose . Wadsworth read to the committee a statement by W. Stuart Symington , mobilization chief , warning that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with an atomic attack . He said cities must be prepared to deal with air raids without succumbing to a " take to the hills " attitude . 