@@716073

txt Public high schools must be helped to take their athletic programs out of the high-pressure competition and spectator-sports class and make them an integral part of the all-around educational setup . This was emphasized as the Ammican Association of School Administrators , a department of the National Education Association made up of the school heads of the nation , opened their 80th annual convention . A report following a three-year study sharply criticized athletic practices which turn schoolboy games into public spectacles . " Hysterical overemphasis on winning the game " was noted , and the over-prominence of the skilled athlete , with resulting bad practices , while the student not interested in athletics is discriminated against by ins classmates . This ' trend at the high-school level is reaching down into the junior high school and the elementary grades , the report points out . Boys of from 8 to 12 are lured into highly organized sports competition . " Pressures in such cases , " the commission notes . " come from some adult organizations and business firms , often completely outside the schools jurisdiction @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not understand the harm to the child . A study of the whole question of school athletics , its present effect on elementary , junior , and senior high-school children , and its educational possibilities for them , has been completed recently by the Educational Policies Commission for the AASA and the NEA , the joint bodies it serves . The commission urged that the public-school athletic program benefit all the child : en , not just the few star athletes or a sports-minded community ; that the activities be a definite part of the school program , planned and administered by educators , and that they be financed by school funds , not by gate receipts of bigger and bigger games . Opposition Cited If adopted , many of the suggested changes undoubtedly would rad/call : - change school sports in many parts of the United States . Some of the changes : Eliminate leagues and championships which involve highly organized competition . Eliminate tournaments , long seasons , and " little bowl " games . Eliminate travel beyond the immediate neighborhood . Play games only on school or public @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ means unanimous . L. V. Phillips , Commissioner of School Athletics in Indiana , called the report heavly biased . He said tournaments are needed . " We believe , " he said , " we should stress winning . American democracy and free enterprise have been built in this country by stressing the doctrine of success . I do not think the Middle West will accept this report " The commission , composed of 19 distinguished educators and laymen ? President Eisenhower was formerly a member  --  was completing its earlier study of moral and spiritual values in education when widely publicized scandals involving athletics in colleges and universities , together with an increased concern over the school sports problem at all levels , made it decide to undertake what it considers a related study . The report , published this week in book form , is offered as a guide to educators , not a handbqok of " musts . " " Each community must determine for itself whether its athletic program is to be primarily show business or an important educational enterprise , " said Dr. N. D. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a member of the commission . Athletics Endorsed " If the report results in a widespread review and redirection of school athletics in terms of high educational objectives by both professional and lay people the project will be justified . " " We want it understood that we are definitely for athletics , " Dr. McCombs said in an interview . " We want the schools to keep all that is good in the athletic program , and we go even further . We urge that the educational benefits of athletic participation be available to all the pupils . " The local school board should set the policy for the athletic program , he said , and see to it that school facilities are carefully planned to carry it out . The program should include " dual sports and team sports , easy sports , hard ones , indoor and outdoor , common games and unusual ones , some for boys alone , some for girls alone , and some for boys and girls together . And it should be in charge of specially qualified coaches , enough to take care @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the emphasis on intermural activities instead of interscholastic games , even for high-school boys , and particularly for girls and for younger children  --  with play days and sports days in which all participate , worked in as part of the school program , not an extra . Among other recommendations it also advised better athletic opportunities for girls than at present , and that the school personnel make a cooperative effort with students and lay citizens to clarify for all the place of athletics in education .                     