@@718757

txt Gnawing at the stability of the Massachusetts public pension system are mounting legal abuses made possible by a hodgepodge law and threatening to become a top-cost item of state and local governments . Under it , an employee uner2r 50 years of age who is a veteran can qualify for a pension on the basis of 30 years ' public service even though several of those years were as a call fireman . Under it , legislators 70 years of age can collect a pension and a full legislative salary at the same time . Under it , disability pensioners can and do work at outside jobs more strenuous than the one from which they were retired for " total and permanent disability " and make more money than they did on the public payroll . These and other cases are building public pensions into an issue of mounting seriousness . They are leading to a 1958 drive for over-all revision of the system to protect its financial stability through elimination of abuses and liberalizations never intended by the cost-paying public . Listed as Top Goal in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Federation of Taxpayers Associations , today announced that his organization definitely will make major pension reforms its No. 1 objective in the 1958 session of the Legislature . No legislation to effect a complete overhaul of the system is before the 1957 session . But Mr. said such legislation is certain to be presented for the 1958 session . Although over-all reform of the pension system was attempted by a special commission in .1955 , the Legislature gave its report no consideration at all . Despite this situation , Mr. says he feels pension abuses are piling up so rapidly as to make reform action imperative . Already Senator Philip A. Graham ( R ) of Hamilton , an authority on the pension system , has set in motion an initiative petition on his proposal to require pension cuts for disability pensioners when the total of their pension and outside earnings exceeds the current salary of the position from which they retired . His purpose is to take the profit out of disability pensions , which have become notoriously simple to obtain because of the law 's provisions . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Attorney General as to the form of his petition . He intends to file the original 10 signatures on the initiative petition next week . In the fall , he plans to drive for the necessary 70,000 voter signatures to place the initiative petition before the 1958 session . Failure of the Legislature to adopt the proposed legislation would open the way for Senator Graham to place the issue on the state ballot in November , 1958 . The disability-pension issue is pointed up graphically by the case of a Springfield policeman who has been collecting a disability pension since 1939 Now he is seeking a second disability pension after serving 10 years as a prison guard . Attorney General George Fingold has ruled the second disability pension legal under the present law , While it may be legal under the law , Senator Graham referred to it as an example of what is wrong with the present disability pension provisions , Pensions While Working But the pension development spurring the taxpayers federation into an all-out drive for major over-all reforms is the approval of pensions for six legislators while @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Approval of the pension payments by the Massachusetts Retirement Board came after a Fingold ruling that the present law makes it legal for a legislator beyond the 70-year compulsory retirement age for public employees to collect both a legislative pension and a legislative salary at the same time . Thus six legislators now can collect pensions ranging from $1,050 to $2,268 a year as well as their $5,200 salaries . One of the legislators . Representative George W. Porter ( R ) of Aga-Warn , has announced he will riot collect a pension while he remains in the Legislature . Others have said they intend to collect both the salary and the pension . Mr. , however , has publicly pressed them to follow the Porter lead . The situation regarding the six legislators , as well as the disability provisions , are but examples of pension-law provisions tending to undermine the financial stability of the entire system , Mr. declared . With the cost of the system now hovering around 50 million dollars a year , the federation has forecast . a 100 million-dollar cost by 1965 unless @ @ @ @ @ @ 