@@714645

txt BRITISH TURN DOWN NEW CONCESSIONS TO WEST GERMANY Say Sovereignty Negotiators Already Have Yielded on More Than 100 Points SERIOUS IMPASSE LOOMS Demands by Two Parties in Adenauer Coalition Imperil Integration With West By DREW MIDDLETON Special to TN ! NEW YORE TIMES . BONN , Germany , May 2 ? British refusal to concede anything further to the West German Government in the writing of a contractual agreement and bitter criticism by two of the three parties in the Bonn Government coalition about the " severity " of the proposed agreement have combined to produce a serious and perhaps critical situation . The projected contractual agreement , which would establish West Germany 's new relationship with the Western Allies , is the key to the integration of West Germany with Western Europe . Until it has been signed , other instruments for West German cooperation , such as the proposed European Defense Treaty , are meaningless . The negotiators of the agreement had hoped that it would be signed by May 20 . A spokesman for the Free Democratic party , one of two dissenting parties @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ signature by that date was an " impossibility " and the trend of events in the last seventy-two hours appears to bear out his contention . Concessions Said to Exceed 100 The most serious development has been the British refusal to make any further concessions to Dr. Adenauer and his Government . Noting that the Western Allies already had made more than 100 concessions to the Germans , authoritative British sources said it was " quite certain " that no more would be made and that signing of the contractual agreement now depended on Dr. Adenauer 's ability to win over his political allies in the coalition . The Chancellor 's difficulties are compounded by his use in the past of Allied concessions to attain endorsement of his actions by the Government coalition . The demands of the Free Democratic party and the German party for changes in the agreement are such that unless further concessions , and pretty big ones at that , are made by the Allies no approval of the proposed contractual agreement by these two parties can be expected . The British stand developed as a result @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the division of the West German defense expenditure . The British feel that unless adequate financial provision is made for the maintenance of their troops in Germany , they will have to withdraw at least one armored division from the Army of the Rhine . The British have hinted at this during the recent negotiations with Dr. Adenauer . They now feel that their only course is to present to the next meeting of the foreign ministers a blunt statement that the division will be withdrawn unless the West Germans accept the original Allied proposal that 6,800 , - 000,000 Deutsche marks be devoted to the maintenance of the Allied forces in the first year after Germany joins the European Defense Community . Funds for German Troops Dr. Adenauer wants about 7,000,000,000 Deutsche marks about $1,660,000,000 of a total financial contribution of 10,200 , - 000,000 Deutsche marks this year to be devoted to the raising of German troops for the proposed European army . Dr. Fritz Schaeffer . West German Finance Minister , has publicly announced that he wants all the money to be spent for the development and equipping @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Germans must contribute 6,800,000,000 Deutsche marks for the Allied occupation forces , with the remainder going to the German forces . Since this problem is inseparable from the Convention on the Rights and Obligations of the Allied Forces in Germany , which is part of the proposed contractual agree ' , tient , completion of the agreement will be further delayed . On the German side the Free Democratic and German parties are criticising Dr. Adenauer for what they call his " leniency " toward the Allies . There is a rising clamor of popular resentment ex // BRITAIN CALLS HALT IN YIELDING TO BONN pressed in the West German newspapers and in political speeches over certain clauses of the proposed agreement and there seems to be a revival of sentiment for four-power negotiations on the reunification of Germany before West Germany is committed to integration with the West . German Objections Listed Ernst Mayer , one of the Free Democratic leaders , said that his party would not ratify a contractual agreement and the attached conventions unless the party 's 4. principal objections to them were met . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said Herr Mayer . The Free Democratic and German parties whose approval is essential if Dr. Adenauer is to sign the contractual agreement , have agreed upon and laid down eight conditions that must be met before they can approve the agree-1 ment . These conditions and the Allied reactions to them are : 1 . West Germany 's armed forces // 3. 2. must be commissioned to defend only their own fatherland and not " foreign interests . " The Allies have pointed out that this is contrary to the whole concept of cooperation among the free nations as exemplified in Korea . No Allied laws can be taken over and maintained by Germany . But Dr. Adenauer already has agreed to do so . The law on the deconcentration and decartehzation of industry , for instance , will run until Dec. 31 of this year . West Germany must receive " unconditional , full sovereignty . " The Western Allies always have intended to give West Germany as much sovereignty as is possible under the circumstances and can not now give complete sovereignty . Foreign nations should have no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the terms of the law on the equalization of burdens , which redistributes property for the benefit of those who suffered material damage in World War II . Here again Dr. Adenauer has agreed to a request by the high commissioners that such treatment be accorded to foreigners . The proposed contractual agreement must not involve the paymerit of " new " reparations . The Allies insist that compensation to the victims of nazism must be agreed upon and paid within the capacity of West Germany . 6 . The Western powers must declare their intention of solving the Saar problem . The high commissioners insist that the problem must be settled as the German peace treaty is effected . 7 . No one can veto a decision of the Allied-German commission to be organized to review the cases of German war criminals . The Allies assert an agreement already has been reached on the principle of unanimity if a sentence is to be revised or reyoked. 8 . Final negotiations on the agreement and conventions should be carried out by the Western Big Three foreign ministers rather than the high @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ points still outstanding when the foreign ministers eventually come to Bonn to sign the agreements they will settle them , but until then the high commissioners will continue to do the negotiating . Two German attitudes affect the whole situation . One is disappointment because the proposed con#actual agreement seems to the Germans to give them much less than they were promised in the Washington conference last September . The other is the fear that the Russian offer to negotiate the unification of Germany is the last offer that the Kremlin will make .                     