@@713027

txt The people of the state of North Rhine-Westphalia , which includes the great steel mills and vast coal mines of the Ruhr Valley , quietly voted approval yesterday of a new state constitution that calls for socialization , despite an evident shift to the Right in the political and economic thinking of many voters . Final results of the elections for a . new state Parliament showed that the present conservative Christian Democratic party coalition with the Socialists could be abandoned and a new coalition formed with the Free Democratic party , similar to the one that exists in the West German Federal Government at Bonn . The election thus was a victory for the West German Federal Chancellor , Dr. Konrad Adenauer , who had sought to drop the Socialists . At 6 A. M. , with about 72 per cent of the ballots counted , unofficial returns showed 3,242,814 persons had voted in favor of the constitution and 2,052,470 had opposed it . Test for Adenauer Chief opponent of Dr. Adenauer 's plan for a Rightist coalition is the left-wing Christian Democratic Minister-President , Karl @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Herr Arnold , who is also president of the Bundesrat , will seek to retain the Socialists in his Cabinet , possibly placing his own position in the Christian Democratic party at stake . He , himself , won re-election . In this most important of state Parliaments in Western Germany , the Christian Democrats have now won 95 seats , the Social Democrats 50 and the Free Democrats 5 in 150 direct elections . However , since proportional representation is also a factor , it was indicated that the Social Democrats would pick up an additional fifteen seats and the Free Democrats an additional forty , the Center party would probably win five and the Communists might possibly obtain two or three . In the popular voting , the Christian Democrats received 2,286,496 , the Socialists 2,006,087 , the Free Democrats 748,499 , the Communists 338,926 , the Center party 466,499 , . the German party 109,462 , the German Rightist party 119,069 , the Radical Social Freedom party 119,127 and the Socialist Reich party 7,402 . None of the Right-Wing groups obtained any seats in the new state @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Parliament was elected , the Communist defeat showed up sharply . They had twenty . eight seats in that legislature , more than in any other in Western Germany . Campaign Fougix4- on Religion What colored the voting on the constitution was the fact that the campaign had been fought out not on the socialization issue but on one of religion , for the constitution up for approval carried a section giving parents the right to decide whether ' schools of the locality sponsored by the state should be administered by the church . Strong support from the Roman Catholic Church was brought to a , climax by a special pastoral letter on the subject by Joseph Cardinal , Frings of Cologne that was read from Catholic pulpits yesterday morning . Yet many election officials reported that they had to explain the issues of the constitution to the voters , most of whom were simply carrying out their duties as citizens with comparatively little knowledge of what was at stake . One thing was certain . The Communists again suffered a smashing defeat . Max Reimann ; leader of the party @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ district of Dortmund , receiving only 4,082 of 49,800 valid ' votes . A Socialist won the district .. There were no major incidents , although about 100 Communists and members of the right-wing So -- cialist Reich 's party clashed outside a polling booth in . WanneEickel , a chemical producing town . Five persons required medical attention . At Wattensclu-nied , a mining town near Essen , a Communist attempted to put up a poster on the house of a man who objected violently . Police halted the scuffle , arrested the Communist and discovered he was carrying a loaded pistol in his pocket . The poor showing of the Rightists , who had , with the aid of the Communists , precipitated several beer hall riots during the late stages of the campaign , delighted Dr. Adenauer , who had voted in ' his home town of Rhoendorf , overlooking the Rhine River . In Essen , posters throughout the city . called for " justice for . Krupp , " referring to- Alfred Krupp , heir of the great steel empire , which- was confiscated , and who is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In Duisberg , Communist election watchers showed up wearing the blue shirts of the Free German Youth , but were told by police to go home and put on mufti . While debate over the denominational schools obscured the socialization issue , indications that the constitution would be adopted caused speculation on its effect on the Schuman pooling plan talks , as well as its effect on the present Allied suspension of a socialization law long ago adopted by North Rhine-Westphalia but suspended because the Allies said that the Federal Government should have a chance to vote on this question . The constitution also contains a section endorsing the economic codetermination rights of workers . This parallels similar legislation being drawn up by the Federal Government , and would give workers in a plant'the right to help determine not only policies of . welfare and working conditions but economic managerial policies affecting purchasing , production and salesmanship as well .                     