@@716065

txt President Eisenhower asserted today that he could conceive of no greater tragedy than for the United States to become involved in an all-out war in Indo-China . He added that no one could be more bitterly opposed to such a development than he . The President 's statement , made at his news conference , had an immediately quieting and reassuring effect in Congress . Many of its members have been voicing apprehension that the presence of an Air Force technical mission in Indo-China might give Communist China a pretext for overt intervention in support of the Vietminh rebels , on the scale of the Korean war . French and native Vietnamese forces are heavily engaged in jungle combat that the President characterized as resistance by the free nations to the encroachment of communism . President Eisenhower spoke with emphasis in enunciating the policy of ? nonintervention by United States combat forces . The policy was stressed further by his announcement that the Fortyfifth Division would be withdrawn from Korea in the middle of April and the Fortieth Division about the middle of June . The projected @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a substantial reduction of United States combat strength in the Far East . Avoidance of ' Hot War ' Is Goal Every-move authorized by him , said the President , is calculated , so far as is humanly possible , to make certain that the United States does not get involved in a " hot war " in the Indo-China region . One question asked was : " Mr. President , should your remarks on Indo-China be construed as meaning that you are determined not to become involved or , perhaps , more deeply involved in the war in Indo-China , regardless of , how that war may go ? r ' General Eisenhower replied that he was not going . to try to I predict the drift of world events . Then he said lie could not con. ceive of a greater tragedy for the United States than to get heavily involved now in an all-out war in any of those regions , particularly with large units . The President reiterated his recent statement that the United States mission to Indo-China consisted of technical troops and that he saw no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said also that this mission was like many others sent to various nations for training , advisory or maintenance tasks . The mission , consisting of about 200 technicians , will be withdrawn from Indo-China not later than June 15 , the President added . The presence of aviation main- tenance personnel was stressed in the discussion on Capitol Hill and by the President . There also le a United States military advisory group , which is general in makeup and advises combat troops on all manner of military problems . It has been in Indo-China a long time and is being enlarged . Yesterday Senator John C. Stennis , Democrat of Mississippi , criticized the dispatch of the technical mission as a dangerous move that might lead to direct intervention . Today he expressed his approval of the President 's position . " I 'm glad that our policy on this is now firmed up against possible direct involvement , " the Senator said . He remarked that he would like to see the mission withdrawn before June . Senator William F. Knowland of California , the Republican leader of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' a position clearly indicated before ' by the Administration . He said that there was no plan to send United States ground forces to Ino-China and that the aim in furnishing Air Force mechanics was to make certain that ground troops would not have to go . Before the Presidential news conference , Senator Richard B. Russell , Georgia Democrat , called the mission a " mistake " likely to lead the United States into , piecemeal participation in the war . Senator Walter F. George of Georgia , one of the most influential Democrats in the Senate ? expressed satisfaction with the President 's statement and said ' the danger was that the French probably would withdraw from Indo-China sooner or later . " Only one thing would bring China in , in force , " said Senator George . " That is if we sent any sizable number of men over there . That would bring on real trouble . " If the situation in Indo-China gets seriously worse , he added , however , the United States will have no alternative but to send troops . A @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had complained that the Administration had not advised the Foreijn Relations Committee . of which he is a member , that the additional air technicians were being sent . He remarked that civilians should have been recruited for the job . President Eisenhower said that he had not heard this complaint but that the Administration tried to inform all appropriate officials on significant events . There has been no attempt to carry on the affairs of the country in a darkened room , he commented .                     