@@717357

txt Dr. George S. Counts is scheduled for election tonight as state chairman of the Liberal ) arty . He will replace Adolf A. Berle Jr. , who resigned last spring . Two new state vice chairmen are scheduled for election at the same time . They are Paul Hays , Professor of Law at Columbia University , and John Coleman Bennett , dean of Union Theological Seminary . Dr. Counts is a Professor of Education Emeritus at Columbia . All three prospective new officers come from the " intellectual " as distinguished from the " trade-union " wing of the Liberal party . Their choice may be interpreted as notice to the Democratic party , with , which the Liberals are allied , that the Liberals will , demand careful consideration of " intellectual " views in choosing next year 's candidate for President . Most of the Liberal " intellectuals , " including the three slated for election to top party offices , are regarded as favoring a Democratic renomination for Adlai E. Stevenson , who lost to President Eisephower in 1952 . This Liberal attitude @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to advance Governor Harriman as a favorite-son candidate next year . Mr. Harriman is personally on record for giving Mr. Stevenson another chance . The election of Dr. Counts and the two new vice chairmen is to take place tonight at a meeting of the Liberal Party State Committee in the Astor Hotel . Membership Drive Scheduled A new drive to enlarge the Liberal party 's membership is to be announced at the same time . This campaign represents the party 's answer to suggestions from various Democratic leaders in recent months that it disband as a party and urge ' its members to join the DemoIcratic party as individuals . In seeking new members the main Liberal appeal will be directed to - intellectuals and to trade-union members whose natural bent , if the Liberal party went out of existence , would be to ally themselves with the Democrats on most issues . Selection of Dr. Counts for the state chairmanship is recommended by a nominating committee headed by Dr. John L. Childs of Columbia , a former state chairman . Dr. Counts was the Liberal party candidate for the United @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Democrats in a coalition behind Borough President John Cashmore of Brooklyn . Dr. Counts received 489,000 votes and Mr. Cashmore was defeated by Senator Irving M. Ives , Republican . The prospective state chairman is a former chairman of the now legally defunct American Labor party when it was under night-wing control . He left the Labor party and became a founding member of the Liberal party when left-wing groups won control of the Labor party . Mr. Hays is a former city chairman of Americans for Democratic Action and is now a member of the New York City Board of Health . Mr. Bennett is an ordained minister of the Congregational Church and has taken an active part in the work of the World Council of Churches .                     