@@719721

txt The emotionally charged word " dole " has now been dropped into the Washington debate over recession . The issue of a " dole " is mousing action on unemployment relief in the House . Simultaneously in the Senate a classic battle is developing between the two rival leaders , Lyndon B. Johnson ( D ) of Texas and William F. Knowland ( R ) of California , over new legislation to regulate labor-management welfare funds . The two issues , are connected only in the fact that each involves a clash between the administration and elements in a possibly run-away Congress , and that these are embittered by the industrial slump . The battle over the so-called " dole " is just beating up in Congress and has not yet hit full force . Even in committee , however , it shows signs of deep emotionalism . Issue Defined The Senate issue over labor regulation on the other hand , has suddenly come to a focus and for the moment is the hottest battle in Washington  --  surpassing that over Pentagon reorganization . The Senate met @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ started in grimly again at 10:30 a.m . April 25 with prospects of another night session . Behind both battles is the stiffening of mood in Washington that comes at the climax of the two-year legislative session , complicated now by 5,000,000 unemployed . The basic issue in the House battle is relatively simple  --  should those workers who are jobless but who have never been brought under the contributory unemployment insurance system now share federal relief , or be left to their own devices ? President Eisenhower has asked Congress to extend the number of weeks of federal-state unemployment insurance benefits . This is because many insured workers are now exhausting their insurance period . The Democrat - controlled House Ways and Means Committee , by vote of 16 to 9 , has accepted the Eisenhower proposal but has gone much further : it has approved a bill to pay 16 weeks of benefits to jobless whether or not they are insured . The cost would be an estimated 1,47 billion dollars . It argues this is needed to " help relieve the toll of human misery and deprivation " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ word " dole " into his grim comment on this . Democratic-inspired proposal and indicated it is heading toward a veto unless modified . Now the conservative House Rules Committee has ordered the congressmen for and against the proposal in the ways and means committee to present their case before letting the redhot issue drop into the full House for floor debate . The Senate battle has flared up over quite different and more complicated grounds . Back on Jan. 23 Mr. Eisenhower sent Congress a program for labor legislation with seven or eight key points : one of these was for federal regulation of labor-management welfare and pension funds . The Senate committee has held hearings on this latter point and has introduced a relatively noncontroversial measure . Rider ' Offered Unexpectedly Minority Leader Knowland offered , as a " rider " ( legislative matter which has not gone through the committee-hearing process and which is attached to some other bill ) , a series of sweeping amendments dealing with what he calls " union democracy . " Senator Knowland is running for the governorship of Cali fornia on ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ membership ) . The California election this fall probably will decide how far " right-to-work " legislation gets in other industrial states , as well as Senator Knowland 's presidential chances . The Knowland amendments in the Senate consequently further his campaign in California . Now a second unexpected thing has happened  --  Secretary of Labor James P. Mitchell has proposed for immediate enactment Mr. Eisenhower 's full set of labor regulations . This followed a conference at the White House a day after Senator Knowland introduced his rider . But instead of backing the Knowland rider . Mr. Mitchell backs a somewhat milder package introduced by Senator H. Alexander Smith ( R ) of New Jersey . Legislation Snagged This has tangled up an already complicated situation in a quite surprising manner . Direct Johnson-Knowland clashes occur daily beyond anything this session has yet seen . The Senate is meeting in 12-hour sessions . Senator John F. Kennedy ( D ) of Massachusetts is floor manager for the original pension and welfare bill . The various Senate riders could endanger all legislation . This echoes a situation in the House @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ With Mr. Eisenhower 's key programs on reciprocal trade and foreign aid hardly yet over the horizon , almost every present legislative prospect in Washington now and to come is one of uncertainty and controversy .                     