@@715899

txt A Spanish transport plane with 33 persons aboard crashed into a mountain 60 miles north of here early today and exploded . There are only six known survivors , it was officially announced . Among those on the plane who perished were an American and two Britons . The Britons wereCharles Barret , a Barcelona business man , and Victor Norting . A spokesman for the Spanish Commercial Aviation company , which operated the plane , said the American was Paul J. Douglas . The American embassy identified Douglas as a United States state department courier making his first trip to Madrid . The embassy said it was believed he was attached to the Paris embassy . List of Survivors The survivors were the pilot , co-pilot , the mechanic , a professor of Spanish at the University of Deusto in Santander , and two other Spaniards . There were 28 passengers aboard , including a baby girl and her mother , and five crew members , including the hostess . Five survivors of the disaster took nearly three hours to get to the nearest village . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with both legs broken . All six were injured , and physicians have forbidden anyone to talk to them because of their condition . An air ministry spokesman said they reported the plane , a two engine British-made Bristol , called the flying bathtub because of its underslung fuselage , was blown against a mountain Side high above the Somo Sierra pass in a rainstorm . Burns and Explodes The plane was enroute from Bilbao to Madrid where it was due at 4:20 p. m. - 20 minutes after the crash . After the crash the right engine burst into flames , the survivors reported , and then , just as they succeeded in getting the Spanish woman out , the left motor caught fire and " the whole plane exploded . " Among those known to be aboard was Jose Maria Oriol , head of one of Spain 's biggest electric combines . The mayor of the mountain village VI Buitrago , near the scene of the crash , said the whole population was out hunting the wreckage but had not found it late tonight . It was the first bad @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , 1948 , when an Iberia plane en route to Barcelona struck a mountain side , killing all 27 occupants . The only other serious air accident in Spain since the end of the civil war in 1939 was the smashup of a Cuban four . engine plane in the mountains west of Madrid early in 1947 in which 11 persons were killed .                     