@@715421

txt Henry Ford II announced Ford Motor Co. will eventually report publicly its sales and profit figures on a regular basis . The auto company president told 300 reporters at a press conference that closed three days of events to celebrate Ford 's 50th anniversary : " The day will come in the not too distant future when we will reveal sales and earnings , but not at the present time . " He denied the company has present plans to issue stock publicly . Beca'use Ford stock is privately-held , the concern is not required to make public reports on its sales and earnings . It does file a condensed balance sheet in a number of states where it does business , and the Massachusetts figures have been available to the public . The press conference also brought out these points : Ford plans to step up its production in the second half of this year , when it expects overall industry output will slow down from the current annual rate of 7 million cars . The company 's executives feel this means competition will grow even @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ R. Breech , executive vice president , said he could n't deny reports the firm plans separate Lincoln and Mercury car divisions . It now has one Ford division and one LincolnMercury unit . Nor would Mr. Breech deny that William Ford , Henry Ford ' II 's younger brother , is to head a company division . " We do have plans for further improvements , " Mr. Breech stated . But Henry Ford II and Mr. Breech did deny strongly reports Mr. Breech might leave the A concern . Ford plans no price cuts on either cars or trucks . Walker A. Williams , vice president-sales , said he thinks the industry will make between 5.5 million and 5.7 million cars this year and between 1.3 million and 1.4 million trucks . These are lower than many recent industry estimates which have put this year 's showing at near , or above , record 1950 , when 6.658,000 cars and 1,342,000 trucks were assembled . Mr. Ford said the company currently can sell all the cars it can build and that Ford considers its prices competitive with other makes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cars , art 11-day supply of Mercurys and a 24-day supply of Lincolns , he reported . L. D. Crusoe , Ford Division general manager , claimed that recent price reductions on Dodge and International Harvester trucks were caused by growing strength of Ford trucks in the market this year . He said he believed Ford truck prices are competitive with other makes . " Our dealers have a 15-day supply of new trucks on hand  --  one-fourth to one-half as many as our competitors , " Mr. Crusoe said , adding , " we are out to get a bigger bite of the truck market apple this year . " Mr. Breech reported that the company ? r with recent announcements  --  has already told of 50% of its plans for a $500 million expansion program between now and 1958 . Since the end of World War II it already has spent over $900 million on plant expansion and improvement .                     