@@717634

txt President Eisenhower will submit the third federal budget of his administration to Congress next Monday . The new budget , ; covering the 1957 fiscal year beginning July 1 , is expected to be balanced and show a surplus of about half a billion dollars . A balanced budget has been one of the major goals of the Eisenho w er administration . The President 's budget message also is expected to disclose that the budget for the durrent 1956 fiscal year , now more than half over , also has been balanced With a surplus of about 250 million dollars . The budget was last balanced in fiscal 1951 under the Truman administration with a surf plus of 3.5 billion dollars . Spending Level Higher The spending level in fiscal 1957 will be higher than in the current year , chiefly as the result of increased military outlays . The 1957 budget is likely to call for an expenditure total of 65.5 billion dollars and estimate revenue at 66 billion . Last August , the administration forecast a deficit of 1.7 billion dollars for fiscal 1956 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ anticipated revenue figure has been revised upward substantially . Accordingly , the outlook is for expenditures totaling 64 billion dollars and revenue of 64.3 billion . Military Spending High Military expenditures will continue to account for considerably more than half of the fiscal 1957 budget . It is known on the basis of Pentagon estimates already made public that military outlays will total 35.5 billion dollars , nearly 1 billion higher than in fiscal 1956 . Related programs , such as foreign military aid , atomic energy , and stockpiling of strategic materials , will a d d another 6 or 7 billion dollars . Mr. Eisenhower 's budget message can be expected to repeat his state of the Union message assertion that altho the budget has been balanced , the margin of revenue over expenditures is so narrow that tax reductions are not possible without incurring a deficit . He will urge applying the surplus to reducing the national debt .                     