@@717431

txt Temperatures in the Cyprus dispute are climbing again toward the danger mark with Oct. 20 billed throughout Greece as Cyprus Collection Da v. ? On the busy corners of Athens and other cities and towns , pretty girls with appropriate arm bands will jingle coin boxes soliciting funds fr.r the Cypriote cause , without specifying the destination of the funds . Meanwhile , Greek public opinion , already aroused , is being inflamed by late headline news from the island . These headlines announce a breakdown of conversations between Archbishop Makarios , leader of the Enosis ( union with Greece ) movement and Field Marshal Sir John Harding , plain-spoken soldier who has been named Governor of the uneasy island , the constant influx of reinforcements for the British garrison ; and drastic repressive measures either being implemented or contemplated . Under the circumstances , it is felt here that a minor incident in Cyprus . such as an individual terrorist act followed by reprisals , could have major repercussions here in Greece , where public indignation is still seething in the wake of anti-Greek riots in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ West Strained Already Greece 's once seemingly solid ties with the North Atlantic Treaty Organization and the Western alliance have been strained almost to the breaking point . A further adverse incident might even compel the present government , despite the pro-Western orientation of its individual members , to make a basic revision of foreign policy . Premier Constantine Karamanlis , who recently succeeded the late Marshal Alexander Papagos , in his first interview with a foreign correspondent , stressed that neither he nor his Cabinet could afford to ignore popular sentiment , particularly with reference to foreign policy , which now has eclipsed all else in the public 's thinking . Otherwise , he declared , he and his colleagues would be snowed under at the polls in the general elections scheduled next April . Mr. Karamanlis Voiced the opinion that the present damage to relations might be largely repaired and further irreparable tragedy avoided provided Turkey made adequate amends with reference to insdlts to the Greek flag and to Greek officers at the NATO subcommand at Izmir and Britain accepted what are described as the moderate conditions presented by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Istanbul riot victims , who , though of Greek origin , are Turkish citizens for the most part , could presumably proceed on lower priority though Greeks here insist on satisfaction . But unless the insult to the flag and to Greek officers at zmir is adequately requited , the Greeks appear certain to withdraw from the subcommand , not by outright recall of their officers , but by personal resignations or by not replacing them when their tours of duty expire . Not Far Apart . Now Since the Izmir subco.nmand formally controls Greek and Turkish forces , this would amount to de facto Greek withdrawal from all active participation in NATO . In the long run , it would be a step toward official withdrawal and neutralism , though not necessarily gravitation into the Soviet orbit . Such developments , disastrous from the Western standpoint , loom as a possibility even now . But in case of a major flare-up of violence on Cyprus , the die would seem to be cast irrevocably . Actually , the British and Greek viewpoints are not- so far apart as one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ agreed in principle to island self-government , the only major outstanding point of difference is the British refusal to recognize self-determination  --  namely , the right of the Cypriotes themselves to decide whether they shall continue as a British colony or become independent or join Greece or for that matter even Turkey . If the British would recognize this principle , which is written into the United Nations Charter , even without being held to any timetable , present tension could be . ended overnight , many observers believe . Greek leaders , who fee ' the tide of public opinion is going more and more against the West and bearing down upon them , fervently hope the United States will step in and assume leadership as regards both Turkey and Britain .                     