@@720691

txt The United Nations will open its annual General Assembly session next month with many old unsolved problems on its list for debate , plus a few potentially explosive new ones . Topping the list of the hardy perennials is disarmament , ' the problem that has commanded more time and thought in the United Nations since the international organization was founded than any other issue . It is certain that disarmament will be on the agenda . Secretary General Dag Hammarskjold has said that , if no one else brings up the item , he will inscribe it on the list of topics for debate , as he is empowered to do . Just how the problem of re- ' sumed disarmament negotia- ' tions may be handled is questionable , however . For two years there have been no formal talks , on arms reduction inside the framework of the United Nations , because of Soviet objec-i tions to a Disarmament Cornmission that would not give ) the East " parity " ? an equal ' number of votes with the West . . Now the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ put the talks back on the tracks again , through a ten-nation committee somewhat like the one the Russians want . The committee would include Albania , Czechoslovakia , Poland and Rumania as well as the Soviet Union , the United States , Britain , France , Italy and Canada . But it would be officially outside the United Nations , although all these states are members of the world body . Tentative Support The proposal has at least a conditional blessing from Mr. Hammarskjold , although some Assembly members may look upon the situation differently . The Secretary General has said that , while the United Nations had the ultimate responsibility for the disarmament question , he would welcome " outside " talks , as long as these were properly coordinated and integrated with the world organization 's procedures . The Assembly debate itself may make clearer just how far the long-snarled disarmament talks are likely to get under the " parity " formula and whether the new committee has much to look forward to except a series of five-to-five deadlocks . Among the new items most likely to cause @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the French plan to set off an atomic explosion in the Sahara . This links up closely with an old issue , back again on the Assembly program this year ? the war in Algeria . The atomic bomb the French are developing presumably would be touched off in some part of the desert within Algerian territory . Algerian Resolution Last year a draft resolution that would have had the Assembly recognize " the right of the Algerian people to independence " failed of adoption , lacking the necessary two-thirds , majority . But the balance may ! shift by the time the Algerian , question comes up again at this year 's session . There is considerable diplomatic speculation that , should the United Nations declare for the independence of Algeria and in some way seek to control France 's proposed nuclear tests , the French delegation simply will be pulled out . The two North African questions are closely connected , too , with the matter of what the United Nations is today  --  and what it is not . Despite its great increase in membership since its early @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ parliament , with the power to legislate and enforce decisions that national parliaments possess . Its Charter still prohibits the United Nations from interfering in the domestic affairs of member states . It depends for " enforcement " of its views on what is loosely called " world public . opinion , " which has proved a somewhat dubious factor . particularly in nations like the Iron Curtain countries , where much public opinion is government issue , Preserve Peace Nevertheless , the United Nations has the duty to preserve peace and security and to prevent , by what means it can , incidents that would endanger those two things  --  as Morocco says a Saharan bomb test would . Just how to steer a middle course between those two Charter mandates is an underlying problem that the United States has faced for some years and will face again at the coming General Assembly . Another new problem , not yet put on the Assembly agenda but certainly looming in the background , is that of Laos . The Laotian Government laid this question before Secretary General Hammarskjold just last week @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and a former Defense Minister , came here especially to ask Mr. Hammarskjold what the international organization might do about Communist infiltration into Laos ' northern provinces , with what Laos says is support from Communist China and the Soviet Union , So far there has been no answer . Mr. Hammarskjold has indicated that he would be quite unwilling , on his own motion , to order United Nations action . It has been reported that Laos wants a United Nations ob. - server or an observation team , or at least what is known as a United Nations " presence , " on its frontier with the Communist world . Action Questioned However , there is some question what can be done under the 1954 treaties that ended the war in former French Indochina ? whether a United Nations commission might be reconstituted or whether a new team from the international organization might be sent to the Southeast Asian country , So far the question of Laos has not been put on the Assembly 's agenda . These issues , of course , far from exhaust the list that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , no one has brought up Berlin , despite the suggestion that the United tions take some rather under fined role there . Nor has anyone suggested that this year 's Assembly might find answers to the long-standing problenis that again will pe before it , such as racial segregation in South Africa , the treatment of peoples of Indian origin on the African continent and the lim-/ itation of atomic weapons to those who already possess them . The Assembly will have to debate these things again and attempt , within its somewhat limited scope , to find answers to which those most interested can agree .                     