@@716884

txt Prime Minister Churchill disclosed tonight that in 1953 President Eisenhower refused to join hint in seeking a conference with Georgi M. Malenkov , then Premier of the Soviet Union . The Prime Minister told the House of Commons he had been felled by an illness that " paralyzed me completely " and he had to postpone his project . Later " it was not found possible to persuade President Eisen. hower to join " in the conference proposal , he added . The Soviet drive to halt ratification of the European Defense Community treaty arming West Germany forestalled an . other plan for a bipartite meet . ing with Mr. Malenkov intended to set the stage for a threepower conference , the Prime Minister said . These disclosures provided Aneurin Bevan with fresh ammunition for his charge that the United States has prevented a high-level conference between East and West . ' They also spurred a new and vigorous Leftwing rebellion against the official leaderhip of the Labor party in the critical debate on defense policy in the Commons . Consequently the Conservatives won a smashing victory @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Government arms policy as presented in a White Paper , was defeated , 303 to 196 . The Government majority of 107 was interpreted as meaning that a bloc of Labor members had refused to vote for the amendment drafted by the official leadership because of their dislike of former Prime Minister Clement R. Attlee 's accord with the Government , opposition to the making of the hydrogen bomb in Britain or fundamental pacifism . Bevan Enlivens Old Issue By forcing Sir Winston to concede a measure of British dependence on United States policy , Mr. Bevan gave new life to an old issue . Mr. Bevan hopes to convince the eleetdri'xte that the use of the hydrogen . bomb in war , with all that . ' ? it %implies for Britain , depends on , the United States , that Washington 's policy is not influenced by . British desires and that the United States is preventing any realistic approach to the Soviet Union for a general easing of tension . The whole Bevanite argument was summed up in a statement that brought Sir Winston to his feet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , to believe that Britain risks extinction and can not reach accommodation with Russia " because we are now at the mercy of the United States . " The Prime Minister began by declaring it was " absolutely wrong " to suggest that the course Britain followed had been dictated by the United States . Supported by the Cabinet , Sir Winston sought a meeting with the Russians in the spring of 1953 after Mr. Malenkov had replaced Stalin , he said . " I was prepared to go over and see the President and hoped to persuade him to arrange that meeting . and , invite a three-power conference , " Sir Winston said . He then toldof the illness that had paralyzed him . ' This sidelight on history is of great political importance in Britain because it offers substantiation-Tor labor claims that a high-level meeting with the Soviet Union is being prevented by the United States . Sir Winston also informed the Commons he had considered the possibility of meeting with Mr. Malenkov in Stockholm or another neutral location " because I have not been a ditherer on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ United States in June , 1954 , the Prime Minister added , he hoped " something like a dual meeting " might be arranged as " a gobetween prelude to a meeting of the three ( powers because we the Soviet Union and the United Kingdom ) can not settle anything alone that would be decisive . " At this juncture , Sir Winston said , the Soviet Union began an elaborate process of trying to defeat ratification of the European Defense Community . This was the six-nation'plan for arming West Germany as a member of the defense community and integrating the Federal Republic in that community . The other members were France , Italy , Belgium , the Netherlands and Luxembourg . In the event the French National Assembly rejected the E. D. C. last August . When ratification of the present instruments for rearming Germany , the Paris accords , is completed , the Prime Minister added , the Government will be " perfectly free " to negotiate again for talks with the Soviet Union . Mr. Bevan , who held the attention of the House more than any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as " complete confirmation " of his contention that President Eisenhower had rejected the idea of high-level talks . The Left Wing leader offered the Commons a choice between a peace policy and a war policy land demanded assurance from Mr. Attlee and other moderate Laborites that Labor was not aligned behind nuclear " recklessness . " The Conservatives naturally did their utmost to widen the split . Minister of Defense Harold Macmillan , who wound up the Government 's case , praised Mr. Attlee for his support of the Government 's position . Mr. Attlee , in the final Labor speech , had cautiously advocat-I ed taking " every opportunity " to make contact with the Soviet Union and a meeting of " leaders of the great powers to persuade the rulers of Soviet Russia that in their own interest peace must be preserved . " The impression made on his party by Mr. Bevan was reflect- ' ed in two votes . The censure amendment , drafted by Mr. Attlee and his lieutenants , was defeated by 107 votes . The Government 's normal majority of twenty was swollen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sat gloomily in their seats as an open demonstration of protest against their leadership 's qualified acceptance of the hydrogen bomb . But when the House divided again on the Government White Paper , the Conservative motion was carried by only 303 votes to 253 , a majority of 50.                     