@@720815

txt Gov . Nelson A. Rockefeller of New York has started a nationwide campaign to speak out on the vital domestic and foreign issues of the day in a self-designated role of " American citizen " but in a more generally presumed role of candidate for the Republican presidential nomination in 1960 . This decision was disclosed at a meeting of the inland Daily Press Association in the Drake Hotel on Oct. 20 . It followed a day when the arrival of Governor Rockefeller was highlighted by a sharp-questioning and politically minded press conference , private talks with Illinois Republicans , and a meeting of the special committee on civil defense of the Governor 's conference . From the time the Rockefeller party stepped out of the Governor 's private plane , the pressure was on to force a commitment from the vote-getting New York Governor as to his 1960 plans . But to no avail . Governor Rockefeller told it in a dozen ways : " I am not a candidate , I have not sought delegates . " One Step Along Path But there was no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , geographically by leaving the confines of the East Coast for this Midwest city of conservative Republican fame , mentally by deciding to define his national-level activities for the next few months . The United States and its citizens , Governor Rockefeller told the IDPA , must become acutely aware that we are " living in a time of great decision . ' There are six areas " where problems of great gravity con front us : foreign policy , defense policy , education , economic growth , labor policy , and the crucial area of civil rights and social equalities . " This significant paragraph followed : " I intend , in the weeks ahead , to help , in every way I can , to summon attention to these problems , to contribute to their defining and their understanding . I intend to do this in not one  --  but in all  --  the areas of national life where these issues clamor for serious attention . " Qualifications Cited And the New York Governor spelled out for the press audience some of his own qualifications as an informed spokesman @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attention both politically and economically for more than 20 years as an official of the State Department in the Roosevelt and Truman adminis trations and as special assistant at the summit meeting in 1955 . As Undersecretary of Health , Education and Welfare , as well as Governor of New York , he has " come to know some of the critical and complex aspects of the other great matters before America . " Governor Rockefeller , in addition , offered three personal , political convictions : 1 . " Neither the Republicans nor the Democrats or any outstanding political leader " can justly be accused of willful indifference to the major problems . " Any such pretense would be a ' sham . ' . . . the problems belong to all of us. " 2 . " Neither party nor leader " should insult the intelligence of the American ? people by pretending to have ' discovered a " cheap and easy panacea for any of the problems before us. " 3 . Successful coping with such problems depends upon " all of us , as Americans , beginning @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ even crises , as great as any that have ever touched and endangered America 's destiny through all America 's ? life . " Challenge Accepted This was the most specific naming of issues that Governor Rockefeller has made . In it there surfaced an acceptance of the challenge of leadership , an acknowledgement of an unfolding challenge . Ever since he first sprang into national political fame with his outstanding victory in the New York gubernatorial race of 1958 , a shining star in a night of general GOP gloom , Governor Rockefeller haS emphasized one of his key motivations : that these were indeed times of great challenge , that political leaders would be engaged in critical decisions , that he would put his talents to such a task . It is in this context that the short speech before the IDPA becomes politically important . The New York Governor offered leadership : " I shall speak at length of these problems in the times ahead in a spirit which is neither frantic , despairing , or despondent but anxiously and acutely concerned , shunning panic or complacence . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hotel on Oct. 19 , Governor Rockefeller had done some off-the-cuff defining , which fitted very nicely into these sentiments expressed in this speech . As is usual ? so usual the Governor finds it " tiresome " ? he was asked about the kind of candidate the Republicans should nominate in 1960 . Nixon Chances Weighed " 1 think anyone nommatea ny the Republican convention who would conduct a candid , forthright campaign with a - frank discussion of ' facts and recommending steps that would bring about and assure the welfare of the nation , that Republican would be elected . " Quite expectedly in this state where Vice-President Richard M. Nixon stands so high in GOP organization opinion , the New York Governor was asked about his appraisal of Mr. Nixon and his chances . But there was no amplification beyond the expectation that if Mr. Nixon were nominated he would carry New York State . The political ripples which are spreading out from this city and this Rockefeller visit are not easy to define . But it is accurate to report that the politicians and publishers of this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Governor Rockefeller means in the national picture as one obvious result .                     