@@713928

txt IRAN BEGINS TALKS WITH BRITISH AIDES IN OIL CONTROVERSY Teheran Officials Set Forth Nationalization Conditions to Govern Conference SEEK COMPANY REVENUES Anglo-Iranian Directors Obtain Adjournment  --  Situation in South Causes Concern By MICHAEL CLARK Spatial to THE NEW YORK TIMES TEHERAN , Iran , June 14 ? A conference of representatives of the Iranian Government and the Anglo-Iranian Oil Company opened at the Finance Ministry here tonight in an atmosphere of complete uncertainty as to the prospect for a settlement in the BritishIranian oil controversy . After an exchange of the usual compliments , the Iranian delegation , headed by Finance Minister Mohammed Ali Varasteh , declared that talks could not proceed further unless the company agreed at once to turn over to the Iranian Government all revenues derived from the sale of Iranian oil as of March 20 after deduction of expenses and 25 per cent to guarantee the company 's probable claims . In making this demand , Mr. Varasteh was simply requiring that the provisions of Article 2 of the April 30 oil nationalization enabling law be immediately binding upon the company . Speaking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Jackson , deputy chairman of the company , asked for adjournment until Sunday , so that the Government 's demand might be considered . This was agreed to , it being understood that the company 's answer would be forthcoming when the conference reconvened . Although today 's meeting lasted an hour and a half , it was understood that no other matters were discussed and that no other aspect of the dispute was touched upon . There seemed to be some question in the minds of the company delegation as to exactly what the Government meant by all revenues derived from the sale of Iranian oil and how these were to be calculated . As far as could be ascertained , the Government 's negotiators were completely unfamiliar with the vast and complex channels through which Iranian oil was bought and // sold . The revenues from the oil marketed within Iran are small , and the company lays out ? 1,500 , - 000 ( $4,200,000 ) in Iran each month to cover its local expenses . Last Tuesday members of the Government 's " take-over " mission , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ southern Iran , were reportedly nonplussed to learn that the company 's local expenses far exceeded its local revenues and that Eric Drake , the company 's general manager , had no profits to provide , In the past , however , Government spokesmen have stated that the provisions of Article 2 of the nationalization law would be carried out on the following basis : The number of tons of oil proWeed by Anglo-Iranian would be multiplied by the prevailing Gulf ( of Mexico ) price a ton . From the product would then be subtracted the company 's legitimate operating expenses and the remainder would be divided into two parts : 75 per cent accruing directly to the Government and the other 25 per cent going into a reserve to meet the company 's possible claims . The two delegations issued cornmuniqu  --  s that were identical except for the fact that the Iranian text referred to Anglo-Iranian as the " former company , " while the company itself politely declined to concede its demise . The activities and pronouncements of the Government 's " takeover " mission in Southern @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ chances for a reasonable solution and have caused alarm in diplomatic circles here . The anxiety that such actions has aroused in many quarters was reflected by United States Ambassador Henry F. Grady 's visit to Premier Mohammed Mossadegh . In the course of an hour-long bedside interview  --  the Premier is not well  --  Dr. Grady pointed out that the peace of the civilized world depended on talks proceeding in a calm manner and urged that nothing be done to allow the situation in the oilfields to get out of hand . He told the Premier that Iran might be poor now , but that this was nothing to what she would be if her oil industry should disintegrate . In reply Dr. Mossadegh said that the events in the south should not be given too much importance and that he had a solemn duty to the Iranian people to implement the nationalization law . Morrison Cites Iranian Abuse Special to THE New YORK TIMES LONDON , June 14 ? Foreign Secretary Herbert Morrison told the House of Commons today that British attempts to negotiate with Iran over the nationalization @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a campaign of vilification and abuse carried out by officals in Teheran . Mr. Morrison said London was particularly concerned about the activity of the three-man committee that is implementing the Iranian measures . It is obvious , he added , that discussions can not proceed properly " if the atmosphere is vitiated by precipitate Persian action in the oilfields . " French Voice Concern Special to THE NEw YORK Times . PARIS , June ** was expressed in French oil industry circles today that the crisis in Iran might bring a serious cut in oil imports to France from the Near East . Agitation in Iran has led to similar demands , that the Iraq Petroleum Company , of which France owns 23.75 per cent , be nationalized .                     