@@713154

txt In his annual report to the General Assembly of the United Nations , Secretary General Lie again emphasizes what has become a general conviction everywhere , namely , that the Korean crisis is the worst threat to international peace the world has faced since the end of the last war . Casting aside ms previous - neutrality " in the conflict between East and West , he firmly takes his stand with the great majority and strongly defends the action of the United Nations in calling on all members to help suppress armed aggression in Korea with armed force . But he is still optimistic enough to hold that if and when the Korean crisis is ended with a United Nations victory the world will be closer ? to lasting peace than at any time since 1945 , and that the time will then have come for " bold statesmanship " and direct EastWest negotiations to avert new threats of a third world war in line with his proposed twenty-year peace program . Whatever they may think of the details of his program , there is no doubt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with his analysis of the gravity of the situation . They Will agree with him in particular that what all nations must work for is peace , not war , not only . n Korea but throughout the world . It may be doubted , however , that all nations will share his faith in negotiations alone as the road to peace . The Western Powers have tried that path both during and since the war , and Mr. Lie himself tried it in his extraordinary peace mission recently . Yet at the end of that path not only the Western Powers but virtually the whole United Nations and Mr. Lie himself find themselves at war against the forces of aggression . And the blatant and defiant cynicism with which these forces speak within the United Nations , through the mouth of the Soviet delegate , permits . no illusion that they : an be stopped by mere persuasion . In such circumstances there is only me hope for fruitful negotiations between East and West , and that is to tarry out the program adopted by the United States and endorsed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ That program calls , in the words ) f former Secretary of State Marshall , : or filling in the vacuums left by the ast war , or , in the words of Secre:ary Acheson , for creating " situations of strength " before negotiations : an become useful . In short , what is iecessary is to restore a balance of ? ower which can be stripped of many ) f its evil connotations , such as the ? principle of " compensation " in rival Big Power grabs , but which is still the ) nly mechanism invented to prevent , reponderant power from imposing itself upon the world . That is the policy to which the free world has now dedicated itself . It was first conceived , following the failure of : he Big Four peace conferences , as primarily an economic policy to prevent aggressive communism from exploit.hg " the economic dislocations left by ; he war ; and its first fruit was the Nlarshall Plan , with only limited military aid to free nations under the Truman Doctrine . That policy still retains lull validity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by arbitrary cuts in Marshall Plan funds . But events have shown that economic stabilization is not enough , and that aggressive military power can be met only by military power strong enough to deter aggression . The rape of Czechoslovakia was the first warning of this necessity , and it led to a great deal of organizational activity , Including the ? creation of the WestEuropean Union , the North Atlantic Pact , the Council of Europe and the Schuman Plan . But it took the explosion in Korea to shock the free world into the realization that mere paper organization is not enough and to launch it on a program of performance which is now under way . That program expresses itself in the vast rearmament projects now being started by free nations everywhere ; at great sacrifices to their economies and living standards . The revelation of just how strong the forces of aggression are , and how unready the free world is to meet them , has given these projects an urgency which should outweigh all other considerations . And the rearmament programs will have to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Only when all that has been accomplished  --  when Soviet might has been balanced by adequate and organized power in the free world and when overt or covert Communist aggression has been checked  --  will there be a chance for " bold statesmanship " to come forward again and to make a new test as to whether Soviet Russia is ready , if not for permanent peace , which is not in the Communist cards , at least for a modus vivendi which for a time will permit the Communist and the free world to " co-exist " side by side in a truce that might pass for peace .                     