@@717683

txt The Atomic Energy Cornmission said it expects to give the go-ahead to a group of eight companies headed by Commonwealth Edison Co. of Chicago and to Consolidated Edison Co. of New York to start building their proposed atomic electricity plants " within the next month . " Commonwealth Edison plans a 180,000 kilowatt atomic electricity plant near Chicago . Consolidated Edison wants to build a 150,000 kilowatt plant in the New ' York City area . Both firms applied to - the commission in 1955 for approval of their plants . The commission said it would give them construction permits which would allow them to star ' building . Both firms hope to have their plants finished in 1960 . In testimony before the Joint Congressional Atomic Committee , , the , commission also bolstered the hopes of American industry which is eyeing what it considers the lucrative field of building atomic power reactors aboard . A.E.C. Chairman Strauss said the agency is anticipating applications . from U. S. industry to build atomic reactors in foreign nations and would act to set up the necessary agreements with countries @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ These agreements , called bilaterals , are necessary before American firms can sell reactors to foreign nations . The United States has power bilateral agreements with Britain . Canada and Belgium which allows companies in these countries to exchange information and negotiate for the sale of power reactors . The A.E.C. is working out power agreements with Australia , Switzerland and the Netherlands . Preliminary discussions on such agreements have been started with other nations . The hearing also got into the touchy subject M. insurance against atomic reactor accidents . Rep. Price ( D .. Ill. ) called thr public hearings by the committee to find out what , if any , role the Government should- take in lifting a possible burden from.private industry of millions of dollars in damage claims from so-called " third parties " in the event of an accident that could spread radioactive material over a wide area . - This came after Chairman Anderson ( D. , N. Mex. ) said he thought the Government would be liable for damage claims by third parties in excess of what a private reactor operator could pay , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reactor : At present the law provides that a private reactor operator tan not sue the commission for damages . In a recent report on atomic energy , a citizen 's panel said the implication that the Government might take part in an insurance program covering reactor accidents might stifle private efforts to work out a program . The . panel said it looked on Government insurance as a " threat to private atomic enterprise , not a benefit . " The A.E.C. 's Mr. Price remarked that private insurance firms have gotten together and said they would insure Private reactor operators against damage claims up to 560 million per plant . The recent announcement by these insurance firms of the plan to form a syndicate for insurance against damage claims was regarded in the industry as a major breakthrough to solving the problem of insuring against large reactor accidents . After the session , Rep. Price said the commission had been " talking " of some plan to assure industry that the Government would cover damage claims above a certain amount . - He said this would prevent bankrupting a company @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stressed this was just " talk . "                     