@@715551

txt Republican administration leaders , with the tacit agreement of the Democratic leadership , were working last night and early today at drafting a new judicial reform Drach amendment to the Illinois constitution alter the defeat of the bar association proposal for such an amendment yesterday . Gov . Stratton worked thru the dinner hour and into the night in - a series of feverish conferences with senators and representatives to bring about some acceptable form of judicial revamping with a chance of passage . Sen. George . Drach R. , Springfield a f ter conferring with Stratton started working on the new draft . The house administered a stunning defeat to the original proposed amendment promulgated by the Illinois and Chicago Bar associations . Only 72 votes were mustered for the proposed amendment . The plan needed 102 votes for passage . Plan Introduction Today The governdr interrupted the series of conferences at midnight to announce that . the final decision will be made this morning on whether to submit the revised plan . This new proposition would be an amendment that would dodge . the controversial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ repdrted the Cook county Democrat ic bloc remained solidly against the latest proposed compromise as it had been against the plan defeated yesterday . The conferences continued into the late morning hours . If the Democrats were to agree , any new amendment could pass both houses in one day . Bar Assn . Plan Rejected The bar- association 's plan be -- came involved in a tangled web of arguments over selection and tenure of judges , with the net result that the house emphatically refused to accept its court reform . Prodonents attempted to postpone consideration of the proposal for another try planned today but lost . There were 72 of the house 's 150 votes registered against the plan yesterday , and . 80 members voted against giving the plan another chance today . Six Not Voting The 72 to 72 division , which showed on the house ? tabulator but was never recorded , represented most of the votes in the house . Only six members , including Rep. Clem Graver R. , Chicago , who has been kidnaped , were not voting . Three house members are deceased @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ debate , pushed far ahead of the early hopes of many of its supporters . It passed the senate with the necessary two-thirds vote and has been very much alive in the house . Loses in Final Days Supporters conceded the bar plan has lost votes sin the last two days . Many members who had intended to vote for the plan drifted away as other controversial issues were dispensed with In the closing days of the session . Log rolling pressure was , gone for the most part , and pledges were relaxed . Arrayed against the plan yesterday was the solid opposition of members who generally speak for union labor , most Chicago Democrats and a half dozen of the most powerful downstate legislative leaders from both parties . The support of Gov . Stratton , who had put judicial reform high on his list of " must " legislation , failed to develop into tangible work for the measure on the floor of the house . The agents cf the governor who generally buttonhole members for administration matters did not perform on the resolution , altho Stratton has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Stransky R. , Savanna , Stratton 's majority leader , spoke for the plan . Spokesman for Plan The pleadings of Rep. Russell Arrington R. , Evanston who served as principal spokesman for the resolution in. the house did not offset expressed fears that the amendment would " take the courts away from the people , " thru a system of appointed judges and abandonment of police , municipal , county , and justice of the peace courts . Amendments designed to Soften the opposition to the judicial reform proposal failed to attract votes , and in the opinion of the observers here , the plan lost ground in the last two days of feverish work by its supporters . Rep. Paul Taylor D. , Effingham charged that the proposal " has the voice of reform but the hand behind it is the hand of selfish interests who want to take over our courts . " He said that the names on the letterhead of the Citizens Committee for the Judicial Amendment , which has pushed for adoption , " read like a page out of Dun and Bradstreet or the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hits Plan ' Rep. Fred J. Smith ID. , Chicago termed the plan a swing to the left , and said that the proposal to establish only Supreme , Appellate , and Circuit courts would damage Chicago by destroying the Municipal court there . Rep. Reed F. Cutler R. , Lewistown ridiculed , the plan and some of its supporters , and Rep. Paul Powell D. , Vienna concluded the debate for the opponents with a defense of politics and politicians , and an elected judiciary . Among those who joined Arrington in arguing for the plan in speeches on the floor were Rep. Hugh Green R. , Jacksonville , Rep. Robert Burhans R. , Peoria , Rep. Paul Randolph R. , Chicago ) , and Rep. Bernice T. Van der Vries R. , Winnetka . The defeated plan , as outlined by Arrington and others , would leave to the people in 1954 the proposition that the court section of the constitution be changed to : 1 . Provide for supreme , appellate , and circuit courts only , with associate judges and magistrates to be appointed to aid in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would be the only trial courts . 2 . Provide for Supreme court rules and administration of the entire state court system . 3 . Provide for appointed judges , with the exception that citizens of any circuit could vote in referendum to have the judges of that circuit elected . It was the feature of appointed judges that drew most Ore . " If you elect the people who make the laws why not elect the people who interpret them , " Powell said . " Why elect anybody ? Why elect the President ? Let 's appoint everybody . " The arguments on the proposal dragged on for more than five hours . It was one of the two or three major matters remaining to be disposed of before the legislative session adjourns , probably this week-end . Block Limiting Attempt Backers and opponents of the measure combined to block an early attempt to limit debate on the resolution . Rep. Rober t Branson R. , Centralia moved that each side be given 45 minutes of debate . Arrington moved to table the limitation , and Powell also spoke @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more that 's heard about this , the fewer votes it will get . " Branson 's motion was tabled ' 78 to 47 . Arrington opened the arguments for the amendment by outlining the provisions of the resolution , with the var i o us amendments which have been i placed on it n attempts . to win votes . He spoke a half an hour , then offered one of the mollifying amendments . The plan ran into immediate trouble . Cutler Raps Backers Rep. Cutler fired the first salvoes . The amendments , he said , are " sucker bait . " The plan , instead of getting the courts closer to the people , takes them as far as possible from the people , he charged . A " little group " proposes the judicial artide , Cutler said , and he contended that the " little group " which backs the change is " a thousand times worse " than the coalition which now marks the selection of judges in Cook county . Good things and bad things have been combined in the proposed article , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it to get votes . for it . " I want this house to know that these amendments are put here for a certain purpose , " he said , " and it is n't to improve the judicial article . " Preihs ' Motion Tabled PO . Carl Preihs p. , Pena got the floor next and offered as a substitute , an amendment to strike everything in the resolution . Arrington moved to table and he and Preihs engaged in a brief flare-up . Ar r ingt on termed the resolution " humorous . " Preihs retorted that it was n't as funny as the judicial plan itself . The court amendment is more than funny , he said , " it 's silly . " The first tabulation on the roll call showed that the motion to table was failing . Arrington succeeded in talking the roll call around so that the Preiheamendment was tabled 77 to 62 . In his speech he had to use ammunition he had planned to save for later . It was a statement from Col. J. M. Arvey , Democratic national committeeman @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , however , he was not speaking for his party , and " shall not ask any member of the Illinois house or senate to vote one way or another on the pending resolution . " Tabling the Preihs amendment was the first test of strength on court reform in the house . It showed 66 Republicans and 11 Democrats for keeping the plan alive . There were 49 Democrats and 13 Republicans who voted to kill it by the Preihs amendment . The two key amendments designed to make ' the plan more palatable to house members were adopted by voice votes and other amendments were beaten down .                     