@@718369

txt The Democratic Party as a party ( leaving the presidential vote out of it ) lost about 12 seats in the House of Representatives from the northern industrial section of ? the United States , but repaired this loss by an equal gain west of the Mississippi . This is one of several features of the voting in the 1956 election with interesting implications both as to the effectiveness of tactics used during - the campaign and the future alignments Aof the two parties . A A Democratic Party losses were most prominent in those big northeastern industrial cities where labor is heavily organized and in theory is able to influence the voting of its members . These cities were one of the three main elements of the political combination put together by Franklin Delano Roosevelt . What caused the weakening of the Democratic Party in these areas ? The union organizations , in the main , were committed to the Democratic Party and worked for it . The answer presumably is just plain prosperity . The Democrats tried to raise doubts about prosperity . They also made @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ yet revised the Taft-Hartley Act . But the fact of a high level of business and industrial activity , with high wages and a high level of employment , obviously carried more weight . There can be little doubt that when the Eisenhower administration accepted the theory that the federal government is responsible for high employment and prosperity it found a means of breaking the Democratic Party 's advantage of 20 years with the labor vote . It is no longer an axiom that a union man votes Democratic . A lot of them voted Republican this year . Republican sponsorship of prosperity was to be the answer to the Republican problem of getting back into the big industrial cities . But there were two features of the old Roosevelt formula which the Eisenhower administration refused to adopt . One was the Roosevelt policy of sustaining farm prices , and the other was the Roosevelt sponsorship of public power development . For this the Republicans paid a price . How heavy the price was is measured in part by the fact that three of Mr. Eisenhower 's good personal friends in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ list of possible alternates to Richard M. Nixon as a vice ? 0 Gap .. 4:30 ; . , ' I Saw a Lot of Those During the Campaign ' presidential running mate  --  were defeated . One was former Gov . Dan Thornton of Colorado . Another was Gov . Arthur B. Langlie of Washington . The third was Douglas , former Governor of Oregon and former Secretary of the Interior . Their defeats knocked out three-sevenths of Mr. Eisenhower 's list of prospective successors to himself for the leadership of the Republican Party . The other four were Vice-President Nixon , Gov . Theodore R. of Maryland , Gov . Christian A. Herter of Massachusetts , and Senator Margaret Chase Smith of Maine . Add that in this same western section of the country the Republicans lost the governorships of Kansas and Iowa . Christian Science Monitor These losses were all in sections of the country affected by grain and cattle prices and by the **26;625;TOOLONG controversy . The conclusion seems to be clear that the Republican Party has learned how to break back into the big @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the labor vote , but did not adopt the policies which are necessary if it ' is to maintain its old grip on the great western plains or compete successfully in the Pacific Northwest . Whatever may be said for the theory of Ezra Taft Benson 's farm policies in the abstract , they did not pay off at the ballot box , nor did the policies of putting an end to federal power and irrigation dams . It is possible  --  in fact , it is almost certain  --  that the Republicans would have captured both the Senate and the House of Representatives in Washington if Messrs . Benson and had not formed the farm and public-power policies of the administration . A A A None of this says that we are likely to see the Republican Party become the champion of organized labor , or the Democrats take over the old Republican position of champion of the farmer and the western pioneer . It does say that as of today the Republican Party has a newly discovered stake in the labor vote , and the Democrats in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ development which will be welcomed by those who believe that it is better for the United States when its parties compete for the same people , and will be deprecated by those who prefer to see the parties divide by Left and Right  --  employer versus labor , etc . It is at least a temporary trend away from the class division between parties which marked the Roosevelt period .                     