@@716987

txt An administrative court of the United States to deal with judicial phases of tax , labor and trade regulations was recommended today by the Hoover Commission . An overhauling of Federal legal services and procedures was proposed in fifty-two recommendations sent to Congress by the Commission on Organization of the Executive Branch of the Government . The report called for a legal career service . So controversial were some proposals that Herbert Hoover , the chairman , and five other commission members did not vote for them , although they approved their submission to Congress . These included twenty proposals for amendments to the Administrative Procedure Act . Some were technical . Mr. Hoover and those who joined him said they had not voted for them because " of their possible consequences and possible increase in expenditures of the Government . " The Administrative Procedure Act of 1946 established a basic code of governing administrative rule making , adjudicatory processes and judicial review . 50 Agencies involved The task force that proposed the changes was so eminent and its investigation so searching , however , that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The commission said its overall proposals were intended to " separate administrative and judicial functions in Federal agencies and thus give the public greater protection against abuses of power and arbitrary bureaucratic action . " The work of more than fifty agencies employing nearly 7,000 lawyers would be affected . The proposal for an administrative court is new . It would be set up in three sections . A tax section would take over the functions now performed by the Tax Court of the United States . This would remove the Tax Court from the Executive branch and transfer it to the judicial . A trade section would take over adjudicatory functions in the trade regulation field . These now are vested in the Federal Trade Commission , the Interstate Commerce Commission , the Federal Communications Commission , the Civil Aeronautics Board , the Federal Reserve Board , the United States Tariff Commission , the Federal Power Commission , the Department of the Interior and the Department of Agriculture . A labor section would take over from the National Labor Relations Board cases involving , unfair labor practices . Hearing Chief @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would take over the field handled in many agencies by hearing examiners . The commis , sion said it had found the Civil Service Commission system used to select hearing examiners " wholly unsatisfactory . " It proposed a position of chief hearing commissioner , to be attached to the administrative court . This officer would be responsible for the selection and supervision of hearing commissioners in all agencies . He would be appointed by the President to a twelve-year term . Confirmation by the Senate would be required . A corollary suggestion to the administrative court proposal was that Congress study the transfer to existing courts of certain judicial functions of some agencies . These would include the imposition , remission or . I compromise of money penalties , awarding of reparations or damages and the issuance of in. junctive or - This could " flea " cease and desist " orders of the Federal Trade Commission . These are orders directed against false or misleading advertising or monopolistic practices . Some defense contract settlements and some settlements in tax cases also might be involved . V. A. Staff Cut @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , , . wasteful . ' ICe report urged that  --  the 884-man legal staff of the Veterans Administration be reduced . A primary area of this ' staff , the commission said , i5 the Veterans Administration Guardianship Service , operated at an annual administrative cost . of r , - 000,000 . The commission also found fault with the legal set-up d the Department of Defense . It lacks integration and coordination , the report said , and ' needs overhauling . To improve the situation the commission recommended vesting authority over the entire legal force and all legal services in the department in a general counsel . Career Service Urged Professional responsibility for legal services to the Army , Navy and Air Force , the commission said , should be vested in the general counsels of each service . A departure suggested for the Defense Department was the development of a legal career service for civilian attorneys . This would be supervised by a civilian legal personnel committee . The Department of Justice , the commission said , should be recognized as the chief law office of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the courts in behalf of administrative departments and agencies , unless exceptions were made by Congress . Several proposals designed to increase Justice Department efficiency were submitted . One was a reorganization , to separate the legal administrative functions of the department from its litigation functions . An office of legal services and procedure in the Justice Department , to improve administrative practices , also . was recommended . Coordinated with that function Would be the development under the Justice Department of a separate career legal service for civilian attorneys in governmbnt. , Career Service Stressed Morale among Government lawyers , the , oinmission said , was " not as . ' as it should be . " One reason given Was that too many were regarded as " push-button " lawyers , required too often to submit opinions sustaining a ' position previonkly determined by a nonlawyer superior . ag , Tile task force criticized some encies ? for publicity methods : It said that the release of charges to be filed against private citizens should ' not be accompanied by " unnecessary comments " that might be as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a court or agency . Such a " prejudicial prejudging of the issues , " the task force said , should be grounds for a court of review to set aside an agency action . The commissioners who supported all recommendations except those for changes in the Administrative Procedure Act were Chairman Hoover ; Herbert Brownell Jr. , the Attorney General ; ' Arthur S. Flemming , Solomon C. Hollister , Joseph P. Kennedy and Sidney A. Mitchell . Representative Clarence J Brown , Republican of Ohio , reserved his right to disagree with some of the legislative proposals . James A. Farley said that the proposals on administrative procedure were highly technical and would require careful study and analysis by Congress . Representative Chet Holifield , Depuicrat of California , dissented from most proposals , especially those for an administrative court and the reduction in the Veterans Administration legal staff . James Marsh Douglas of St. Louis , former Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of Missouri , was chairman of the task force , that made the studies upon which the recommendations were , based .    @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @        