@@718470

txt Letters to The Times PAUL B. TRESCOTT.NATHAN STRAUS.FREDERICK C. MCKEE.C.F . BRICKFIELD , HENRY WATTE ... Letters to The Times Costs in Tax Depreciation Deductions Based on Replacement of Capital Goods Opposed The writer of the following letter is Associate Professor of ECO/i0MiCS at Kenyon College . To THE EDITOR OF THENew York TIMES Your editorial of Jan. 5 laments the plight of business firms which are permitted to deduct for tax purposes a depreciation allowance which " only " covers the original cost of plant and equipment , although the cost of replacing such assets when they wear out may be much greater . You conclude with the surprisingly intemperate statement that Congress is led principally by " pure political demagogy " to refuse to permit depreciation allowances based on replacement cost . Contrary to your view , historical cost is the only reasonable basis for tax depreciation . The use of replacement cost would be unsound and undesirable , The corporation profits tax is computed on the excess of income over costs . Most costs  --  labor , materials  --  are deducted when they occur @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ used up , after they are bought . The company which must replace a $10,000 machine with a $20,000 machine does not lose out in taxes ? they may claim higher depreciation allowances for the more expensive machine as it wears out . ( Firms seldom replace a machine with another identical model , anyway  --  the new one is frequently improved . ) Depreciation calculations based on replacement cost would give a totally unjustified windfall to many firms  --  particularly the large , wellestablished firms who already enjoy so many strategic advantages from the tax system . Using replacement cost would be particularly lucrative for firms which have borrowed to finance capital goods . For them the excess of replacement cost over original cost would be a tax-free money profit . You are certainly correct when you state that business firms need more access to capital . There are many legitimate ways in which the Government could promote this , including beneficial changes in the tax laws ( such as a reduction in the corporate tax rate ) . But sleight-of-hand with depreciation allowances does not meet the reenirements of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Jan. 8. 1957 . Tribute to Dr. Winslow To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES A man to , whom our country owes much died on Jan. 8 . He was Dr. Charles-Edward Amory Winslow , long-time Professor of Public Health at Yale University and first chairman of the New Haven Housing Authority . Dr. Winslow was chiefly responsible for the creation of the New Haven Housing Authority and led it from its inception in 1939 . His bold plans for the redevelopment of slum areas and the subsequent construction of 2,500 low-rent apartments for families from the slums broke new ground in urban redevelopment . The New Haven program was studied and copied by other communities throughout the country , to their benefit . For me the news of Dr. Winslow 's passing loosed a flood of memories extending over the years . I was privileged , as Administrator of the United States Housing Authority , to work with him , to benefit front his wise and patient counsel , to be inspired by his example . Before the word " desegregation " had come into current use @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ States Housing Authority program in New Haven and was made available , under Dr. Winslow 's leadership , to all ill-housed , low-income families , without discrimination as to race or color . New Haven is the poorer in that Dr. Winslow has died , but America is the ' richer because he had lived . NATHAN STRAUS . New York , Jan. 9 , 1957 . Communist Members of U. N. To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YoRK . TIMES : In your Dec. 28 issue Arthur Clark advocates universal membership in the U. N. , in spite of the fact that this question was thoroughly debated and overwhelmingly rejected at the San Francisco Conference . After admitting that there is " serious question " as to who should represent the Hungarian people , he then says that this " in no way diminishes the importance of their membership . " Certainly it is desirable to include in the U. N. the representatives of any Government which is truly representative of the people involved and which complies with the Charter provisions that it be peace-loving and ready to cooperate against @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by internal subversion , maintained by the grossest brutality and has contributed to the general aggression of the Communist group . The same is true of the other satellite states and even of Russia itself , where 25,000 Bolsheviks overthrew the weak democratic Kerensky Government and have consolidated their position by the slaughter and imprisonment of millions . The frequent ineffectiveness of the U. N. in dealing with aggression has been increased by the obstructive tactics of its Communist members . The continued membership of these Communist puppet Governments in the N. helps to bolster the illusion of the omnipotence of these regimes and encourages new aggressions since aggressors think they can continue their criminal acts without being cut off from the rest of the world . The U. N. is of course not an " exclusive club , " but to be effective should only contain those Govern ? ments who want a peaceful work , ' and will cooperate against aggression in accordance with the provisions of the Charter : The basic aims and program of the Soviet and its satellites* are directly contrary to this . To permit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is like maintaining avowed criminals in a police force in the hope of converting them . FREDMIC11 . C. MCKEE . Pittsburgh , Pa. , Jan. 4. 1957 . Statements by Mr. Celler Details of Congressman 's Press Conference in Mexico Discussed To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : ' A special item to The New York Times datelined Mexico City , Dec. 12 , stated that Representative Emanuel Celler " shocked " United States Embassy officials as well as Mexican and United States newsmen by discussing . " at length ' the President 's unfortunate - illness ' and the problems " of Presidential succession . As one who attended the press meeting I feel that The Times item gave a wholly incorrect impression of the interview . No United States Embassy officials at the conference expressed any unfavorable comments . As for Mexican newsmen , the Mexican press carried the interview the next day , giving the same emphasis to Hungarian refugees and the Suez crisis as it did to the subject of Presidential inability . Congressman Celler did , of course , discuss Presidential inability , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other current problems . He did so because one of the newspapers in Mexico City had earlier carried a frontpage article on the intention of the Eisenhower Administration to introduce legislation in the next Congress on Presidential inability and succession . As chairman of the House Judiciary Committee , which will handle the legislation , Mr. Celler pointed out that a subcommittee , which he also heads , had already held hearings on the matter and that. , among other things , the subcommittee , through questionnaires , had solicited the views of some fifty Professors of Political Science , former Cabinet officers and two ex . Presidents . As a result of the subcommittee study Mr. Celler stated that he would offer a resolution when the Congress convened in January which would attempt to resolve this issue . No emphasis whatsoever was placed on the President 's past illnesses and it is difficult to under , stand where the author of The Times item got his impression . During the interview Mr. Celler pointed out that the matter was of concern primarily to the United States and that his colleagues @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to keep the question out of politics . Mr. Celler 's constructive work on the related problems of Hungarian refugees and land resettlement while on his trip should not have been overlooked . The problem of resettling Hungarian refugees is not entirely centered in or limited to Austria , and Latin-American countries , their interest undoubtedly sharpened by Mr. Celler 's visit , are pledged to receive for asylum and permanent residence many more of these unfortunate victims of Russian tyranny . In all , they have promised to take in over 20,000 refugees . C. F. BRICKFIELD , Counsel , House Judiciary Committee . Washington . Jan. 5 , 1957 . " The Red Death " Recalled To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES n You say in your editorial of Jan .. 9 that there is no name for the eruption in Hungary . May I call your memory to a tale written by one Mr. Poe called " The Red Death " ? Only Poe could do justice to the present situation . Only ' Poe could translate the grotesque , macabre , insinuating , ail pervasive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at every crevice , nook and cranny in our national walls , HENRY WATTERSON HULL . New York , Jan. 9 , 1957.                     