@@715613

txt The projected truce in Korea , for which the contending forces have been negotiating for more than two years , continues to hang in the balance because of President Rhee 's persisting anxiety about the future of his country ? an anxiety that has been further aggravated by the cynical Communist attacks on his army at a time when hopes for peace appeared brightest . But the leaders of the United Nations , including President Eisenhower , seem still to be confident that these difficulties will be overcome and that a truce will be signed soon  --  if the Communists really want it . A truce , however , though it would bring at least a temporary end to the fighting , will not in itself bring peace . That peace must still be sought in a ' political conference , to be called within three months after an armistice agreement has been signed . This means that the struggle for peace will be transferred from the battlefield to the diplomatic field . The outcome of the conference might well determine the fate of the truce itself @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ United Nations nor the Communists should go into such a conference with any false ideas regarding its scope and purpose , lest it be wrecked from the start . Is is , therefore , to be welcomed that both Secretary Dulles and Congress have taken action to make clear what we believe the purpose of the conference should and must be , and what it can not and must not be . As stated by Mr. Dulles the purpose of the conference must be to liquidate Communist aggression in Korea and , as a related subject , to prevent new Communist aggression elsewhere . It can not be to grant the Cc - the main objective for which they have been fighting ever since their attempt to overrun Korea was frustrated ? namely , general diplomatic recognition and , above all , admission of Communist China to the United Nations . Mr. Dulles has put the United States on record as strongly opposed even to a discussion of these issues , should they be raised by other conference members . And Congress backed him up in this position when the House @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a resolution already adopted by the Senate opposing Chinese Communist membership in the United Nations . This statement and resolution express the sentiments of the American people . We are sure that it is their profound conviction that to admit Communist China to the United Nations immediately after a war of aggression , and without any change of the regime which committed this international crime , would be to put a reward on aggression and to encourage other aggressors to attempt to shoot their way into the United Nations  --  where , incidentally , they could join the bloc that seeks to paralyze the most important function Of the United Nations  --  the maintenance of peace , by force if necessary . The admission of Communist China would mean paying a price for a truce in Korea which would undermine that truce from the very start and enormously weaken the United Nations . These opinions may not be shared by all of our Allies . But it is gratify. , ing to know that the Allied Govern Ments are beginning to adopt a more realistic stand and that the British Government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ eye to eye with the United States on the immediate issues involved . The time may come when a new China under a regime which has a firmer holgi on the country than mere control through force and terror , and which is both willing and free to honor its international obligations , may qualify for membership in the United Nations . But that time is not yet , and there is no such regime in Peiping today . Until there is , the real interests of China are in better hands by being represented by the Nationalist Government than by the Soviet puppets who now rule the Chinese mainland .                     