@@717990

txt The Arab states , however , angrily rebuffed the peace feeler . They made clear they would not cooperate in any such exploration . Indeed , they objected even to having the 11-nation Securi " mutually acceptable " peace settlement was desirable . This being the case , the Council watered down the terms of Mr. Hammarskjold 's renewed mandate until it represented the lowest common denominator of all views  --  and then unanimously passed a resolution expressing those views . What the Council did , in the last analysis , was to accept Mr. Hammarskjold 's view that the Arabs and Jews can not be pushed into a settlement  --  that they can only be led , and that it is better to proceed lit a snail 's pace than to try to exert pressure . The difficulty with this decision , in the view of some UN observers , is that it may not be safe to go too slowly . Israel has shown in the past that it is impatient with a long-drawn-out armistice . If needled , the Israeli government once again may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that they will be obliged to settle  --  and in that event a vicious circle of killing and reprisal would begin again . Seeks to Cement Gains The ' Council began its latest series of Palestine meetings May 29 in an effort to consolidate the gains Mr. Hammarskjold had won on his trip to the Mideast in April , to give him moral support , and to make clear that it still wanted him to seek peace on the Council 's behalf . ? By the time the series of meetings was over , on June 4 , there were many who doubted the wisdom of having met at all . Only by dint of the most strenuous efforts was a serious setback to the Hammarskjold mission averted . The Western powers did , in fact , sustain one cold-war setback . They permitted the Soviet Union to repair its fences with the Arab states . Those fences had begun to deteriorate as a result of Moscow 's belated support , this spring , for a peace settlement . Soviet delegate Arkady A. Sobolev assured the Council June 4 that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ April 17 ? that is , that it still wanted to see " peace and security " in the Palestine area . Soviets Balk But Moscow . was unwilling to see this objective written into a Security Council resolution over the protests of the Arabs , even though the phraseology which was proposed had been composed originally in Moscow . It was never wholly clear whether Mr. Sobolev would have gone so far as to veto the resolution if the key passage  --  calling for a " mutually accept- Few others objected to the phrase  --  but Mr. Sobolev sided with Syria , and in order to avoid a Soviet veto , the words were deleted . Sir Pierson Dixon of Great Britain , whose government had the uphappy task of making the decision  --  Britain was the sponsor of the resolution  --  made clear that he bowed to Syria with a heavy heart . He said he doubted that there had ever been " such a fuss about five little words which are really a glimpse of the obvious . " The French delegate , Herve Alphand , administered a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " incredible " and warning him against " intransigeance . " He said he regretted the decision to meet the demands of Syria and the Soviet Union . Abba S. Eban of Israel had a field day . Mr. Shukairy 's rigidity gave him a broad opening , and he took full advantage of it , denouncing what he termed the Arab policy of resistance to peace , He . all but called the British decision appeasement and surrender . Result Summarized The ' final result of the diplomatic exercise was summarized by some observers as follows : 1:The calm of the past two months in the Mideast had been shown to be no more than skin deep . In this sense , some of the luster of Mr. Hammarskjold 's successful peacemaking had been dulled . IiIsrael , thanks to Syria , had scored heavily in the field of propaganda . The Jewish position was cast in a much more reasonable light than that of the Arabs . The Western powers had not merely failed to exploit Moscow 's recent posture of sweet reasonableness in the Middle East , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the arms of the Arabs . Hammarskjold had been given the moral support of the world organization , and had been authorized to continue his efforts , but had been warned anew to proceed inch by inch , the way he would move if he were scaling the last mile of the most difficult mountain peak in his native Sweden .                     