@@719925

txt ALEXANDRIA , Va. , Sept. 2 ? The school board of Arlington County , Va. , disclosed in Federal court here today that it had rejected applications from all thirty Negro students who had sought to attend white public schools . Board officials said race was not the reason for their decision , But attorneys for the Negro children challenged that contention as they began a sharp cross-examination . District Judge Albert V. Bryan is expected to rule soon on which , if any , of the children must be admitted . Because of the uncertain situation the school board tonight postponed the opening of school , scheduled for Thursday , until next Monday . Norfolk Also Acts Two other Virginia areas involved in integration litigation ? Charlottesville anti Norfolk ? postponed the opening day of their schools until Sept. 22 . In Richmond , Gov . J. Lindsay Almond of Virginia said school-closing notices were ready for dispatch to any community in which Negroes and whites were assigned to attend the same public schools . The Arlington County school board advanced five reasons for denying the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the assertion that Negro children might have trouble adapting themselves to life in a hitherto all-white school . Ray E. Reid , school superintendent , testified that children need a " sense of belonging " and " must feel a part of the group . " He said Negroes would " find it hard to adapt " when going to a group " so different from the one to which they 've been accustomed . " Sees ' Love ' Lacking " Transfers would certainly not be to their educational advantage , " Mr. Reid said . He forecast that Negro children who were leaders in Negro schools would not have that status in white schools and " could develop all sorts of inferiority . " He also said children needed teachers with " love and understanding  --  and I do n't think that would be , the case in this particular instance . " Mr. Reid concluded that it would be " very difficult , in most instances impossible , " for any but the most gifted Negro children to adjust to life in a white school . On cross-examination @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ children , asked Mr. Reid whether the school board ever had considered a child 's religion in deciding whether he would have a // " sense of belonging " at a new school . This exchange followed : Mr. Reid : " I ca n't see that that religion has any relation to public education . " Mr. Reeves : " Race does ? " Mr. Reid : " No . " Applied Only to Negroes Under questioning Mr. Reid said that the five standards against which the would-be Negro transferees were measured , including psychological adaptability , were not applied to white students seeking to transfer from one white school to another . " So that race was the factor that distinguished these transfers from any other transfers ? " Mr. Reeves asked . " Yes , I would say so , " Mr. Reid replied . The four other reasons for denying the Negro applications were described by Dr , Barnard Joy , a member of the five-man school board . First , he said , eleven of the thirty applicants did not live in the official " attendance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enter . Overcrowding Cited Second , Dr. Joy said five of the applicants who were in the appropriate district for Washington and Lee High School were denied admission because that school was badly overcrowded . Third , Dr. Joy testified that the board decided to deny twelve of the applications because the children 's academic standing was too low . He produced charts showing that children in the county 's allNegro junior-senior high school had average scores that were two years behind white children in standard achievement tests . Thus , he said , a Negro transfer would in effect be skipping two grades . Asked to explain the gap , Dr. Joy said the white people of Arlington  --  a suburb across the Potomac from Washington ? had high incomes , more than half of them college graduates , and gave their children educational advantages that the Negroes had not had . ' Shyness ' Barred Some Fourth , seven children were rejected because a state psychologist , reviewing their records , thought that they had individual psychological problems . Examples given by Dr. Joy were " extreme shyness " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were rejected on more than one ground . But the five children disqualified for the fifth reason , problems of adaptability , were rejected on that ground alone and were otherwise qualified , Dr. Joy did not say whether the Arlington school board had been unanimous in its rejection on all five grounds . The board has been badly split , with two " liberal " and three " conservative " members . Judge Bryan first enjoined Arlington from racial discrimination in its schools , in 1956 . Last year he ordered seven Negro children admitted to named white schools . But those decisions were stayed pending appeals . When cross-examination Is concluded , Judge Bryan will presumably rule on which of the five reasons cited by the school board are valid . If any are not valid , he may order the board to approve those Negro applications or assign the students himself .                     