@@714656

txt In the course of his farewell tour of the North Atlantic Treaty nations General Eisenhower has issued in Rome a series of statements which summarize some of the fundamental convictions he has acquired as Supreme Allied Commander , arid which might be regarded as the gist of his farewell message to Europe . That message is , in effect : Unite or perish . General Eisenhower did not put it that bluntly , and he has previously expressed his faith that Europe will find the way to peace and security . But , speaking at the Italian headquarters of the European Federation Movement in the city that was once the capital of the only , if imperial , union Europe has known , the departing Commander declared that in the long run there can be neither peace nor security for Europe unless it unites . European union , he emphasized , is an urgent and a long-range necessity not merely for military reasons to build up defensive strength against the world-conquering ambitions of a new Power aspiring to become the " Third Rome . " It is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not prosper under separate national economies which are unable to compete in world markets with the vast industrial systems built Up in the United States and Russia . General Eisenhower is well aware of the difficulties involved . But he holds that all difficulties can be overcome if there is overriding need , and he leaves no doubt that in his mind there is such deed . He , therefore , urges three immediate steps toward unity . The first is rapid realization of the Schuman Plan for a European Coal and Steel Community , already ratified . The second is quick conclusion of the European Defense Community pact providing for German integration with the West and a German contribution to a European army . The last and farthest-reaching is convocation of a European constituent assembly to draft a Constitution for a United States of Europe . These are views and aims which have long been the basis of American foreign policy , and General Eisenhower 's renewed emphasis on them will be endorsed by all shades of American opinion . But in European eyes the trees often loom larger than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ things he proposes can be done without any great outlay of money , that , unfortunately is a variable concept . Even the Schuman Plan involves large and long-established economic interests affecting both capital and labor , and the European army project involves vast amounts of money that strain both European and American finances . This does not affect the validity of the fundamental views expressed . But General Eisenhower 's statement must be read against the double background of events in Europe and in Washington , raising new obstacles to his aims . In Europe persistent national rivalries , doctrinaire socialism , Soviet propaganda and , last but not least , the distribution of the financial burdens of Western defense continue to delay and perhaps imperil the conclusion of the German " peace contract " and the European ( army treaty , on which European union depends . And in Washington party politics and an election-induced " economy drive " continue to delay and to ; lash the funds for both our own de  --  mse and for aid to our allies , which I turn impairs Europe 's own @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's mind when he lade his statement . In any case , his arning finds support in freneral Brad ley 's disclosure that Soviet Russia is arming to the teeth , and that the period of maximum danger , when the Soviets will be at the peak of their strength , is still ahead of us . But as far as Europe is concerned General Eisenhower 's statement must be also read in the light of his previous warning in his formal annual report that it would be fatuous to assume that American taxpayers will continue to pour money and resources into Europe unless Europe moves toward mutual cooperation and full effectiveness , which means unity . In that respect as well General Eisenhower gives voice to American opinion , and that makes it more urgent than ever for Europe to heed his parting advice .                     