@@717377

txt Vice President Richard M. Nixon reported today that the Govern-I ment had run smoothly without " internal disputes and jealousies " during the first week of President Eisenhower 's recuperation from a heart attack . Mr. Nixon summed up his impressions of the present " caretaker Administration " in an interview at his home following a visit to church . He indicated that the Eisenhower " team " had been working in complete harmony since the President was stricken Sept. 24 . " I can say without qualification , " the Vice President declared , " that every official of the Government with whom I have been in contact has had only one goal in mind , and that is to see that the Government ran in a way as close as possible to the way we think the President would have wanted it run under such circumstances . " Mr. Nixon offered his impressions of the first eight days of the President 's convalescence after attending Westmoreland Congregational Church with Mrs. Nixon and their two daughters , Patricia , 9 years old , and Julie , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ leaders had said a weeld ago that they intended to follow a policy of business as usual . " I think the record speaks for itself , " Mr. Nixon said . " Things have gone smoothly and Government business has been carried on without delays or interruptions . " I have been tremendously impressed by the way the members of the President 's . Cabinet and his official family have cooperated in the common objective of carrying on the President 's irogranisin his absence . " Mr. Nixon noted that " usually in past history " in similar circumstances " there have been internal disputes and jealousies . " This was an apparent reference to the closing months of Woodrow Wilson 's term , when he was incapacitated following a stroke , and the nearly three months during which James A. Garfield fought for life after being shot by  --  an assassin . During the interview Mr. Nixon was called to the telephone to recive a long distance call from Sherman Adams , the assistant to the President , who is now in Denver in charge of the summer White @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that Mr. Adams had given him " a very encouraging report on the President 's physical appearance , his spirit and his morale . " Relaxes With Family Mr. Nixon relaxed with his family after church by eating dinner at the Columbia Country Club and then going to a movie . He said that during the week ahead he would again preside over meetings of the Cabinet and the National Security Council as he did last week . He also announced that the National Equal Economic Opportunity Conference scheduled for Oct. 25 would be held as planned . The conference , to be held in Washington , is intended to emphasize the Administration 's policy of using persuasion to break down job discrimination based on race , color , creed or national origin . Mr. Nixon said the sixty-six industrial and union leaders invited to attend had expressed a desire to meet even though General Eisenhower would be absent . The Vice President will preside over the conference in his capacity as chairman of the President 's Committee on Government Contracts . He will also be host at a dinner at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an originally planned White House dinner with the President . Mr. Nixon said that there was no objective of the Administration to which the President was more deeply dedicated than to make equal opportunity a reality in education , employment and other fields . " The President , " he said , " has believed a ' better and mare effective way in the field of employment is a campaign of persuasion and education rather than compulsion . " Mr. Nixon conceded the job was not yet completed , but he said it was " one of the most exciting stories of this Administration ' * * that without fanfare and ballyhoo , working quietly and persuasively , literally thousands of job opportunities have been opened up to Americans who previously were not able to obtain positions in those fields . "                     