@@716640

txt Varied Activities on the Campus And in the Classroom FLETCHER  --  Japahese Study A three-year study of the Social Democratic movement in Japan will be launched this fall by Japanese and American scholars under the sponsorship of the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy at Medford , Mass . To be undertaken by a special grant of $80,000 from the Ford Foundation , the project will study the development of the Japanese Socialist movement since World War it will seek to assess its critical position in the present Japanese political scene . SENIOR CITIZENS  --  Activities Joy Elmer Morgan and Willard E. Givens , who together served the National Education Association for more than fifty years as N. E. A. Journal editor and executive secretary , have formed a new organization known as Senior Citizens of America . It will enroll persons 40 years of age and over . The activities of the group will include research , personal counsel and the publication of a monthly magazine to be known as Senior Citizens . B. U. ? Counseling Service Boston University 's pastoral counseling service , conducted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ increased demands for its services as it begins its third year of community activity . Established in 1952 , the free service of the organization is designed to assist persona of any creed to cope with the crises of life , by personal Counseling and , when indicated , by referral to other community services . BRANDEIS  --  Broadcasting Brandeis University has become a member of the Lowell Institute Cooperative Broadcasting Council . The council consists of eleven educational and cultural institutions of Greater Boston , which advises and cooperates with Station WGBH-FM in educational , informational and cultural broadcasts , which begin daily at 3:30 P. M. TARRYTOWN  --  New Schools By substantial majorities , the voters of the Tarrytowns , N. Ir. , approved a. bond issue for new schools to cost $3,699,104 .. The project calls for a high school and two primary schools . John D. Rockefeller Jr . has offered to contribute $300,000 toward the cost of acquiring land for the high school . BROWN  --  Teaching Program Brown University has introduced a teaching intern program financed by the Fund for the Advancement of Education . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the ' university 's experimental identification and criticism of ideas courses . They will also conduct research in their own field of study and will attend a sem-inar on teaching , SOUTH  --  Major Gift The University of the South ( Sewanee , Tenn. ) has received the largest single gift in its history , Mrs. Alfredi parks 53 .41 playgrounds . B. F. EDUCATION  --  In Brief Radcliffe College has dropped the honor system , both during examinations and in the college library ... . Pratt Institute is now offering a course in creative writing for evening students . . . . A new journalism award , dedicated to the freedom of the press , and known as the John Peter Zenger Freedom of the Press Award , will be established this year by the University of Arizona Department of Journalism . . . The power potentials of Russia and the United States will be compared in an evening course to be offered this fall at Northwestern University . ... Rutgers University is offering two courses to persons who make their living helping to beautify New Jersey 's homes , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ aid this year , an increase of $33,000 over last year . Outright grants totaling $430,000 were awarded to 556 students . Loans to students increased to a total of $70,000 . I. du Pont of Jacksonville , Fla. , has given the university $540,000 for an endowment for faculty salaries . The fund will also be used for scholarships in the College of Arts and Sciences and in the School of Theology . The university has mapped out a campaign for $2,800,000 , which it hopes to have raised by its one-hundredth anniversary in 1957-58 . EMORY  --  Basic Sciences A doctoral program in basic sciences is being offered at Emory University . The new graduate work in basic sciences is designed to train teachers and research personnel . Harvard and Stanford Universities are the only other schools with similar doctorate offerings , in this field .                     