@@713235

txt ACHESON DOUBTS PEIPING WAR ENTRY Holds Move in Korea Would Be Madness ' ? Asserts Modern Weapons Will Beat ' Hordes ' By JAY WALZ Saeclal YO THE NEW YORK TIMES . WASHINGTON , Sept. 10 ? Secretary of State Acheson declared in a television broadcast tonight that numbers do not necessarily mean strength and offered " modern weapons and ingenuity " as opposition to " all sorts of hordes . " He was alluding to hordes of Communist forces . He also said it would be " sheer madness " for the Chinese Communist Government to enter the Korean war on the side opposing the " free nations of the world . " " The greater part of China to the north , which is made up of Sinkiang , Outer Mongolia , and Manchuria , is Chinese at the present moment only nominally , " Mr. Acheson said . " That is where the great cloud from the north , Russian penetration , is operating and it is quite obvious that the plan is to absorb those northern areas of China under Soviet domination . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Peiping credit for being intelligent enough to see what is happening to them . Why they should want to further their own dismemberment and destruction by getting at cross purposes with all the free nations of the world who are inherently their friends and have always been friends of the Chinese as against this imperialism coming down from the Soviet Union I can not see . " And since there is nothing in it for them , I do n't see why they should yield to what is undoubtedly pressures from the Communist movement to get into this Korean row . " On Tuesday the foreign ministers of Britain , France and the United States will open important discussions in New York and tomorrow morning Mr. Acheson will outline before the Senate Foreign Relations and the House Foreign Affairs Committees the policies he will advocate at the New York meetings . As Mr. Acheson spoke , Congressional leaders appeared to endorse Administration measures aimed at arming Western German units . Senator John J. Sparkman , Democrat of Alabama , whom President Truman has named to the United States delegation at the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he favored giving the West Germans enough weapons to offset the legions established by Russia in East Germany . Senator Henry Cabot Lodge , Republican of Massachusetts , another member of the delegation , did not seem to be in serious disagreement when he told reporters that forma:ion of a European defense force must precede any action on the Berman question . President Truman yesterday ap // proved " substantial increases " in United States troop strength in Europe , provided the Atlantic Treaty allies of the United States acted to/build up their own contributions to a common defense force . It is assumed here that details of this general policy will be worked out at the meetings of the foreign ministers . One of the points to be discussed is the organization of an international defense force for Western Europe , possibly under the over-all command of a United States general . The name most prominently mentioned in this connection has been that of Gen. Dwight D. Eisenhower . In his televised remarks Mr. Acheson said , in response to a question : " I think we must put our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Atlantic defense forces . If we have those forces  --  strong , well-equipped , able and ready to deter aggression , then problems all over the world take on a different shape . Such forces alone will change problems in Greece , in Turkey and in Yugoslavia , in the Middle East and in the Far East . " Secretary Is Optimistic In the course of the interview over the Columbia Broadcasting System network , Mr. Acheson was asked whether the Western Allies could bring together forces strong enough to resist an all-out attack . He replied : " I believe we can and I believe with modern weapons and ingenuity we can do again exactly what was done for so many centuries at the time of the Roman Empire . " It does n't make any difference that you are outnumbered . It depends on the strength of the organization , . the superiority of your weapons . You can hold back all sorts of hordes if you have that . " At this point , Mr. Acheson was reminded that the Soviet Union had upward of 200 divisions , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Western Europe had but twelve , counting United States occupation forces . Asked what was being done to " correct that , " Mr. Acheson conceded a problem had been posed , but suggested that the " gap is not quite as great as the figures indicate . " He did not elaborate . When the discussion entered the realm of Far Eastern affairs , the Secretary of State said critics of United States policy " flatter themselves " that the situation in the Far East represents any " failure of American policy . " " That criticism results from the belief that Americans are allpowerful and that anything that they want to do happens and if things go wrong it must be some American mistake , " said Mr. Acheson . " That is n't the case at all . " " The fundamental fact in Asia is that that vast continent , quite irrespective of what some people are talking about , is all in the grip of a great revolutionary ferment , " the Secretary declared . " Peoples in Asia without discrimination between countries believe two things @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ must keep their independence from foreign control . And the other is that the misery which has overhung their lives for so many centuries is not necessary and that they can improve and better their own conditions of life . " He denied that the Communists were the only ones to appreciate this , and also that the United States had " written off Asia . " The Chinese are still going to be Chinese before they are Communists , he said . He thought the people of Indo-China saw the menace before them , as did the Filipinos , the Indonesians , the Japanese and the Koreans . We are helping all those countries , he added . Mr. Acheson declared emphatically that the United States was " waiting for nothing . " " We are acting now and we are acting vigorously and we are going to continue to act . We must get on with the establishment .. g clear future relations between Japan and the rest of the world . We must , if we possibly can , clear up this matter in Korea and we must @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Soviet imperialism . " In answer to another question , Mr. Acheson said it was " very hard " to put major attention anywhere in the world . All points of tension had to be looked at , and worked together . " But I think we must put our major effort at the present moment into creating strong North Atlantic defense forces . This is a tough job . The job before us is to organize our own great industrial Ipower to produce the goods which are necessary for defense . The same thing has got to be done by our Allies . " The job is to raise the men who are going to use those goods and that equipment in order to provide the defense for the West . It is n't going to be short as I said , and it is n't going , to be easy . And it is going to be done in a period which is wing to be dangerous . "                     