@@713603

txt BONN , Germany , Feb. 10 ? The release of 25,000 political prisoners in concentration camps of the East zone of Germany was named as the price of German unity talks by Chancellor Konrad Adenauer tonight . Speaking to a cheering throng of students of Bonn University , the Chancellor asserted that as long as the political prisoners remained imprisoned the Federal Government could not accept Eastern German proposals for unity . His speech was believed by West German observers to be a flat rejection of the latest Communist proposals for talks on German unity . Dr. Adenauer did not discuss the Communist proposals , individually but rejected the whole idea on the basis of the lack of political liberty in the East . The West German Government 's apprehension over the projected four-power conference featured Dr. Adenauer 's speech . He warned that West Germans could recognize the decisions of the Foreign Ministers Council " only if they are in accord with German interests . " " We are not living any more in the year 1945 , " he added . His whole speech symbolized @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Communist East and the mounting fear on the part of the Federal Government that it was being shut out of Western deliberations over a fourpower conference . Dr. Adenauer hastened , however , to assert that military conversations between his Government and the three Western powers as yet had had " no concrete results . " The talks , which started last // month , he said , had been only exploratory . Dr. Adenauer put the question ' of German rearmament into Allied hands . Only after they have agreed " can we talk with them , " he said . The Federal Chancellor repeated that Germany " is 100 per cent in the camp of the Soviets , " adding , that this also applied to the population of East Germany . He declared , however , that partnership witft the West must have as a " prerequisite " equal rights in both the political and military fields . The Federal Government , he said , " must be informed about , every step in the four-power talks , including those preparing for a conference . Dr. Adenauer added @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inform1 him , he had had no promise from ' the French . He also said that the Soviet proposals . in a conference of the foreign ministers were clear . These , he said , would include the ' unification of Germany , demilitarization and a German neutrality between East and West . Demilitarization , he said , probably would include the dissolution of the People 's Police military units in Eastern Germany . The Chancellor turned his scorn upon adherents of German neutrality , a doctrine that continues to show surprising strength . Dr. Adenauer asked : " What would become of a neutral Germany ? Do you believe any of the countries at war would respect a neutral Germany ? I do not believe so . " lleutrality , he said , could not prevent a " hot " war and would also prevent West European unity . Moreover , he warned , " in ' a few years " West Germans would live under conditions ? similar to those in the East zone of Germany . The Chancellor scoffed at Soviet claims that a German defense contribution @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ believe that Russia would wage a war on , account of ten to fifteen German , divisions ? " he asked . Pursuing a line that the Western powers have urged him to take , the Chancellor described at length the political conditions in the Communist republic in East Germany . Since 1945 , he said , 100,000 people , 50 per cent of those imprisoned , had died in concentration camps there . Thirty-seven concentration camps still existed in the Communist republic , he said , and 25,000 political prisoners were in them . " The East zone rulers are responsible for this , " he declared . The release of these prisoners must be accomplished before the Federal Republic could accept their proposals for unity , Dr. . Axienauer said . He asserted that the East zone regime was demanding German unity because the Soviet Union wanted to be ? able to tell the Council of Foreign Ministers that " Russia already is in negotiation with all of Germany . " Following the line that has been spread around Bonn fo rthe past three days , Dr. Adenauer emphasized @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the one hand and Britain and France on the other . Political groups in Paris and the left wing of the British Labor party " oppose German rearmament , " he said , and therefore he must speak with reserve . The Chancellor said he gave his " wholehearted support to a European army and asserted that the establishment of such an army would make war impossible in Europe . 