@@715695

txt DULLES SUGGESTS THAT U. N. OVERHAUL ' OBSOLETE ' CHARTER Tells Bar Group Atomic Bomb So Changed Conditions Pact Needs Drastic Revision HE QUESTIONS VETO RIGHT Also Sharply Opposes Bricker ' Senate Proposal ' to Amend Constitution of U. S. IText of Secretary Dulles ' speech . is printed on Page 4. sy 130.31.4 3e-mr.rncoror BOSTON , Aug. ** Foster Dulles , Secretary of State , called ' on the American Bar Associationtoday to meet the challenge of the times by moving cautiously in proposals to amend the United States Constitution but supporting drastic revision of the " obsolete " Char , ter of the United Nations . Mr. Dulles said that the framers of the Constitution had created the power to meet international peril by enabling the nation " to speak as a unit and with prompt effec : tive authority in the field of fora eign relations . " ? Delegates at the 1945 San Francisco organizational conference of the United Nations , of which he was one , however , were ignorant of the atomic bomb that was to fall on Hiroshima a few @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ therefore , the United Nations Charter was " obsolete before it actually came into force , " Mr. Dulles added . The Secretary 's reference to the Constitution , he told a Bar Association Assembly , was with respect to a proposed amendment that would " limit severely " the treatyMalang power of the President . The Bar Association , which has supported such an amendment , is saieduled to - debate the Issue to . morrow at a session of the House of , , Delegates ; the policy-making body of the organization . The amendment , which bears the ! lathe Of Senator John W. Bricker , Republican of Ohio , is pending before the Senate . Proposal Not Spelled Out On the other hand , said Mr. Dulles , the United Nations General Assembly has on its agenda for 1955 a proposal to call a general conference to review the present Charter . Mr. Dulles was not immediately available tonight for suggestions on how he would revise the Charter . He has said that he would vote in favor of a review conference , however . ? Mr. Dulles @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , time when the Bar Association , conducting its seventy-sixth annual meeting in Boston this seek , was preparing to thrash out the issue . Last night , Senator Bricker appeared before a dinner of the Advocate Generals Association in defense ' of his amendment . The American Bar Association 's Standing Committee on Peace and Law Through the United Nations is scheduled to make a report tore the amendment issue as it stands now before the House of Delegates . Alfred J. Schweppe of Seattle . Wash. , chairman of the committee . said that the group would make Ile recommendation . Immediately following the re . port , however , the Section Com ? mittee on International Law and Comparative Law ; of which ' Lymaii M. Tondel Jr. , of New York , // chairman , is to offer an amendment opposing the Bricker amendment . Mr. Tondel said that through a misunderstanding , his committee had been reported as having voted against bringing up the issue . Mr. Schweppe said that a majority of the Bar Association favored the essence of the Bricker amendment and had , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ years ago . Only Section 1 Approved Mr. Dulles , however , said that the proposed amendment , except for Section 1 , which President Eisenhower supported , " would have a calamitous effect upon the international position and prospects of the United States . " He said that Section 1 provided that " any provision in a treaty which conflicts with the Constitution shall be of no force or effect . " That , he added , stated the law as it presently stood . Mr. Dulles said that Section 2 would so cut down the nation 's treaty power that " no treaty could bind the nation in respect of matters which , under our Federal system , fall within the jurisdiction of the states . " He added that Section 3 would give Congress the power to regulate all Executive and other agreements and that " no more fundamental change in our constitutional system could be imagined , " since it would give Congress instead of the President the responsibility of the day-to-day conduct of foreign relations . Mr. Dulles said that in face of present perils the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the Constitution . since " political leadership that timidly goes backward will never cope with scientific knowledge which goes ever forward " in the con auction of destructive weapons . Mr. Dulles said he was confident that if those nations at San Franlcisco adopting the United Nations Charter had been aware of the ( power of the atom for mass destruction , " the provisions of the Charter dealing with disarmament ' and the regulation of armaments would have been far more emphatic and realistic . " A second inadequacy , he continued , ' sprang from the fact that President Roosevelt , Prime Minister Churchill and Premier Stalin , who planned the United Nations after a coalition victory against Germany , looked on the organization as a " kind of peacetime prolongation of the wartime triumvirate . " Hence , primary power , leading to the veto , was placed in the Security Council , with a stipulation that the three powers permanently represented on the Council must be in agreement , he said . The third inadequacy , said Mr. Dulles , " came out of disregard for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , depends not on men , but upon law , law which embodies eternal principles of justice and morality . " At Dumbarton Oaks , when the Charter was drafted , it contained no mention of the words " justice or law , " said Mr. Dulles . Later , at San Francisco , he said , references to justice were introduced and the General Assembly was required to ' promote " the progressive development of international law and its codification . " In the eight years of its existence , however , " the General Assembly has made but little progress in this respect , " the - Secretary asserted .                     