@@716016

txt Anti  --  Red Chinese and North Korean prisoners of war began the journey to freedom today in a tremendous outburst of singing and cheering , but pro  --  Red American , British , and South Korean captives remained in their lonely camp under Indian guard because the Communists refuse to take them back . The communist command protested India 's decision to return the POWs as contrary to the Armistice. " e . Communists wo n't take them back , " Indian Brigadier E. F. Kaul said of the 21 Americans , one Briton , and 327 South Koreans who have renounced . their homelands . " That has been their stand . We will have to decide what to do . " Wear U. S. Uniforms Despite the Indian plans to return the prisoners around the clock , an Indian spokesman said there was no special lighting provided other than that of the well lighted enclosures themselves . Plans for the return called for the turnover of about 1,000 Chinese and 500 Koreans an hour . The 421 Chinese prisoners riding south in the first truck @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . They pulled down the canvas tops of the trucks and waved their flags , banners , and photografs of Chiang Kai-shek . They sang and cheered . An American army band played march music as the convoy moved out . Premier Greets First Korean The first Korean to cross into 8th army territory was Pvt . Chong Yong Sung , 33 , a native of Sariwon in North Korea . Prime Minister Paik Too Chin greeted Chong , who said he had planned to lead the men of his compound in a breakout if the Indians did not release them by Saturday . South Korean patriotic songs blared from a loudspeaker under a " welcome " sign and a painting of President Rhee . Robert P. Stevens , American secretary of the army ; Gen. John E. Hull , supreme commander , and Gen. Maxwell D. Taylor , 8th army commander , watched the return . Operation Moves Smoothly An American officer said the return of the 22,039 antiRed POWs to the 8th army command was moving along " smooth as butter . " Kaul said he expected the transfer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time . The 22.039 anti  --  Red POWs will be released as civilians at midnight Friday . Most , if not all , of the 14,321 Chinese will go to the Chinese nationalist island of Formosa . The North Koreans will be offered the opportunitx to join South Korea 's army . , In the first 61/2 hours , 5,721 POWs had crossed into 8th army . territory . Five Chinese and four Koreans decided to return to the Reds and were allowed to do so . Fate Prolonged War They streamed out of their camps in the Korean demilitarized zone and marched the two miles over fipast whitened plains to receiving centers in 8th army territory . These were the men whose fate had prolonged the Korean war for more than a year while armistice negotiations wrangled . The decis'on that no captive should be forced to go home against his will was described by the 8th army as a victory for its side . Music , welcome signs , and exuberant Chinese nationalist marines , South Koreans , and Americans greeted the captives . Trucks wheeled up , loaded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ barricaded and heavily guarded route . Will Go to Formosa The Chinese marching out of the neutral zone carried large blanket rolls slung around their shoulders . Almost every man clutched the 12 starred Chinese nationalist flag . Some carried huge banners sent earlier by patriotic groups in Formosa . The Chinese were en route to a camp near Inchon port where landing ships waited to transport them in a few days to Formosa . The Chinese began Moving out of their compounds on schedule this morning , but the North Korean start was held uo 11/2 hours by Indian guards because the prisoners refused to march in loose files . They ' insisted on bunching up , apparently to prevent any who wanted repatriation from breaking ranks . Brigadier Gurbaksh Singh . chief of the Indian custodial j force , said the Communists had blared loudspeaker propaganda at the prisoners thruout the night . Reds Blare Warning " They kept us awake all night , " the brigadier said . " The prisoners heard it and I started beating their drums . It made a hell of a r.oise . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ loudspeaker warnings , heard also on the 8th army side , warned that the prisoners would " be killed by communist gunfire " if they ! tried to return to 8th army territory . " Men with red armbands will send you to Syngman Rhee and Chiang Kai-shek presidents of South Korea and nationalist China , respectively ) for service , " the loudspeakers ; boomed . " You will be killed by communist gunfire . Indians do not have the right to send you south . This is your last chance to come north . You can see parents and loved ones . If you lose this chance you will fight a long time after this . "                     