@@717156

txt The stage was set here today for a two-phase diplomatic program , on which the curtain rises Monday afternoon . Its opening scene will be an address by President Eisenhower . From that time on through the week the United Nations will conduct - its tenth anniversary commemorative session and . the Big Four foreign ministers will lay plans for the Geneva meeting of their heads of government , to be held in mid-July . The cast of characters was drifting in today , with Soviet Foreign Minister Vyacheslav M. Molotov leading the Big Four 's chief diplomats into the city . ' Harold Macmillan , Britain 's Foreign Secretary , is due in tomorrow at 2:45 P. M. , followed fifteen minutes later by Secretary of State Dulles . Antoine Pinay , French Foreign Minister , is expected at 6:25 P. M. The Western leaders had laid their preliminary plans for the San Francisco sessions at conferences in New York . Dr. Eelco N. van Kleffens of the Netherlands . president of the United Nations commemorative meeting , is scheduled to pound the gavel at 3 P. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time ) on Mon- day in the War Memorial Opera House . After a minute of silent prayer or meditation , President Eisenhower , who is due in the city tomorrow night , will addrecs the session at which all sixty member nations will be represented . The President is to be followed by Mayor Elmer E. Robinson of San Francisco , Governor Goodwin J. Knight of California , Dag Hammarskjold , Secretary General of the United Nations , and Dr. van Kleffens . The impression here today was that the Big Four Foreign Ministers would by-pass a reception fo be given by the city following the opera house program . They would adjourn to the Fairmont Hotel on Nob Hill for the first of a series of conferences laying the groundwork for the Geneva meeting . For the rest of the week the Big Four spokesmen are expected to sandwich their own sessions on " The Hill " between the twice-daily meetings of the United Nations in the opera house . Before Secretary Dulles speaks on " The Moral Foundations of the United Nations , " the Rev. Howard Thurman @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the religious writings of the six major participating faiths , Confucianism , Hinduism , Christianity , Buddhism , Moslemism and Judaism . Resolutions of faith in the United Nations , to be presented by representatives of the participating religions , will be acted upon by the assemblage before a speech by Sir Leslie on " The United Nations and World Faith . " Once President Eisenhower has delivered the opening address of the commemorative meeting , the following four days of sessions will be given to expressions from spokesmen for the other United Nations member states . The first of the Big Four Foreign Ministers scheduled to speak is Mr. Macmillan . He follows Paul-Henri Spaak , Belgium 's Foreign Minister , at the Tuesday morning session . This , like the morning meetings all , week , opens at 10 A. M. Pacific Daylight Time ( 1 P. M. Eastern Daylight Time ) . The afternoon sessions begin at 3 o'clock . Mr. Molotov is billed as the second speaker at the Wednesday morning session , following the opening talk by Brig . Gen. Carlos P. Romulo , Philippine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's delegation . M. Pinay speaks on the second Thursday morning . The lead-off man at that session is to be Dr. Luis Padilla-Nervo , Mexico 's Minister for External Relations .                     