@@719820

txt A Senate Small Business subcommittee heard a plea for a new " fair trade " law to permit manufacturers having franchises with large numbers of retailers to set prices on their goods . Joseph Flelschaker , president of the National Appliance and Radio-TV Dealers Association , made the proposal as the panel began three days of hearings on the impact discount houses have on small retail concerns . Mr. Fleischaker said such a law would make it possible for a dealer who has " created a sale " to realize the fruit of his efforts , rather than lose the sale to a competitor who has not made a comparable investment . S. Marvin Shutt , representing the National Sporting Goods Association , complained that discount houses are violating " basic rulings of the game " in retail sales . He cited examples including an $18 price on a fishing reel which normally would retail at $36.50 . " It 's really rough and it 's even worse when they ( customers ) bring the reel to us to put the line on , " he declared @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the higher profit lines , such as expensive golf and fishing equipment , and ignoring smaller profit margin products . " They let us sell all the fishhooks we want , " he said . " But when it gets to expensive rods and reels  --  the only place we can make some money  --  they do n't want us to have any . " In an opening statement , Chairman Humphrey ( D. , Min. ) said the subcommittee has received a number of complaints from small businessmen concerning discount house operations . He commented that such discount centers have challenged many retailing concepts , including those in " mushrooming suburban shopping centers . " Victor , Lebow , New York City marketing consultant , testified that the square feet of retail selling apace has become a decisive factor , threatening to elbow aside smaller retailers , because of the greater variety of goods and heavier customer traffic which can be handled . He claimed that larger stores can afford " loss leader " selling , where an item is cut in price to attract customers , where a small @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the National Association of Tobacco Distributors , praised a section of the Robinson-Patman Act which now prohibits sales at unreasonably low prices for the purpose of destroying competition . However , he said this will not provide a complete solution as long as some merchants are permitted to acquire the products they sell at a lesser price than that afforded to their competitors . If the lower cost reflects only " the massive economic power " of the merchant then this will result in " ultimate detriment to all of us , " he said .                     