@@715956

txt Governor Dewey will ask the 19454 Legislature to adopt a " fair procedure " code to govern- the'conduct of all state investigations . The - aim- is to prevent the " smearing " of innocent persons through careless and unregulated public hearings . He will urge the lawmakers to set up a- new section of the Civil , of any established standards in the law to provide witnesses or . persons accused in hearings with rights similar to those in the criminal ' courts . He feels that such principles as the secrecy of grand jury deliberations , the presumption of innocence of the accused , the right to counsel and the right to crossexamine accuSers should apply to legislative and-executive inquiries as well as to criminal cases . The Governor does not believe that this type of infringement on civil liberties has occurred in state investigations in the past , but he feels that his proposed code would 134 " useful and necessary " in preventing any such situation . An official close to the Governor described him as feeling strongly that the most precious possession @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ name " and that the problem of preserving reputation was acute in these days of multiplying nonjudicial investigations . The Governor also feels that it often is hard for qualified roves= tigating agencies ? of the state to get at the truth in an atmosphere of charges , countercharges and smears . He is convinced , it was said , that a " fair procedure " code would be of value to both witnesses and : ? investigators and would also protect the public in its desire for " light in dark places . " As envisaged ' by the Governor , the code ' would govern all inquiries by the new State Commissioner of ' Investigation , William B. Herlands , whose ' appointment was announced last Monday . It also would cover all investigations under the Moreland Act , such as the two now being made on harness racing and workman 's compensation costs . Also , investigations by legislative committees and inquiries by any state department would be regulated . Examples of ithe last two categories are the current inquiry into charity rackets , which is being made @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the State Insurance Department 's study of abuses in union welfare funds . Public Benefit Foreseen ' The code would not apply , however , to hearings held in the state by Congressional committees , such as the House Committee on Un-American Activities or Senator Joseph R. McCarthy 's Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations . Both these groups have visited the state within the last year . . Mr. Dewey believes that such " fair procedure " rules will benefit the general public as well as persons whose reputations are endangered , by providing the people with assurance that the reports they read of investigative hearings are grounded on fact , fairly obtained . The Govenor is reported to be aware that the problem is complicated by the necessity of rooting out corruption and disloyalty . His advisers say , however , that he believes a well-drawn code can balance the need for public safety and governmental integrity with protection of the rights of the individual . As a lawyer , Mr. Dewey is personally familiar with the traditions of protection for individuals that are rooted in the AngloSaxon law . He @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ subject of concern and bitter controversy in recent years . His recommendations will be part of the message he delivers to the Legislature when it convenes here Wednesday . He will not draw a detailed ' picture of such a code at that time , however . Restraint Suggested Although his specific proposals for the " fair procedure " - rules could not be - learned today , - Mr . Dewey is known to look with favor on a set of standards similar to the one that has been ' suggested for Federal investigations by Representative Kenneth B. Keating ? Republican of Rochester . Some of the points of Mr. Keating 's " fair play " code that might be applicable to state inquiries are : 4Restraint on the issuing of incomplete reports on closed sessions by individual committee members . giClearly defined standards on witnesses ' rights to counsel and to submit statements or interrogate other witnesses . ( IA provision of limited rights to offer testimony from persons named or implicated during investigative hearing but not called to testify . 4Adherence to standards of relevancy and competency of evidence , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Jury System Sought In a related field , Mr. Dewey will also urge upon the Legislature favorable action on a bill setting up a uniform jury system in upstate counties . A similar system was established in New York City in 1940 . The Crime Comission recommended a uniform jury bill last spring , and a measure creating such a system was introduced at the special session last July . It failed to pass , however , because of upstate Republican opposition . The Republican legislators were dubious of the bill because they felt it might mandate a compgated and expensive jury system on rural counties that could not afford it and would have dh ! ficulty putting it into effect . Mr. Dewey believes , however , that the situation is serious in some of the upstate counties where there is no single official charged with the responsibility of administering a jury system and no machinery for examining jurors ' qualifications . A bill substantially similar to Ithe one introduced at the special session will go in. again this year with - the Governor 's blessing . it has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ urors for suggestions , and virtually no opposition has been registered by local bar associations .                     