@@717818

txt To TEE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : The race problem in critical form is not limited- tcr the South ; nor is it settled Lathe North . In New York State the gains of recent years and the opportunity to move forward may now be lost unless the people of the state are awakened to a number of important facts . The recent failure . of the New York State Legislature to appropriate adequate funds in the , fight against discrimination presents a serious issue . In New York State and other states are many Negroes who have been moving Northward for industrial jobs . Many have sent their children North for freedom and equality of opportunity . Of those who have come ' North in summer to ' help the agricultural labor shortage , an increasing percentage have remained . ? Thus the state generally has known a substantial increase in the percentage , of Negroes in the total population . Discriminatory practices , against Negroes and against the increasing numbers of Puerto Rican people have presented new problems . In addition to this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and urban redevelopment has created new centers of overcrowding and minority concenI tration . To the ills of slum living , prejudice and discrimination against colored peoples make integration and assimilation far more difficult . Exclusion From Suburbs Finally , the migration to the suburbs by middle and upper class white families creates a ring around each city with a heavy barrier against non-white families . It is this situation which threatens the achievement of genuine integration in the North . White suburban families appear to feel the need for a social status which demands a policy of racial exclusion . Thus ; with the new suburban developments , segregated housing and segregated community patterns are being established for decades to come . Within these segregated communities segregated schools , playgrounds , hospitals and churches are inevitable . With these are perpetuated the age-old attitudes of racial superiority and inferiority and the discriminations , tensions and bitterness of the past . In the light of these facts the people of New York State must face the implications of recent decisions concerning the work of the New York State Commission Against Discrimination @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ passing the Ives-Quinn law creating the State Commission Against Discrimination , to assure fair employment practices . Each year the State Commission has gained wider acceptance as an agency for complaints , adjustments and conciliation and educational work for greater tolerance and better inter-group relations . In recent years New York has increased the jurisdiction of the commission by including non-discriminatory practices in public accommodation and public and publicly assisted housing . Just this year we added further to S. C. A. D. 's jurisdiction by outlawing discriminatory practices in F. H. A. and V. A. housing . Funds to Enforce Law With this increased jurisdiction it becomes clear that the State Commission should have the increased appropriation to carry on its work . The State Commission is prepared to enforce the laws against discrimination if it has enough staff . The State Commission needs ' funds for economic research , field workers and the services of specialists in labor relations , housing and social tensions . It is prepared to organize local councils of leading citizens throughout the state to anticipate tensions and avoid the eruptions which have scarred communities @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tremendous educational job to do . Despite this , the State Legislature has refused to grant S. C. A. D. the funds necessary to perform its increased functions and responsibilities . Now at a time when the race issue in America is so divisive , when its repercussions threaten the very foundations of our Constitution and when it is so destructive of our prestige abroad , New York State can not afford to backslide . All citizens share the responsibility for making New York State an example of fair play and fulfillment of the promise of equal opportunity for all . ALGERNON D. BLACK . Chairman , New York State Cornmittee on Discrimination in Housing . New York , April 9 , 1956 . Selection of Judges Bar Should Name Candidates for Judiciary , It Is Promed To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK Timgssi According ' to a news story in your issue of March 29 Arthur T. Klotz , the president of the Associa ? tion of the Bar of the City of New , York , in a letter to Harrison Tweed , the chairman of the Temporary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ commission for recommending the retention of the elective system in the selection of judges . The word " election " in the selection of judges is a misnomer . In theory , judges are chosen by tl .. ! voters , but in actual fact they are picked by the political leaders . Candidates are not chosen at primaries , but by judicial conventions which merely rubber stamp the choice of the leaders . The name of the candidate appears on the party line , and the faithful party adhere ent pulls down the lever over-it . Mr. Klotz presents a plan for an appointive system . Under it a commission representing the bench , the bar and the public would prepare and present a list to the Governor , who would make judicial appointments from those on the list . How , and in what manner the members of the commission would be chosen , he does not say . In all probability the majority of the commission would be composed of " stuffed shirts , " who will be strongly influenced by the race , religion , national origin @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ result that the bench will be occupied by " stuffed shirts . " I have long advocated the selection of judges by the bar , in the sincere belief that lawyers are best able to judge the qualifications of candidates for judicial place . Whether thus chosen or by any other method , I suggest and urge the following : That the qualifications of judges be prescribed by statute . The most important qualification is the possession of a broad knowledge of law and a natural legal mind . That could be determined by a sort of written civil service examination for promotion from the bar to the bench , to be conducted either by a committee of lawyers appointed by the chief judge of the Court of Appeals or by the Court of Appeals itself . Other qualifications should be age , number of years in actual practice and experience in trial and appeal work . HENRY WALDmAN . New York , March 30 , 1956 . Handling of State Tax Cut To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Governor Harriman 's so-called " tax-cut " left accountants @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all returns , computing the tax cut , changing the returns and instructions accordingly and getting them in the hands of taxpayers within one week ; an impossible task for a busy office , even if all returns were already completed and if nobody had anything else to do . However , many returns which were filed jointly will have to be recomputed and changed , because ' the filing of separate returns may become more propitious . The saving by filing separate returns may be up to $5 , if the combined tax liability exceeds $100 and may be as much as $35 on returns showing a higher tax . The contention that the tax commission will refigure and refund the tax is a very doubtful promise , as the tax authorities are in no position to separate income and deductions on joint returns . The most aggravating part of the situation is the fact that the state tax commission either refused or left unanswered the requests made by professional associations to extend the time limit for filing . It seems a typical case of " the taxpayer and his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ New York , April 1956 . Fingerprinting of Russians To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : ? The New York Times reported on April 4 that Congress was asked to waive the fingerprinting requirement to permit a ten-day visit by Russian weight-lifters . The Soviet team objected to this ' regulation , feeling that fingerprinting is only for criminals . As a former Latvian displaced person I was fingerprinted before arriving in the United States , like thousands of other decent refugees. , This practice is still applied to all bona fide visitors . Preferential treat . ment for Soviet citizens would be unfair to all convinced anti-Comm*. nists , among whom I am proud to be . The acceptance of the Soviet argument will classify as criminals those who had been fingerprinted-4 for instance . Government employes . ICAnws KALNINS . Washington , April 4 , 1956 . Political Views of de Galindez To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : I can not permit to go unanswered the implications made in the statement published ? in The New York Times of April 4 from Dr. Manuel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , giving the impression that Dr. Jesus de Galindez , who tragically disappeared on March 12 , was a Communist . This is the consistent attack used by Latin-American dictators to obscure the real issues whenever they are attacked for violations of human rights which are as insidious as those practiced behind the Iron Curtain . Dr. Jesus de Galindez was a Roman Catholic and a Christian Democrat . His abhorrence of dic ? tatorship made him equally enemy of communism as it did - the Trujillo dictatorship . That h dedicated himself in the last year to exposing the ' latter was due t - his realization that he was in th best position to do so by virtue his long study and intimate knowledge of the conditions there . Till did not minimize his abhorrence - Communist totalitarianism . CLIFFORD FORSTER , Counsel for the International League for the Rights of Man . New York , April 5 , 1956.                     