@@714892

txt The great throngs that turned out in the South to see and hear Gen. Dwight D. Eisenhower doubtless were moved to assemble in such numbers by appreciation for the first intensive campaigning in that section ever undertaken by a Republican candidate fdr President of the United States , as well as by - furious interest in Eisenhower in. his new role . But their obvious enthusiasm unquestionably derived from two other factors of more political importance in their bearing on the outcome of the November election . One was the excessive admiration of the South for a wartime hero . The other was the Southern will for a change at Washington which , if President Truman had been renominated by the party the South has always supported , ' was expected by many of its political leaders to presage certain defeat forthe , Deinocratie , national ticket in several of the states of the former Confederacy . That will for a change , by common agreement , had diminished greatly at the end of the Democratic National Convention at Chicago in July . It was a matter of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Stevenson of Illinois had lent his influence to defeat the attempt of the so-called liberal bloc in the North to enforce an unconditional pledge on every state organization to support both platform and candidates before the one was written and the others were named , and to exclude from participation in the convention the two Southern delegations that declined to sign the pledge ? Virginia and South Carolina . Stevenson 's Record Moreover , before and after his nomination for President , Governor Stevenson had championed the doctrine of state 's rights and taken a cool attitude toward proposals for any kind of Fair Employment Practice Commission in the Federal Government . The Governor in that period had also refrained from taking a positive position on whether the central Government or those of the coastal states had " paramount " rights over the yield of the submerged areas from low-water mark to the state maritime boundaries ? three miles in all but Texas , ten and a half miles off the Texas shores . He had been nominated without indebtedness to the President , to the leaders of organized labor , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of unpopularity in the South . If that had still been the situation when General Eisenhower made his campaign tour from Florida to Arkansas , the tumultuous greeting he received would have been of no concern to the Democratic campaign strategists . But things had altered when , with excellent timing , the ' Republican Presidential candidate went South . Governor Stevenson had announced his belief in the paramount rights of the Federal Government in the submerged coastal lands ; in an F. E. P. C. which , with police powers , could operate in any state that in its view had not dealt effectively with racial segregation and discrimination ; in total repeal of the Taft-Hartley Act , leaving the country without any labor relations act while Congress engaged in the long process of writing a new one . Finally , before Eisenhower started for Florida , Stevenson , who was on record as leaving to the Senate whether and how to frame its rules , announced in favor of a modification of Rule 22 that protects the filibuster by which , and by which only , Southern Senators , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the enactment of sweeping " civil rights " laws , including a compul- , sory Federal F. E. P. C. Changed Situation The South , by many evidences , was rising once more against the national Democratic party as Eisenhower moved into Florida . Again it was heeding those leaders who urged it not to swallow the " false bait " orSparkrnan 's nomination for Vice President . While the . General said nothing on the acute points of issue between the South and Stevenson that ranged him precisely with the Southern viewpoint , he left room for the belief that he shared it to some degree . And by pounding hard on the need for a " real change at Washington , not a few new faces , " to clear away the Federal " mess , " and on the attitude he attribute &; to the Northern Democrats of " taking the South for granted , " Eisenhower gave the best possible stimulation to a revival of widespread insurrection in the Southern States . Signs aid Portents That the seeds have sprouted once more seems to be established . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' Texas when he got home from his unsuccessful conference at Springfield on the coastal lands issue ; by Senator Smathers of Florida ; by the brother-in-law of Senator Russell in Georgia ; and by 53,000 signatures in South Carolina on the petition that placed Eisenhower 's name on the November ballot in a state that cast ' only , 143,000 votes in the Presidential ' election of 1948 . It is further ' attested by the protracted silence of Virginia 's powerful Democratic leader , Senator Byrd , on whether he will actively support the party ) ticket . But for these seeds of Southern insurrection to grow into Republican electoral votes will require such political weather as materialized only once before ? in 1928 ? and some miraculous political husbandry . The Democratic majorities in most of these states are overwhelming , and substantial in them , all . The distate for the Republican label is intense . When a Southern State goes Republican the influence of its members of Congress , usually including chairmen of the important committees by virtue of seniority , is reduced , and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ power and place . The South has been able to stay Democratic and anti-Administration for six-I teen years of this Democratic era , ' and thus keep the balance of power in Congress and the great com- , mittee posts there . It is both risky ' and unnatural/ for these states , after giving all the local offices to the Democrats in the primary , , where Republicans do n't count , to give their electors to the Republican national ticket . Miracle Needed Therefore , despite the success of Eisenhower 's Southern campaign , if any of the former Confederate States do that it will only be because their desire for a complete change at Washington has overcome every other consideration and because the General has persuaded them he is the true , and Stevenson the false , embodiment of that change . The states in which the miracle could occur are Florida , Louisiana , South Carolina , Texas and Virginia , with a total of sixty-four electors , or nineteen more tip New York has . But except in Virginia and Florida , the ' Republican vote @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the total in any of them . I nTexas it was 24.41 per cent , in Louisiana it weal 17.6 per cent and in South Carolina it was 3.8 per cent . A " change " to the degree . of a political revolution , and only that , could hurl even two or three of these states into Eisenhower'a column .                     