@@717612

txt The Federal Court in Boston today freed Leon J. Kamin of contempt-of-Congress charges by ruling that the former McCarthy investigating committee overstepped its power by investigating private industry . Federal Judge Bailey Aldrich declared the former Harvard research assistant , an admitted former Communist , not guilty on six counts . They involved his refusal to name associates in the Communist Party when he himself was a member . In his summary opinion , Judge Aldrich declared that the subcommittee , headed by Senator Joseph R. McCarthy ( R ) of Wisconsin , which probed Mr. Kamin on Jan. 15 , 1954 , had " no powers to investigate the general subject of communism . " Judge Aldrich declared that the McCarthy committee was a subcommittee of the " Senate Committee on Government Operations , and that government operation meant the operation of government departments , not private operation cf private industry , even though under government contract . " He corcluded that " the investigatioh sought to be carried on by this committee was beyond the scope of its granted authority . " Mr. Kamin was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he had known Communists in defense plants at Harvard University . Thus , it was the probing of Harvard University and defense work Harvard was doing that the judge ruled the McCarthy committee did not have the right to investigate . What influence this sweeping decision will have on other contempt of Congress cases , specifically that of Dr. Wendell H. Furry , Harvard physics professor , who also refused to answer questions of the McCarthy subcommittee , is not yet known . United States Attorney Anthony Julian told reporters , " The decision in the Kamin case is being carefully studied . The government will make no determination on its bearing in the Furry case until the study is completed . " Meanwhile , Mr. Kamin , jubilant at being freed , is returning to his job at Queen 's University , Kingston , Ontario . In freeing Mr. Kamin of charges of contempt of Congress , the court nevertheless did not go along with the defendant 's plea that it would have violated his constitutional privileges to be forced to answer the questions Senator McCarthy put to him . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @           