@@713627

txt Final legislative approval was given by indirection today to the rent control plan proposed last month by Joseph D. , State Rent Administrator . It authorizes rent increases up to 15 per cent and liberalizes the grounds for eviction of tenants . Regulations recommended by Mr. to carry out the plan were assured of the . force of law when the Senate voted down , 32 to 24 , a Democratic effort to countermand the plan . A separate American Labor party motion to the same effect was defeated without a record vote . A three-hour Senate debate that preceded the final ballots was enlivened by recriminations between Democratic members an t Senator William J. Bianchi of East Harlem . The latter was elected on the Republican and American Labor tickets , but he is not recognized here as a Republican . Senator Bianchi accused the Democrats of making only a token fight against approval of the plan . This accusation was echoed later by former Representative Vito Marcantonio , American Labor party state chairman , in a statement distributed here . It was denied @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ become operative March 15 , receive the full force of law today by reason of the failure of Democratic efforts to veto them or whether they receive this effect tomorrow was a subject of academic debate tonight . Last year 's rent control law , under . which Mr. promulgated the proposed regulations , specified that they should receive the effect of law if not disapproved by the Legislature " prior to Feb. 15 , 1951 . " Senator Arthur H. Wicks , Republican leader of the Senate , interpreted this clause to mean that they received the effect of law today . Others held that the Legislature could still veto the regulations tomorrow . The question was made academic because of a bipartisan agreement not to take up any controversial measures in the Legislature to-morrow , Validating Move Studied Because Attorney General Nathaniel L. Goldstein and a committee of the Association of the Bar of the City of New York have questioned the constitutionality of bills enacted by indirection , Republican legislative leaders are considering giving the program affirmative legislative approval before March 15 . A meeting of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Stephens of Putnam , has been called for Monday to give preliminary approval to a draft of the validating legislation and to consider a few minor amendments , supported by Mr. , to the substantive rent control law of 1950 . Seven grounds on which landlords may obtain increases are set forth in the regulations as against two under the system now in effect . The seven are : 1 . An increase in the value of rented space because of added services or facilities . 2 . A voluntary agreement with the tenant if embodied in a two-year lease . 3 . An increase in the number of occupants or subtenants ( except for children born to tenants ) since March 1 , 1950. 4 . Abnormally low rents because of their being frozen while the space was occupied by the landlord 's kin . 5 .. Failure of the landlord to get a return of 4 per cent on the equalized assesssed value of his property under present rentals . The landlord is permitted to include a depreciation allowance of 2 per cent of his building 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ costs of one , two , three and four family buildings since 1943 unless offset by rent increases since then . 7 . An increase in operating costs of rooming houses and permaent hotel apartments since 1943 , unless offset by rent increases since then . Ceiling of 15 Per Cent Set Except in the rare instances where a landlord can establish his present rents fail to meet operating effect a landlord can obtain increases only if he has made a voluntary agreement with a tenant in return for increased services or facilities , or can show an out-of-pocket loss . With respect to evictions , the new regulations permit a landlord to obtain possession of rented space for purposes of subdivision if it is " under-occupied " or for purposes of demolishing-and replacing the building , in addition to existing grounds . In general , the latter are that the tenant is committing a nuisance or otherwise violating the conditions of the tenancy , or that the landlord has a " compelling necessity " to obtain the space for his own family needs . An earlier Democratic move to kill @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ .                     