@@717330

txt The trade association of the scheduled air lines proposed to its members today that they limit the sale of liquor aloft and bar or remove drunks from airplanes . The industry sponsored suggestions were drawn up as the civil aeronautics board CAB , disclosing that public protests against drinking aboard air liners are " becoming more pronounced , " hinted it might take " corrective steps . " Under the tentatively proposed rules , no alcoholic beverages would be served aboard planes on Sundays or national election days , or to minors or intoxicated person s . Sales would be limited also to flights of more than two hours , and to the hours between noon and midnight . Passengers who became drunk and noisy en route would be " deplaned " at the first stop . Mailed to 35 Mr Lines The proposals were mailed by Harold L. Pearson , president of the Air Transport association A. T. A. , to the 35 air lines that are A. T. A. members . Pearson urged that the lines ' executives draft a liquor " code or creed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ traffic confer , ence in San Francisco Nov. 1-3 . At the same time , he informed A. T. A. members that Joseph P. Adams , CAB acting chairman , had asked that the air lines study the liquor question and advise as to whether there should be any change in policy . Most trunk air lines now serve liquor on first cldss flights . Adams reminded Pearson that the ' government regulat ing agency asked A. T. A. last Oct. 13 to " record untoward incidents stemming from the service of alcoholic beverages . " So far , an A. T. A. spokesman said , he knew of no incident being reported . Might Jeopardize Safety Adams said the board has maintained heretofore that responsibility relating to the serving of liquor rested with the individual air lines , and that since liquor service violated no federal law , it was a matter subject to state jurisdiction . " The fact still remains that If this privilege were abused , safety might be jeopardized or the carrier 's air transportation service impaired in a manner that would call for corrective steps @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ board is continuing its vigilance in tile matter . ... " Pearson told the air line presidents that he had , in the two months he has been A. T. A. president , discussed the problem with hundreds of management and traffic personnel , " pilots , passengers , well wishers , ill wishers , and demagogues " in drawing up his suggestions . Pearson listed a " catalogue of points to be considered , " and asked the air lines to say what they thought ? of each suggestion .                     