@@713049

txt Letters to The Times Korea and Our Asia Policy Tonsult a tion Suggested With Far East Governments on War Measures To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES There is one highly important point which , it seems to me , has often been overlooked in the Korean affair . That is the possible adverse reaction of friendly or neutral Asiatics in the event that strong North Korean opposition results in American-directed measures causing grave suffering to the Korean civilian population . It seems at present to be generally recognized that the choice may eventually have to be faced of either withdrawing the United Nations army from Korea or else supporting that army . by such drastic means as dropping atom bombs . A withdrawal from the peninsula , with no subsequent re-landing , would no doubt be damaging to the United Nations , as well as fraught with future danger to this country . Yet I believe that , if worst should come to worst , even greater dangers might arise from any alternative procedure . Unless we are careful , we may find ourselves playing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thought in starting this may well have been that , whether or not the United States won militarily , it would end up as heavy loser from the viewpoint of diplomatic strategy . What are the immediate stakes in this grim game that is being played ? First , that Korea is relatively insignificant as far as total American military strategy is concerned , and also that American relations with other Atlantic Pact members are probably not involved to any great extent . Immediate Stake This leaves us with only one possible positive answer , which is that the main immediate stake is the future political orientation of Asiatic nations and peoples . As one who has spent nine years in Asia , watching the rapid evolution of nationalistic , anti-imperialistic emotions , I believe that total warfare conducted against an Asiatic group might well turn all Asiatic peoples sharply against both the United Nations and the United States . The same might be said as to American , or even Western , occupation of Korea on any basis at all suggestive ' of colonial imperialism . Let us not be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ India , Pakistan , the Philippines and other Asiatic nations is to be construed as " cartes blanches " to the United States to take any and all steps necessary to produce an armed triumph in this war . There is indeed positive evidence that no such construction is justified . Let anyone who doubts this get hold of a transcription of the University of Chicago Round Table Conference of July 9 , in which Madame Pandit of India and Charles Malik of Lebanon ( both supporters of the military sanction ) expressed their views . It seems to me that there need be no real impasse , in view of the extensive Asiatic approval of such action as has been taken to date . This approval strongly implies a willingness to help in devising practical measures of fulfillment , as long as there is due regard for the proprieties as seen from Asiatic viewpoints . Advisory Group I believe that the solution is for the United Nations to set up a special committee composed of Asiatic leaders representing governments which have endorsed the military sanctions , and to refrain from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ express approval of that committee . It should be representative of the Asiatic continent and should be composed of men with established reputations for fair-mindedness . Nehru , Romulo , Malik and Liaquat Ali Khan are names that occur to me . In my opinion , such a step is necessary . Also , I believe from the evidence at hand that our European allies would feel much better about the whole Korean affair were it to be handled in this manner . The British , French and Dutch have every reason to know that Asiatic thinking is not to be taken lightly . Particularly is this step necessary in view of the disappointment of Asiatics due to the political football which our legislature has made of Point Four . I would even conclude by expressing a firm conviction that two things must be done : ( a ) the above-mentioned committee must be established , and ( b ) the amount originally requested must be appropriated for Point Four . As for the latter , continued shortsightedness in the matter would not only bring war much nearer , but would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of us Americans profess . If our only trust is in reeking tube and iron shard. we are indeed lost . HEDLEY V. COOKE . Park Forest , July 11 , 1950 . Courtesy to Visitors To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Your discerning discussion in Topics of The Times of courtesy to New York visitors and how it benefits the city from financial , social and other angles might profitably be taken to heart by residents of all resorts . Courtesy , as we all know , is a phase of kindness which the Sermon on the Mount designated as the greatest of all things . It is as good for those who practice it as for others . Personally , I have encountered as much of it in your city as anywhere else north of the Mason and Dixon line . A year-around courtesy campaign might help as a reminder . In Long Branch twenty years ago Mayor J. William Jones , who is also Mayor now , had the police put on cars from other states and counties whose drivers had violated parking or other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the rules and adding that a ticket was not given because they were visitors who might be unfamiliar with local conditions , that it was hoped they would not repeat the error , but adding that they were welcome and would gladly be given any information and aid by any policeman and that they should come again . The reaction was excellent . This was in line with the best tradi tions of this resort , dating back to colonial days . According to John Mahar , now 96 , who as a boy worked for Ulysses S. Grant , President Grant ( whose summer residence is still stand . ing at 995 Ocean Avenue ) used to stop his team of horses on his daily drives to give inquiring visitors directions ? an example we may all well emulate . B. B. BOBBITT , Editor , Monmouth American . Long Branch , N. J. , June 26 , 1950 . Bank Balances in Germany Revaluation to Pre-War Status Asked for American Accounts To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK Tams : In the issue of June 16 THE NEW YORK @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ accounts in Western Germany to pave the way for new investments from abroad . While the releases reported appear to be a step in the right direction as far as warranted under present conditions , the relaxing of restrictions alone will not suffice to attract new investments unless the treatment of pre-war accounts proves a new attitude toward foreign investments generally . While under the Monetary Reform Laws enacted by the Military Government in 1948 the revaluation of prewar claims of American and United Nations citizens generally has been reserved for future disposition , American and other foreign bank accounts have been definitely converted to 61 per cent of their pre-war value , and in Western Berlin to 5 per cent only , without the possibility of further recourse as the law stands at present . That amounts to an expropriation of nearly 95 per cent of the pre-war balances , and it is not excusable by the lack of dollar exchange in Germany , as even the remaining balance of 61/2 or 5 per cent is not paid in dollars but merely credited in blocked marks . Such treatment of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to American owners of German bank balances after World War I , who received nearly 80 per cent of their holdings in dollars . The Monetary Reform Laws , which all but confiscate the bank balances of American holders , were not enacted by the then non-existing German Government but by , or with the consent of , our Military Government . Aside from the fact that such acts raise serious constitutional questions as to their legality under the Fifth Amendment to our Constitution , they are not in consonance with the time-honored American policy of protecting , as far as possible , American investments abroad . When the Spanish Government , in 1800 , attempted to discharge debts owed to Americans in depreciated paper , Secretary of State Marshall , in a communication to our Minister in Spain , stated that the injustice of such procedure was manifest . Marshall upheld vigorously the privilege of the United States to complain of , and to remonstrate against , such acts of sovereignty as are injurious to American citizens . The revaluation of American bank accounts in Germany to their full prewar @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no undue burden or stress upon the German economy but would enable the owners of such balances , under the new regulations reported by THE NEW YORK TIMES , to invest the same in the German economy . Such funds might properly function as " pioneer money , " which , if successful , may soon attract additional investments . FREDERICK W. EISNER . New York , July 10 , 1950 . Against Socialized Medicine To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Robert K. Godwin complained in a letter to the editor that the American Medical Association had appropriated " $1,100,000 on a one-month campaign to promote its point of view . " I should like to point out to Mr. Godwin that the A. M. A. was forced to do this in order to bring the other side of the story to the American people . For some time now , vast sums of taxpayers ' money have been made available to Washington bureaucrats to spend propagandizing their vie- 7S . Moreover , Mr. Godwin implies that there is a demand for socialized medicine by the public . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for better medicine , yes ; but better medicine is not synonymous with socialized medicine . FRED D. LAROCHELLE , M. D , New York . June 30. 1950.                     