@@716660

txt HARRIMAN PICKS A SYRACUSE DEAN AS BUDGET CHIEF Paul H. Appleby to Represent Governor-elect at Hearings Opening Today in Albany , HELD NEWDEAL POSITIONS New York-Jersey Problems Discussed at a Two-Hour Conference With Meyner . By DOUGLAS DALES Special , to The New York Times . HARRIMAN , N. Y. , Nov. 14-Averell Harriman , Democratic Governor-elect , announced this afternoon he would appoint Paul H. Appleby , dean of the Maxwell Graduate School of Citizenship and Public Affairs at Syracuse , University , as his Budget Director . Dean Appleby , who had a long career in New Deal and Fair Deal offices before he went to Syra-1 cuse University eight years ago , will be in Albany tomorrow to represent Mr. Harriman when hearings on the state 's next budget begin . Mr. Harriman said his announcement was " precipitated " by Governor Dewey 's invitation yesterday for him to have a personal representative present during the preliminary discussions on the budget . The announcement was made by Mr. Harriman at his country estate here following a lunch at which Dean Appleby and Gov . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attending the luncheon were Mrs. Harriman , Mrs. Appleby and Robert Burkhart , executive assistant to Governor Meyner . Among the posts that Dean Appleby held under Presidents Roosevelt and Truman were those of Under Secretary of Agriculture and Assistant Director of the Bureau of the Budget . Adviser to India During 1952 and 1953 and again this year , Dean Appleby twice spent periods of six months in India counseling the Government on financing and administrative problems . Dean Appleby asserted he would take a leave of absence from Syracuse University for the duration of the appointment . Whether he would remain permanently as a top policy adviser in the Harriman Administration was a matter left open . But presumably the decision will be up to him . Mr. Harriman said that the dean had agreed to serve as Budget Director " at least through the first state budget . " He explained that he meant by this through the period of the preparation and adoption of the budget . Approval of the budget by the Legislature must take place by April 1 , when the state 's fiscal year @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ budget hearings will be Saul Kaplan and Bernard Nadel , counsel to the Democratic leaders of the Assembly and Senate , respectively , and Assemblyman John T. Satriale of the Bronx and Senator . Samuel L. Greenberg of Brooklyn , members of the legislative Finance Committees . Dean Appleby will succeed T. Norman Hurd as Budget Director . Mr. Hurd was teaching farm management at the State College of Agriculture , Cornell UniverThe New York Times ( by Edward Hausndr ) // sity , when Governor Dewey appointed him in 1950 . Because of the voluminous nature of the state budget , most , of its preparation will hive to have been completed by the time Mr. Harriman takes office on Jan. 1 . The document will be placed in the hands of the printers early in January and be ready for submission to the Legislature by Feb. 1 . The prospective Appleby appointment was the second announced by Mr , Harriman since the election . Last Wednesday he said he would name Charles Van Devander , former Washington correspondent of The New York Post and former publicity director for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ appointments are expected to be held up until the completion of the official canvass of the vote . The official tally . nay be known by the end of this week . Mr. Harriman 's lead over Senator Irving M. Ives stood today at 12,146 on the basis of official returns from thirty-six counties and unofficial returns from the others . The two-hour conference with Governor Meyner was the first of a series that Mr. Harriman expects to hold with northern Democratic Governors and Governorselect to discuss mutual problems . Today 's meeting was exploratory , and topics discussed included park problems , juvenile delinquency , the Port of New York and air pollution . Mr. Harriman said he and Governor Meyner had agreed to work together on national problems . Mr. Harriman has urged the enactment of a Federal minimum hourly wage law of $1.25 and changes in the Taft-Hartley Act to facilitate unionization of Southern industries . Governor Meyner agreed that both states were suffering from competition from low-wage areas . Also discussed , Mr. Harriman said , was " how to combat the Republican ' big lie ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the future . " Mr. Meyner observed that " if we keep getting out the facts of state government to the people , there will be less chance for the use of such tactics in the future . " They said they had agreed to work together to promote the business of the Port of New York and to protect it from losses to competitive ports . In some respects New York and New Jersey are competitors , since the port area includes piers in both states . But it was pointed out that cooperation between the states was to be preferred to the risk of losing business to other states . Governor Meyner expressed a special interest in promoting a program that would assure longshoremen 's getting the full benefits of their labors and making sure that part of the benefits did not go to racketeering elements . Governor Meyner invited Mr. Harriman to attend- a second meeting in New Jersey at a date to be selected . He also suggested department heads of the two states could be brought together at future meetings . Mr. Harriman said that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " of Democratic Governors , similar to the Republican Governors Conference , was incorrect . While he did not exclude the possibility of seeking a meeting of the Democratic Governors , he said , " I am not going to exclude Republican Governors from confering on mutual problems if they will cooperate . " Mr. Harriman said that he had known Dean Appleby for twenty years and had worked with him in Great Britain during the early Nineteen Forties when both were on overseas war missions . Dean Appleby is two months Mr. Harriman 's senior , having been born Sept. 13 , 1891 , on a Greene County , Mo. , farm . Mr. Harriman will observe his sixtythird birthday tomorrow . The new Budget Director was graduated in 1913 from Grinnell University . He edited weekly newspapers in Montana , Iowa and Minnesota until 1920 , edited the Iowa Magazine for four years and for another four years was an editorial writer for The Des Moines Register and Tribune . From 1928 to 1933 , when he became executive assistant to the Secretary of Agriculture , Henry A. Wallace @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Secretary of Agriculture from 1940 to 1944 , and Assistant Director of the Budget for the next three years , leaving that post in 1947 to go to Syracuse University . He is a member of the ' board of the Franklin D. Roosevelt Foundation and a member of the Society for Public Administration , ? the American Political Science Association and the American Academy of Political and Social Sciences .                     