@@720381

txt The automatic schoolteacher has taken a bow here at a special showing . Thus tar no one has offered a bright red apple to the new electromechanical device which can assume leadership in front of a classroom  --  but respectful attention has not been lacking . The machine was introduced recently at the New York Institute of Technology . Dr. Alexander Schure , president of the institute , explained that it has been 12 years in the making . Lest the thought of this latest push-button phenomenon supplanting them in jobs panic the pedagogues , Dr. Schure emphasized that the machine is in no sense a substitute for the teacher . Instead it will assist the teacher , relieve the teacher shortage , and will " objectively measure the pupil 's ability without treading on anyone 's feelings . " Student Spurred Courses in physics , electronics , and mathematics are taught by the device . It tests the student and records his answers as correct or incorrect . If the latter , it spurs the student on to rectify his mistake , making him repeat the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ teacher " consists of several pieces of equipment . Off in one room is the " memory " unit . while on the student 's desk are four smaller devices . There is a selection unit which picks up the lesson material : a testing device : a verbal intercommunication system by which the individual pupil can talk to the teacher in another room : and the visual aid , or monitor . The experimental model costs about S 1.200 . The machine , although it reassures its listeners in a recorded message that it never becomes forgetful or tired , does not tolerate carelessness in pupils . Scholars Challenged " Listen , son , " it said in a demonstration lesson , " you are being very careless . You really should study a lot harder . Careful study habits will help you make your own way in the world . " In a dramatic way the teaching machine brings " instantaneous relationship " between the pupil and his material , Dr. Schure explained . The usual opportunities for wool-gathering are lessened , he said , as the accurate testing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . He said it operates like a skillful private tutor and is the " first anthropomorphic machine of its kind . " Apparently the meaning here was that of the dictionary definition ? ascribing human characteristics to that which is not human .                     