@@719366

txt The Democratic ? congressional leaders who attended the recent White House briefing contend that the Eisenhower administration 's defense program still lacks a sufficient sense of urgency . It is n't going to get enough done " immediately , " they argue . Let 's look at what the President and his - defense chiefs are doing and see how this charge stacks up . The basic conclusion by the President and his military and intelligence advisers  --  which governs the pace of the defense program ? is essentially this : . That the Strategic Air Command , with its newly ordered dispersal program . will be sufficient to protect the United States for the next several years . That SAC , plus aircraft-carrier planes which also carry H-bombs , plus missile - launching submarines , can " hold the line " until the ballistic missiles are operational . This basic conclusion  --  that SAC and company will be an effective deterrent for the West for a few more years  --  means to the administration that the United States has time to gird itself and improve its weapons @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a massive boosting of the budget . However , the administration has indeed hastened a good many of its new projects i and is otherwise moving on a broad front to cope with the Soviet challenges . If one wants to summarize this acceleration , these points should be included : II The administration has advanced the Thor and Jupiter programs by six months , so that the first batch of these intermediate - range ballistic Missiles will be ready for action by December , 1958 . Eventually , when sufficient missiles are in place , one or the other of these rival rockets will be phased out  --  whichever proves inferior in performance . II The administration has advanced the Polaris program for building the Navy 's IRBM with solid propellant by two years . with a sharp increase in allocated funds . It is building submarines to handle the Polaris even before the missile is perfected . ! 7 , It is setting up a brand-new type of Pentagon organization , called the Advance Research Projects Agency , which is to handle research and development on all the fantastic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ along , such as the antimissile missile and the . reconnaissance satellite , These weapons will thus not belong to any one service in their developmental stage . IT The administration has found itself a new Defense Secretary , Neil who not only has plenty of get up and go but who also possesses a sensitive perception of the long-range questions raised by Moscow 's technological strides and its persistent concentration on heavy industry . It also has acquired a high-caliber natural science adviser in Dr. James R. Killian , Jr . 1 Key officials are not dodging the prospect that the day may come when perfection of the antimissile missile will " I Said : ' After All , W'e 're in This Thing Together ! ' " require the building of a more sophisticated ICBM to evade the antimissile missile ? that is , unless the whole fantastic arms race is sensibly brought to a halt . The administration is boosting the defense budget by two billion dollars , and this addition , plus money gaved elsewhere . means that the ballistic missile program is being boosted financially @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more than a minor sense of urgency about this massive effort . The main programs will soon be moving , administration spokesmen contend , just about as fast as they can go . Budget limitations no longer hinder the missile drive . A A-Are these strides going to be sufficient to halt the Democratic charges ? The answer is no . The Democrats  --  for reasons of both politics and patriotism ? will be asking a number of sharp questions . They will ask , for instance , why the administration did not earlier heed its intelligence estimates of Soviet advances . They will ask if this emphasis on missiles and nuclear warheads does n't mean that the United States is short-changing itself on the conventional arms necessary to meet limited aggression and fight " brush-fire " wars . And they will question whether Washington is harking a sufficiently sensitive ear to allies ' apprehensions ? so that its foreign policy does indeed assure that the vital overseas bases for its IRBMs will be available when the missiles become operational . Quite evidently a debate is brewing which will not be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ If the meaning of the Soviet achievements in missiles , technology , and education is fully explored , and the American attitudes and American responses arc thoughtfully considered , the result can be a salutary education of public opinion to the magnitude of this new challenge to the West .                     