@@717891

txt ory of the struggle , the move to end bus segregation marks another step in the emergence of the South from Jim Crowism . The effect of a United States Supreme Court action outlawing intracity segregation will be some time in reaching a full manifestation in the South . And for all practical purposes busses here remain segregated . That the Montgomery Negro boycotters have found a powerful economic weapon to use is evidenced by the quick action taken by the Virginia Transit Company and the National City Lines . Both companies immediately complied with the Supreme Court decision . Speculation that the court decision was used as a convenient way to avoid further economic loss can not be overlooked . Now busses are desegregated in Richmond and Norfolk , Va. , and in Jackson- . Miss. , Tampa , Fla. , Mobile , Tulsa , Okla. , Wichita Falls , Beaumont , and El Paso , Texas . Virginia Transit and National City operate in these cities . Company Statement In i'lontgomery , a bus company official has promised to hack up any driver arrested for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the Associated Press . The statement from B. W. Franklin , vice-president of National City Lines , Inc. , of Chicago came at a news conference . Montgomery City Lines , Inc. , which operates the city 's only hus service , is a subsidiary of the Chicago firm . Mr. Franklin , with an attorney at his side , made his statement in answer to a threat from Police Commissioner Clyde Sellers to arrest any driver who permits mixing of passengers and any passenger who violates city and state segregation laws . " We do n't want any controversy with local authorities . " Mr. Franklin told reporters . " We I try to avoid controversy with anyone . But if our drivers are obeying our instructions  --  certainly we 'll help them . " The bus company official said National City Lines does n't intend to change its orders for desegregation in Montgomery and other southern cities where it operates bus lines . Negro boycotters and city officials there debate their next move . For many months the city has been involved in a silent , passive protest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the city busses . Mass indictments , trials , and convictions had followed the incident of some months ago when a Negro seamstress was arrested after she refused to give up a scat under a bus driver 's arbitrary right to redraw the line between white and Negro seats . Reaction by Negro , residents of this Alabama capital was immediate and effective . They began to boycott the transportation system and organized their own car pools to get to and from jobs , or else walked . Thirty-five Negro ministers kept the thousands of Montgomery Negroes peaceful as they led the boycott in what has been a passive protest against segregation . It has been a somewhat terrifying exhibition of Negro economic strength , and has suggested a potentially serious weapon to be used in fighting racial segregation in all phases . The boycott has been generally conducted peacefully . In Montgomery . the Negro leaders of the boycott movement have called a meeting to determine what future policy will be . Actually , the immediate situation is pretty much the same as before the court decision . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seats . Meanwhile , a sharp split is developing between the bus company and the City Commission , The commission strongly opposes any desegregation , while the bus company , which has been losing money steadily , wants to obey the court decision to desegregate within cities . In the first week of the protest movement , some busses were fired on in the Negro districts , and the homes of two of the leaders were bombed . Five Montgomery Negroes went into . court in an attack on bus segregation , and their lawyer was upgraded in the draft . Dixie Revolution Finally , 90 Negroes were indicted under the state 's antiboycott law , which had been a scarcely noticed statute on the books . Only hours after the Supreme Court held , in effect , on April 23 that segregated seating on municipal transportation facilities is unconstitutional , the Montgomery city bus lines ordered an end to the practice , even though the local situation was not directly involved . " We have been advised that today the Supreme Court of the United States rendered a decision , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the races on busses , " drivers were informed by the management . " Under the circumstances , the company has no choice except to discontinue the practice of segregation of passengers on account of races , and drivers will no longer assign scats to passengers by reason of their race . " The unsegregated busses began operating early the morning of April 24 . The boycott has not been called off by its leaders , pending a study of the court ruling , a canvassing of the local situation , and the scheduled meeting . Meanwhile , the Rev. M. L. King , Jr. , a leader of the boycott , is urging " calm reasonableness " by both white and Negro riders . The Supreme Court action of April 23 does not involve the Montgomery dispute directly . It was based on a case which arose in Columbia , S. C.                     