@@714988

txt Hoover Declares Attacks on Party Are Refuted by Republican Record Former President Herbert Hoover came out of self-imposed political retirement last night to reply to " the misrepresentations " that have been hurled against the Republican party since he left the White House twenty years ago . Point by point and in considerable detail he dealt with the New Deal charges as he spoke over a nation-wide television and radio hook-up of the Columbia Broadcasting System . his reappearance on the political scene , the first since his party 's convention in Chicago , was at the request of Gen. Dwight D. Eisen'reques His remarks were directed , he said , primarily to those 40,000 , - 000 eligible voters who had come of age since he , the last Republican President , conducted the affairs of the nation . He appeared particularly concerned with the charge of isolationism , and reminded his listeners that it was the Republicans w : ) opposed joining with Stalin in the second World War for fear of spreading communism over the world . " If this was isolationism , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " He asserted that while there were no Communists in the Republican Administration , they were employed at high levels in the present Government . " In the fifteen years after the Communist revolution in Russia until the end of Republican Administrations , the Communist party had grown to a meager 13,000 members , " he went on . " Ana during this time we had refused to give respectability to that slave state by having any relations with it . " Ten years after the New Deal recognition of Communist // Russia , the Communist party in the United States grew to over 80,000 members . " Concerning charges of corruption made against his party , Mr. , Hoover declared that during the , last fifty-two years when the Republicans and Democrats equally divided the time in office there was but one bad episode in a Republican regime and that was during the administration of Warren G. Harding when the Teapot Dome scandal shocked the nation . " There were nine men involved in the Harding episode , " he said . " The other members of the Administration were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Before we had finished with them two had committed suicide . one died while awaiting trial , four landed in prison and one escaped by a twice-hung jury . " He asked whether " the perpetrators of the present mess in Washington " could boast of such housecleaning , and answered the query by recalling that in the last twenty years there were 300 cases of Con-1 gressiOnal or administrative condemnation or public exposure and that except for cases " forced by the Congressional committees " fewer than twenty-five persons went to jail . Taking up the charge that the Republican party was the tool of Walt Street and " Big Business , " Mr. Hoover recalled that his party was sponsor of the Sherman AntiTrust Act . Much of big business has not become reconciled to it yet , he asserted . Other restraints imposed by Republican Congresses , he said , included authority for the Interstate Commerce Commission to control railway , telephone and telegraph rates , regulation of grain exchanges , Federal ' fisheries , aviation and radio . and the creation of the Federal Power Commission . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ standards of conduct , twelve were of Republican origin and the others originated under Presidents Woodrow Wilson and Grover Cleveland , Mr. Hoover said . On the other hand , he declared . ' New Dealers " have preferred a creeping Socialism to the establish , ment of standards of conduct ' among free men . " Genesis of the Depression As to the allegation that the , depression was caused by Republicans Mr. Hoover held this was " nonsense . " He said it was disproved " a thousand times by a multitude of economists , historians and statesmen . " The " major violence " of the depression , he said , came after the first World War when the gold standard was jeopardized following ' political revolutions in a score of foreign countries . When exports ceased , banking and credit systems toppled and unemployment spread over the earth the Republicans created " unprecedented agencies and took unprecedented actions . " He maintained that it was the refusal of the New Deal to cooperate in these measures for four months after the 1932 election that reversed the trend @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ abolition of the twelve-hour day , the introduction of collective bargaining , limited use of Federal court injunctions and the early creation of the Agriculture Commission which later became the Department of Agriculture . As to housing , he said more new homes were built in the Nineteen Twenties than in an entire eight years of the New Deal . The Republicans , he recalled , also brought about the first Federal.aid to slum clearance . Mr. Hoover made his broadcast from the C. B. S. Studio 5 at Liederkranz Hall , 111 East Fifty-fifth Street . A prompting machine ll operated just out of view of the , ' television camera . The formerly President did not wear glasses for the program . In the delivery of his prepared I speech former President Mover abbreviated some section ; apparently for lack of time .                     