@@712800

txt Letters to The Times To THE EDITOR OF THE NEw YORIC TIMES : Permit me to point out some fallacies in your editorial bespeaking a welcome for Sir Basil Brooke . You speak of him as representing a friendly country : The fact is he represents six counties that have been arbitrarily carved out of a friendly country . If the whole province whose name he likes to use , Ulster , were taken as a unit he would have a majority against him . The Six County government was set up by the British Government and neither Ireland nor Ulster was consulted . That there is a minority in Ireland that favors partition is true , but no minority has the right to break up the historic unity of a country . A letter front Lloyd George to Lord Carson makes it clear that the I British Government was determined to partition Ireland . The partition of Ireland is a very great wrong , as great a wrong as the partition of Belgium or Holland , which Hitler made some move to Ming about , would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had been so set up came to America would there not be a fallacy in putting him on the same level as the representative of the historic unity ? Morally , Sir Basil Brooke and John A. Costello represent different things and these things must not be confused . As one the half of whose family are Ulster people and who was reared in an Ulster county r react very bitterly when people speak as if the partitionists of Ireland and of Ulster ( for the nine-county Ulster has been partitioned ) are spoken of as if they had the right to the exclusive use of the name of the patrimony of the princes wh , o made the last fight for Gaelic independence . You speak of veterans " who still correspond with their former hosts in Ulster and who have returned there on holidays . " Are you confident that the families who gladly offered hospitality to American soldiers are in favor of the government of Sir Basil Brooke , a government that denied the Ulster people the right to parade on St. Patrick 's Day , St. Patrick @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Ulster ? " There are American military leaders in Washington , " you write , " who are planning to show their appreciation . " Will that appreciation advance the defense of Europe ? That defense ultimately depends upon moral factors . Will not a certain suspicion of bad faith enter the minds of such countries as Belgium , Holland , Denmark and Norway when they are shown how very lightly the partition of the oldest European nation is taken in Washington ? I want to add that Irish statesmen recognize that the compact minority in the northeast should have every safeguard that they can in fairness ask for . Northeast Ulster should have its own educational system , its own administration of agrarian and industrial affairs and that autonomy should have iron-clad guarantees . The former Prime Minister of the Six Counties , Lord Craigavon , in private conference with the Free State leader spoke of Irish unity as something that could be brought about as soon as the die-hards on both sides were out . Had he been assured of Williayt Cosgrave 's tenure of office he was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Brooke does not seem to know the word " unity " which Lord Craigavon used . But Lord Craigavon , while sharing the fears and interests of Northeast Ulster , knew how to ' work with Irishmen , whether in the British Parliament or in a conference room in Dublin . Irish unity is bound to come : the defense of Western Europe is hampered without it . Sir Basil Brooke could show himself not only an Irish but a European statesman by favoring the idea of an All-Ireland Council in St. Patrick 's metropolis . Armagh . PADRAIC COMM . Asbury Park , N. J. , April 8 , 1950 . Sorbonne 's Role in Resistance To THE EDITOR OF THE NEw YORK TIMES : I note that a member Of the City College faculty hasebeen attacked because he received his doctorate at the Sorbonne under the Vichy regime . There is a bit of history there which should be better known . The Vichy Minister of Education was the famous classical scholar Jerome , Carcopino , former head of the French School in Rome . Not merely was he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their . hands on the French university system , but under their very noses he appointed a commission to study American educational methods . Like all other Vichy Ministers , he was arrested after the liberation ; but he was triumphantly rehabilitated , and recently sent me his twovolume study of Cicero 's character as revealed in his Letters . The Sorbonne was a hotbed of resistance and its students need no justification CHARLES UPSON CLARK . Hancock , N. H. , April 3 , 1950 . Sir Basil Brooke 's Visit His Status as Representative Queried , Partition of Ireland Discussed No Unemployment for Nurses To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : " Disillusioned " in a recent letter bemoaned the fact that a woman over 35 has great difficulty in finding a suitable job despite a " background of study and experience plus excellent references , " I have no doubt that this is all too true . However , there is one group of professional women who , unless physically disabled , can always secure work , some of them even after they have reached " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whom the writer is one ) need never be unemployed . In fact , in the large hospital where I am a " private duty " nurse the nursing office frequently tries to get us for cases when we are not even " on call . " Many nurses who have passed the half-century mark are still in great demand for hospital workt and , unlike business women , it is not necessary for us older nurses to resort to having our hair dyed in order is obtain employment . All we need is our training , plus the ability to get along with others . Young women seeking a career would do well to give nursing more than a passing thought . I do not mean to imply " once a nurse , always a nurse . " There is nothing to prevent a graduate nurse leaving her profession at any time , either temporarily  --  or permanently , to take . up some other kind of work . If she marries , her nurse 's training will be of inestimable value to her in rearing a family . NOT @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ A Pro-Democratic Policy Diplomatic Offensive Favored Instead of a Defensive Program To THE EDITOR OF THE Nov YORK TIMES : Our present national hysteria on matters of foreign policy is understandable . Even if we discount the effects of an impending political campaign , it is evident that many people in high and low places are frightened . The " Red Menace , " " H-Bomb , " " Cold War , " etc. , are undermining the ability of many to think clearly .. The tragedy in the Senator McCarthy type of thinking goes far deeper than any narrow political partisanship . It rests in its failure to realize that even more than the Russians they are succeeding in hamstringing our efforts toward peace and security . The net effect is one of literally pitting brother against brother . The McCarthy patter , as portrayed through the Un-American Activities Committee , involves the necessity of proving one 's " Americanism . " In short , if you do not think as the McCarthys or the " committee " believe you should , you are " un-American . " What a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ K Smiths , the Winrods , the potential Hitlers and Stalins ! Democracy can not be saved through fratricide nor by battening down ow liberties against a Communist storm . To curb our freedoms under the guise of an emergency is to concede defeat at . the start . Instead of the pathetic defensive anti-Communist program , as we now have it , let us take the diplomatic offensive with a p ? o-democratic foreign policy ? as epitomized , for instance , in Senator 's recent Senate speech . Let us emblazon to the world our American political philosophy " con- , ceived in liberty and dedicated to the proposition that all men are created equal . " Has " E Pluribus Unum " become so trite that we engrave it only on our coins ? 0 . H. STEINER . Cleveland , Ohio , April 7 , 1950 . Mr. McCarthy Commended To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK Tams : I know it 's illiberal , undemocratic and certainly un-ADAiatic ; just the same , I want to register my vote of approval of the aims of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ aims . To be sure , none of the individuals named by the Wisconsin Republican as Communist sympathizers or as arch ' . tects of the Soviet-benefiting American policy in the Far East has admitted to the charges . But between the great " liberal " doctors within and around the State Department , and Senator Joseph McCarthy , I choose the Senator . No one can convince me that it is " the McCarthys " who are undermining American prestige abroad . That was done by our Democratic leaders and their leftist advisers at Yalta , Potsdam and right here in the United sm . ? MAURICE WINOdItAD . New York , April 2 , 1950 . Jaywalking In Manhattan To THE EDITOR OF THE NEw YORK Thou One of your correspondents recently blamed ceaseless auto-horn-blowing on jaywalkers . It is true that there ore jaywalkers with no respect for regulations . They should receive 11111110 monses . But there are law-abiding citizens who unwillingly become ivyrunners , " as a life-saving measure . For the streets of New York are de-. void of order . White safety lines instead @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ allowed to become obliterated , then left for months without being renewed . The pedestrian takes his life in his hands when he attempts to cross after waiting for the light . Cars whisk. around corners , refusing even to slow down to permit the pedestrian to cross . Frequently cars start while the red ' light is in full view . FLORENCE STRUM . New York , April 3 , 1950.                     