@@717081

txt Soviet Foreign Minister Vyacheslav M. Molotov announced here last night that his government was agreeable to a Big Four conference this summer . He informed the three Western foreign ministers that the conference could be conducted along the lines suggested in the invitation sent to Moscow by their governments . The four foreign ministers discussed at length the time and place for the conference , to be attended by President Eisenhower , Prime Minister Eden of Britain , Premier Edgar Faure of France and Soviet Premier Nikolai A. Bulganin . They reached no decision and agreed to continue the discussion through normal channels . The foreign ministers were of the opinion that the six-week period from the middle of July on would probably be the most suitable from which to choose a. date . The general election May 26 will decide whether Sir Anthony Eden or a Labor successor as Prime Minister represents Britain thereafter . Dulles Favors Lausanne Secretary of State Dulles , supported by British Foreign Secretary Harold Macmillan and French Foreign Minister Antoine Pinay , urged Switzerland , preferably Lausanne , as the site @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Soviet foreign minister appeared to , agree to the general concept of the conference as suggested by the Western Governments : That the heads of the four Governments hold a brief meeting to " kick off " the work of the conference , which would then be conducted by the foreign ministers . The Soviet decision to agree to the four-power conference was conveyed to the Western foreign ministers at a dinner in the United States Embassy residence , at which Mr ? Dulles acted as host . The conversation between the four was described as without strain or ' tension . The four Foreign Ministers and two interpreters sat at one table . Three other tables were occupied by members of the four delegations . Brief toasts were exchanged . Mr. Dulles toasted the heads of the four Governments . Mr. Molotoy 's toast was to the effect that the Austrian state treaty , to be signed today , was not only acceptable to the Big Four Gov. ernments but to Austria as well . The Foreign Ministers ad. journed . with their interpreters to the residence library , where @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ference . Mr. Molotov expressed interest in the formula put forward in the three-power invitation . The three Western foreign ministers then explained the intents and purposes of the conference , set off by a brief meeting of the heads of the four Governments . The invitation of the Western Governments had suggested that the heads of the four Governments define the area of work to be left to the foreign ministers . Mr. Molotov accepted Western suggestion and the idea was put forward that the four foreign ministers might hold another informal meeting some time in the future  --  peharps a few days before the four-power conference takes place . In their discussions on the time when the conference should take place , the foreign ministers took into account prior commitments of the heads of their Governments . These include appearances before their parliaments and the commemorative , meeting of the United Nations in San Francisco in June . Mr. Molotov was not certain that he would attend the San Francisco meeting . The Soviet foreign minister informed his colleagues that they would receive a formal note in reply to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                  