@@717570

txt The Saar today elected a new Parliament overwhelmingly dominated by three big pro-German parties pledged to speedy union of this industrial border state with West Ger-I many . The fifty-member Parliament will choose the new Government . Official , complete returns gave a total of 375,577 votes to the pro-German parties , which have vowed in coalition to throw offs 1France 's economic controls and make the Saar the tenth state ofl Ithe Bonn Republic . That is 63.9 per cent of the total turnout . But the three parties fell short ' of their goal of winning a 75 per ' cent majority , by which alone they could erase constitutional restrictions upon union with West Germany . This will force them to work with the Christian People 's party of former Premier Johannes Hoffmann , which has collaborated with the French during the ten-year occupation . But that party , champion of the ill-fated plan to Europeanize this rich industrial basin , and five smaller parties have said they will not block the pending constitutional changes . Ally Party Is Fourth The Democratic party of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the leader , the Saar wing of the Christian Democrats , the party of Chancellor Konrad Adenauer of West Germany . Their ally , the German Social Democratic party , was fourth , trailing Herr Hoffmann 's party . Herr Schneider , who helped Hitler win back the Saar for Nazi Germany in 1935 , waged a whirlwind campaign with appeals to national emotions . He demanded an immediate end to France 's special economic privileges in the Saar and the quick return of the Saar to Germany . . Christian Democrats , 149,524 ( 25.4 per cent ) ; the Rightist Democratic party , 142,067 ( 24.2 per cent ) ; German Social Demo-1 cratic party , 83,986 ( 14.3 per Cent ) ; the Christian People 's party , 128,358 ( 21.8 per cent ) ; Saar Socialists , 34,242 ( 5.8 per cent ) , and Communists , 38,757 ( 6.6 per cent ) . Three splinter parties shared a scattering of I votes , but won no seats . Observers reckoned the ' three ' pro-German parties would hold thirty-three seats in the new Parliament , Christian @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Democrats seven . The Christian People 's party was expected to hold thirteen seats , the Communists two and Saar Socialists two . With the pro-German parties short of the thirty-eight seats they need for a three-fourth majority , Herr Schneider suggested that caretaker Premier Heinrich Welsch take over the formation of the new Government . Herr Welsch , chairman of the Saar railroad system , took the Premiership temporarily when Herr Hoffmann resigned after defeat of the Europeanization statute Oct. 23 . The Saarlenders , who speak German and buy their groceries with French francs , turned out to register their preferences . Of population of 980,000 persons , 90.8 per cent cast ballots . The three pro-German parties are expected to form a coalition government . This will be the first time since 1945 that this 991-square-mile border territory has been ruled by political forces with open allegiance to Germany . France occupied the Saar after World War II and included it in the French economic area . In 1947 the territory was allowed a semi - autonomous , but it was subjeCt to French economic and Financial legislation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Christian Democrats and the Christian People 's party into one big Saar Christian ( Roman Catholic ) party . This would permit the parties that attract Catholic voters to name the new Premier and shunt Herr Schneider to a Cabinet post . Such a step might head off fresh trouble between West Germany and France over the future of the Saar and its prized coal and steel resources . Iierr Schneider , who is 48 years old , has repeatedly termed the French colonizers and oppressors of the Saar . He called Herr Hoffmann and his party traitors to Germany . A Saar Government headed by a Christian Democrat could be expected to voice a more moderate attitude in forthcoming negotiations with Paris and Bonn to eliminate French political influence here and restore the Saar to Germany . Chancellor Adenauer is eager to avoid a break with France over the Saar . His hand will be strongly felt in the Saar Christion Democratic Union , an offspring of his own German party of that name . Herr Hoffman 's party agreed recently to support the back-toGermany movement , but it probably @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The new Parliament replaces a pro-French legislative body elected in 1952 . Nine parties competed , all pledged to work speedy return of the Saar to Germany . Each party needed at least 5 per cent of the vote to avoid being shut out of Parliament . It was the third time in twenty ' rears Saarlanders had voted on the question of return to Germany . In 1935 , by a 90 per cent vote , they chose to return to Hitler 's Third Reich , refusing further control by the League of Nations or attachment to France . Last October , they held a plebiscite on the plan to Europeanize the territory . That plan , which would have placed the Saar under the supervision of the Western European Union , with French economic control , was wrecked by the virulent campaigning of the three big proGerman parties . French and West German leaders agreed in Paris last week to seek a new settlement of the Saar 's future that respects the wishes of the territory 's population . But France is reluctant to give up economic domination @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its heavy industry potential . Without the Saar 's annual output of 17,500,000 tons of coal and 3,000,000 tons of steel , France is a second-class industrial power compared with West Germany . The nine parties offered 500 candidates for the fifty seats . The Saar system is to vote for parties instead of candidates and the seats are allotted under proportional representation . The party , or parties , winning a majority in Parliament names the Premier , to rule for four years . Hubert Ney , a 62-year-old attorney , leads the Christian Democratic Union . Tall , polite and a fine orator , he lost an arm in World War L Curt Konrad runs the German Social Democratic party . He is a veteran labor union leader and party organizer who opposed French occupation of the Saar from the start . Leading the opposition to these forces was former Premier ' Hoffman 's party , the dominant political group for the ten years of French domination . 