@@714246

txt Gen. Dwight D. Eisenhower 's crusading supporters ? without any word of approval from the general  --  have set up a central headquarters in the Jayhawk Hotel here to boost their favorite for the Republican presidential nomination . " This is not a state headquarters , nor is it a national head- , quarters yet , but it 's on the way to becoming both , " says Henry B. Jameson , associate editor of the Reflector-Chronicle in Abilene , Kan. , the general 's home town . " If WC do n't set up a national Ike headquarters Texas , which boasts the general 's birthplace at Denison , wants to start one . " Mr. Jameson , president of the first Eisenhower - for - President Club established in Abilene Oct. 12 , said the Topeka headquarters has been established as a follow- , up to the Abilene move which is mounting to such proportions it is getting out of hand . Eisenhower Silent " We just could n't handle the flood of wires , phone calls , and letters pouring into our the Reflector-Chronicle @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to put out a paper and make a living , you know . " Mr. Jameson said he supposed the general had learned of the movement being conducted in his behalf and he presumed the general would make his position known at the proper time : He said he and his coworkers have received " absolutely no hint or word from the general . " He said that Harry Darby , former United States senator of Kansas and national Republican committeeman , had approved all moves to date and he supposed that Republican leaders generally were interested , but they had given no direct statements . Mr. Jameson , smiling and wearing a brown tic with " I Like Ike " emblazoned on it , asked : " Did you see the New York Herald Tribune 's endorsement of Ike this morning ? That was sure a surprise and it wo n't hurt . " An advance copy of Collier 's magazine with an article " Why Ike Will Run . " by Leonard V. Finder , was displayed prominantly on the desk . Acceptance Seen Mr. Jameson said his group @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ accept the GOP nomination because so many big Republican leaders have indicated that he Milt " We are . trusting in their judgment , " he said . Howard Bentley , Republican state legislator now in charge of the Topeka headquarters , said that plans arc under way for getting Ike - for - President buttons , stickers , posters , and more " 1 Like Ike " ties for full-scale distribution . Already many of the 20 to 30 clubs mushrooming across the state are asking for them , he said . Soon they expect to fill such requests in distant ? places like Michigan , Connecticut , and Pennsylvania where Ike clubs have been formed . Sentiment Testing The immediate job to be accomplished , Mr. Bentley said , is to send 20 Eisenhower petitions containing 1,015 names to the gener.al . These petitions have tested sentiment in Abilene and Dickinson County and will let the general know the people want him . As yet , Mr. Bentley said , the Ike Club enthusiasts have not contacted Gov . Thomas E. Dewey of New York , Senator James H @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ top Eisenhower supporters , Such contacts may be left to such leaders as Mr. Darby , Senator Frank Carlson ( R ) of Kansas , C. I. Moyer , Republican state chairman , and others who already have done some sentiment testing on their own . Until the Topeka office becomes an official state or national Eisenhower headquarters it will be used to coordinate Eisenhower promotion activities in the state , assist in the formation of local clubs , and give out information to help attain unity of effort . It is the opinion here that Kansas has a big stake in the present movement and a tremendous effort will continue to make it succeed . Heat Is On ' The next significant move in the Kansas boom for Eisenhower for President is scheduled Oct. 27 , when the Young Republicans will gather in Garden City to hear Mr. Darby , Mr. Jameson and party leaders including William Lloyd , Republican chairman of Colorado , and Representative Hugh D. Scott , Jr . ( R ) of Pennsylvania , former Republican national chairman , who will speak in support of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have not all been concerned about the general . The telephone number previously had been assigned to a fuel company . " We could n't help them on that problem , " Mr. Bentley quipped , " but the heat is certainly on for Ike 's candidacy . "                     