@@714365

txt Gen. Ridgway 's command today charged that the Communists had taken United States 8th army prisoners of war outside of Korea . Vice Adm . R. E. Libby , a Ridgway negotiato ? at the truce talks , told the Reds : " Your prisoners of war tell us they saw large numbers of United Nations prisoners in China . Can you furnish us with a list of these prisoners of war ? " The charge was made at a meeting of the subcommittee on exchange of prisoners . Wo n't Build Air Power : Reds The subcommittee on truce supervision also met here for little over one hour today . An official Ridgway spokesman later said the group made no progress . The war entered its 19th month during today 's talks . At the truce supervision conference , the communist delegates said they had no intention of building up their air power in Korea during a truce . Maj. Gen. Howard M. Turner asked them to put this in writing . Maj. Gen. Hsieh Fang of Red China , replied that he had no authority @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had told the Reds he did not trust them . " We gave them a long statement on how we distrusted them , " a pooled dispatch from Panmunjom quoted Turner as saying as he emerged from the conference tent . After Thursday opposing armies technically will be battling again tom I AP WIrephotc By Radio from Tokyo ) Vice Adm . C. Turner Jo y , American chief of truce delegation , decorating tiny Christmas tree in tent at Korean truce talk camp near Munsan . REDS ACCUSED OF TAKING U. S. POWs INTO CHINA Provide List of Them , Says Ridgway Aid // for territory to be incorporated in a final cease-fire line when a truce agreement is ready to be signed . Front Quiet on Christmas Most United States 8th army troops enjoyed relative quiet as they observed Christmas on the front . Only light action was reported . However , the mercury stayed below freezing and light rains began Tuesday morning . United States jets combed " MIG alley " ? thruout the day without spotting a communist plane . Fifth air force flyers slashed at Red @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sent carrier planes over Hungnam in a special attack that came exactly one year after the last 8th army troops left that east coast port in the famous 10th corps evacuation . Cardinal Sings Mass Near Front WITH U. S. 1ST MARINE DIVISION , Korea , Dec. 25 Tuesday ? ( P ) ? Cardinal Spellman of New York celebrated Christmas mass for 3,000 marines today , only six miles from the eastern battle front . Troops knelt in falling snow at the service .                     