@@719144

txt Gov . Orval E. Faubus of Arkansas said today that compliance with court orders for integration of the Little Rock high schools could not be achieved " overnight . " While saying that he would " accept the decision of the court , " he requested the Department of Justice and the Federal judiciary to " act with understanding and patience . " The Governor 's appeal was contained in a statement issued at a news conference after he had conferred with President Eisenhower in Newport . The Governor returned to Little Rock by plane late Saturday night . Upon arrival he refused to add anything to statements he had made earlier in the day . A ' Friendly ' Talk Governor Faubus said that the people of Little Rock would have his support in obeying " valid court orders , " but that it was his responsibility to protect them from " violence in any form . " . His talk with the President on the integration issue , the Governor said , was " friendly and constructive . " The ti ; ip to Newport @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ commented . The Governor declined to say whether the meeting would cause any change in his position . He also said that the matter of removing the National Guard from around Central High School in Little Rock would have to await his return to Arkansas . The Governor is under summons to appear in Federal District Court Sept. 20 to show if he can why he should not discontinue the stationing of the militia around ' he high school . . Avoids Arguments This show of troops ? has blocked the admission of ten Negro students despite a Federal court order that they be allowed into the previously allwhite school . The Arkansas Governor , whose resistance to the Federal court order was based on the ground that he did not want " anyone to be hurt , " refused to be drawn into arguments over integration . Mr. Faubus made his pledge to " accept " the court decisions in the brief statement given out at his news conference . He then politely but firmly shut off further questions . He left almost immediately for the Hillsgrove Airport , five @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in a twin-engine Aero Commander plane . Several Negro reporters were among the eighty representatives of newspapers , radio stations and television stations who had crowded into a tiny private dining room on the mezzanine floor of the Sheraton Biltmore Hotel . One radio reporter , who later identified himself as Magnificent Montague , pleaded with Mr. Faubus to give Negro pupils a " chance . " " I did n't come here to argue the question , " the Governor shot back . A moment later the Governor picked up his brief cases and refused flatly to answer any further questions . Mr. Montague said he was one of a delegation of half a dozen from the San Francisco Bay area , who hoped to leave with the President a bundle of . elegrams , letters and a scroll 3igned by Negroes and whites protesting the delay in school integration in the South . The radio man said his station was a community station , chiefly servicing the Negro population of the San Francisco Bay area . Another Negro reporter asked the Governor whether he now intended to remove troops @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to wait for eventualities . ' ' Governor Faubus replied . He was equal noncommittal on all other Questions specifically pertaining to the situation in Little Bock . The news conference was scheduled for 2 P. M. but it was 2 : : -k ) o'clock before the Governor arrived . He apologized , explaining that it had taken some time to prepare his formal ' statement and to have copies duplicated for distribution . Governor Faubus read his ! statement in a quiet voice amid ! the whirl of television and newsreel cameras and the flashing of lighting equipment . He said he recognized that the situation called for clarification and that he had assured President Eisenhower of his wish to cooperate . But , Mr. Faubus continued , " I must harmonize my actions under the Constitution of Arkansas with the requirements of the Federal Constitution . " He said his publicly unexpressed personal opinion of the Supreme Court decision of 1954 , ordering integration , was not relevant to the situation in Arkansas . But it was evident from the language of the decision that the changes necessitated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " the Governor said . Mr. Faubus said that as he interpreted President Eisenhower 's public statements , the Administration had no thought of challenging the Governor 's right to protect the people of Arkansas from any violence . It has been the Governor 's contention from the outset that he had called out the National Guard to prevent violence . There had been none before the call . In reiterating his assurance that , he xvouid " accent . the decisions of the court , " Mr. Faubus said he hoped that : the Department of Justice and I he Federal judiciary " will act with understanding and patience in discharging- their duties . " The first question , after the reading of the statement , was whether the Governor planned any further meetings on the situation . Mr. Faubus replied that he did not " wish to anticipate at this moment any further action or conferences . " When asked if he had disetnz.sed with the President the possibility of extending time for Arkansas ' complianee with the Supreme Court order , Mr. Faubus said he had " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ He declined to comment on a specific question whether he had directly asked for a year 's extension . The Governor bristled slightly when asked if he had consulted with Gov . Marvin Griffin of Georgia before making his formal statement today . Faabus Back Mane Spr.ual to Thr ? 7 . LITTLE ROCE . Ark .. Sept. 14 ? Governo ? Faubus art ivcd in his twin-engined plane at 10:42 , Central Standard time . With him was his administrative assistant , Arnold Sikes . The Governor declined to comment on the questions asked him concerning the National Guard . Asked if he had anything to add to the statement he had issued at Newport , he said , in a tired voice , " Nothing to add . " The Governor seemed extremely tired . Wnen asked whether he would meet with reporters for a news conference tomorrow the Governor said he probably would , between 1 and 2 P. M. Governor Faubus was told that The Detroit News in a copyright story had said that the Governor had agreed to replace the guard with State police and local @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ injunction lawsuit due for hearing Sept. 20 . He said : " The News is perfectly free to speculate . If it is lucky it will he fine . If it misses that is their responsibility . A crowd of about a hundred persons that had gathered from about 7 o'clock remained for the three and a half hours to greet the Governor . The crowd shouted greetings and cheered several times as ' the Governor stepped out of his plane . As the Governor walked towards the crowd , several called out , " Speech , speech . " The Governor waved to the throng and said , " I 'll see you all . " He then walked to a waiting automobile , with two state troopers flanking him . He drove away in the dark towards his mansion . !                     