@@719657

txt Some Western diplomats whose countries depend on Middle Eastern oil are worried about the Saudi Arabian King 's delegation of broad powers to Crown Prince Faisal , his brother . Behind Prince Faisal 's sudden rise to real power in Saudi Arabia they see the hand of President Gamal Abdel Nasser of the United Arab Republic of Egypt and Syria . They are convinced that President Nasser , now more powerful than ever but still desperately poor , is grasping for a share of Saudi oil revenues . According to their information , Prince Faisal , on his return to Riyadh in February after visits to the United States , Europe and Egypt , demanded that the King accord him the responsibility and authority he had been denied since early in 1954 . Delegate at Bandung His last important official task had been to represent Saudi Arabia at the AsianAfrican conference at Bandung , Indonesia , in the spring of 1955 . While the diplomats report that Prince Faisal demanded and won authority , the State Department says it believes quite a different version . It says @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and financial affairs to his younger brother as an act of dynastic solidarity and that this signifies only a shift of emphasis in the kingdom 's policies . According to the department , the Saudi monarchy , which became cool to Cairo after King Saud 's visit to Washington in January , 1956 , is merely shift- ing back to its earlier attitude of friendship with the Nasser regime . In the light of speculation as to the true state of relations between Saudi Arabia , and Cairo , special significance seemed to attach to a speech by Senator Theodore Francis Green , chairman of the Senate , Foreign Relations Committee , suggesting that the United States might be wise to give aid to the United Arab Re , public . Addressing the Association of International Relations Clubs , I the 90-year-old Rhode Island , Democrat declared that it seemed to him desirable that the United States " get along " with President Nasser " whether or not we like that prospect . " Such efforts " may find him ( more responsive , " Mr. Green submitted . " At @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seems to me that we should now proceed on the premise that it is important for the United Arab Republic to become a viable state , both desirous and capable of withstanding Soviet penetration . If it is to become such a state , then it will need an alternative to Soviet aid . As a result of careful comparison and elimination , it seems that the United States will have to supply that alternative , " Senator Green emphasized that he was speaking for himself alone . The State Department , which has taken care to say only good about the United Arab Republic but which has refrained from giving President Nasser any kind of aid , had no comment . It is waiting for the outcome of current negotiations through the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development toward a settlement of the claims of the old Universal Suez Canal Company 's stockholders against Egypt . Only then will it consider relaxing the economic measures it took against Egypt after her nationalization of the company . These included freezing Egyptian assets and cutting off economic and technical aid . Reports @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ return to Riyadh several months ago , informed the King he would go to the desert for a while and expected ; upon his return to be given new powers . He got them in the decree of March 22 . According to this version he was able to impose his will because King Saud was seriously embarrassed by the charge that he had , through a father-in-law , paid $5,320,000 to Lieut . Col. Abdul Hamid Serraj of Syria in a vain effort to frustrate formation of the EgyptianSyrian union and to have President Nasser assassinated . It is said that the King was trapped in this venture by President Nasser 's own agents . A torrent of propaganda from Cairo and Damascus against King Saud himself ensued . The King was alarmed that reformist and revolutionary elements among oil workers and the newly developing middle class might be stirred up , according to the account , Prince Faisal was able to promise that the propaganda would stop following his appointment , and it did , although criticism of the King 's advisers continues . The King was said to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ago he asked World Bank and International Monetary Fund experts to help work out a budget . He discovered he was about $50 , - 1000,000 in debt to New York banks . Resistance to proposed economies among the King 's retainers weakened his position . Prince Faisal , it was said , had the backing of others among his numerous brothers , who complained that King Saud was ignoring them in favor . of his own sons .                     