@@712882

txt Letters to The Times FELIX S. COHEN.GREGORY M. DEXTERCHARLES H. TUTTLE.SATVET LUTFI TOZAN , O.B.E .... pg . 29 Letters to The Times To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Very touching is the faith in Senator McCarran 's efforts to " ease Europe 's grave overpopulation problem , " by liberalizing American immigration laws , reported in THE NEW YORK TIMES dispatch of May 2 from Geneva . Just what officials expressed this faith is not made clear in the dispatch , but anybody who has read Senator McCarran 's recently introduced 248-page Omnibus Immigration and Deportation Bill , S. 3455 , can be sure that the officials who expressed this faith did not ' read the bill . Actually , the McCarran bill accomplishes three major purposes : 1 , It maintains present quota limitations but cuts down quota immigration by about 90 per cent by the same technique that Senator McCarran tried to use against displaced persons  --  namely , assigning non-transferable preferences to groups that are unwilling or unable to immigrate . New Grounds 2 . It sets up a whole @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ States or deporting those who are already here , including : ( a ) misdemeanors and other offenses in this country ( including traffic offenses ) not involving moral turpitude ; ( b ) violation of a law of a foreign state regardless of moral turpitude ( until now it has been the policy of our country to judge such violations in the light of our own democratic values and the concept of " moral turpitude " ) ; ( c ) intentionally working for a living if any American citizens are unemployed , unless the immigrant comes under a special preference category ; ( d ) joining or intending to join or being considered likely to join any organization that was ever Communist-controlled even if the organization is one ( like the Polish Peasant party ) that was captured . by the Communists long after the immigrant abandoned his affiliation. 3 . Persons accused of working for a living , or any of the other deportable offenses under the McCarran bill , would be presumed to be guilty until proven innocent . They would be denied trial by jury . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hearing . They would be subjected to hearing on secret evidence , with the same official acting as judge and prosecutor . In the sole discretion of such a prosecutor-judge , any American could be deported to any country willing . to accept and dispose of him , whether or not he ever had any prior connection with such country . The jurisdiction of the courts to review deportation decisions on the merits would be abolished . The McCarran Anti-Immigration Bill would deny both immigrants and citizens the procedural Safeguards against arbitrary administrative action which were guaranteed by the McCarran Administrative Procedure Act of 1946 . Reversal of Policy In effect , the McCarran Omnibus Immigration and Deportation Bill would reverse the policy of the Amended Displaced Persons Act and authorize the exclusion or deportation of almost any D. P. who could qualify under that act . I do not question Senator McCarran 's right to spend several million dollars of public funds in formulating and publicizing his 248-page Omnibus Anti-Immigration Bill . But it would be well if officials in Geneva and those closer home realized that Senator McCarran 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the United States and have been decisively rejected by the Congress of the United States on every possible occasion to date . FELtx S. COHEN . Washington , ? May 4 , 1950 . To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORE TIMES : As chairman for many years of the Water Levels Committee of the Lake George Association , and as the association 's counsel , I write to correct certai b misconceptions and misstatements in sour editorial of April 28 entitled " Lake George . " The Lake George Association has several thousand members , representing residents and property owners interested in the lake . In the State Attorney General 's suit , tried before Judge Ryan in 1945 , the association , the counties of Warren , Washington and Essex , the towns of Hague , Caldwell , Queensbury , Dresden , Putnam , Fort Ann and Ticonderoga , the village of Ticonderoga , and a group of prominent shore-owners headed by Mrs. Elizabeth G. Brereton were intervening parties , and took substantially identical positions before the court . Obviously , they collectively represented and expressed the almost mous @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the lake as to what form of judgment would best serve and conserve the interests of the lake and its rich heritage for America . ? Removal of Dam They took no position on the issue between the Attorney General and the System Properties , Inc. , as to whether the latter 's dam at the outlet was on private or public land ; but they all did oppose any judgment requiring the removal of the dam , with the consequence of dropping the level of the lake by about two feet and destroying its beautiful shore-line and the immense investment in docks , retaining walls and approaches . Even the Attorney General agreed at the trial that the dam should not be removed . The only call for its removal came from a small group of which John S. Apperson was the leader . The Lake George Association and the foregoing counties , towns , village and organized property owners asked the court to require that the dam be so operated that the agreed optimum level , which lay between a maximum of 4.0 feet and a minimum of 2.5 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; and that the court designate a public agency to establish regulations accordingly . Judge Ryan 's judgment , entered April 1 , 1948 , decreed accordingly for the maintenance of the lake 's level within this maximum and minimum , and appointed the State Superintendent of Public Works to see that the court 's judgment was carried out . Hence , the fact is that that judgment expressed , as regards the lake 's level , the substantially unanimous opinion , knowledge , experience and wish of the entire Lake George region , both official and private . Optimum Level I have been on the shores of Lake George each year for over seventy years . From personal observation , I can state without qualification that the level ' as fixed by Judge Ryan 's judgment is the optimum level and expresses the best adjustment to the requirements of navigation , of the shoreline , and of the vast majority of the docks , retaining walls and approaches . Since its entry , the judgment has worked well ; and the level maintained thereunder has given public and private satisfaction @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " These ( 170 state-owned ) islands and this shoreline. are being washed away . " That is not the fact at all . They are stable , intact and beautiful ; and they are just where I have known them for three , score years . . Somebody has foisted upon you mistaken and extravagant information and language . CHARLES H. TUTTLE . New York , May 1 , 1950 . Restrictions , on Basque Tongue To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : With reference to the special dispatch from Madrid on the restrictive measures against the Basque idiom , it may interest to know that those restrictions come at a time when highly centralized France has introduced , as in contrast , the teaching of the languages , literatures and local folklores of Basque , Breton , Occitanian and Catalan in the primary and secondary schools and institutions of the country . It may also be of interest to note that Cambridge University has officially included the teaching of modern Catalan literature in the additional matters of its Department of Hispanic Studies . As your able correspondent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of absurdity , the political and spiritual frontiers between Castile and the peripheric regions are being made stronger than ever , with unforeseeable consequences in the future . J. V. S. Forest Hills , N. Y. , May 6 , 1950 . To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORE TIMER : The modern Turkey which goes to the ballot on May 14 is an offspring of the Young Turks movement , which , toward the turn of the century , included all who wanted a constitutional monarchy to replace the dictatorship of the Sultans . The revolution of 1908 did in fact take away the Sultans ' absolute power and gave a Constitution to the Ottoman Empire . It soon became obvious that this revolution served only the ends of the Union and Progress Committee , originally a part of the Young Turks movement . After securing power , the Union and Progress Government fully reinstated the old methods and oppressions by the simple device of passing a state-ofsiege law . This same Union and Progress party led Turkey into war on Germany 's side , and eventually into the 1918 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ During the First World War , the opposition of the other Young Turks , gathered now around the Liberal party , took an active form . Several of their leaders were summarily executed by the Ottoman Government for advocating their liberal creed . Single-Party Period The remnants of the vanquished empire found their equilibrium in the Turkish Republic , based at first on a single-party system , and magnificently led by Kemal Ataturk and by his successor , the present President Ismet Inonu . The genius ' of these two men has been prominently evidenced by their preservation of democratic freedom throughout the single-party period . The one-party system was indispensable in view of the inadequate civic education of a nation just freed from the mind-starving grip of centurylong dictatorships . Although there was no opposition in the usual form of an organized party , freedom of discussion and criticism existed from the beginning in the young republic . It is superfluous to mention here the progress made by Turkey in these last three decades , both economically and in education and civic spirit . Today the main opposition party is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ National Assembly of 486 . Equipped with a platform which differs in no way from that of the Peoples ' party , it is the personality of its leaders which explains why its chances in the forthcoming election are small . During the single-party stage all men of ability ' had offered their services to their country . In a newly created republic , in the throes of rebuilding and modernizing , they often had to try several posts before finding the work in which they could be most efficient . The Peoples ' party is thus composed of able men , devoted to their country . Conspiracy to Kill A small number of people have , however , shown more ambition than ability . Frequently old members of the Union and Progress , these men reached sometimes high rank in the new Turkey , but only to show when in office their inability to get the results needed by the country . They were soon replaced after strong criticism in the National Assembly ; but instead of admitting to their limitations , they conspired to kill Turkey 's liberator , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Democrat party and who would like to hope for power . The Turkish voter , however , has not forgotten the past of these men ; nor their personal ambitions . They offer a platform identical to that of the Peoples ' party , but the men who could implement such a program have all been selected over the last quarter of a century . The Turks know the spirit which animates the great Ismet Inonu in his work for the nation . At a time when the formation , education and development of the country are still in full progress , they consider his fatherly . hand as essential . At a time when military power threatens more than ever their national integrity , they consider that this great battle-proven general must not be replaced . All this the Turkish voter knows ; he can not be swayed by mere propaganda . This is why the Government of Ismet Inonu , which follows a long-established policy of national progress and of defense against tilt threat of its Communist neighbors , has nothing to fear from the Democrat party 's opposition @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ imagine ? as the opposition 's propaganda tries to suggest ? that the election will be anything but absolutely and completely free . SATVET LUTFI TOZAN , 0 . B. E Washington , May 2 , 1950 . Plight of Hospital Pharmacists To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : With increasing public attention drawn to the plight of our various groups of city employes , there still remains one group in total obscurity . Your city hospital pharmacist is truly the forgotten man in the medical arts . The New York City hospital pharmacist fills over 125,000 prescriptions a week . He personally services more outpatients than any other hospital professional worker . He can not work at less than 100 per cent efficiency , the result of any error in compounding or dispensing a prescription being loss of license or injury to the patient . Is this responsibility worth more than $2,460 per year ? The one hundred hospital pharmacists in our city 's employ believe that New Yorkers will support them in their request for a $1,000 per year wage increase once they know the facts .. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ New York , May 1 , 1950 . Senator McCarran 's Bill Views Said to Have Been Rejected on Immigration and Deportation Proposed Patent Licensing Opposed To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Your editorial objection on April 28 to compulsory licensing of patents after three years is well taken . A summary of the problems which faced one inventor will serve to emphasize the importance of your objection . This inventor had a patent which was declared to be basic and a new development when reviewed by an important firm of patent attorneys . Engineers and research men for ' one chemical company and a manufacturer of power equipment declared the inventor 's estimates of operating and capital costs , power development and sales possibilities were correct . One hitch was that nobody could estimate with any assurance the cat of development , as numerous problems could be anticipated . The consensus was that such costs could be $1,000,000 or more . Risk money of that amount was not easily obtainable then and is not today . Another chemical company which bought from the preceding chemical company faced @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ $25,000,000 on the . basis ? of pre-war prices , if the patent were develpped successfully . A large petroleum company , during the last war , was desirous of obtaining the cheap chemical that the development of the patent would have made possible . The patent has since expired and the inventor is deceased . If it could have been developed , new industries and much obsolescence of existing industries could have been- anticipated . Jobs for men would have been one result and not the dearth of jobs claimed by Seymour E. Harris in " The Market for College Graduates , " 1950 . The proposed three-year compulsory licensing is playing right into the hands of theh large corporations with ample resources . Conditions are difficult enough now without that handicap . Income-tax support for risk capital is needed and not ' compulsory licensing of patents . GREGORY M. DEXTER .                     