@@720301

txt Iraqi Air : Force planes were reported to-1 night to have strafed and bombed a village three miles inside the Syrian frontier . The report came from Middle ' East News Agency , the official organ of the United Arab Republic . Syria and Egypt make up the republic . The report gave the name of the village as Hamoudiya , in the Tel Kotchek area of Syria . It was assumed that such an attack would be directed at the probable line of retreat of Iraqi Army units that rose against the pro-Communist Government of Premier Abdul Karim Kassim Sunday afternoon and declared a new government at Mosul . There were no reports of casualties . First reactions from Government sources here were that retaliation against another Arab state was unthinkable . President Gamal Abdel Nasser of the United Arab Republic is in Damascus and is being kept advised of developments . Urgent telephone communications were reported in progress among the heads of Arab states . It was reported that King Saud of Saudi Arabia might fly to Damascus to meet President Nasser . A reconvocation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ concluded a week 's session only yesterday . The Middle East News Agency quoted recent travelers from Iraq as having said heavy fighting had been in progress between the rebels in Mosul and Government troops and that there had been frequent heavy air attacks on the city by the Iraqi Air Force . Mosul is one of the oil centers of the north and a secondary headquarters of the foreignowned Iraq Petroleum Company . Several hundred British citizens live in Mosul and in Kirkuk , the headquarters of the company . Both cities were untouched in last July 's revolution , which overthrew the monarchy , and there has been no halt in the flow of oil . It was not learned tonight whether the pipelines still were operating . The report of the air attack came only a few hours after members of the United Arab Republic 's diplomatic mission in Baghdad began arriving in Cairo and Damascus . All but three of the mission there were declared persona non grata yesterday by the Kassim Government and ordered to leave the country within twenty-four hours . Today Brig . Ahmed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , broadcast a warning to certain " foreign " countries to stop meddling in Iraqi affairs . He did not mention the United Arab Republic , but it was evident which country he meant . A rebel radio , which said it was broadcasting from Mosul , seat of the insurgent command , faded out at midnight last night and there had been no report until this evening of the rebellion 's course . The Damascus report would indicate it still was in progress despite Baghdad 's assertion that its leader had been killed and the revolt suppressed . The returning Egyptian diplomats and their families , who arrived here by air this afternoon , reported conditions in Baghdad as chaotic and said mobs seemed to be ruling the streets . They were taken to the airport under heavy guard . The airport itself is being guarded , they said . The embassy in Baghdad was left in charge of the First Secretary , Farid eI-Azm . The Ambassador , Sayed Fahmi , already was in Cairo on what had been described as a " brief vacation . " He arrived @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ His wife returned today . " ' he Foreign Ministry here declined comment on the expulsions , but it was believed Cairo would take no immediate retaliatory action . It has been generally accepted in Cairo that if the revolt in Iraq has been crushed , as Baghdad says it has , the country will be taken over by the Communists . The Egyptian diplomats expelled today included the Counselor of Embassy , Mohammed el-Masri and Brig . Abdul Negid Farid , the military attach ? . Brigadier Farid was a close friend and associate of Col. Abdul Salara Art ; co-leader with General Kassim of last July 's revolt , but now under sentence of death for an alleged attempt to shoot the Premier . The two announced leaders of the rebellion , Col. Abdel Wahab Shawaf , commander of the Fifth Brigade , and Brig . Nadhem Kamel Tabakchali. commander of the Second Division and Military Governor in the north , had an estimated total of 15.000 to 20,000 troops under their command . That is a third of Iraq 's ground forces . The Nem York Time . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Hamoudiya ( 1 ) was said to have been attacked by Iraqi planes . The Iraqi rebels had headquarters at Mosul ( 2 ) .                     