@@712888

txt The Senate Democratic Policy Committee gave top priority today to the civil rights bill to create a Permanent Fair Employment Practice Commission . After a long meeting , Senator Scott W. Lucas , the majority leader , announced that as soon as voting was completed on the Marshall Plan bill  --  presumably late Friday ? he would make the F. E. P. C. measure " the pending business . " How long the measure , repeatedly shunted aside despite great Pressures from President Truman and other proponents , would hold Its priority became a matter of wide speculation at the Capitol . Seldom , ? it appeared , had an Administration program faced more possibilities of an upset . Among Southern Democratic Senators , always ready for a lastditch filibustering battle against items on the President 's civil rights list , there appeared to be a calm confidence . The F. E. P. C. bill would set up a Federal commission to combat racial and other discriminations in hirings and discharges in the business field . The bill before the Senate vests the commission with compulsions . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the commission only " voluntary " supervision . There are factors that might get into the way of a declared determination to force the F. E. P. C. measure through any filibuster . One involves the twenty-one governmental reorganization plans submitted to Congress by the President ; If these plans are not rejected by either the Senate or the House by May 23 they will become law automatically . Eight of the plans are under protest , subject to Senate action , and such protesting resolutions have . " highest privilege . " All twenty-one plans are being handled by a committee headed by Senator John L. McClellan , ' Democrat of Arkansas . Senator McClellan said today that it would be his duty , as chairman of the Committee on Expenditures in the Executive Departments , to see that every resolution disapproving a reorganization plan ' obtained full Senate consideration . The Reorganization Act allows ten hours of debate on each protesting resolution that reaches the floor . Senator Lucas asserted that he would oppose attempts to break into the F. E. P. C. debate with " any measure . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ voting were held to be reprehensible it would be " twice as reprehensible " for Administration leaders to create a situation where reorganization plans " became law without a vote . " A second factor was a conference report on the highly controversial omnibus rivers and harbors and flood control authorization program . The items of this measure concern nearly every state in the Union . Senator McClellan will be in charge of this report when it is ready for floor action . Floor action will be under " highest privilege , " and argument on the report , it was held , might consume days . A third factor was the Social Security Bill . This is being handled by the Senate Finance Committee under the chairmanship of Senator Walter F. George , Democrat of Georgia . Senator George said today that it would be ready for floor action sometime next week . He would wait , he indicated , for " a reasonable time " before calling it up . But , he indicated also , " a reasonable time " might mean only a few days before he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ possibly set off another lone . debate . Lucas Discusses Strategy Capitol Hill has been looking ahead  --  in some quarters with much dread  --  to the filibuster which the F. E. P. C. measure threatens to produce . Congress is trying to arrange its schedule for an adjournment before Aug. 1 and freedom for campaigning in this election year . Other legislative programs to be completed , or even started in some ' instances , include , besides the third ) year authorization for the Marshall Plan sending to - the Senate , the , $29,000,000,000 appropriation bill , implementation of European arms. : aid , additional money authority for ' the Commodity Credit Corporation for furtherance of farm price supports , settlement of the basing point problem and continuation of Selective Service . Further issues are the promised Federal aid to education , statehood for Hawaii and Alaska and appropriations to cover authorizations for the Marshall Plan , the Atlantic Pact and arms-aid abroad . And to be taken up are suddenly added appropriations for modernizing the Navy and providing a drastically increased air power . In the light of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' indicated that there would be no attempt to hold the Senate in continuous session through days or weeks . After all , he said , the problem was whether sixty-four mem , bers of the Senate chose to impose a limitation on debate . ? Limitation of debate , or closure , requires a " constitutional " twothirds vote of the Senate . Senator Lucas indicated that after two or three days of talk on the question of consideration of the F. E. P. C. bill he would file a closure petition . If that failed by a small margin , he stated , he might try it again . However , if closure was obtained on the consideration issue , Senator Lucas conceded , the toughest job would be to break the filibuster which would come on the merits of the legislation itself . Every one at command points was careful about making predictions on this .                     