@@720110

txt President Eisenhower said today the Western powers would not alter their basic policy on Germany and would stand firmly by their rights and duties in West Berlin . At the outset of his news conference , President Eisenhower recapitulated the wartime agreements on the four-power occupation of Berlin and the evolution of the West 's policy on Germany . The basis of that policy is that the unification of East and West Germany should be brought about through free elections , the President said . The United States , Britain ' and France have remained faithful to this principle , the President said . The Soviet Union , however , which also subscribed to this objective during the conference of heads of government in Geneva in July , 1955 , " quickly repudiated " that agreement , the President added . Free Elections Demand Stands Until the differences over Germany are composed by an agreement that guarantees free elections , " we feel we have responsibility and the duty , that is even more than our rights , in maintaining the freedom of the western part of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ first Presidential news conference since Premier Nikita S. Khrushchev proposed the ending of the fourpower occupation status of Berlin in a speech Nov. 10 . This speech was followed up by a note to the Western powers Nov. 26 , in which Moscow called upon its wartime allies to withdraw from West Berlin , make Berlin a neutralized and self-governing free city and agree to a confederation of East and West Germany in which each would retain its own form of government . The Soviet note suggested that after the establishment of this confederation , which would be ' disarmed and neutralized , both the North Atlantic Treaty Organization and the Warsaw Treaty group should be disbanded . The Soviet note said that unContinued on Pago 4 , Column 8 EISENHOWER FIRM ON GERMAN POLICY // less the West agreed to discuss this resolution of the German problem within six months , the Soviet Union would hand over to East Germany its occupation functions in East Germany , including controls on Western access to West Berlin . Because the President did nct wait for questions to elicit his views on Germany @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ preliminary reply to the Soviet note . The formal reply will await discussions of the North Atlantic foreign ministers in Paris new week , officials reiterated today , President Sees No Change The President said in reply to questions that he knew of no change in policy " that we would certainly be now ready to propose to the NATO nations . " - Question 13 , Page 4 . This was interpreted here as meaning that the United States would propose no changes in the substance of policy , but Was quite ready to discuss with its allies . how the Soviet note was to be answered , and whether that note should reiterate previous offers to the Soviet Union for a serious ' discussion of the German question and European security . Officials here emphasized again that Moscow had not replied to the notes of Sept. 30 in which the Western Big Three restated their position on German reunification but offered to discuss " any other proposals " to achieve unification in freedom . Adenauer Pique Douhetd State Department officials tended to discount as " probable misinterpretation " the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was angered at the British because they were urging that the reply to Moscow should couple a rejection of the Berlin plan with an offer of talks . Dr. Adenauer was said to desire to have the immediate reply limited to a peremptory rejection of the Berlin proposal , with any offer to talk left to a later note . " There is no reason why we can not reject what amounts to an ultimate but still maintain our negotiating posture , " one official said today . Officials sato also that inasmuch as Dr. Adenauer had not objected to the Sept. 30 note . they could not conceive why he should now oppose an expression of willingness to talk . Officials here did not believe that the suggestions made in the House of Commons last Thursday by Selwyn Lloyd , British Foreign Secretary , would advance matters very much . Mr : Lloyd suggested that if the Soviet Union would agree to unification through free elec. ' tions and- if Germany then . elected to adhere to the Atlantic alliance , the present area of East Germany could be demilitarized @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ proposed that in as large an area as possible there should be inspected limitations on troop strength and arms. ? ments , as well - as aerial reconnaissance and ground patrols to safeguard against surprise attack . Officials here noted that this plan was based on the assumption that that the Soviet Union might abandon three principal objectives  --  a permanent Communist regime in East Germany , the prevention of West German armament and the dissolution of the Atlantic alliance . President Eisenhower said today that he did not see " anything particularly new " in the suggestions on Berlin Premier Khrushchev made in his recent talk , with Senator Hubert H. Humphrey , Democrat of Minnesota , and which the Senator passed to the President yesterday .                     