@@716888

txt When the idea was first advanced for the Government to support farm prices , it was really a very modest proposal . All its proponents proposed was to put a little cushion under one part of the economy . It was a bit of favoritism to the farmers , of course . But , after all , it was going to be limited to a few farm commodities ? and that should n't cause too much trouble , should it ? Well , some of the trouble it caused has already been pretty well publicized . In the space of a few years this modest proposal turned our domestic farm problem into a major headache . Now the reverberations of this little effort to help out a few farmers here at home have begun to echo through the capitals abroad . Today the domestic farm program is also a major foreign policy problem . Our foreign policy is aimed at winning friends and getting them to stop their economic warfare against each other so their economics can become self-sustaining and less dependent on our own costly foreign @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , to stop such practices as import restrictions , export subsidies , and state trading . A conference about this has been going on for months . But , as our correspondents report from Geneva this morning , our poor diplomats have been getting nowhere . And the biggest stumbling block is the modest plan to help our farmers . Urge European countries to abandon export subsidies ? They point to our subsidized farm exports . Preach against state trading ? Foreign diplomats note that the U. S. Government sells butter and grain in world markets ? and at subsidized cut rate prices . Flay import quotas ? We are reminded of our own import quotas on many farm commodities . It 's all very embarrassing . It 's also all very inevitable . Once the U. S. Government undertook to support farm crops at high prices reOardless of circumstances it set off a chain reaction . With the market eliminated as a governor , production piles up . Beset by an avalanche of production at home , the Government must put on import restrictions to prevent foreign crops from wrecking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no place for domestic production to go except abroad and it can only be sold abroad at less than U. S. prices , with the Government making up the difference . This dumping in turn plays hob with foreign farm markets and impels counteraction . And so it goes in an ever-widening circle . So we start out to do a little political favor for the farmers , and we end not only with a big domestic economic problem but with a threat to our foreign policies throughout the world . Once more we are learning there 's no such thing as a little tinkering with a nation 's economy . The intention may be modest but the consequences can be monumental .                     