@@718777

txt Letters to The Times SIMON SHERESHEVSKY , M.D.ANTON KOERBER.ELAINE P.RALLI , M.D. , KENNETH M.BIRKHEAD ... Letters to The Times To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : There is no hope for real peace in the Middle East as long as hundreds of thousands of refugees live in an appalling state on the border of Israel . The Government of Israel has many times declared its willingness to cooperate in a solution of the task , but under two conditions : prior conclusioilli of a peace treaty ; no return of refugees to Israel , who must be resettled only in the Arab states , In my opinion that is not the right way . As long as fear , worry and hatred prevail among the peoples , as long as there is no readiness for compromise and sacrifice for the sake of peace , there is no hope for normal relations . We must first of all try to prepare our hearts for peace . Arabs and Jews must change their attitude and renounce war in all its forms . Without that there will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of paper . Desire for Homeland Israel must understand the refugees and their desire to return to their homes . The State of Israel and the Zionist movement , which both subscribe to the motto : " And may the sons return to their land , " can not declare before the whole world " No refugee shall return . " World opinion would not understand them and would demand a fundamental change in their attitude . On the other hand , a responsible and careful approach should be demanded of anyone who deals with the task of returning the refugees to Israel . Never before were the nations of the world faced with a similar problem . We may , of course , recall the transfer of Greeks from Turkey to Greece . However , in Palestine we are faced with the problem of refugees who are to be returned to a country conquered by another people of different religion and culture . Let us not forget that we are dealing with living human beings . Problems of Resettlement We well know the difficulties encountered in the settlement of Jewish @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ huts were sometimes worse than those of the Arab refugees . Accordingly , whoever has a sincere and honest belief in the possible resettlement of Arab refugees in Israel must propose first of all an attempt to resettle a small number , a few thousand , in order to know how to continue with the plan , without fixing the final number . Even this experiment will raise many problems to be solved by experts . Who is to be resettled ? Who will " live at peace with his neighbors " ? No one can foresee whether this experiment will succeed and what results may be attained . Here the Israeli Government must take the initiative by recognizing in principle the right of the refugees to return and declare its willingness , together with all interested powers and agencies , to start resettling refugees in Israel , without linking that in any way to the conclusion of a peace treaty or to other conditions . Effects of Declaration An Israeli declaration of this kind would be received with great sympathy by the whole world . It would exert untold influence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a real peace . For even such a limited undertaking as proposed would require the cooperation of all concerned : the State of Israel , the Arab states , the U. N. and the Arab refugees . They will have to meet and to discuss the realization of the plan and to work together . Perhaps a mixed refugee commission might be established , just at we , have mixed armistice commissions . No one earnestly interested in peace , not merely in peace declarations , would have the right or the opportunity to refuse to participate in this great humanitarian work . Who knows where such a start of chain reactions would finally lead us by preparing mankind 's heart for true peace . SIMON SHERESHEVSKY , M. D. Jerusalem , April 23 , 1957 . To THE EDrroR OF THE NEW YoRK TIMES : The eyes of the world watched with interest the birth of the new African nation of Ghana , March , 1957 . While we rejoice to see these people gain the liberty of self-rule , II was amazed to read of the repercussions already taking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1957 , Prime Minister Nkrumah is preparing to restrict the religious freedoms of his countrymen . This is a disappointing move for a country tutored by the British , who have championed religious freedom and personal liberty since the days of the Magna Charta . While the Constitution of Ghana guarantees " the right , freely to profess , practice or propagate any religion , " Dr. Nkrumah is reported as saying " the activities of ' certain ' sects would be restricted in Ghana despite constitutional guarof religion Minister may himself be providing the strongest argument to those who oppose native rule in neighboring countries . Or will this be the first of many restrictions on the Africans imposed by the very men who have been fighting for liberty ? For the sake of the future devele opment of Africa , may Dr. Nkrumah reconsider his position and uphold religious freedom for all . ANTON KOERBER . Washington , May 7 , 1957 . Conditions at Bellevue City Is Said to Have Failed in Its Responsibilities to Citizens TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES r May I congratulate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ need for a new Bellevue Hospital . Dr. Dickinson Richards deserves the greatest possible credit for drawing attention to the deplorable state to which the hospital has been allowed to deteriorate . It has been perfectly obvious to all of us at Bellevue that Dr. Randolph Wyman 's excellent work and recommendations have been met with indifference and that the City of New York has failed miserably in its responsibilities to its medically indigent citizens . Approximately three years ago , Arde Bulova , Mrs. George Rogers , Commissioner Richard C. Patterson and I had a conference with the Mayor to discuss the conditions in the Out Patient Department . His medical liaison officer at that time was Dr. John Connorton , who was also present at this interview . I was assured that the situation would be examined and something done about it , but that was the last I heard . An Opportunity Lost In my report of December , 1956 , to the Commissioner of Hospitals I drew attention  --  for the sixth consecutive year  --  to the problems we are facing in the Out Patient Department of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is that the Department of Hospitals of New York City is losing the opportunity of contribute ing to the advancement of medical care . New York City is the medical center of the world and doctors from every country come here for study and training , If the Department . of Hospitals would take advantage of its opportunities for demonstrating the advances in medical care and study that have taken place , its contributions to the field of medicine would receive world-wide recognition and would benefit not only our own citizens but those of many other countries . As one of the visiting physicians at Bellevue Hospital and as Direce tor of Out Patient Services , I wish to express my appreciation to the press for its excellent coverage of the problems at Bellevue HospitaL ELAINE P. RAW , M. D. , Visiting Physician , Bellevue Hospital . New York , May 9 , 1957 . Demand for Jury Trials Queried TO THE EDITOR OE THE NEW YORK TINIER : Opposition to the civil rights bill has arisen in many quarters , particularly in the South , on the fact that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The opponents have become quite emotional in their argument against this feature of the bill , stating righteously that every American deserves a trial by jury . It is most interesting to note that in many of the Southern states the N. A. A. C. P. has been forbidden to operate and that in most cases the action has been through an injunction through the court . Yet these same proponents of a trial by jury are strangely silent when the N. A , A. C. P. is denied the right to function in their very states . It seems to the American Veterans Committee that their pleas for a trial by jury stand out as transparent attempts to fool the public and mislead the people into opposing the civil rights bill . If these opponents of civil rights are such defenders of trial by jury , why have n't their voices been heard when freedom of the N. A. A. C. P. has been denied ? KENNETH M. BULKHEAD , Executive Director , American Veterans Committee . Washington , May 3 , 1957 . To Return Arabs to Israel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ East Friendliness in New York To THE EDITOR Or THE NEW YORK ' CMS : For Religious Freedom in Ghana I I have just returned from a oneweek visit to your city . So many kindnesses were extended to me by your citizens whom I met in passing on your streets that I wish to express my thanks . The police sergeant at the Brooklyn Bridge stop in Manhattan not only took me back through the turnstile , but walked down the ramp to insure that I got on the correct subway ; the driver on the First Avenue bus throughout a twenty-minute drive was helpful to me by furnishing advice and directions and in at least three other instances extended the same courtesy to other passengers .                     