@@718219

txt Nothing in international law compels the ships of any nation to use the Suez Canal . If the present users , or any number of them , choose not to use it , Egypt would have no basis whatsoever for complaint . In fact , whatever the users choose , the Caiial may temporarily be all but unusable after this week-end , if many of the non-Egyptian pilots and technicians quit . With that prospect it makes sense for the users to band together to make other arrangements for their trade and , if possible , to deal with Nasser . But the " Canal Users ' Association " proposed by Prime Minister Eden is quite a different breed of cat . This plan has the full backing of France and at least the conditional backing of the United States . The association would hire its own pilots , fix and receive Canal tolls , paying Egypt out of the latter ; in short , it would run the Canal . Now this is obviously intended to be a clever move to put Nasser on the spot @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he automatically accepts the West 's position that the Canal must be operated jointly by a number of nations , not just by Egypt alone . If he refuses to permit ships manned by Users ' Association pilots to enter the Canal . then he automatically violates the 1888 Convention decreeing freedom of navigation to the ships of all nationsin peace and war . In that case , the user countries could haul him before the United Nations or take military action to compel him to abide by his obligations . The international legal position on which this plan rests is , as far as we know , unassailable . Also , there is no moral reason why a ship should not be allowed passage through the Suez regardless of whether its pilot is employed by Colonel Nasser or not . Still , there remains some danger that as a practical matter this plan may be just a little too clever . For one thing , it is extremely unlikely that Nasser would cooperate with the Canal Users ' Association ; his spokesmen have already said as much . Secretary of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ how the user nations could make up for the loss of the Canal if it should be closed or crippled . It seems to us that such is the sensible and proper purpose of a Canal Users ' Association , and one to which nobody can reasonably object . It is one thing to by-pass the Canal , if necessary , and so let Nasser stew in the juice he himself concocted . Expensive though it would temporarily be , it might well cause Nasser to agree in time to an acceptable solution . But it is another matter entirely to assume that the users can simultaneously operate the Canal and by-pass Nasser . 