@@718893

txt Once again Arab leaders have chosen to paper over Arab-world schisms with a fa  --  ade of unity . On June 13 , following six days of joint talks , King Saud and King Hussein , rulers of Saudi Arabia and Jordan , signed a communiqu ? which ignored the fact that relations between Egypt and Jordan are near the breaking point . Instead , the communique pledged Saudi Arabia and Jordan to " preserve the purity " , of brotherly . relations among all Arab states , Wand specifically upheld the validity of the military pact which binds Egypt , Syria , Saudi Arabia , and . Jordan under Cairo 's over-all command . The communiqu ? also espoused the cause of " positive neutralism " between East and West , a cardinal tenet of President Nasser of Egypt . Accusation Hurled Thus the reader of the communique would have no inkling that Saudi Arabia and Jordan , together with Iraq and Lebanon , definitely are siding with the West , while Egypt and Syria lean toward dependence upon the Soviet bloc . The reader would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conference which produced the communiqu ? , Jordan had accused Egypt of plotting to assassinate members of the Jordanian Royal Family , led by 21-year-old King Hussein . As a result of that charge , two Egyptian diplomats have been expelled from Jordan ; the Jordanian Ambassador to Cairo has been ousted ; and the joint military command headed by Egypt now exists in name only . Since King Saud is known to agree with King Hussein in opposing many aspects of Egyptian policy , why did the two Kings ignore in their communiqu ? the rent fabric of Arab relations ? For one thing , consistently since 1948 the Arabs ? have striven to persuade the world that they are united in opposition to Israel , and that this unity underpins all Arab relations . Behind this fa  --  ade of unity , proclaimed through the agency of the Arab League , rival Arab factions have jockeyed for supremacy in the Middle East . This fa  --  ade of unity has worn so thin that deep-seated rivalries within the Arab world have become visible for the world to see . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ position vis- ? - vis Israel be weakened . They are concerned also that their top-level quarrels may afford an opportunity for political extremists to gain control of Arab streets . Plot Charged Despite the smooth words of the Arab kings , it can be assumed that the struggle for control of Arab affairs continues , between Egypt and Syria on the one hand and Iraq , Jordan , Lebanon , and Saudi Arabia on the other . This was hinted by King Hussein when he bade good-by to his royal guest at the Amman airport . June 14 . " The Jordanian people , " King Hussein said , according to Reuters , " appreciate your noble good hands , which supported us when darkness and destructive forces turned on us and subversive hands were laid on us . " The young King referred to an alleged plot against his throne in mid-April , when King Hussein , supported by his Army , struck against pro-Egyptian and leftist leaders in Jordan . Since that time King Hussein has accused the Egyptian Government of President Nasser of implication in the alleged plot @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , which began June 9 and ended June 14 , was designed , it is believed , to consolidate the informal alliance which has sprung up between the two Arab kingdoms . Specifically , it is believed , the monarchs discussed ways in which Saudi oil wealth might bolster King Hussein 's economically shaky kingdom .                     