@@718632

txt Egyptians now are waiting for the news that the Israelis have begun their withdrawal from Gaza and positions con : trolling the Gulf of Aqaba . Only then will remaining doubts be removed about Israeli intentions in the areas which the Israelis have been holding ever since their military movement against Egypt over four months ago . The Egyptian Government continues to withhold comment on the Israeli decision to evacuate Gaza and Aqaba coast . This probably reflects the suspicion that there may be a catch somewhere . Egyptians aver that the West has let them down so often that they are not yet convinced United States Secretary of State John Foster Dulles has made no deal with Israel behind the scenes to secure withdrawal of Israeli forces . ISuspicions Fed Statements now being made by spokesmen of some Western governments , particularly Britain and France , that they will assert their right to innocent passage through ? the mouth of the Gulf of Aqaba are likely to do nothing to remove these suspicions ? which appear to be harbored just as much by other Arabs as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Egypt would go no further on this question than allowing it to be referred to the International Court of Justice for a ruling . When the Israeli forces eventually do complete their withdrawal , this will ease some of the political pressures which have been weighing heavily on President Nasser . But any gratitude he might feel for the part the United States has played in getting the Israelis out of Gaza and Aqa.ba is likely to be soured by misgivings he is said to have about long-term United States and Western intentions toward him . General Dag Hammarskjold on Feb. 22 expressed confidence before the General Assembly " that it is the desire of the Government of Egypt that the take-over of Gaza . . . which , as has been the case in the first instance , would be exclusively by UNEF , will be orderly and safe , as it has been elsewhere . " It may be added with equal confidence , " he said , " that the Government of Egypt , recognizing the present special problems and complexities of the Gaza area and the long-standing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ refugees , and having in mind also the objectives and obligations of the armistice agreement , has the - willingness and readiness to make special and helpful arrangements with the United Nations and some of its auxiliary bodies , such as the United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees and UNEF . " The United Nations Relief and Works Agency has remained in Gaza throughout the Israeli occupation , and has been responsible for feeding the huge Arab refugee population there . During this period , Haifa , Israel , took the place of Port Said as the port of entry for foodstuffs and other UNRWA relief supplies for Gaza . Will this arrangement have to come to an end with Israeli withdrawal from Gaza ? Irked by Dollar Freeze He himself has commented bitterly on United States refusal to unfreeze Egyptian dollars so Egypt could buy much-needed wheat  --  and the Soviet Union was quick to step in and offer its wheat instead . Although it did not take the United Nations Emergency Force commander , Maj. Gen. E. L. M. Burns , and the Israeli Chief of Staff @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ agreement on the technical details for the withdrawal and take-over in Gaza and along the Aqaba coast , the operations will confront UNEF with its most difficult task since it first arrived in Egypt last November . In the Gaza strip are crowded a quarter of a million Arab refugees from Palestine . It will be no small challenge to UNEF to maintain order there . With the Gaza problem especially in mind , UN Secretary-                     