@@716341

txt Almost unnoticed by the outside world , and without the " theoretical " fanfare customary under Joseph Stalin , the rural half of the Soviet , population is being shaken to its foundation . The collective farms , upon which Soviet agriculture has been based for the past quarter of a century , have been reduced to the role of auxiliary agencies . Nothing but the name remains of these alleged peasant cooperatives which , up to now , were hailed as the U.S.S.R. 's unique contribution to the building of socialism . Henceforth , authority and power in the countryside is vested in the government 's 8,950 MTS ( machine and tractor stations ) operated jointly by the Communist Party , the security police , and the general state administration . Centralization An unprecedented centralization has taken place . With the collectivization of the villages in 1929 , agriculture was the responsibility of some 254,000 collective farms ( kolkhozi ) and 4,540 state farms ( sovkhozi ) , the latter holding less than one tenth of the sown land . After the great kolkhoze merger of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , however , agricultural operations are the responsibility of fewer than 9,000 centers , which control all heavy mechanical equipment , power , and fuel supply . This staff includes the vast majority of farm specialists and skilled workers . Nikita S. Khrushchev , first secretary of the all-powerful Central Committee of the Corn- munist Party , is the virtual master of this enormous administrative empire . The hold of the party-apparatus over the MTS has been strengthened and the new " state security committee " seems to be in charge of th' machine and tractor stations . Threefold Aims The objectives of Mr. Khrushchev 's new agricultural revolution by decree are threefold : 1 . To increase production of food and agricultural raw materials substantially within two or three years ; 2 . To strengthen the party 's hold over the countryside through a sweeping political and military security program ; 3 . To " build communism " by abolishing ' what Ivan K. Lebedev , in Kommunist No. 4 , calls the " survival of capitalism in the consciousness of the country people " ; by transferring millions of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ machine and tractor stations , where there no longer will be any difference between agricultural and industrial work ; by laying the groundwork for an absolute state monopoly of distribution . The first of these three objectives has been defined clearly in lengthy party and government instructions and decrees . Another valuable European publication devoted to Soviet affairs  --  and to world communism , the French biweekly BEIPI , sees in this renewed shake-up of the whole structure of agricultural society an indication of serious domestic tension and of scarcity of food and agricultural raw materials .                     