@@720857

txt Peking still denies any aggression has been committed . It does not ac. ept the Indian version of the Ladakh skirmish . And there is no word on the promised return of nine Indian policemen China holds as a result of the skirmish and who , some New Delhi observers suspect , may now be subjected to the usual Communist pressures so that they may give Peking 's version of the incident to the world . To this correspondent , a member of the Congress working committee has reacted with " there is nothing to be discussed on such terms . " The comment came after Indian Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru appeared before the committee to discuss government reactions . Meanwhile , a sidelight on the whole concept of Chinese strategy has been provided by elder statesman Sir C. P. Ramaswami Aiyar who led a university delegation to China three years ago . He now is demanding that his report to New Delhi , which has been filed away , be publicly released . Gandhi ' a VTarrior According to Sir Ramaswami , he told the government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Asia and that the Chinese people were being prepared for great sacrifices to achieve this end . He fur-1 thcrmore reported that Premier Chou expressed great distress and indignation at India 's fail : are to ally itself with China in a great social experiment . From Canton to Mukden , adds Sir Ramaswami , " I saw maps claiming Indian territory which . everyone in China took for I granted . " He tells of an incident to out- line the manner in which the Chinese systematically are being trained to hate  --  Britain and the United States in particular . At a wayside station in the north , children rushed up to him shouting " Long live Gandhi . " He asked one child who Mohandas K. Gandhi was and the reply was , " He was a great warrior who killed Englishmen . " All this and more , Sir Rama-swami claims , is in the report which New Delhi ignored . In Bombay , the Congress Party president . Mrs. Indira Gandhi . says that currently she is more worried about Indian Communists . She says she @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but she does not know what Indian Communists arc . She confirms that she is giving up the party presidency at the end of the month , despite pleas of her seniormost colleagues . The feeling persists here , nevertheless , that the current situation may make her change her mind at the last moment .                     