@@717746

txt To Regulate Fund-Raising Amending Present Laws Proposed Pending Study of Control Bills Reporting on Communism Obstacles to Presenting Conditions in Satellites Acknowledged The writer of the following letter was Lord Mayor of Prague and First Deputy Prime Minister in the Czech Cabinet until the Communist coup of 1948 . To THE EDITOR OF THENEW YORK TIMES : The Communists , realizing the importance of propaganda in the West , cover the entire field and put to use all available ? means : the radio , press , moving pictures , plays , delegations and visits abroad , and the fifth column . It was welcome news , therefore , when finally newsmen from the United States gained admittance to the countries behind the Iron Curtain . These correspondents have a grave responsibility . It is a difficult assignment , since they do not have a free hand . It is far more difficult in countries in the Communist orbit to check carefully a report before sending it home . However , unless this is done , a reporter is liable to relay reports compiled by the Communist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ matters worse , any slip or oversight of his which might serve the Communist cause is promptly played up by the Communist press and radio . It becomes doubly important for the Western newsman to get to the crux of the matter in order to present an accurate picture of conditions . Medical Statistics When a Communist says , for instance , that " there used to be one doctor for all of Kladno ( a mining town near Prague ) " and that the miners still remember " unemployment , poor housing , desperate struggles to buy enough food for their families , lack of opportunity for their children , inadequate health care and their place at the bottom of the ladder , " and that the informer himself " used to live with all my family in one room sixteen meters ( 58 feet ) square and my wife and mothe ? - in- law lay dying together of tuberculosis in the same bed " the correspondent should not leave these statements stand without following them up . A look at the old telephone book of 1940 would give him the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ expulsion of the Jewish doctors  --  before Munich the number was even higher ) , two hospitals , and a health and welfare institution . To be accurate and fair a reporter ought to find a way of mentioning somehow the achievements of the democratic regime between the two world wars in health and social welfare , and the great progress in housing made in the twenty years of democratic rule . These well-known facts have of Len been commented on by the American press and should be brought out again for comparison . At this point the reporter could turn to the Communist press to complete his own picture by quoting the Communists themselves , who are constantly complaining that the housing plan has failed completely , that it is one of the sore spots of the Communist effort , etc . The fact of the matter is that the Communist regime has resorted to evicting the wealthier and the white-collared class and non-Communists to make room for the faithful . Coal Shortage If a correspondent cites a few examples of unusually high wages paid  --  to miners , it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ class , quite different from the others , since the Communists are doing their utmost to increase coal production . Something should be said about the wages of the nonIprivileged factory workers and laborers . If a reporter repeats what he has been told by the Communists about their success in overcoming obstacles , he should find a way of putting it across that young and old are forced against their will to work in mines and that actual conditions are such that local commuters ' trains are not - heated , that water freezes in the homes , that kindergartens are closing down . And when writing a report to America one ought to tune in on the Prague radio to hear the regime ordering soldiers and " voluntary " brigades to keep the streets clear of snow . These and similar orders , which one hears on all sides , hardly I bespeak efficiency or the people 's " love " for the regime . The goodwill of Western reporters is above reproach . Their responsibility makes great demands on their accuracy and fact-finding ability to discern and uncover the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It calls for a pre-putsch knowledge of the country to be able to judge the merit of any information . If one reprints what one hears and reads in the Communist press it would be well to add simply the trademark : " Product of the Communist secretariat . " PETER ZENKL . Washington . March 3 , 1958 . Street Cleaning Regulations To TILE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : This is in reply to Joachim Stresemann 's letter printed in the March 5 issue of The Times ; in which he suggests a reduction of the alternate parking restrictions from three times a week to twice a week . The present alternate parking regulations are the result of much engineering study and field testing by the Department of Sanitation . In 1950 , when alternate parking began , an eight-hour " No Parking " period was used . This was reduced subsequently to five hours . After some favorable experiences it was further reduced in 1953 to the present three hours . In the heavily parked residential areas , where alternate parking is in effect , our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , barely adequate to provide a satisfactory level of cleanliness . The present regulations prohibit parking for a total of only nine hours a week at any one curb . This is , in my opinion , a small price to pay for a cleaner , healthier environment . We are aware of the parking problems of the city 's motorists , and wish to cause them as little inconvenience as possible . We would be very happy to reduce cleanings to twice a week as soon as we can obtain permanent cooperation front the public in not carelessly littering the streets and sidewalks . ANDREW W. MULRAIN , Commissioner of Sanitation . New York , March 5 , 1956 . To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Certain bills have been presented to the current session of the State Legislature relating to regulation of charitable fund-raising . There recently was a public hearing on these bills which would have created a Charities Registration Board with powers to reject or cancel registrations of charitable organizations . Along with many other well-established agencies , we of the State Charities Aid @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ New , York State , said at the hearing that we felt the bills had such deep impli ? cations that they should have furthel study . It is now reported that the bills will not be voted on at this se sion of the Legislature . We are in agreement with other , that all is not well in charitable fund-raising . We also believe that , the present laws for regulation are inadequate . Our position is that the proposed measures are not necessarily bad , but we feel strongly that further study should be provided , to indicate the need of this new type of administrative procedure before such controls are invoked . We recognize that some abuses exist in fund-raising and that these abuses should be corrected . Ws commend the Joint Legislative Committee that has been looking into the matter for taking the lead in focusing attention on the problem and for promptly devising laws to check racketeering . We recommend further study , however , before creation of a system that appears to amount to licensing and might bring control to the point of having @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , created for such a study and urge that meanwhile the present laws be . strengthened by amendments now before the Legislature . These amendments would carry out more fully the concept of regulation , , through publicizing of the financial ' activities of charitable organizations . Samver . R. MILBANK , President , State Charities Aid Association . New York , March 13 , 1956 . Conditions in Nicaragua TOTH F.EDITOR OF TH ENEw YORK TIMES : Samuel Guy Inman , with inexplicable levity , has made in a recent letter to The New York- , Times a reference to Nicaragua as a country where the people " are robbed of their freedom " as in " Spain and Saudi Arabia .. " I wonder how a serious writer can compare these three countries where . political , social and economical conditions are so widely different . In " respect to my own country , Nicaragua , I am sure Mr. Inman is to-tally misinformed . The constitutional Government of General Somoza , elected by a ' great majority in a free election ? , guarantees all the constitutional rights @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ should know , the greatest freedom of the press the country has ever enjoyed . It has enacted the most advanced social legislation in Central America , not . to mention the greatest economics . and material progress in our his- ? tory . Those are the reasons why the Nicaraguan masses are enthusias- , tically in favor of General Somoza and his Presidential election . GUILLERMO LANG , Consul General of Nicaragua . New York , March 7 , 1956 . Policy on Israel Queried To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : We wonder whether President Eisenhower 's remark on the futility of arming 1,700,000 Israelis against 40,000,000 Arabs foreshadows a drastic change in our foreign policy . Is it then not equally futile to continue arming Korea against 500 , - 000,000 people in China , or Norway and Turkey against 50,000,000 " on the other side " ' The United States has always championed the small nations ' right to survival and to self-defense . Will peace be assured by now proclaiming that " big fishes eat little fishes by supreme natural right " ? FRED @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , 1956.                     