@@716379

txt With a month , more or less , to go , Congress still has time to complete a modest legislative record despite all the delays and digressions that this session has produced . The regular appropriation bills were out of the way by the beginning of the new fiscal year , which , in view of the history of the last few Congresses , is itself no mean achievement . Now the remaining weeks of the session afford an opportunity for this Eighty-third Congress to end its labors with a sense of accomplishment if not in a blaze of glory . The record of the present Congress is the record on which the Eisenhower Administration has said the Republicans must stand or fall in the November elections . That record must be judged against the program of the Administration , and viewed in this light it is a mixed record thus far . The President has obtained and is likely to obtain a good deal less than lie asked for , which is certainly no novel experience for Presidents ; but he has also obtained or seems @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a few weeks ago . Still , with more adept and more aggressive leadership on his own part and that of his party leaders he would probably have come much closer to the bullseye than is now possible . The principal items of the President 's program that have actually become law are the St. Lawrence Seaway , the Korean defense pact , federal aid to highways , continuation of certain excise taxes ( though modified by an unwanted reduction in others ) and extension of the Reciprocal Trade Agreements Act ( though in much simpler and more abbreviated form than originally proposed ? but not fought for ? by the Administration ) . The principal items that have been specifically rejected are revision of the Taft-Hartley Act and a constitutional amendment to lower the voting age to 18 . The record of this Congress will be written even more clearly in the legislation that is now nearing its final form . This includes the highly controversial bills on tax revision , housing and farm policy . The first of these is now in conference , with a major Administration provision @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dispute . The housing bill was sent to conference almost three weeks ago , where it still rests with the Administration proposal for 35,000 new public housing units a yiar hanging in the balance against the House preference for none at all . In the debate over the crucially imZ , portant farm issue in the House the Administration again felt it necessary to compromise , but it did manage to retain the principle of flexible *port prices . It remains to be seen what the outcome will be in the Senate . Two other important issues are also nearing completion but are not likely to run into much controversy now . They are extension of Social Security coverage , which has already sailed through the House ( with only two Republicans opposed  --  shades of the Thirties ! ) and the foreign-aid bill , which has also passed the House by a heavy majority . Despite the recent threats of the so-called majority leader , it is difficult to believe that the Senate would now cripple the foreign-aid bill with restrictive amendments designed to tie the hands of the President @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that ought to be en- acted at this session , Hawaiian and Alaskan statehood is the outstanding example . Revision of the Atomic Energy Act is desirable , but it is doubtful that the proposed relaxation of regulations for exchange of atomic information will be approved . The effort to smooth the way toward private commercial development of atomic power has a better chance . Various anti-subversive bills are under consideration , including some of extremely doubtful value . It is important that each of these bills be given careful study and that none of them be rushed through in the closing days of the session without adequate consideration or without debate . It simply will not do for Congress blindly to pass any legislation so long as it is labeled " anti-Communist " ; and the action of the House in insisting  --  over the Attorney General 's protest ? on judicial safeguards for the wire-tapping bill it passed in April is a hopeful omen that Congress will not be stampeded out of a careful consideration of civil rights . And as long as the session lasts there will be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ adopt general and uniform rules of procedure for the conduct of its own committees . If the session that is now drawing to an end has proved nothing else , it has demonstrated that each house of Congress has a responsibility for its committees , a responsibility that can be neither hidden nor evaded in the coming elections .                     