@@715678

txt The Soviet Union has announced that it has exploded a test hydrogen bomb of " great strength . " It coupled this claim with a new call for international acceptance of a Soviet disarmament plan including a ban on atomic weapons . As reported in the Communist Party newspaper Pravda and broadcast by the Moscow Radio Aug. 20 to the Soviet people , the announcement said : " Recently in the Soviet Union , the explosion of a type of hydrogen bomb was carried out with experimental aim . As a result . of the possession of the mighty power of thermonuclear fission in the hydrogen bomb , the explosion was of great strength . ? " The test showed the power of the hydrogen bomb is many times greater than the power of atomic bombs : ' The communiqu ? declared Soviet possession of the H-bomb offered no cause for alarm among peoples of other countries . It said the Soviet Government still favored international disarmament and a ban on weapons of mass destruction . Recalling that Prime Minister Georgi M. Malenkov told the Supreme Soviet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ monopoly on the hydrogen bomb , the statement charged that Mr. Malenkov 's remarks had been used abroad " to cause alarm , using it with the aim of intensifying the armaments drive . " " The Soviet Government considers it necessary to declare there is not , and was not , any foundation for alarm , " the communiqu ? continued . The Soviet disarmament plan to which the communiqu ? referred proposed a one-third reduction in conventional arms by the Big Five  --  the United States , Britain , France , the Soviet Union , and China  --  as well as an outright and immediate ban on atomic and bacteriological weapons . The West repeatedly has rejected the Soviet plan on the grounds that it would permit international inspectors to check on Soviet atomic production only when and where the Kremlin decreed . The Soviets in turn have consistently rejected a western Plan for arms reduction  --  approved by an overwhelming majority of the United Nations  --  calling for step-by-step inspection and counting of arms throughout the world and ironclad controls over atomic-energy production with the aim of eventual @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Aug. 8 announcement , western atomic experts generally conceded that the Soviets probably knew the principles of construction of a hydrogen bomb but doubted that they were nearly so far advanced in the field as the United States .                     