@@716234

txt Britain has rejected , as premature and hasty , a United States proposal for immediate talks in Washington by representatives of ten nations for an Asian collective security organization . Reporting this tonight , a qualified diplomatic source said , however , that Britain was willing to assign experts to consider with the United States representatives practical plans for containing Communist aggression within Indo-China if the present peace efforts here failed . The British viewpoint was said to differ from that of the United States on several salient points . Britain disapproves of a United States plan to gather in Washington delegates of five Western and five Asian countries to begin immediate preparations for an Asian security pact . United States officials have proposed that the United States , Britain , France , Australia and New Zealand start talks at once with Thailand , the Philippines and the Associated States of Indo-China ? Laos , Cambodia and Vietnam . The British regard the security of Southeast Asia as both a short-term and a long-term challenge . They do not see the loss of Indo-China as necessarily leading @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Indo-China 's defense as a short-term problem . In their eyes , the long-term problem can be solved only if the Asian countries themselves enter willingly into the proposed collective security pact . Britain is negotiating quietly with several Asian countries to ascertain their , willingness to participate in such ' a future security arrangement . From preliminary replies received there the British are now sure that the Asian states  --  most of which are deeply influenced by the " neutralism " advocated by , Jawaharlal Nehru , Indian Prime Minister , and hostility to the French-led war in Indo-China ? can be induced only gradually to join the West in an anti-Communist pact and will not be " rushed : " British Oppose " Crash " Action The British delegation here is understood to have made it clear to the United States that Britain will not enter into any " crash " program of military intervention in Indo-China that has not been carefully thought out and planned with other states vitally interested in Southeast Asia . Britain feels that this is no time to make politico-military gestures threatening Communist China @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is Off to a good start . ' However , if in due course the Geneva Conference bogs down over Communist intransigence , then Britain will be fully prepared to join with the United States in so far as her military resources permit to create a practical collective sceurity pact for Southeast Asia . United States officials here do not share the British view on the timing of the proposed Asian pact . On the contrary , important United States officials want pressure applied on the Communist bloc here from the start of the conference . The smooth start to which the conference got off today and a quick four-power agreement on the rotation of conference chairmen has strengthened the British view that the Communists are amenable to negotiation and that they can be bargained with successfully ? but not threatened successfully . Here again United States officials tend to take a differing view . Some of the most experienced United States diplomats feel that the Soviet agreement on Thai , British and Russian chairmen to the exclusion of the Chinese Communists was a tribute to the Allies ' " firmness @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ side to view the British as over-cautious . The British are believed to have been discouraged by reports from Commonwealth capitals , notably Colombo , Ceylon , Karachi , Pakistan , and New Delhi , India , from the belief that any quick or effective alliance of Asian and European nations could be forged in time to help the French in Indo-China . Moreover , the British delegation , representing the Conservative Government , contends that a large part of British public opinion favors utmost patience in negotiating with the Communist world and actively fears a " tough " policy of building up an anti-Communist alliance in Southeast Asia at the start of the conference here . One British diplomat explained that the " Asian countries that felt resentment against Britain " at the end of World War II " on the old score of colonialism have now trarks ferred Some of this resentment against the United States . " " America 's military policies and the development of the atomic and hydrogen weapons have been used by Communist propaganda to hurt America 's standing in Asia , " he added @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ceylon and Pakistan , Britain has influence in Asia and can help to get this alliance created . But it can not be done quickly nor must it seem to be something that we are forcing onto the Asians . "                     