@@712704

txt In the long run . the hydrogen bomb probably makes it easier for Paul G , Hoffman to get the Marshall Plan money he seeks from Congress . With the appearance before joint congressional committees this week of the Economic Cooperation Administrator and other ECA chiefs asking for $3,100,000 , - 000 for the third year 's program , there starts the year 's biggest debate on American foreign policy . Before it is through , almost certainly the concealed difference between Secretary of State Dean Acheson on foreign policy and that of economy-minded congressmen will emerge into the open . It probably is the biggest " sleeper " in Washington today . It affects the pocketbook of every taxpayer . It affects Russia and the world generally . Congressmen face reelection and would like to cut taxes . They have built for themselves a complacent world in which they see the cost of defense dropping slowly under the integration of the armed services . Simultaneously , they see Marshall Plan funds tapering off . They are waiting for Mr. Hoffman to appear in order to accelerate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Spending Congress provided $3,778,000 , - 000 in Marshall Plan funds for the year ending next June 30 . Mr. Hoffman will ask for $3,100,000 , - 000 for the 12-month period after that . But this rate of decline does not satisfy the aspirations of many congressmen . Prior to Mr. Hoffman 's appearance before Congress , a much more rapid cut , generally about $1,000,000,000 below the revised Hoffman figures , was proposed by the following Senators , among others : A. Willis Robertson ( D ) of Virginia , Kenneth ( D ) of Tennessee , chairman of the Senate Appropriations Committee , Burnet R. Maybank ( D ) of South Carolina , Pat McCarron ( D ) of Nevada , and Walter F. George ( D ) of Georgia . This is a formidable list . It includes earnest and sincere men . Behind them is a national mood to cut expenses , reduce taxes , and balance the budget . There seems , superficially , to be no place at which money could be saved more readily , and with less domestic political reaction , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ defense . National defense , incidentally , has been trimmed already to $13,500,000 , - 000 and Defense Secretary Louis A. Johnson is doing the best he can to try to convince the country that it is just as safe under the smaller as under the larger amount . Theories Due to . Collide This theory of a shrinking budget is coming into head-on collisiOn , it seems here , with the theories implicit in Mr. Acheson 's latest statement on America 's program toward Russia . Mr. Acheson sees a long , arduous test stretching ahead against an adversary using every totalitarian device to improve its position . Russia has won two victories , the capture of China and the achievement of the atomic bomb . From the American view , the world situation has deteriorated . How the United States can carry on the big struggle and reduce its defense expenditures at the same time at home and abroad is the question that sooner or later , it appears , must be faced . In the belief of many observers , the Marshall Plan program has been the single @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ defeat of the Corn munists ' efforts to take democratic countries into their camp . The program is supposed to end in 1952 , with the sums tapering off from year to year , until then . British Foreign Secretary Ernest Bevin has told an election audience that discussions already are under way to avert a possible economic crisis in Britain after the final payment is , made . Under the drive now opening in Congress to cut Marshall Plan funds more rapidly than under the original plan , the whole business of ending ECA would be accelerated . Cheaper Way Sought The congressional debate is expected to go on for months . Before it is through , Congress and the nation almost certainly will have had a grim look at the inter-. national prospect . The ultimate decision on Marshall Plan funds will depend on this appraisal . On the economic side , some leaders of Congress still are searching energetically for a cheap way to meet the Russian challenge . Coupled with this approach , however , there is another now beginning to appear in legislative debate , a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ All these diverse and conflicting matters are coming to a head in the Marshall Plan debate . Re lotions with the British Government are deeply involved . Britain still is regarded as the key to European recovery , Mr. Acheson will appear with Mr. Hoffman at an initial joint session of Senate and House committees on foreign policy . After that the two committees will hold separate hearings . They will last for weeks . Shortly thereafter , the appropriation committees of the two houses will start simultaneous hearings . Top ECA men from all over Europe have assembled here to testify .                     