@@715097

txt About a year ago , when the excitement over the European dollar shortage was at its - height , a group of British businessmen and officials ' came over here to survey the American market and find out what we wanted to buy . The idea was that they would go back home and start making whatever it was , so that Britain could boost its exports and earn mare dollars . Well , the mission came , saw and went home , and so far as we know was never heard from thereafter . At any rate , no great new industry was created just to export things to the Americans that were n't being made in Britain before . Since then , however , a number of items of British manufacture have measurably increased in sales to this country , some of them spectacularly . And the more successful sales items have turned out to be things that Britain has long made , and made well because they are things the British themselves like to buy and which have a good market at home . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ our London bureau reported that 1931 shipments of British bikes to this country were 119,000. almost double the previous record in 1950 , and that this year 's shipments have increased another 30 per cent . Last year the British , got some S80 million from sales of bikes and spare parts to Americans . The explanation is that the British make a good bicycle of light weight at a price that is light on the pocketbook even after paying a U. SI tariff . And the explanation for this , of course , is that the British have long bad a good home market for bicycles . This means that they have plenty of experience turning out bicycles that people like and in producing them in large enough quantities tp permit economic production . Bicycle manufacture has become a good export industry precisely because it is a good home industry . There is an old lesson , we think , in these new statistics . There is a tendency when the global planners sit down to patch up world trade for them to think that just because one country needs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ up in some other country . The difficulty is that except for raw materials it is hard for any industry to be healthy if it is not a home industry . Export sales can be a vital part of any industry ; they can amount to the difference between profit and loss ; they can provide vital foreign exchange . But general export sales are the froth , the little bit extra . The solid foundation that provides experience , efficiency and stability is the domestic market . Here is a reminder that if we are going to have " trade . not aid " the way to go about it is not to try to " creete " export industries out of the blue but to remove the barriers so that each country can make and sell more of what it does beat .                     