@@714462

txt Before one of the greatest gatherings , of kings and queens ; princes and potentates , . world statesmen . and notables ever assembled , the final service for King Geeorge VI was held here in St. George 's Chapel Feb. 15 . The service Was conducted , by the Archbishon of Canterbury with inspiring grandeur in the chapel that is one of mankind 's most precious architectural treas-. ures . Assisting the Primate- of all England were the Archbishop . of York , other bishops , deans , and Protestant canons , moderators of the Church of Scotland and of the Free Church Federal Councils .. Crown Flashes in Sun Before the service , during a procession through Windsor 's ancient streets the sun shone on the brilliant pageantry and on the royal crown and regalia on top of the bier so that their fire and gleam flashed out against the gray walls of Windsor Castle . In slow march time the procession wheeled into the long straight drive on the final stage of the journey up to the castle entrance . The Sevastopol bell ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ round Norman tower on Windsor Castle ? rang out over the town . The massed bagpipes of 82 Highland pipers played a lament ? sad , solemn , slow and yet somehow fierce and fine . The Archbishop of Canterbury waited at the chapel doors , flanked by richly dressed heralds and by members of the armed forces . Completed in 1537 This royal chapel , completed in 1537 , itself is a paean in stone to historic glories of English tradition . And , with the singing of the hymn " The Strife Is O'er , the Battle Done , " it seemed that the lacelike quality of the chapel stone blended with the burst of organ music and . choir into an unforgettable ethereal upsurge . There are few places , even in historical England , where history is packed more tightly than in Royal Windsor , country town of some 25,000 inhabitants beside the River Thames . Towering above the narrow streets is Windsor Castle , the only royal residence in constant occupation since the Norman conquest nearly 900 ' years ago . On low-lying ground nearby are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ kings have learned to hit the cricket ball in the middle of their bats and thus , as the Duke of Wellington would have said , fit themselves to win more battles like Waterloo . Crowd Near 100,000 In the vaults below the chapel are interred such memorable sovereigns as Henry VIII ; Charles I ; George III , from whose reign the American colonies revolted , thus founding the United States ; Queen Victoria ; Edward VII ; and George V. It was into this scene that the funeral procession of George ? VI came to . its final stage after a railroad journey from London just over 20 miles away . Through more ' thick crowds , numbering perhaps a hundred thousand , the procession reformed for its 1 V , - mile passage from the railway station to the chapel . The kings and princes and notables trod more heavily now after their long journey from Westminster Hall . Two-Minute Silence But fresh bands played them up the hill to the chapel , where Prime Minister . Winston Churchill and Opposition Leader Clement R. Attlee and other political leaders @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and television programs went off the air and wherever possible the wheels of the nation were halted in a two-minute silence in tribute to the late King . On another front , the immediate future jostled the past as United States Secretary of State Dean Acheson , in London both for the King 's funeral and for talks about - the North Atlantic Treaty Organization meeting in Lisbon , met with British Foreign Secretary Anthony Eden . While these inevitable discussions of pressing international affairs went on in the background , the British people evidently were surprising even themselves at the depth of their feeling for British institutions . It is explained here as a loyalty compounded of age-old practical wisdom , warmed by genuine affection for those who bear royal responsibilities . The British people also have unmistakably impressed the onlooking world , represented in London by kings , potentates , statesmen , and other distinguished visitors from about 75 nations . Millions Line Streets Britons estimated in the millions stood many rows deep along this capital 's streets on one of the winter 's coldest mornings while the procession @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hall to Paddington Station , There the royal coffin was put aboard a train for Windsor , where committal services took place later in the day in St. George 's chapel . The onlookers included Queen Mary , who viewed the procession from a balcony window in Marlborough ' House , They watched from windows , walls , rooftops , wherever they could find a vantage point to view the procession . They came from every section of the British social register " Burke 's Peerage , " " Kelly 's Handbook of Landed and Titled Gentry , " the British " Who 's Who , " the telephone book , the labor-exchange lists . Watch and Wait Many of these same people had stood through a raw , wet , snowy night waiting for the procession to begin . Thousands of others had spent days or nights in queues along the wintry Thames waiting to pass through Westminster Hall at the lying in state of the late King . Still they all waited and watched as if determined to offer that " last full measure of devotion , " which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Abraham Lincoln , was being quoted by Britons in their tributes to duty and freedom over the BBC while the late King lay in state . Relatively few of ' these watchers , spending long vigils in sharp physical discomfort , can be classed ? as merely sight-seers , the curious or the morbid , it is said here . Now the millions of those who came to see and those who watched by television or heard by radio the Feb. 15 ceremonies for King George VI are home with their thoughts . Many of them must be inspired by the vitality and depth of British loyalty to institutions which continue to serve a living tradition of freedom . The day 's ceremonies were a fabulous pageantry , a ritual which appears to be a concession to this world 's chance and change but is more fundamentally an affirmation that human experience can and does transcend them , First , in New Palace Yard at Westminster , which dates back to the 11th century , detachments of the Coldstream Guards , Royal Marines , and Royal Air Force assembled . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ royal coffin from the velvet-covered catafalque in Westminster Hall and placed it upon a green gun carriage with the crown , the regalia of the scepter and orb and other jeweled symbols , and the insignia of the Order of the Garter laid upon it . From Westminster Hall in Parliament Square , where Big Ben tolled one stroke each minute , while a 56-gun salute boomed , also at minute intervals , the latter half of the procession moved to join the rest of the route of march . Royalty Dots Procession Units whose names ring through British history and home life , preceded representative officers of foreign navies , armies , and air forces , and the military and naval dignitaries of the commonwealth and Britain . Immediately behind the gun carriage , a warrant officer of the Household Cavalry bore the sovereign 's standard before the carriage in which sat Her Majesty Queen Elizabeth II , Queen Mother Elizabeth , and Their Royal Highnesses Princess Margaret and the Princess Royal . Abreast behind the royal carriage marched four dukes . There were the Duke of Kent and beside @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ abdicated the Throne in 1936 . He came from the United States for his brother George 's funeral . The Duke of Gloucester and Philip , the Duke of Edinburgh , the young Queen 's consort , completed the rank . Five sovereigns and three presidents took part in the cortege : the Kings of Norway , Denmark , Greece , and Sweden , and the Shah of Iran . The Presidents of France , Yugoslavia , and Turkey also participated , and Queen Juliana of the Netherlands . There were the Crown Princes ; the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan , Norway , and Ethiopia . Princes , high commissioners of the commonwealth , and representatives of foreign governments followed . Mr. Acheson , representing the United States , marched among the heads of foreign delegations . The Soviet Union was represented in the procession by its Ambassador to London , Georgi N. Zaroubin . As their steps rang on the London streets , history woke the echoes of history .                     