@@718598

txt drawal  --  but that would also give assurances that the Gulf of Aqaba would be opened to Israel shipping , " Senator Know-land reported . If administration policy on Israel holds to its present ' course , President Eisenhower is expected to say something to this effect  --  to his radio-television au-dience : That American and United Nations policy is going through what may prove to be a very significant stage in the development of an international order . That it is hoped , as Secretary Dulles told his press conference recently , that the world can get through this present crisis by ( a ) liquidating Israel 's armed attack , and ( b ) following up with a vigilant effort , by the United Nations and its members , to proclaim such essential international rights as that of " innocent passage " for all ships in the Gulf of Aqaba . That the United States , acting in concert with other maritime powers , hopes to " impress " upon the Gulf of Aqaba an " international character " which would open it to all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Israel must pull its troops out of the Gaza Strip and the Gulf of Aqaba . This action , besides setting in motion the American plan for Aqaba , also would induce Egypt to permit the clearance steps to be taken toward opening the Suez Canal . Suez Complexities If the President hews to this line , he will seek to increase the pressure of national and world opinion on Israel . Opinion within the administration believes that Israel will comply with the United Nations three-lives to withdraw , when and if it is convinced that continued intransigeance will not aid its position in world eyes . The Israelis , in turn , may be ready to comply when they are convinced that a sufficient international hullabaloo has been made over the Gulf of Aqaba so that Egypt will not dare attempt again to block that gulf . Of course , in view of the recent Israeli military successes over the Egyptian Army , Israel is not in any real apprehension that any new Egyptian gun emplacements blocking Aqaba would long remain in position . Prior to the President 's talk @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ complexities : ' 1 . Congress Democrats and many Republicans , while supporting the Eisenhower Doctrine for the Middle East , were strongly opposed to any thought of . applying sanctions against Israel . The Senate Democratic Policy Committee voted unanimously against imposition of sanctions . Simultaneously , however , the Democratic opposition had not crystallized its thinking behind other plans to ease the Suez tensions . Protest to Syria 2 . Israel appeared to be hoping that , if it held out long enough , world attention would shift to Egypt and denounce the latest Egyptian stalling on Suez Canal clearance . 3 . There were indeed definite signs that Egypt intended to block removal of the last sunken ships from the Suez Canal until Israeli troops quit the Gaza Strip and the Gulf of Aqaba . Mr. Dulles told his most recent press conference that Washington would " deplore " such tactics . But it did not appear that President Nasser , still supported by Moscow , would be moved by these " deplorings. ' 4 . The State Department also has expressed to Syria American displeasure at possible @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Syria . 5 . Oil companies , as well as governments , were studying various projects to bypass the Suez Canal , including pipelines to carry oil from Persian Gulf fields to the Mediterranean through friendly Turkey . American officials seem to believe that the threat of bypassing Suez , plus a degree of economic pressure from the West , will induce Egypt 's Colonel Nasser to " behave , " As for Israel , the expectation is it will succumb to the right combination of " carrot and stick " diplomacy  --  the carrot of assurances regarding Gaza and Aqaba and the stick of threatened sanctions . - In ' unpin Passage ' Some clays ago Mr. Dulles took the lead in seeking to break the Egypt-Israel stalemate by proposing that the principle of " innocent passage " ? meaning harmless use  --  be established in the Straits of Tiran and Gulf of Aqaba to protect the ships of all nations passing through to Israel 's port of Elath . Israel so far has not accepted this formula as being sufficiently ironclad to assure free navigation there . Moreover , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Israelis renewed hope that they could hold out for stronger United States or United Nations guarantees .                     