@@712735

txt Sen. McCarthy blasts senate Red probers as tools of state department . Details on page it . Washington , March 9 ( /p ) ? State Secretary Acheson tonight called on American men and women to join with their government in what he called a concerted , everybody-in tussle to defeat Russia 's plans for " world domination . " He called it " total diplomacy . " Athrson Acheson said the free world is engaged in a struggle fully as decisive for mankind as the successful fight against nazism . But ? he said : " We clearly are not focusing our total resources on the winning of that struggle . " He said total diplomacy means that all branches of the United States government must work together ? he included congress along with the executive departments -- -and that other institutions of American life such as business , agriculture , labor , press , and radio " must agree voluntarily " to direct their efforts to the single purpose of the struggle . Gives Views in Speech Acheson 's views were set forth in a heretofore secret @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an effort to clarify the kind of foreign policy line which he presently is following . This policy holds that a Truman-Stalin talk , for example , would not solve any cold war issues at present and that those issues can only be solved after expanding Russian power has been matched and canceled by American and allied western power in critical areas of the world . Acheson 's speech was delivered at a meeting of the Advertising Council , a private organization of leaders in advertising who frequently help the government on public causes . The meeting was held at the White House Feb. 16 . Acheson used the occasion to speak off the record to a small group and develop some of his ideas about what the United States would have to do to win the cold war . For the first time he centered his strategy on the idea of " total diplomacy . " Speech Reeonstructed The speech was not recorded , but one of Acheson 's aids , Francis Russell , state department public affairs director , reccnstructed it , and the written version was approved by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ heard the speech spread word of it in congress and elsewhere and the state department finally decided to make it . public tonight . in the speech Acheson ruled out the idea of a preventive war to solve the Russian problem . He said : " /r showdown in the brutal and realistic sense of resort to a military decision is not a possible policy for a democracy . The Kremlin knows that . " " We are struggling against an adversary that is deadly serious , " he said . " We are in a situation where we are playing for keeps . Moreover , we are in a situation where we could lose without ever firing a shot . " Cites China 's Fall to Reds Acheson told how the Communists took over - in China , making use of " force , threats , infiltration , planned chaos , despair , and confusion , aril the enslavement of the people they dominate by shrewd use of informers . " Ile said that to meet the soviet threat this country must have a foreign policy with " two interrelated branches @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ meet wherever possible all Itrusts of the soviet union , " he said . Ile cited American aid to ; recce and Turkey as MI example . The second part " must be to create those economic , political , social , and psychological conditions that strengthen and create confidence in the democratic way of life , " The European recovery program Is an example of this , the secretary said . Urges Greater Imports Rut this is n't enough , he said . Other countries must he able to sell their products to buy the things they need to feed , clothe , and employ their people ,  --  and this means a greater volume of American imports from abroad , Ile added : " We must take that kind of action even tho it requires adjustments here at home  --  and it will require some adjustments . " Ile emphasized that the United States and its citizens must exercise " self discipline in what we say and what we do " and seek some workable unity with the other democratic nations . Ile said , that will lay the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have eliminated all the areas of weakness that we can . " flits Russ ENFloltalion Acheson said " No good would come from our taking the initiative in calling for conversations at this point . " Ile declared that would raise false hopes , that the Russians would use the occasion to try to force " dangerous concessions . " In the end " only the Russians would benefit , " he said . The secretary said the United Stales is willing to discuss and in fact has discussed all important out st a tiding issues with Russia many limes . But , he declared : " It is clear that the Russians do not . want to settle those issues as long as they feel there is any possibility they can exploit them for their own objectives of world dominat ion . "                     