@@717743

txt Letters to The Times WILLIAM B. NICHOLS , DELFIN ENRIQUE PAEZ.HERBERT BAYARD SWOPE , pg . 25 Letters to The Times To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : The Public Education Association believes that the school building crisis across the nation demanas prompt , affirmative action by the Eighty-fourth Congress . By the most conservative estimates an expenditure of a billion dollars a year for the next five years , over and above the recordbreaking capital outlays which currently are being made by the states and school districts , would be required to raise the school plant to minimum safety , health and educa7 tional standards . These estimates have been confirmed by the studies of the various state agencies , the National Education Association , the United States Office of Education , and by the overwhelming sentiment in favor of Federal aid for school buildings at the recent state and national White House Conferences on Education . School Construction The Public Education Association approves an emergency grant of Federal aid for school construction , such as that provided in Title I of the Kelley @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ apportion the funds according to the distribution of total school-age population per state is , zatisfactory , the amount of the grant probably should be double the proposed $400,000,000 a year for four years . The - Administration 's proposed grant , $250,000,000 per year for five years , hot only is smaller than the inadequate Kelley bill , providing a total of $1,250,000,000 as compared with $1,600,000,000 , but also would make funds available much more slowly . The Kelley bill would distribute virtually as much in three years as the Administration bill would in five . The Administration bill would equalize the cost of its limited program , but its tax-sharing feature for the wealthier states is extremely limited . The Public Education Association completely agrees with the United States Supreme Court 's historic decision of May 17 , 1954 , outlawing racial segregation in the schools . We believe that ultimately the best way to eliminate segregation and discrimination is to improve the quality of education for all American children . We believe that the power of the Federal Government will continue to contribute most effectively to the solution @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if this should be slow , we do not believe that implementation of the decision should be attempted , as has been suggested ; by imposing conditions on Federal aid . Forcing the public schools to serve as the battle ground for controversial social issues can not resolve the issues , but it can destroy the schools . Amendment Opposed We believe that the Federal aid bill should attempt to deal only with the single problem of establishing a more adequate level of support for public schools . We are opposed to the " anti-segregation " amendment withholding Federal aid from school districts which have not ended segregation . In our view it will be most unfortunate if , in the effort ' to win support for school construction , Congress loses sight of the need for Federal aid for general operating expenses of the schools . Approval of the Kelley bill ( or some other measure for school buildings ) alone will be insufficient help for many states to bring their schools up to acceptable standards . The argument that New York 's fiscal interest is against nation-wide Federal aid @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in New York have come from outside the state . For this and other reasons we have a direct interest in the adequacy of education throughout the nation . For one example , the inability of a relatively greater number of draftees to serve in the armed forces in other states is of great importance to New ' York citizens and taxpayers . We believe that the distribution of Federal funds should be governed by the following considerations : The Federal Congress should guarantee a foundation program or minimum annual expenditure per pupil , sufficient to provide an adequate educational program in the public schools of every state . Congress should establish a method for determining the relative ability of the states to support public schools . The Federal Government should finance a proportionately larger share of the cost of the foundation program in states which have less than average taxpaying ability per public school pupil . Broadening of Tax Base All states should participate in the distribution of Federal aid for schools . With no prospect in sight of any considerable reduction in Federal tax rates , business and industry @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ community or state in which a school board or legislature may propose a significant increase in school taxes . For the foreseeable future it will be politically impossible even for many of the abler communities and states to provide good schools for all their children . Also , the fear ( which we do not share ) of Federal control should be greatly lessened if all of the states participate in the distribution . Federal funds should be distributed on the basis of an objective formula , under the direction of the United States Office of Education . The Federal Government should not exercise any direction , supervision or control over the personnel , organization . administration , curriculum or program of instruction in any school or school system . In each state Federal funds should be available for disbursement by the state educational authority , either directly or through payments to local public school jurisdictions for any current expenditure for elementary or secondary school purposes for which educational revenues derived from state or local sources may legally and constitutionally be expended in such state . We urge immediate adoption of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this will speedily be followed by the establishment of general Federal aid for public education . WILLIAM B. NICHOLS , President , Public Education Association . New York , March 2 , 1956 . News From Venezuela ? Question Raised as to Publication of Article on Riots To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : This letter is not written in the way of an explanation for an article which appeared in The Times of March 1 , in which you state that " scores of students have been killed or maimed by the police in Caracas , " and in which you further admit that the choice bits you published were supplied to you by a Venezuelan source in New York . For your information the item in question was reproduced by the Venezuelan press . It certainly was read with considerable amusement in Caracas , where our people showed more curiosity and interest in a certain " cause celebre " ? an actual issue  --  and the recent rioting in Daytona Beach . What moves me to write this letter is a very reasonable doubt as to whether @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on discrediting a foreign Government at any cost for personal reasons , or whether it is guilty of bias and prejudice in the case of the present Venezuelan Administration . So as not to lose my faith in the high standards ' of American journalism , I choose the former assumption . I also choose to ignore the fact that The Times omitted publishing the official reports transmitted by news agencies of the same date which gave the facts about the incident or that it did not bother to secure the true story front its own correspondent in Caracas : May I expect that you publish this letter with the same readiness you harbor unverified hearsay reports by third parties ? DELFIN ENRIQUE PAEZ . Consul General of Venezuela , New York , March 3 , 1956 . On Feb. 25 The Times did publish an Associated Press dispatch from Caracas giving the Government 's version of the student demonstrations . The story of March 1 to which Dr. Enrique Paez refers was derived from accounts of travelers arriving in New York from Caracas , since the dispatch filed by The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was suppressed by the Venezuelan censor . Further , both The Associated Press and The United Press say that no dispatches on the incident have been received here since Feb. 24 . ? Editor , The Times . For Sound Intergroup Relations To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Members of the Commission on Intergroup Relations have noted a number of posters in the subways and other points of vantage in connection with your " **40;228;TOOLONG " campaign . We should like to offer our commendation for your use of illustrations of individuals of various racial and ethnic groups represented in our city 's population . By so doing , you make positive contribution to sound intergroup relations as part of the day-by-day operation of your important newspaper . May we applaud you for your consistency in preserving the fine traditions of The New York Times in this field ? We offer the cooperation of our commission as we proceed with the formulation of our program and the organization of our staff . HERBERT BAYARD SWOPE , Chairman , Commission on Intergroup Relations . New York , March 7 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Aid to Deal With Crisis Projected                     