@@712699

txt During the last two decades , particularly in the last 10 years , capital observers have noted mounting political pressure on the government from religious groups of all denominations , The White House , members of congress and officials generally are complaining about the exertion of political pressure rather than moral suasion by such groups . These complaints do not constitute an attack on any one religion or on any organized church . There is growing belief that political activity by various cliques within churches may injure religious freedom , as guaranteed by the Constitution , by the tendency toward breaking down of separation of the church and state . Truman Expresses Annoyance Within the last few weeks President Truman grumbled to a Republican senator against Catholics and Jews . The chief executive is not against either of these religious groups , but was expressing his annoyance at the pressures these groups are exerting on him to enforce their political beliefs . Not long before , Mr. Truman , who is a Baptist , expressed impatience with Protestant groups exerting influence to get him to withdraw his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ representative resigned and Protestant groups are now applying pressure to prevent the appointment of a successor . Members of congress report that visits to their offices by various religious representatives have increased greatly in recent years . These visits are more concerned with politics and economics than religion . This religious intervention is regretted because the injection of religion frequently brings a vehemence into public questions over and above that of ordinary partisanship . Officials Are Disturbed From the White House to Capitol hill it is recognized that the United States government was founded by religious men . It is recognized t h at the founders wanted to protect and encourage religion . At the same time officials are disturbed by the growing desire of church groups to enforce doctrines by secular law , to press for economic measures and to demand political ends considered desirable to this or that sect Officials recognize that many churches and many ministers are not demanding political activity ; that much of the activity is concerned with cliques within various denominations . Washington officialdom is sensible to the tremendous influence wielded by churches and ministers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been invited to participate in Washington activity for political purposes . Warn of Trend in America It is recalled here that Clement Attlee , the British socialist prime minister , credited the building of much of his Labor party 's power to religious groups . He said : " The first place in the influences that built up the socialist movement in England must be given to religion . " Prominent American writers have warned of this trend in America . John T. Flynn , writing in his book , " The Road Ahead , " charged that a group of ministers and laymen have organized " to poison the minds of the Christian churches in America with the principles of radical socialism . " Stanley High , a Methodist minister 's son now a Presbyterian elder , writing in The Reader 's Digest , deplores the activities of the Methodist Federation for Social Action . " To discredit America at home and abroad , to condemn the American economic system as unchristian , to promote conclusions which give aid and comfort to the Communists are , undoubtedly , the right @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ promote them in the name of a great Protestant church is , I believe , to misrepresent it and to bring the ministry into disrepute. , " Predominantly the faith of Methodism and the faith of Protestanism are of an order far different from that and far more conducive to Christian progress . For those of that church to fail to reassert their faith against this growing , aggressive minority will be to fail both America and the church . " Pro-Communist Aims Revealed The Methodist Federation for Social Action is related to the Methodist church only by the fact that its members are , supposedly , members of the Methodist church . It is expected that an effort will be made before the next Methodist general conference to . get the federation to remove the word " Methodist " from its name , since to the uninformed this implies official relationship to the church . Little success is expected , however . The federation 's own " program of study and action , " as revised by the 1948 membership meeting , reveals its pro-Communist aims , which are embedded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " praises for trade unions , denunciations of " 1 a s c i s rn , " diatribes against the Taft-Hartley law , and espousals of civil liberties laws . The tip-off is in the preamble , which states flatly that the federation " rejects the method of the struggle for profit as the economic base for society , and seeks to replace it with social and economic planning .. . . " In plainer words , it rejects free enterprise and favors socialism . The federation 's manifesto lists Communists as a ipinority to be protected , to the extent of urging contributions for their legal defense . Three Most Active Groups The three most active groups politically represent each of the three main sects in the United States . There is the Federal Council of Churches of Christ in America , representating Protestants in general ; the National Catholic Welfare conference , active for Roman Catholics , and the AntiDefamation league , influential Jewish organization . The Federal Council of Churches of Christ in America numbers 25 Protestant denominations in America which claim 142,354 local congregations . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ actually by a committee of 80 . The chairman of the policy committee is Bishop G. Bromley Oxnam . " He has been president of the council and remains the most powerful voice in it , " Flynn writes . " He was bishop of the Methodist church in Omaha and Boston end finally in New York . He has been accused of being a Communist and fellow traveler . " Small Group Breaks Away Some years ago a small group of clergymen broke away from the federal council , denouncing its methods , to form the American Council of Christian Churches . This group now represents 15 Protestant denominations representing 3,000 congregations . Its president is ' Dr. W. O. H. Garman of Wilkinsburg , Pa . The federal council initiated a move to unite a large group of churches in Europe , Asia , and Africa to exert the influence on the world stage which the council exerts here . The organization came into being in Amsterdam in 1948 and Bishop Oxnam was named one of its presidents . Opposition broke out against this group and the International Council @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ countries . The Rev. Carl of Collingswood , N. J. , was named president . Exert Political Pressure These organizations are exerting pressures of various kinds on political groups . In addition , the Methodists have two powerful groups of their own exerting influence , which sometimes parallels and sometimes opposes programs of the council . These are the Methodist Federation for Social Action and the Methodist Board of Temperance and Public Morals . The latter group exerted tremendous pressure during the prohibition era when it attempted to impose its code ' of morals or . all Americans . The ' organization is now working for a return to prohibition . Many Protestants were out of sympathy with the activity of the temperance board and the AntiSaloon league . Some Catholics and Jews did not consider drinking or gambling reprehensible , but had their own codes which they sought to impose . Fights for Divorce Bans The Catholic church has fought for secular laws to uphold its ban against divorce . In some states , as in New York , the church has successfully fought off attempts to liberalize divorce @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is one of the main legal objectives of the Catholic church in New York . The National Catholic Welfare conference is largely known as a news service for Catholic newspapers . It has become more than that in recent years , and the news service has become a small part of the work of the agency . Many Catholics do not approve of the conference 's political activities . In recent years the organization has swung to the left on welfare , unionism , and similar problems . A recent statement prepared late last year for issue by the Catholic hierarchy of America sounded a program approximating that of the New Deal and Fair Deal , Defend Political Aims Priests and others associated with the organization have fought against attacks on their political idols or on the trend to socialism . Catholics have complained that the organization is more interested in worldly than spiritual problems . Recognition of Spain is at present one of the main political aims of Catholics . It was activity to this end which moved the President to annoyance . The church is also waging a war @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , church leaders hold . Spain is strongly anti-Communist as well as strongly Catholic . Protestant opposition to the Catholic drive for recognition of Spain came chiefly from a Baptist minister and missionary in Spain who was formerly a U. N. R. R. A. worker . He blasted the Spanish regime of Gen. Franco for alleged persecution of Protestants . One of his complaints was that 11 Protestant churches had not been allowed to reopen . There are only about 25,000 Protestants in Spain . Shift Toward Catholic View When Catholic pressure for recognition flooded the White House , State Secretary Acheson reportedly sought to offset it by confidential anti-Catholic reports from the Baptist minister . Acheson is aware that Mr. Truman is a strong Baptist . In recent weeks the state department fias been shifting toward the Catholic view on Spain . The Anti-Defamation league was founded by the B'nai B'rith , Jewish fraternal organization , to conduct an education campaign against anti-Semitism . Its early work was concerned with persuading Jewish comedians to drop interest and arson jokes , reflecting upon the Jewish race , from their repertoires . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its scope . Its annual budget now runs into millions of dollars . The campaign to end anti-Semitism by education developed into a campaign to end anti-Semitism thru legislation . Israel Drive Chief One The chief Jewish activity in recent years has been the finally successful drive for recognition of Israel . This was carried on by Zionist groups , with anti-Zionists , who were in the minority but no less vocal , in opposition . The rt-. - ognition group exerted tremendous pressure on the White House , congress , and the United Nations in one of the major religious drives of the time . Another activity of Jewish organizations was the harsh peace toward Germany . The plan was drafted by former Treasury Secretary Henry Morgenthau Jr. , a Zionist , and his onetime assistant , Harry Dexter White , also a Zion1st , who met a mysterious death from an overdose of digitalis after he was named as a Communist spy-courier in the Alger Hiss case . Often the three main religious groups work together for some program , such as promotion of religious tolerance . Frequently two @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their interests conflict and the groups are embattled largely behind the scenes . Work Together on Di 's On displaced persons legislation , Jews , and Catholics worked together . Statistics reveal that of the refugees entering the United States 50 per cent are Catholic , 27 per cent Jewish , and 23 per cent Protestant . Altho the United States is about 85 per cent Protestant , Protestants have not called thru their organizations for increasing the number of Protestant refugees or cutting down on the flow of Catholics or Jews . Catholics and Protestants have been embattled over the Vatican representation . President Roosevelt . established a Vatican mission in 1939 with Myron C. Taylor as his personal representative . Taylor was sent to Rome as a payment to the late Cardinal ) Mundelein of Chicago for political services rendered President Roosevelt . Mundelein was a stanch Roosevelt supporter up to and including the third term . Kept Envoy Despite Protests Mr. Truman continued Taylor at the Vatican altho many Protestants objected that any kind of representation to the pope of Rome constituted violation of the American principle of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are objecting . No successor has been named to Taylor , who recently resigned . Observers are speculating whether Catholics or Protestants will win out on the question of representation . Various religions have banded into groups men of common backgrounds or interests . There are groups of Jewish , Catholic , and Protestant war veterans . There are groups of Catholic , Protestant , and Jewish lawyers . These groups , it is believed , have been promoted within the denominations to further political ends as well as moral suasion . Proprietary Regard for Office Members of congress and officials have noted an increasing tendency on the part of various religions to regard an office as belonging to a denomination rather than to an individual . When President Truman was ready to shuffle off Morgenthau , Jewish groups appealed to the President  --  not to keep Morgenthau but to give the post to a Jew . When Supreme Court Justice Murphy died , many Catholics assumed that his place would go to a Catholic . When two appointments of Protestants were made , there was muttering among Catholics . This @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Howard , Catholic senator from Rhode Island , attorney general . A Jewish Complaint Some Jews have complained that there is no Jew in the cabinet . Some ? Catholics and Protestants have complained that David K. Niles , White House executive assistant , exerts far more influence on appointments and legislation and other matters supported by Jewish organizations , than he should . Niles is a protege of Justice Felix Frankfurter , the only Jew on the Supreme court . Frankfurter is regarded as one of , the most powerful men in Washington . Episcopalians have come to regard the post of secretary of state as their own private property . The last four secretaries of state , the late Edward R. Stettinius , James F. Byrnes , George C. Marshall and Dean Acheson , have been of that faith . Episcopal Influence Strong The Episcopal church is regarded as yielding more influence , in proportion to its size , than perhaps any other , on foreign policy ' particularly . This church has succeeded in binding its adherents to the mother church , the Church of England , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the drive to get the United States into World War I and World War II on the side of England . Many of its ministers and laymen have worked to influence this country to support British policy . These men are now prominent in the proposed Atlantic pact union . Congressmen Are Disturbed Members of congress and officials are disturbed also over the rising tendency to level attacks on them as being anti-Catholic , antiJewish , or anti-Protestant if they take issue with a member of any of the three faiths or oppose anything sought by organizations representing the faiths . " It becomes increasingly disturbing to find oneself labeled anti-Catholic , if one attacks a man of that faith  --  not for his faith but because one objects to his conduct of office or his program , " a member of congress said . " I can not help but feel that all religions will suffer a great blow if we reduce everything to some religious origin . Certainly the greatest sufferer will be freedom of religion as we know and cherish it . "     @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @       