@@713318

txt France is going to be the next country to be pressed by Economic Cooperation Administration officials to make some of the economic and financial reforms pledged nearly three years ago . Greece , Italy , and Britain already have felt the pressure from ECA officials , who feel , for a variety of reasons , that the time is running out in which to get the reforms that accompanied the assurance of dollar aid from America . This is not to say that ECA has not in the last couple of years been prodding the Marshall Plan countries to make certain fiscal and economic reforms that all have recognized were necessary . But in the past this prodding has been muted and restrained . There always has been the danger that it could be enterpreted as pressure , as politics , and that it might contribute to the Communist propaganda that all along has claimed that Marshall Plan aid was designed to enslave Europe . Danger of Overthrow There also has been the danger in many of these countries of existing regimes being overthrown if they moved @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no way is committed to the political status quo in any country , it does have an interest in political stability throughout Europe , since stability is the best atmosphere in which to achieve economic recovery . This concern of ECA over reforms , in contrast to recovery , is not new . What is new is the determination of ECA officials really to begin collecting on some of these promises of reforms . Actually , ECA can not force these countries to do anything against their will . But it does have the power to cut dollar allocations and forbid the use of counterpart funds for particular purposes , and lately it has been using this power more and more . For example , in Greece it cut Athens ' current ECA allocation by $20,000,000 when it became clear the Greek Government was not going to do more than talk about specific reforms under discussion . Action in Britain ) " In the case of Britain , ECA is forbidding London to use some S860,000,000 in counterpart funds for retiring the public debt , believing that such a use would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ underwriting Britain 's extensive social services . In the case of Italy , ECA officials have taken just the opposite course , advocating an industrial production program to increase economic activity and employment . The recent criticism of Rome 's economic recovery program by ECA 's chief in Italy , Leon Dayton , expresses the concern of American officials over the slowness of the European countries to make the reforms all have agreed in principle are necessary . The criticism of the French is about the same as that against the Greeks and Italians  --  though possibly more so . Linked to Arms Plan This recent determination of the West , but particularly of the United States to rearm the Atlantic community is directly related to the present insistence by ECA on internal reforms in Marshall Plan countries . The outpouring of dollars for rearmament promises to close  --  at least artificially  --  the dollar gap that was the worry of economists and diplomats a year ago . The increased industrial ac-tivity that will go for arms production , and the increased American demand for raw materials , will go far @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Europe that was the goal of ECA . .. ECA is in the very difficult and delicate ? and dangerous ? maneuver oftrying to get the western European governments to do what they generally know they should do , but hesitate to do out of reluctance to upset any apple-carts.                     