@@713883

txt ACHESON APPEALS TO SOVIET GEORGIA Calls on Countrymen of Stalin to Share With U.S. a Future of Freedoms They Lack By WALTER H. WAGGONER Spectal to THE NEW YORK TIMM WASHINGTON , May 26 ? Secretary of State Dean Acheson called upon the people of Soviet Georgia today to share with the United States a future that promised the freedoms they did not have now . Appealing to them over the heads of the Soviet leaders , Mr. Acheson addressed the citizens of Premier Stalin 's home country in a Voice of America broadcast translated into the Georgian language . Whether the Secretary was encouraging the people of Georgia to rise appeared to be a debatable question . He did , however , assail the " Communist leaders " for " aggressive militaristic actions in the name of peace , " and he promised his listeners they would hear more about that in future broadcasts . " Their plots and threats are forcing free men to stand firmly against the further spread of despotism , " Mr. Acheson said of the Communists . " The ultimate goal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ world in which there is no strong and no weak , no masters and no slaves , but where all men can - live and work freely and happily without want or fear and with the right to worship God in their own way . " This is our vision of the future ; // we invite you to share it . " The Secretary noted that the people of Georgia had " often been conquered but never subdued . " " You have been able , through the ages . to preserve your national personality , and you have never lost the will to stand up for human rights . " he said . " We Americans admire you for this enduring spirit . " Responsible State Department officials disavowed any intention of trying to encourage , through the Secretary 's or similar broadcasts , a nationalist separatist movement by the several states of the Soviet Union . The objective is to tell the peoples of Russia , the Ukraine , the Baltic countries and the satellite states that there is a bond of ideals with the people of the United @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the recently enacted resolution expressing the friendship of this country for the people of the Soviet Union . it was pointed out . The United States pursues different policies of psychological warfare toward the Soviet Union itself and the satellite states , and that difference is reflected in the refusal of the United States Government to urge a nationalist separatist uprising among the states of the Soviet Union . or to appeal to the Russian people themselves to overthrow their Government . The fact of a cohesive Russian nationalism is given as the reason for avoiding any attempt to dictate to the Russian people about their Government or their national interests . Different In Miatellites The conditions in the satellite states , where the governments obviously are directed by Moscow in the interest of Moscow , encourage a different approach to the peoples of those countries , where an uprising plainly would be in their own interest . The State Department reported . meanwhile , that the Soviet Union 's official radio had stepped up its broadcasts , especially in the English language , in a new summer propaganda @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ year has averaged about 25 per cent , the department disclosed , and the English language programs beamed to North America have been doubled in the last six months . ' ' The Kremlin appears satisfied with its propaganda operations in the satellite countries , " the analysis continued , " for in those areas only the Hungarian language service is increased , and that to only a slight extent . " Germany has been another primary target for Soviet propaganda , and its importance in the strategy of Moscow is measured by the fact that German language broadcasts directed to Germany have doubled in recent months ; Iso , the State Department said . Spanish-language broadcasts to Latin America have been stepped up also . although the Portuguese service for Brazil remains unchanged . Other increases , according to the State Department , have been noted in the services in Indonesian Malay , which have been doubled in the last six months , and Slovene broadcasts to Yugoslavia , where a slight increase was reported . Only the broadcasts in Arabic have been increased in the Moscow radio 's Near @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Fore-coat An eventual political and social revolution in the Soviet . Union was forecast last night by Foy D. Kohler. director of the Voice of America . He declined to predict , however , when the upheaval might come . or what type of government might follow . Mr. Kohler , a career man of the State Department , spoke at the annual dinner of the students of the Russian Institute of Columbia University at the Men 's Faculty Club , 400 West 117th Street . Speaking of impressions he gathered while in Russia from 1947 through 1949 , he declared : " I believe the strongest conviction that has come out of this experience for me  --  and one I share with many colleagues  --  is the conviction that a Russian political and social revolution is absolutely inevitable . " I hasten to add that I should not like to predict whether that revolution will take place in five years , or in twenty-five years , or only after a hundred years . " " I would add also that the result of that revolution will not be the sudden @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ know , or of our free enterprise economic system . " The chief of the Voice of America held that the Soviet people were beginning to realize that they were being ruled " not by revolution but by reaction . " " In the long view , the clock of civilization can not be turned hack and held back successfully for any great length of time , " he said .                     