@@719798

txt Ground rules for pedestrians and motorists in the competition for the city 's streets were spelled out in detail yesterday by T. T. Wiley , Traffic Commissioner . The regulations center on the advice , " Cross at the green ? not in between . " This has been the theme of the seven-month campaign by the Mayor 's . Committee on Pedestrian Safety and other agencies . The regulations also reassert the walkers ' right of way over motor vehicles under certain conditions . The effective date for the new rules is June 23 , but an education and warning period will follow before the police begin issuing summonses to jaywalkers on Aug. 7 . Flat prohibitions are issued against crossing on the " Do n't Walk " signs at the 250 intersections where they are installed . Crossing %diagonally- at any intersection is also forbidden . Where traffic lights or pedestrian signals are in operation , pedestrians have the right of way when crossing with the lights . Vehicles must wait for ' pedestrians already in the roadway when the " Do n't Walk " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of way to pedestrians crossing on a green signal . Pedestrian crossing against traffic lights is not prohibited , but is discouraged in these words : " Any pedestrian facing such signal red light shall yield the right of way to all vehicles and shall not enter or cross the roadway unless he can do so safely and without interfering with any vehicular traffic . " At intersections where there ' are no lights , " the driver of a vehicle shall yield the right of , way " as long as the pedestrian is crossing in the crosswalk , . whether crosswalk lines are visible or not . Mid-block crossing  --  a direct . contradiction of the " cross at the green " idea ? is not flatly prohibited , but also is discouraged ' as follows : " Every pedestrian crossing a roadway other than within a marked or unmarked crosswalk shall yield the right of way to all vehicles upon the roadway . " Darting-Out Banned Darting into a road from " a curb or other place of safety " is forbidden to pedestrians , but another provision @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to avoid colliding with any pedestrian . " The regulations folloW closely the provisions of the Uniform Vehicle Code , suggested by the National Committee on Uniform Traffic Laws and Ordinances . The promulgation of the rules at this time prevents the city from having to apply a ? state law that becomes effective July 1 . This law is more restrictive  --  pedestrians are flat-I ly prohibited from crossing against yellow or red lights , for instanceand a fine of $50 may be imposed for violation . No penalties have yet been set for pedestrian violation of the city regulations . John M. Murtagh , Chief City Magistrate , said that he wanted to give " mature thought " to the matter . He said that he would announce " in two or three weeks " the penalties faced by violators of the rules . Jack Straus , chairman of the Mayor 's committee , hailed the new regulation . The law states that " it is now not only the pedestrian 's responsibility but his obligation to protect his o ? wi life and the lives of others . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Straus said . Commissioner Wiley asked for " voluntary compliance with the new regulations , which spell out common-sense rules of safe conduct intended to protect both motorists and pedestrians and reduce accidents . " He added that motorists now will have " clear-cut rules to be observed in relation to pedestrians . Failure to permit- pedestrians to cross safely when they are obeying the law can not be tolerated any longer . " So-called anti-jaywalk regulations are on the books in Washington , D.C. , Detroit , Chicago . Los Angeles , Denver , Baltimore . Richmond , Va .. Cincinnati , Cleveland and Dallas . Enforcement is spotty , ranging from very strict in Los Angeles to none in Chicago .                     