@@718376

txt Egypt has asked the United Nations to help clear the Suez Canal of sunken vessels and shattered bridges as soon as the British and French withdraw their forces . A United Nations spokesman , who announced Egypt 's request today , said Secretary General Dag Hammarskjold had told the Egyptians the world organization was " willing in principle to assume this task . " . The Egyptian request that British and French troops withdraw from Egypt before the canal is cleared met with resistance from the British Foreign Office . At Port Said , Egyptian forces opened fire on British and French positions for more than four hours tonight , The Associated Press said . In New York , Christian Pineau , French Foreign Minister , defended British-French aond Israeli moves in Egypt and said Soviet " volunteers " must not be allowed in the Mideast area . The announcement was made just before Mr. Hammarskjold departed from his talks in Cairo with President Gamal Abdel Nasser to return to United Nations headquarters in New York . On.his arrival in New York Monday morning , the announcement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prepare such assistance for Egypt . Egyptian Conditions Stated According to the announcement , Egypt asked that the United Nations ' assistance in clearing the canal begin " immediately on the re-establishment of normal conditions in Port Said and the Suez Canal zone now occupied in part by British and French forces , including the withdrawal of non-Egyptian forces on the basis of previous relevant decisions of the United Nations General Assembly . " Appajntly Mr. Hammarskjold has agreed to this condition . Presumably he will seek as quickly as possible General Assembly endorsement of the decision to put the restoration of traffic through the Suez Canal under United Nations auspices . The decision by Egypt to ask for United Nations assistance appeared to be a major diplomatic action on the part of the Nasser Government to try to solve one of the problems that was threatening to break down the United Nations efforts to get the British and French to withdraw their invading forces from the canal zone . The United Nations spokesman had come to Egypt on an urgent mission to put into fullscale operation the United Na- tions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of hostilities and the withdrawal of British , French and Israeli forces from Egyptian territory . The threat of a breakdown of the tenuous cease-fire came when the British and French announced two days ago they intended to start clearing . the 103-mile waterway themselves , not only at the Mediterranean end , now occupied by their forces , but- also from the southern terminus at the Red Sea port of Suez , which is in Egyptian hands . Such action would meet with bitter counter-action by the Egyptians that might mean the resumption of fighting and possibly the appearance of " volunteers " sent from the Communist bloc to aid Egypt . Reports from abroad indicated strongly that Mr. Hammarskjold had been positive in advance that he would get the General Assembly to approve United Nations accession to Egypt 's request . From New York came the report that the United Nations Secretariat already had begun negotiations with Danish and Dutch salvage companies to take over the job of clearing the canal of at least forty-seven sunken vessels and the tangled wreckage of two bridges . The vessels were sunk @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ten days of fighting that Brought British , French and Israeli forces into Egypt . It was reported that the British and French already had begun salvage operationg to clear the channels at the northern ? e117 trance of the canal at Port Said . The forces of the two allies have occupied Port Said and a stretch of about twenty miles of the northern end of the canal . Although neither Mr. Hammarskjold nor his spokesmen mentioned the results of the Secretary General 's primary mission of getting the United Nations police force into operation , there was every indication that no major difficulties had been encountered . Mr. Hammarskjold was reported last night to have succeeded in enlisting Egypt 's full support in establishing the international force as a working symbol of the power , of the United Nations that would be used not only in the Egyptian crisis but wherever else peace was threatened . George Ivan Smith , a spokesman for Mr. Hammarskjold , said the Secretary General would report on the full results of his talks with President Nasser . to the General Assembly and would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ TJ . N. Chief Shortly after the announcement of Egypt 's request regarding the clearing of the canal was made , Mr. Ha.mmarskjold and his party boarded a fourengine Swissair plane bound for Rome , where he was to take another plane to New York . Dr. Mahmoud Fawzi , Egyptian Foreign Minister , was at the airport to see Mr. Hammarskjold off and also to board another plane bound for New York . As Mr. Hammarskjold 's plane was about to take off word was received that Dr. Fawzi 's plane would be delayed . The Secretary General sent Mr. Smith out of the plane to invite the Egyptian official to ride with him to Rome . Dr. Fawzi and his party of four immediately boarded the Swiss airliner and left with Mr. Hammarskjold . Before departing , Dr. Fawzi said the problems confronting Egypt were " clearly fair and their connection with world peace is no less clear . " " Egypt , " he said , " is defending her life and her country . However , at the same time she is defending the universal principles of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Is Cool to Demand Special to The New York Times LONDON , Nov. 18 ? Egypt 's reported demand that British and French troops withdraw from the area even before clearing of the Suez Canal met with resistance from the Foreign Office tonight . The Nasser Government 's precise conditions for permitting the United Nations , through contracts with Dutch and Dan.ish salvage companies , to start work on the waterway were not yet fully known here . Contradictory reports have reached British officials , and an authoritative reaction therefore was not available . Nevertheless , if President Nasser has insisted , in his talks with . Dag Hammarskjold , the United Nations Secretary General , that no salvage work can begin until Egypt is free of British and French forces , then the Foreign Office makes this observation : The interests of many nations besides Britain and France are damaged or imperiled by the absence of the Suez Canal as an international waterway . These include not only countries in Western Europe , but in the : Middle East and Asia as well . Brit ain already has offered equipment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ those circumstances , observers believed the interest of much of the world should be in the speediest possible tehabilitation of the canal as a major world traffic artery . It was assumed here that Mr. Hammarskjold had stressed that point with President Nasser . With Egyptian acceptance of the common interest , it also was felt that the United Nations chief had asked the . British and French to agree not to condition their ultimate evacuation of Port Said on an over-all settlement of the Suez dispute . Hammarskjold Off For U. S. Special to The New York Times . ROME , Nov. ** Hammarskjold was uncommunicative when he changed planes here today . The U. N. Secretary General on his arrival from Cairo declined to answer a barrage of questions fired at him by a throng of newspaper men . He repeated again and again : " I have nothing to say . " . Mr. Hammarskjold left for New York in a United States commercial airliner . Dr. Mahmoud Fawzi , Egyptian Foreign Minister , had planned to take off with the Secretary General , but he balked when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Paris . Egyptian aides hurriedly canvassed international airlines for a flight that would bypass France and Britain . Dr. Fawzi eventually left in an airliner for Zurich , Switzerland . There he will have to wait until tomorrow afternoon to continue his journey to New York . Maj. Gen. E. L. M. Burns of , Canada , commander of the United Nations . Emergency Force , spent another full day here in consultations with military leading from the countries supplying troops or logistic support to the international police unit . They have been working on technical arrangements for the command and drawing up ? the table of organization under which the force will operate . The force already includes ' units ' from eight countries .                     