@@712960

txt Examination of the problem of a high authority presiding over . European coal and steel has been taken up by the subcommission for industry of the Council of Europe . This clearly indicates the council 's great interest in the Schuman plan for pocling the steel and coal industries of France and Germany ' and perhaps some other western European countries . For it is widely understood that French Foreign Minister Robert . Schuman 's pooling plan corresponds to a new feeling in some European circles and a new effort to find a way out of the tangled national and economic problems confronting the European countries . Indeed . the Council of Europe Study-Action Branches itself , although still in its infancy , was the first manitestation of this new trend toward broader European thinking from which the Schuman proposal has emerged . The subcommission , after two days ' deliberation , recommended that a new " high authority " should be created , including two distinct branches . One should be a section for study , to decide on the general policy to be followed where @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The other section should be for action , to decide on the measures necessary for application of general policy , such as joint funds for modernization , equalizing of distribution , and so on . Social or Liberal Kole ? The subcommission suggested that at this stage , when , after all , the whole proposal and its application still remain to be negotiated . some countries should adhere to the " study " section without belonging to the " action " section until they had decided on a definite policy toward the pooling system . This would help them to consider the plan without . committing themselves at too early a date , One question which is being much debated is whether the pool , when constituted , should be run on socialistic or liberal lines . This is naturally enough a basic query in Europe where often not only a frontier , but a complete difference in governmental approach to every financial and economic question , divide one country from another . One has only to compare the roles played respectively by Great Britain and Belgium , to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ point of liberalizing inter-European trade . Bebzian View Paul Van Zeeland. former president of the Organization for European Economic Cooperation , now Belgian Foreign Minister , has taken up his position on this problem . Insisting on the enormous importance methods adopted would play in the eventual success of the pooling scheme , he added : We must . avoid at any cost the return , through this praiseworthy scheme , to excessive controls where a situation would be created amounting to socialization of these industries . " Mr. Van Zeeland continued : " I believe Belgium , where the steel industry and mines occupy considerable space , will collaborate loyally in studying this , project . , . . in any case . an agreement would become inefficient if circulation of capital was not normalized . " This preoccupation with method is not particular to Mr. Van Zeeland . The National Council of French Employers recently published a communique stating : " The council agrees in principle , while nevertheless expressing reservations until additional information has been received regarding the methods to be used in carrying out this plan . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ briefly on the latest developments re , garding the pooling scheme . He pointed out that interest in the proposal was increasing , and that the government could expect " adherence in principle " from other countries " fairly speedily . " The minister implied that when he has received such declarations of adherence he will invite the states concerned to a series of negotiations to determine exactly the technical , economic , and social aspects of the plan . Determined Opposition N Schuman added : " I hope that these negotiations may be begun in the very near future . " Official personalities close to the minister already have begun mentioning a possible meeting in June , As far as France itself is concerned , the minister has met with some determined opposition in the foreign affairs committee of the National Assembly . Here Communists , who wish at any price to prevent any further western European unity , and Gaullists and Conservatives , who for quite different reasons wish to prevent any further state encroachment into the industrial sphere , are united against the representatives of the center parties @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ brief expose of the plan to the commission last week , Parliament will not be consulted until concrete negotiations are under way , for at the present . stage of exploratory talks . its seal of approval is not required . Meanwhile he undoubtedly hopes the idea will gather enough support to insure a government victory in the French Parliament .                     