@@717097

txt Though the ink is scarcely dry on the Paris pacts which make a sovereign and rearmed Germany a member of the Western European Union and the North Atlantic alliance , a new issue , which could nullify these pacts , is forging into the forefront of international discussion and appears likely to play a big role at the projected Big Power conference this summer . That issue is the neutralization of Germany , which would detach it from the Western alliance system and make it part of a neutral belt stretching across the center of Europe as a buffer between East and West . The idea of a neutralized Germany has long been in the background of certain political speculations in Europe . But it became a formidable proposition when Mr. Molotov declared on signing the " I'yeaty neutralizing Austria that Austrian neutrality must set the pattern for other countries and in effect made German neutralization the price of German unification . The Soviets underscored this bid by forming an Eastern " CounterNATO " with their satellites , which would permit East Germany to withdraw from it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by launching a " peace plan " which would prevent " remilitarization " of Germany by putting it under Four Power control , and would evacuate the Allied forces from Germany " to their national frontiers . " Finally , the Soviets are attempting to widen the neutral area by assiduously courting Sweden and making a top-level visit to Yugoslavia to mend the break with Marshal Tito . But they make it plain that this neutral belt is to be carved out only from areas with Western ties , and denounce even a discussion of the status of Eastern Europe as " wild " talk . The whole plan is so patently a Soviet device to wreck the Paris pacts after ratification that it would not be difficult to cope with it as long as it remained a purely Soviet scheme . But it is finding such support even in the West that it is beginning to replace free German elections as the main issue in a German settlement . It is hailed by the German Socialists as a step toward the " third solution " that is gaining ground in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to French , British and Italian neutralists who would like to make all Western Europe " neutral " as between Soviet Russia and the United States which find their equa : disapproval . Curiously enough , the scheme has received an added impetus fronwhat can be only a misinterpreta ? Lion of some cryptic remarks mad ( by President Eisenhower at his Iasi press conference . Mr. Eisenhower referred to the neutralization plan : without promptly rejecting them and merely made a distinction be tween armed neutrality , such a : Switzerland 's , and a " military vac uum . " This equivocal statemen has caused something akin to panic in German Government quarter : and has prompted Chancellor Ade nauer to launch a campaign again q German neutralization and to rust German rearmament to tie till Paris pacts down with action . Chancellor Adenauer has alway held that a neutralized German : would inevitably become a Sovie puppet , and that Germany will dial to the Western alliances becausi her unification and her whole fu tore depend on the progressive Eu ropean unification envisaged by the pacts . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ allies . For a neutralized Germany , whether armed or disarmed , could only open up a Pandora 's box of new disasters , It would not only end all progress toward European unification but would also shatter the Western alliance system and force the United States to withdraw its troops from Europe , which would then have no room for them . It would restore the old divided Europe with its national animosities , in particular those between France and Germany , and would make Germany either , as Chancellor Adenauer holds , a Soviet puppet , or , if armed enough , an arbiter between East and West , playing off one against the other and open to a new deal with the Soviets at the expense not only of Western but also of Eastern Europe . It would , in short , mark the collapse of American policy in Europe and force that " agonizing reappraisal " which ratification of the Paris pacts has avoided . For all these reasons , and for the sake of their own peace and security , the Western Powers should promptly clarify @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ easier it will be to nip the Soviet scheme in the bud .                     