@@717529

txt Secretary er Slata , Tobn Foster Dulles is in hot water . ' Whether he got there deliberately or inadvertently may be interesting . but the important thing is that he get out as soon as Possible . The trouble is over Goa . The chances are that few Americans have ever heard of it . Goa is one of the smallest specks on the globe . But today it is the cause of a wave of . anti-American feeling in India that has no precedent . It is greater than India 's dislike of American military ties with Pakistan . Goa is Portuguese . The Portuguese have been there for centuries . It Is a small enclave of some 600,000 on the Malabar coast . Portugal claims it as an integral part of the homeland . India , which attained its independence not many years ago , claims Goa . There is perhaps no question on which Indians feel more strongly  --  unless it is Kashmir . The Indians claim the Portuguese are holding Goa by force . Emotions run high . Tempers are short . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Goa last year but was repulsed by the Portuguese . Dynamite Appears Secretary Dulles got into the cross tire last week during the visit here of Portuguese Foreign Minister Paul Cenha . Al the end of their talks . the two statesmen got out a statement that said , in part : " Various statements attributed to the Soviet rulers visiting Asia , which included references to the policies of Western powers in the Far East and allegations concerning the . Portuguese provinces in the Far East . were discussed by the two foreign ministers . They considcred that such statements do not represent a contribution to the cause of peace . The two ministers whose countries embrace many peoples of many races deplored all efforts to foment hatred between East and West and to divide peoples who need to feel a sense of unity and fellowship for peace and mutual welfare . " The dynamite lies in the phrase " alieg , ations concerning the Portuguese provinces in the Far East . " It is inconceivable that Mr. Dulles agreed to include that phrase deliberately to infuriate the Indians . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reap a little good will by this criticism cf the doctrine of hatred and malice the two Kremlin leaders  --  Marshal Nikolai A. Bulganin . Soviet Premier , and Nikita S. Khrushchev , First Secretary of the Soviet Communist Party  --  were preaching throughout India . Certainly their description of Goa as " a shame to civilization " and of Portugal as " an insect . feeding on human blood " was everything Messrs . Dulles and Cunha called it . Indian Press Explodes But the only thing the Indians seem to have seen in it was that reference to " Portuguese provinces in the Far East . " They hit the ceiling . The Indian newepapers blew it up into the biggest story of the day . They claimed Secretary Dulles was thus recognizing Portugal 's claim to Goa  --  and so opposing India 's claim . They paid no attention to Mr. Dulles ' efforts to expose the Soviet visitors as hate mongers . They took off after Mr. Dulles like a pack of hounds that have caught the scent of a fox . The Indien Foreign Office called @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the riot act . It did n't demand an apology  --  but it wanted an explanation . It want-1 ed to know what Mr. Dulles was up to . Meanwhile , the Indian press kept up the attack . There is talk that Mr. Dulles is going to have to publicly explain his apparently innocent reference . There is talk that only a statement by President Eisenhower can calm the Indian Government . Whatever the validity of the Indian protest , the affair has generated so much heat that some calming words by someone are thought to be a necessity . Dulles in Quandary The trouble is that Mr. Dulles or President Eisenhower can not say what India wants to hear without saying what will affront Portugal . Soviet references to Goa were unquestionably rude and malicious . But Mr. Dulles ' indirect reference to them has caused such an American-Indian rift as Marshal Bulganin and Mr. Khrushchev could not have imagined or dared hope for . A lot of people are saying that Mr. Dulles should have known better . That he should have known the Indian reactions to any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he should have said nothing rather than something that would infuriate the Indians . It may be that the Indians are making a mountain out of a molehill  --  but why give them even a molehill , it is being asked . Undoubtedly this all seems like a tempest in a teapot to most Americans . But the fact remains that , rightly or wrongly , the Indians can reach the boiling point quicker over Goa than over almost any other subject in the world . They are phlegmatic over Soviet aggressions ; only slightly embarrassed by Communist gaucheries . But mention Goa  --  and the Indian lid is off .                     