@@719063

txt The stock of the United States Steel Corporation is traded on the New York Stock Exchange , the Midwest Stock Exchange and the Pacific Coast Stock Exchange , among other places . There are times , if you watch closely , when the steel stock sells at different prices on two or more of these exchanges . But the difference in price does n't last long ; there 's a natural tendency for the differing prices to jump back together . It would n't surprise us at all if Senator Kefauver , noting this tendency toward price uniformity , concluded that the sellers in New York , Chicago and San Francisco were somehow in collusion . At any rate the Senator seems under the impression that if two sellers are charging the same price for the same commodity it 's prima facie evidence of an absence of competition . In the Senator 's mind this is especially so with " administered prices " ? that is , when the seller puts on a price tag and hopes he will get it . As , for instance , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at $75 and then just hoped and hoped . All this , anyway , is the point of view expressed by Senator Kefauver this week in grilling the chairman of U.S. Steel , Roger Blough . U.S. Steel puts a price tag on , its products ; its prices for steel tend toward uniformity with other sellers ' prices for the same commodity . So Mr. Kefauver suggested the customers were n't getting the benefit of competition . This confusion about the relationship between prices and competition is probably not limited to Senator Kefauver . It stems , we suspect , from the fact that in most things consumers buy ? clothes , refrigerators or food ? a price differential appears to be one of the reflections of competition . Hence any price uniformity seems to reflect the opposite . And especially so when the seller is a big industry that gives all the appearance of being able to set its prices where it will . Yet in a free market all prices for the same commodity tend toward uniformity . When a Ford and Chevrolet differ in prices it is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; even so , the two prices are constantly being pushed together . In the case of a standard product , like a bar of steel , the pressure is inexorable . Price differentials can only last briefly and they can never be very wide ; otherwise U. S. Steel 's customers would go to Bethlehem or vice versa . Nor , in actual practice , can the seller , big though he be , " administer " the price with the ease Mr. Kefauver suggests . He can try to guess , what the market will bear and he can name a price , just as Lerners does for a lady 's hat . Whether he gets it is another matter . That depends on the interaction between the demand of the customers and the selling position of his competitors . Steel demand has been so high for so long that it may look as though the prices can be " put " anywhere . But if the latest guess on steel prices proves too high the market will soon let the industry know about it and price competition will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the depression steel prices moved downward as uniformly as they have lately moved up . As a matter of fact , the time to be startled is when steel prices do n't tend toward uniformity . If the customer of one steel company had to pay for very long a different price for the same basic product than the customer of a different company , something would be awry . For something would be preventing the customers from switching from the dearer seller to the cheaper seller and pushing the prices back into line . Perhaps a wide disparity in basic steel prices would give Senator Kefauver less to complain about . But the less fortunate steel customers could justly complain that then , indeed , they were n't getting the benefits of price competition .                     