@@713082

txt WASHINGTON , July 10 The Chiefs . of Staff of the Army and Air Force took off from here tonight on a suddenly arranged flight to Japan to . ? consult with Gen. Douglas on the Korean fighting . ? ' Gen. J. Lawton Collins , Army , and . Hoyt S. Vandenberg , Air Force , were accompanied . by a small staff when they boarded their plane at the National Airport . It will be a brief visit , according to Army spokesmen at the Pentagon , to enable the top commanders at military headquarters here to study the situation at first hand and learn what are the Far East commander 's requirements in driving back the North Korean invading forces to the Thirty-eighth Parallel . Military planners on this end // have had to rely for their picture of Korean developments on " telecon " conferences ( in which teletype messages are projected on a screen ) with General 's headquarters several times a day . These are carried on with military terseness and General is renowned in military circles for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ exasperatingly brief . General . Collins took with him the United Nations flag that flew over United Nations headquarters in Palestine . He will turn it over to General , who has been named Commander of the United Nations Forces in Korea . The flag was forwarded to Secretary of Defense Louis Johnson by Trygve Lie , Secretary General of the United Nations . Mr. Johnson sent it on to General . It was explained that Admiral Forrest P. Sherman , Chief of Naval Operations and the third member of the Joint Chiefs of Staff , would not accompany the others because he was already represented by two senior flag officers in the theatre . These are Vice Admiral Charles T. Joy , commander of the Far Eastern Naval Forces , and Admiral Arthur Radford , commander of the Pacific Fleet . Air Strips in Korea The Air Force disclosed this afternoon that its fighter planes , both jets and conventional engine , would be operating from ? Korean airstrips within a few days . Aviation engineers have at least one strip in preparation and others will be rushed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Korean peninsula came as a surprise because Air Force officials had insisted the past two weeks that it would be too great a logistics task to set up forward operating bases . The Air Force , however , has acknowledged that its Japan-based F-80 jet " Shooting Stars " are seriously restricted in the Korean fighting because of the fuel-consuming distance they must fly to and from the combat zones . To meet this shortcoming in the air equipment for the Korean opera ? ton the Air Force is taking an undisclosed number of F-51 Mustangs from National Guard units in this country and shipping them to Korea . Maj. Gen. Otto P. Weyland , new chief of the Air Force 's Tactical Air Command at Langley Field , Va. , told of the new bases at the Pentagon this afternoon . General Weyland returned a few days ago from a three-day survey of Air Force installations in Japan undertaken at General Vandenberg 's behest . Ground Support Clicking The General , a wartime tactical air commander in Europe , told reporters that air ground support was now clicking in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ controllers . Controllers , Air Force officers , work with Army troop commanders and by short-wave radio " call in " fighter aircraft against enemy positions or equipment . The air officer said that the fairly crude Korean air strips , mostly dirt-covered , would be speedily overlaid with . pierced steel or alumnium matting and where necessary the landing fields will be lengthened . With the F-80 's much nearer the target areas the ground troops are due to get ever better support from covering aircraft , General Weyland predicted . Meanwhile , it became known that the Air Force , while it finds the F-51 an ideal aircraft for the present almost unopposed operations , intends to keep the F-80 jets on the job . The thinking behind this is the same that led to the converting of most of General 's occupation air strength to jets to have late-type equipment to engage a jet attack should it come . Foe 's Air Force Absent For the last few days the North Korean Air Force has been . virtually out of the air , leading to the speculation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ F-80 's that it is not being risked . An illustration of how severely limited have been F-80 operations when flying from Japan was given by General Weyland when he ? disclosed that each fighter had been carrying only two rockets on each mission . From a study of film exposed when the fighters have rocketed and machine gunned the foe , General Weyland reported that a number of North Korean tanks were seen to burst into flame upon being hit . He assumed , he said , the tanks ar carrying spare gas in exterior tanks . General Weyland declared that if the weather permitted the continuation of strategic bombing with B-29 Superforts against North Korean lines of communications the " North Korean effort can be expected to dry up . " The general had high praise for the Royal Australian Air Force 's performance in Korea . He described the pilots , flying F-51 's , as doing " a bang-up job . " Attack on Rear Prepared Special to Tim New Yozzt Timm TOKYO , July 10 ? Reinforced United States air strength in the Far East is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are aiding the advance of the tank-led Communist columns in their invasion of the Korean Republic , Lieut . Gen. George E. Stratemeyer , Far East Air Force Commander , declared today . " We 're going to bomb any target that is or will be of value to the North Korean Government , " General Stratemeyer said . The general said that " round the clock bombing , " with planes operating by night as well as by day now will be inaugurated to halt the maneuver the North Koreans have used thus far , lying low during daylight hours and rushing ammunition and gasoline to armored columns after dark when United States planes are taking off for the long flight from Japan and have difficulty in operating . It is not intended to strike at open North Korean cities such as the Red capital of Pyongyang or make attacks north of the borders of Manchuria or the Soviet Union from which the North Koreans are receiving war supplies , he said . He added , however , that " we 're going to bomb every bridge we can ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the North - Korean invasion . " The Air Force general made his remarks in comment on statements of Navy carrier pilots who had attacked North Korea that while the North Korean planes and military installations were difficult , to find and generally carefully camouflaged , industrial targets exist in plenty . General Stratemeyer made plain his Far East Air Force already had been strengthened and further support was on the way . Two bomb groups under Maj. Gen. Emmett O'Donnell , which were sent from the United States " now are nearly all here , " he said . General Stratemeyer declined to agree with estimates made by some fliers that modern jet-propelled fighters , because of the short time they were able to spend over targets had proved inferior to older wartime models . He said the jets " performed magnificently " in all missions they were asked to perform . He revealed that Gan . Douglas had told him that morning  --  a statement with which he said he agreed ? " but we 'll take anything from any source that can be made available . " General @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ planes that had been attempting to check the Russian-made North Korean tanks . He held that United States air strength had been a decisive factor in halting the Communist plan to overrun the whole Korean peninsula and present the Western world with a fait accompli before aid could be brought to bear . General Stratemeyer told correspondents the effects of attrition bombing on North Korean areas now had begun to be observable in the difficulties of the Communist forces ' advance toward the emergency capital of Taejon . He gave particular ' praise to the jet pilots . General ' Proud ' of Jets " I am awfully proud of those jets , they have done things damned near unbelievable , " the general said . In a tabulation of Air Force activities up to 11 A. M. today ( Tokyo time ) , General Stratemeyer released the following figures : Since the conflict began combat planes have flown a total of 1,570 missions not including flights of transports rushing supplies to the front . Far East Air Force losses have been twenty planes , not counting five C-54 transports and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ killed , wounded and missing amount to twenty-six . Twenty-four enemy aircraft had been destroyed , five probably destroyed and twelve damaged . One hundred and twenty-three North Korean tanks have been knocked out and 477 trucks . " Considerable " losses have been caused to enemy ground troops .                     