@@716851

txt The Governors of Massachusetts and Connecticut today urged state election law changes to permit later-than-usual national nominating conventions in 1956 . This was a bipartisan move favored by President Eisenhower and both national party headquarters . All want later nominations and shorter campaigns . At the gubernatorial and legislative levels it was bipartisan , too . Gov . Christian W. Herter of Massachusetts is a Republican , dealing with a Democratic House of Representatives . Gov . Abraham A. Ribicoff of Connecticut is a Democrat , dealing with a Republican Assembly . In each case the Governor has the other chamber with him . The measures are expected to be passed without opposition as noncontroversial . The laws of these two states are the main barriers now to the planned August conventions of the two major parties . The Massachusetts law requires certification of Presidential nominees for absentee ballots fourteen weeks before the November , 1956 , election . The Connecticut deadline is Aug. 15 . Action in South Dakota A bill already is pending in the South Dakota Legislature to permit certification of Presidential and Vice @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ convention . The present law requires a certification of nominees not less than eight-five days before the general election . The Democrats announced formally today that their convention would open July 23 in Chicago 's International Amphitheatre in the stockyards . But at the same time Democratic leaders said that , if state laws permitted , they would change back to Aug. 13 . President Eisenhower kept up the pressure for a shorter campaign as he met with his principal advisers to discuss the time and place of the 1956 convention . Leonard W. Hall , Republican National Chairman , said the group had proceeded on the assumption that the President would be a candidate for re-election . But this was not mentioned at the White HOUSE session . The biggest news from the meeting was that San Franciscc now was " very much in the run ? ping " as the convention city San Francisco is ready to matcl the $250,000 bids already made by Philadelphia and Chicago One leader said the three cities were " running even " in the con ? test . The Republicans will reach final @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The President wil make an off-the-record speecl // at the closed meeting of this group and the Republican National Finance Committee . Governor Herter said by telephone that he had consulted with Democratic and Republican leaders of the Massachusetts House . They agreed quickly but informally to push through law changes to permit later conventions . Details of the legislation were not explored . Governor-Ribicoff said he was confident that Connecticut legislators would put back the deadline , at least until Sept. 1 . He disclosed he already had asked Democratic leaders in the state Senate to introduce such measures . Both Governors said they would give public support to the proposed Changes . Both Republican and Democratic leaders here obviously hoped for speedy action in both states , or at least assurances that the action would be forthcoming . Both want to nail down this week the times arid places of their 1956 meetings . The odds here still favor both parties ' meeting in a single city ? Chicago . The Democratic National Committee , in a mail poll , unanimously picked Chicago , 1 where both parties @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ discounting a late move shift their meeting to San Francisco . That city made known its bid only last week . Both parties hope to expedite their conventions . One plan , which was not discussed today , would be to . discontinue the public , time-consuming polls of delegations when the announced vote of a state was challenged . In the group Meeting with the Preside ht were two former chairmen  --  Herbert Brownell Jr. , the Attorney General , and Arthur E. Summerfield , the Postmaster General . Former Gov . Sherman Adams of New Hampshire , the principal assistant to the President and his campaign chief of staff , headed the White House staff . Others present were James C. Hagerty , the press secretary ; Thomas E. Stephens , the appointment secretary , and former Gdv . Howard Pyle of Arizona , now an administrative assistant at the White House . Robert Humphre- , : s , campaign director , and Chauncey Robbins , assistant to Mr. Hall , represent ed the national committee . Mr. Hall said the President had expressed no preference for any city @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reiterated his support of a later convention and a resulting shorter campaign .                     