@@715824

txt Should World War III ever break out , Spain would send a seven - division expeditionary force to help man the Western European front . This , according to reliable information , is one of the subsidiary agreements of " secret clauses " appended to the bilateral defense agreement signed last Sept. 26 by Spain and the United States . The seven divisions , Pyrenees hardened and equipped by the United States , would be rushed to the Italian Alps . It is understood that the question of such an understaking on the part of Generalissimo Francisco Franco came up in the latter stages of the 18-month negotiations in Madrid . Teamwork Formula The American view seems to have been that there would not be much point in giving the Spanish armed forces up-to-date equipment in any appreciable quantities if the Spanish Army was going to stay home behind the Pyrenees if the Soviets attempted to invade Western Europe . The Spanish are understood to have agreed it would be better to defend themselves as far east as possible rather than on their own doorstep . They @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ approaches against invasion by the Soviet Army , but , of course , there could be no question of sending Spanish troops abroad as long as their equipment and instruction in modern warfare remained inadequate . The $141,000,000 of American aid  --  out of a total of $226,000 , - 000 ? to be expended this fiscal year on military end items for Spain 's armed forces will be a beginning toward taking care of this deficiency . There was a point during the negotiations when the Spanish seemed inclined to use most of this grant to build up an Air Force for defending the peninsula ; now it appears this view has been modified and that half the funds will go to modernization of the Spanish Army . Full Training Slated It is estimated that the cadres of a future expeditionary force could be fully trained within eight months of the beginning of their instruction in the use of modern weapons . Two years more would be needed to make the seven divisions combat ready . For the Franco regime the idea of sending troops to fight abroad is not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Division fought alongside the Germans on the Leningrad front . Last December , General Franco stated that he was disposed to authorize Spanish " volunteers " to participate in the Korean war , provided they were commanded by Spanish officers . The concept of a seven-division Spanish contribution to the western front line is certain to raise questions in regard to the future of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization and the European Defense Community . The question is whether it , will have an effect on the EDC impasse , for instance , and whether French opposition to integration of German forces now will toughen since in three years ' time much needed manpower could be counted on from Spain . Political Overtones The feeling here is that Spain 's pact with the United States is bound eventually to force the full integration of this country in European defense , and that when General Franco 's armed forces have been built up by America , Spain 's political weight will have to be taken into account by the NATO allies , however hostile some of them may be to the Franco @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ men to visit the United States as a consequence of the accords of Sept. 26 will leave Madrid shortly for America . Ten officers in the uniform of the Spanish Air Force will arrive in New York by air Oct. 25 on the first lap of a three-week tour of American air installations .                     