@@715531

txt The Supreme Court is expected to announce at noon tomorrow its decision as to whether it will set aside the stay of execution granted to Julius and Ethel Rosenberg , the . atom spies , by Justice William 0 . Douglas . Until that decision is made known the stay remains in effect . In consequence , the Rosenbergs escaped death in Sing Sing prison tonight tor conspiracy to betray the secrets of the atomic bomb to Soviet Russia . The execution of their death sentences had been set for 11 P. M. The high court heard three hours of arguments today on the question of whether the Atomic Energy Act of 1946 was applicable to the Rosenberg case . Then it considered the matter for three hours in its conference room . At 6:29 P. M .. Associate Justice Harold H. Burton ascended the bench alone and said : " The court will stand in recess until tomorrow at 12 noon . " Special Term Convened The court - net at noon in a special term convened by Chief Justice Fred M. Vinson on application of Attorney @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to invalidate the stay granted by Justice Douglas . Although it had been expected that some of the justices would not be able to be present , inasmuch as they had left Washington when the court recessed on Monday for the sumer , all nine were on the bench . Justice Douglas , who had started for the West by motor car , turned back at Uniontown , Pa . The question the court was convened to decide was whether the provisions of the Atomic Energy Act applied to the Rosenbergs ' case , rather than the General Espionage Act under which they had been convicted and sentenced . Justice Douglas found a legal doubt that the sentences had been imposed under the proper statute and ordered a stay of execution until the point was decided by the courts . If the Atomic Energy Act applied . the death sentences imposed by Federal Judge Irving R. Kaufman would be illegal . Under that act the death sentence , or life imprisonment , may not be imposed in espionage cases except on recommendation of the jury . The jury that convicted the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Soon after the arguments began the question was raised as to the effect a decision holding the atomic act applicable would have upon the Government 's case . While Robert L. Stern , acting Solicitor General , was arguing that the act did not apply , Justice Robert H. Jackson remarked : " The probabilities are that if the Atomic Energy Act covers this case , the whole case is out . " The apparent point was that if the sentences passed under the General Espionage Act could be attacked successfully , so could the indictment returned under the same law . Although the validity of the indictment is now now at issue in the courts , Emanuel H. Bloch , chief counsel for the Rosenbergs , was quick to seize upon the idea suggested by Justice Jackson . When his turn came to argue he indicated that , if the sentences imposed by Judge Kaufman were found illegal , he probably would challenge the indictment as well . Mr. Stern made it plain that the Government did not think it could win a case on an indictment brought under the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is that the case against the Rosenbergs could have been brought under the Atomic Energy Act , " he said . " If it had been , the case would have been thrown out so quickly that the Government would have been a laughing stock . " Justice Felix Frankfurter had raised the point of the effect of the court 's eventual decision upon the case as it now stood . He wanted to know whether , if the high court held the Atomic Energy Act applicable , the case would go back to Judge Kaufman for resentencing . He asked Mr. Stern if -a death sentence could be imposed under the Atomic Act without a recommendation of the jury . When Mr. Stern replied that it could not , Justice Frankfurter remarked that reconstitution of the jury would be essential . He appeared to question whether the jury that tried the Rosenbergs could be reconvened . Justice Jackson commented that if the Atomic Act covered the case , the trial under the Espionage Act had been so broad , in scope that the whole character of the case would be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Division Is Indicated The tenor of the questions asked from the bench during the arguments , and the length of time the justices spent in their conference chamber before recessing until tomorrow were taken as indica tions of a divided court . Some observers felt that much of the time ' spent in the conference room , might have ? been devoted to attempting to persuade doubtful justices to join one side or the ' , other . 1 The secrecy of the conference room is inviolate , however , and no inkling came of the nature of the , decision the court is expected to announce at noon . The nine justices were unusually solemn as they ascended the bench . An air of sternness often absent on days when issues less momentous are to be decided was noticeable . The Chief Justice announced as the court convened that Justice Hugo L. Black was the only member who had opposed the special term . The justices faced a packed courtroom . Several hundred persons waited in long queues outside the chamber doors , hoping for a chance to get in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Court attaches were watchful to assure the maintenance of decorum . pne deputy marshal warned lawyers inside the rail that closes off the space reserved for attorneys to be sure their coats were buttoned when the justices came in . Mr. Stern hardly had begun his arguments for the Government , however , when the justices started peppering him with questions . When he said that the Atomic Act did not apply , Justice Black asked if Judge Kaufman had given the transmission of atomic information to Russia as grounds for imposing the death penalty . Mr. Stern replied that that was one ground . Justice Black also raised the question of the jurisdiction of the Supreme Court to vacate the stay granted by Justice Douglas . Mr. Stern said he thought there was no question of the court 's power to set aside an act of one of its members . Later , John H. Finerty , associate ' counsel for the Rosenbergs , also granted that the court had that power , although he hoped it would not use it in this case . " Nothing is beyond the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " I 'm not so sure , " Chief Justice Vinson remarked . Going Gets a Bit Rough As the lawyers argued and the Justices asked questions , the going got a little rough at times . Mr. Finerty aroused Justices Jackson , Tom C. Clark and Sherman Minton when he said the Attorney General 's action in asking that a special term be convened was a reflection upon the integrity of Justice Douglas and of the entire court . Justice Jackson wanted to know what Mr. Brownell had done that was so improper . The only thing he had noted in Mr. Brownell 's petition that might be so construed , he said , was a statement that the situation was " unprecedented . " Mr. Finerty also assailed the conduct of the case by the Department of Justice , charging that the Government had " permitted a fraud on this court to happen , " by convicting the Rosenbergs on testimony known to the prosecutors to be perjured . " There never was a more crooked District Attorney in New York than the one who tried the Rosenbergs , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a State Supreme Court Justice , was the District Attorney at that time . Justice Clark immediately suggested that Mr. Finerty would be more helpful to the court if he would argue the legal issues involved instead of attacking the Attorney General and the District lAttorney . Justice Minton also took Mr. Finerty to task for " abusing the Attorney General . " Mr. Finerty said he did not " apologize for anything I have said . " In New York , Justice Saypol said he would " stand by the verdict of the jury . " " The matter is now in the courts , " Justice Saypol observed when he heard of Mr. Finerty 's charge . " I have nothing to say . I stand by the verdict of the jury . " Earlier , Daniel G. Marshall , not a member of the Supreme Court bar , had received permission , on motion of Mr. Bloch , to ' argue for ' fifteen minutes . Mr. Marshall was one of the attorneys who presented ' the legal point upon which Justice Douglas granted the stay . Justice @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lawyer said he spoke for Irwin Edelman of Los Angeles . " Was he the Edelman who was before this court last year in a vagrancy case ? " Justice Jackson asked . " It was a free speech case , " Mr. Marshall shouted , waving his finger at Justice Jackson . " It is improper to call it vagrancy . I think this is shocking in a capital case where human lives are at stake . " Chief Justice Vinson calmed the Los Angeles attorney by advising him , " Do n't let your temperature rise . " Jackson Commends Bloch Mr. Bloch , however , drew high praise from Justice Jackson for the manner in which he had presented his case in six appearances before the high court . " I think you have done a fine professional job throughout , " Justice Jackson told him . " These people are fortunate to have you for their counsel . " Mr. Bloch thanked the justice and spoke briefly of his long fight for the Rosenbergs and the reluctance of many lawyers to take unpopular cases . He said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ good lawyers to take clients whose causes did not meet popular approval . Mr. Bloch argued that the court should follow the course set by Justice Douglas ' order and let the applicability of the Atomic Energy Act be determined first by the District Court and then by the Court of Appeals . He said he had not had time to prepare arguments on the legal point involved , and neither had the other lawyers in the case , including Mr. Stern . " I am not prepared , " he said , " to enlighten the court on the fundamental issues involved . " Justice Jackson wanted to know why it should go back to the District Court . - " It is a pure point of law , " he said . " Why should n't we stay here and decide it and tell the lower courts what to do instead of asking them to tell us ? " That may have been one of the points argued among the justices during the three hours they were in the conference room . Fyke Farmer , the Tennessee lawyer who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ acted , was the only lawyer who said he was ready to argue the law . His arguments were close to the strictly legal aspects of the case . In support of his contention that the Atomic Energy Act applied , he told the court it could not disregard the fact that Judge Kaufman had imposed the death sentence for atomic espionage . He said he was convinced the death penalty was void under the atomic act . Justice Frankfurter asked if he felt " the indictment falls " under the penalty provisions of the atomic act although it was drawn under the tespionage statute , and Mr , Farmer said he did . 2,000 New Yorkers Present A crowd of nearly 2,000 New Yorkers milled about the Supreme Court Building and through the corridors of the Capitol as the court deliberated . Members ' of the delegation carried mimeographed instructions to ask Representatives and Senators to call the Attorney General and the President , and to request a statement of each legislator 's position on clemency for the Rosenbergs . Passageways and the Capitol were jammed . Members of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for interviews . Although the recess taken by the court saved the Rosenbergs from death tonight , picketing was resumed in the capital by groups urging clemency . Pickets at the White House had been withdrawn yesterday after Justice Douglas granted the stay , but early tonight they were marching four deep along the side of the White House and in front of the near-by Treasury Building . The New York contingent had been advised by its leaders not to picket the court , so the usual banners and marching lines were absent there . The expedition was arranged by the National Committee to Secure Justice in the Rosenberg Case . A special detail of fifty police was assigned to maintain order .                     