@@719876

txt WASHINGTON , July 26 ? Officials here have been taking advantage of the week-end lull in the Middle Eastern crisis to try to strike a trial balance sheet of United States gains and losses so far . Their conclusion seems to be that strategically and diplomatically the Administration has suffered another major foreign policy defeat in the Middle East but , ironically , that the Administration has gained politically on the home front . This is about the way top officials of the Administration see ? the situation , beginning with domestic politics , which usually dominate the capital : For the last seven months , domestic inflation and economic recession have dominated the public mind . The Republicans , these officials concede , can seldom best the Democrats politically on economicPissues , even during a period of prosperity , but when there is a recession , they are in deep trouble . This is especially true when the only issue competing with the economic debate for the // headlines is a charge of wrongdoing against the principal member of President Eisenhower 's staff , Sherman Adams @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ here , the image of President Eisenhower as an active , Jssertive leader faded , and this hurt the Administration , too . Then came the Iraqi . coup and the President 's swift action in Lebanon . Overnight , the economic and corruption issues were swept off the front pages . Foreign affairs and military action , popularly regarded as the President 's strongest points , were . eestablished as the central issue , and the President was moving and acting again . In Washington itself , the political balance was quite different . The Democratic leaders who control Congress supported the President on the dispatch of troops to Lebanon . Indeed , in the House of Representatives , Speaker Sam Rayburn imposed a kind of political truce on debating the issue . But the foreign policy leaders of the Senate , as distinct from Senator Lyndon Johnson , the majority leader , were in a mood of quiet desperation . They were profoundly disturbed about the erosion of Western positions in the Middle East , privately loud in criticism of what they regarded as the lack of leadership by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the pressure to remain silent for the time being.1 The President 's critics here were drawing a parallel between the Administration 's action in Lebanon and Little Rock . As many of them saw it , the President had allowed an obviously dangerous situation to drift in both places , failing to use his immense authority to help the moderates avoid extreme action until a desperate situation developed . This led immediately to the sudden dispatch of troops to both places . This then was the domestic side of the story : a rising criticism among men such as Senators J. William Fulbright of Arkansas and ' Mike Mansfield of Montana , the leading figures of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee , of the Administration 's conduct of foreign affairs , foreshadowing much interparty acrimony in the future . But a political gain for the Republicans in the country , as public attention shifted from the economy and corruption and Presidential inaction to foreign and military fields in which the President was acting . In the Middle East itself , as in the domestic political field , the foreground of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ horizon . Ten days ago there was genuine concern here about the possibility of military action by the Soviet Union . Experienced diplomats , noting that United States-British forces were coming closer to Soviet forces in a rich and strategic area between Europe , Asia and Africa , esti- , mated the danger as greater than it had been in Korea . The latter area was felt to be on the perimeter of the East-West ' struggle , the Middle East at the critical center . This week-end this fear has waned . The conditions that led to the sudden United StatesBritish military moves are just as bad as ever , maybe worse , since Arab nationalism and confidence are more buoyant than ever , but the fear of a Turkish military move into Iraq and a counter-move into Iraq by the Soviet Union or its " volunteers " has declined . The leaders of the United States , Britain , France and the Soviet Union are corresponding . The on-again , off-again summit meeting is on again , with both sides insisting on some United Nations supervision over the talks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Jordan not only is keeping out of Iraq but is so weak , that even with the presence of British troops King Hussein 's authority in his kingdom is insecure . And the United States and Britain , far from thinking about invading Iraq , are talking about recognizing the new Iraqi regime and searching for ways to withdraw from Lebanon and Jordan . The friends of t he United States in the embassies here add another asset to the balance sheet . They believe that the dispatch of the Sixth Fleet into the Eastern Mediterranean and the landing of 10,000 United States troops with heavy equipment in Lebanon have increased the value of United States commitments . This is regarded as an important change . The United States acquiescence to a truce in Korea and Indochina , the failure of the United States to support its principal allies in the Suez war and the paralyzing effect of propaganda about the horrors of atomic warfare have all tended , in the last few years , to raise questions in the non-Communist world about the value ' of a United States commitment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Nevertheless the major problems remain and the strategic position of the Western powers in the Eastern Mediterranean and the Middle East is undoubtedly more serious than at any time ' since the Communist threat to Greece and Turkey more than a decade ago . Turkey has been increasingly isolated by , the revolution against an allied government in Iraq . Ankara is squabbling with Greece and Britain over the critically important Western base in Cyprus . The arms buildup from the West in Iraq is no longer assured to the West and may go over to President Carnal Abdel Nasser 's United Arab Republic , or at least be neutralized . This problem alone is responsible for Secretary of State Dulles ' latest dash to London to try to save his great milsII experiment in the Middle East : the attempt to build the defenses of the West right up along the southern flank of the Soviet Union from Turkey to ! Pakistan . Inevitably , these events have weakened Western influence in Saudi Arabia , in Kuwait and in the other immensely rich oil fields of the Persian Gulf . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ confidence that the West , as the- only lucrative market for Middle Eastern oil , will somehow retain access to that oil , but whether Britain can retain her revenues from it over the long run is another question that raises once more the old specter of Britain 's financial stability . The Current Question In conclusion , the question now is what the West will do ' with the time it has gained by bold , military strokes in the Middle East . It is now conceding , though grudgingly , the Soviet Union 's right to a voice in the settlement of the Middle East . Lively discussions are taking place to devise means of negotiating a safe , independent group of Middle Eastern states , neutralized , if necessary , from both the Communist and Western blocs . If this can be done , the United States and Britain will be only too pleased to withdraw their forces from the area . But it is not at all clear that the Western powers have been able to devise a formula satisfactory to themselves , or one that they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ President Nasser .                     