@@716202

txt The Army formally charged in writing today that Senator Joseph R. McCarthy , Republican of Wisconsin , and bis key aides sought " by improper means " to obtain preferential treatment for Pvt . G. David Schine . Senator McCarthy 's office disclosed , meanwhile , that he had asked the Defense Department to list the number of Senators , Representatives and officials of the Executive Department who had requested . special assignments or treatment for military personneL The accusation that . Mr. McCarthy had used improper means in behalf of . Private Schine headed the Army complaint filed with the Senate Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations today . It went beyond the language of the original March 11 Army report , which told In chronological form of approaches made to Army officials by Senator McCarthy and his chief counsel , Roy M. Cohn. first to get a commission and later a New York assignment for Private Schine , who was the subcommittee 's - unpaid , chief consultant before he was drafted . Senators who saw the Army 's new " bill of particulars " said that it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. McCarthy in recent weeks has sought to disassociate himself from the dispute by sug- , gesting it was largely a fight between Mr. Cohn and the Army 's counselor , John G. Adams . The text of the new Army complaint was withheld from the press , but Senators said that it listed in detail the specific instances in which Senator McCarthy and several of his aides allegedly used their power to attempt to get special favors for Private Schine . Those who-saw it said that it was stronger than the original report in placing responsibility directly on Senator McCarthy himself . The Senator and Mr. Cohn have denied bringing improper pressure /on the Army . . The original report suggested improper pressure had been brought to bear but did not make the charge specifically . The first paragraph of the new complaint clearly alleges , it was ? said , that Senator McCarthy as chairman of a Senate subcommittee and his chief counsel , Mr. Cohn , " as well as other members of the staff , " had sought special favors through improper means . . Counter-Complaint Awaited @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Senator McCarthy 's associates , Mr. Cohn and Francis P. Carr , subcommittee staff di'rector , but refused to release it to the public until the Senator and his associates had filed their . formal counter-complaint . The- subcommittee has not received from Senator McCarthy and Mr. Cohn thus far a " bill of particulars " supporting their original counter-charge that Army officials , led by Mr. Adams , sought to " blackmail " the-subcommittee out of its investigations of alleged Communists in the Army . There was no indication when this would be but Senator McCarthy is not expected back from his , Arizona vacation before Sunday at the earliest . Senator IacCarthy 's request to the Defense Department was made in a letter , dated March 29 , to Secretary of Defense Charles E. Wilson . The letter suggested that Mr. Wilson compile statistics , but not-necessarily names , on how many Representatives , Senators1 and executive department officials had intervened with the mil- , itary forces on behalf of military personnel since the beginning of World War . II . The Senator noted that he had " highly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ requests from members of Congress and officials in the Executive Branch " for " special assignment and treatment of military personnel " ( land that special facilities and staff been set up to handle such requests . - Priority Is Suggested ? " I would be grateful if you would give first priority in compiling . the statistics to those members of the Armed Services Committee ; the Appropriations Committee ; the investigations committees , and other committees , which are concerned with the operation of the defense establishment , " the letter said . " I am not at this time asking for the names of the individuals involved , but merely for the number of such requests made during the period commencing with the beginning of World War II . " Senator McCarthy also asked for a report on what facilities existed to handle such requests and the names of persons assigned to handle them . " I should also like to know whether the conversations between the members of the Congress and officials in the Executive Branch and these personnel have been recorded or monitored in any way @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would reply to Mr. McCarthy 's letter in a few ' days . The request of the Wisconsin Senator did not distinguish between those governmental officials who had made routine requests on behalf of constituents or friends and those who allegedly had used " improper means " to force granting of the requests . It was pointed out , with reference to Senator McCarthy 's letter , that there was a considerable difference between an - ordinary Congressional request that a constituent receive , consiaration for a commission or a special assignment and a request backed up by threats such as the Army has charged were made by Senator McCarthy and Mr. Cohn . It was pointed out also that most of the requests that Private Schine receive special treatment were made by the Senator or Mr. Cohn during discussions with Army officials of subcommittee investigations in which the Army was under heavy public attack for allegedly " coddling " Communists . Little Progress Made Because Senator McCarthy still was in . Arizona , subcommittee members said , they made little progress today on the issue of procedural " ground rules " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 22 . , Senator Karl E. Mundt , Republican of South Dakota , who has taken over the chairmanship of the-subcommittee from Mr. McCarthy for this inquiry , confirmed that he had discussed with Senator McCarthy by telephone yesterday the question of whether the Senator should leave the subcommittee entirely during the investigation . Senator Mundt said that Senator McCarthy had said he wanted to withhold a final decision until he had conferred with other subcommittee members . Mr. McCarthy , who has ? relinquished the right to vote in this inquiry , has said he wished to retain all the powers of crossexamination that are accorded to - committee members . The subcommittee apparently is willing to give him the same cross-examination rights accorded Army officials . Republicans and Democrats alike feel that he should not question from the bench along with other subcommittee members . The subcommittee , which has named Ray Jenkins special counsel for the inquiry , today- apIproved the , appointment of Solis Horwitz , Pittsburgh and Washington lawyer , as assistant codnIsel , and the selection of Robert Collier of Washington as an investigator . Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ counsel of the Reconstruction Finance Corporation when ? Senator Stuart Symington , Democrat of Missouri , was its administrator . He served at R. F. C. from May , 1951 , until July , 1953 , under Republicans as well as Democrats . Collier , a 37-year-old native of Texas , was an agent of the Federal Bureau of Investigation in Washington from April , 1941 , until October , 1951. 