@@712854

txt First Jet Liner Seen Here Flies From Toronto in Hour The Avro jet liner in flight over Idlewild airport The New York Times ( by Sam Falk ) The Avro jet liner , the first tur- Piloted by Donald H. Rogers , bojet transport plane ever flown in chief test pilot for A. V. Roe Canthe United States , arrived yester-lada , Ltd. , manufacturer of the day at New York International ' ' sixty-passenger airliner , the jet Airport , Idlewild , Queens , after a liner 's departure from Toronto was flight from Toronto that took clocked at 9:30:04 A. M. It arslightly less than one hour . rived at Idlewild at 4xactly 10:30 The sleek new air liner received A. M. , making its flight time prolonged welcome from the sevfifty- a nine minutes and fifty-six seconds . eral hundred spectators who gath-the Mr. Rogers said he spent ered at the airport to witness its first twelve minutes in the air climbing to a cruising altitude of first landing outside of Canada , 20,000 feet . From that point on where it was built @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ three crew members , three passengers and the world 's first " jet-borne " airmail , the fourengined plane set a record for the 365-mile flight from Moulton Airport , Toronto , to Idlewild , his average speed was 400 miles an hour . For a short time he was making 425 miles an hour , aided by a tail wind . One of the passengers , Gordon R. , president of Trans // AVRO JET LINER ARRIVES HERE FROM CANADA Welcomers around Canadian-built plane at Idlewild with scroll inviting New York to the Inter . national Trade Fair in Toronto on May 29 . At the left center is James J. O'Brien , wearing Indian headdress , representing Mayor O'Dwyer , and at the right is Kenneth A. Greene , Canada 's Consul General . Next to O'Brien is Donald H. Rogers , pilot of the plane . The New York Times HUGE JET AIRLINER HERE FROM CANADA // Canada Air Lines , predicted that jet air liners would be in use in two to five years , pointing out that the present model , equipped with Rolls-Royce Derwent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It is expected that future jet liners will be powered by high thrust turbojet engines now in production at Avro 's plant in Toronto . Six hours after the jet plane landed , Sigmund Janas , president of Colonial Airlines , warned against the premature ' use of untried airline equipment , urging that no airliner be put to passenger . use until it had been thoroughly proved as a freight carrier . Colonial , which operates domestically and flies to Canada and Bermuda , commemorated yesterday twenty years of accident-free service . Plane Has No Propellers The jet liner weighs 60,000 pounds and is almost the same size as some of the four-engine conventional airliners made in the United States . It has high horizontal tail surfaces , no propellers and long turbojet engines that extend beyond the leading and trailing edges of the wing . The new plane will remain at Idlewild until Friday , when it will be returned to Canada . Meanwhile it will make several demonstration flights . It was brought here in connection with the aeronautic meeting of the Society of Automotive Engineers . A @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ jet liner to the domestic airlines of this country . Among the officials who greeted the jet liner at Idlewild were James J. O'Brien , deputy commissioner of the city Department of Commerce who represented Mayor O'Dwyer ; Kenneth A. Greene , Consul General of Canada in New York ; Col. Ora Young , regional administrator of the Civil Aeronautics Administration and George , superintendent of Idlewild Airport . Brought to New York aboard the jet liner were several gifts for Mayor O'Dwyer , sent to him in connection with the Canadian International Trade Fair to be held at Toronto from May 29 to June 9 . The presents included an Indian headdress and a pipe of friendship . Gives Demonstration Flight Mr. Rogers gave a flight demonstration in the jet liner when reception formalities were completed at the airport . To celebrate its two decades without injury to either passenger or crew members Colonial Airlines conducted a press flight to Montreal and back . When the plane returned to La Guardia Airport late in the afternoon Mr. Janas said : " I have argued for years and will continue @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ commercial air transportation unless it is flown at least 3,000 hours as a freight carrier or in some type of work where it receives the necessary take-offs and landings and has tested the normal weather that all planes in scheduled air transportation must overcome . " By all means we should give encouragement to builders of new equipment , but we should use that equipment only after it has been proved to be of the quality justifying our confidence and only after it has been shown that it is free of bugs and is safe . " Faster equipment of the jet type will require adjustments in our airports , the extension of the runways and improved control of flying around any airport they intend to use . These things are not accomplished overnight . "                     