@@717753

txt Assistant Overseas News Editor of The Christian Science Monitor Loo ? " g darkly above the pattern of weekend events iii Jordan , Syria , Israel , and Egypt is the dangerous ascendancy of Arab extremists in the Middle East . In Jordan , following the ouster of Lt. Gen. John Bagot Glubb ( Glubb Pasha ) as Arab Legion commander , thousands of nationalists still roamed the streets cheering the " Arabization " of Jordan 's Army . . Echoing their cheers , a Jordanian newspaper called Al Jihad ( Holy War ) declared the legion now had been unleashed to make war on Israel . In Syria , three Israeli policemen were killed March 4 by Syrian coastal positions northeast of the Sea of Galilee despite a warning to Syria by United Nations truce officials that the Israelis were approaching the shore merely to salvage a stranded boat . Angrily an Israeli spokesman branded the incident " a ' wanton attack . " Separately , Israeli Premier David BenGurion told a Mapai Party ' meeting that he had heard King Hussein of Jordan declare " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Let him try , " Mr. Ben-Gurion said . Egypt in Charge In Cairo , Egyptian , Syrian , and Saudi Arabian leaders met to discuss their mutual defense pact which has placed the armed forces of the three states under Egyptian command . Earlier all three countries had pledged support to Jordan if the latter were attacked by Israel . The British Government , meanwhile , recalled some 15 British senior officers from the Arab Legion . When Prime Minister Sir Anthony Eden told the House of Commons March 5 that King Hussein 's government had declared its intention to honor its treaty with Britain despite dismissal of General Glilbb , members of the opposition broke into ironical cheers . Moscow , which has done its best to fan Arab-Isfaeli tempers by selling arms to Egypt and Syria , cheered on Jordan in its dismissal of General Glubb . Underlying these events ; in the view of Westerr observers , was the danger that the Arab states , flushed with new arms and the removal of General Glubb 's restraining hand from the best army in the Arab world , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it was felt . was the possibility that Israel might use an incident such as the ' March 4 Galilee clash to launch a " preventive " war against the Arabs before the latter became too strong , No Sign of Receding The present rush of events inimical to peace and stability and to Western interests in the Middle East shows no sign of receding . The acceleration of these events , and the recent slide from moderation toward extremism in the Arab world , can be traced in large part to Iraq 's adherence to the Baghdad Pact in February , 1955 . When Iraq , fearful of a threat to its oil fields from the Soviets in the north , joined the Western-sponsored Baghdad alliance , Egypt strove to isolate Iraq from the rest of the Arab world . Egypt 's motives were partly jealousy of Iraq 's growing influence in the Middle East , and partly anger that Iraq , rather than Egypt , had decided the relationship of an Arab state to the Western-backed pact . Utilizing Syrian and SaudiArabian distrust of Iraq , Egypt concluded a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with those of Egypt under Cairo 's over-all command . Last December , when Britain urged Jordan to join the Baghdad alliance in return for increased aid to the Arab Legion , Egyptian agents and Saudi Arabian funds allegedly were employed to stir up opposition to the pact within Jordan . Bursts of rioting in Jordanian towns caused three Cabinets in Amman to fall , and led King Hussein to abandon plans to enter his kingdom in the Baghdad Pact . ' Attack Sought ? 1 , eacting the riots at that time were Jordanians from Palestine , who had become citizens of Jordan following the Arab-Jewish war of 1948 , and who were concerned lest Jordanian leaders . " forget " the Palestine problem if Jordan joined the Baghdad alliance . Encouraged by their success and by Egyptian support , these Palestinian-Jordanians , occupying half the seats in Parliament and holding half Jordan 's Cabinet posts , expanded their demands to the ouster of General Glubb , known for his restiraining influence on the legion . Against this pressure King Hussein could not hold out , and indeed , apparently @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that General Glubb had opposed the strengthening of the legion in the face of the Israeli threat . Ultimate aim of these Palestinian extremists , however , would appear not to be limited to Arabization of the Arab Legion . It would appear to be , rather , an attack on the old Palestine homeland , now Israel . Britain watches Mideast crisis : Page 5.                     