@@717974

txt Letters to The Times Wasteful Spending Charged Plans to Remodel . Capitol and to Increase Office Space Opposed Unwarranted Expense The proposed third House Office Building is estimated to cost $64 millions . In my opinion the House Representatives are pretty well housed now and this expenditure , is certainly not warranted under present conditions . Remodeling the second House Office Building to provide threeroom suites for House Representatives is , I believe , equivalent to throwing good money into the sewer . I am fully in accord with the statement made by Representative H. R. Gross of Iowa  --  namely " * * now or in the foreseeable future I may have a hole in the head , but I can say I need a third office like I need another hole in the head . We are . getting super-duper in the matter of spending taxpayers ' money . " I would like to point out that in my forty years of business experience I have never seen even the highest-ranking executives of industrial organizations requiring threeroom suites to conduct their business . The difference @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into the pockets of the public and take their money , but must generate funds from earnings derived from operations so efficiently conducted that it is able to meet the most dynamic competition in its field of endeavor . I sincerely hope that if both houses pass these wasteful proposals our worthy President will exercise his veto power . LOUIS E. HANSON . Hartsdale , N. Y. , June 7 , 1956 . Statement on Teachers Backed To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : The New York Times editorial of June 7 entitled " The Teachers ' Opportunity " is a forthright and sensible statement concerning the recent development regarding teachers ' salaries . I am certain that your message to the teachers , urging their return to a full day 's work as the best means of regaining public support , will be a persuasive force in bringing peace to our schools . It is gratifying to us that The New York Times endorses the actions taken by the superintendent and me in our honest endeavor to do the right thing for both the children and the teachers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ editorial that The Times hopes " to join , as we always have before , for better salaries for teachers " will be a strong factor in encouraging a more sensible attitude on the part of the dissident elements among the teaching staff . I earnestly hope that the tetv.hers will heed your plea for their own sake and that of our children . CHARLES H. SILVER , President , Board of Education . Brooklyn , June 8 , 1956 . To Combat Anti-Americanism To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : A White House conference for distinguished leaders in various fields is scheduled for June 12 to discuss how Americans traveling abroad might better serve their country as " goodwill envoys . " This is a very important step in the direction of winning the cold war , for each United States citizen when he travels to a foreign country serves as an " unofficial ambassador " and lends either good or bad to the name of his country by his every word and deed . It is reported that many people abroad erroneously believe that we are concerned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ communistic propaganda , is that we lack " culture . " These false ideas are being cleared effectively by our Information Agency , the Department of State 's exchange program and by the President , who , through his emergency fund for cultural exchange is rendering a great service to the nation by making known abroad our high cultural attainments . However , in spite of these gains , experts returning from foreign countries say that our sincerity con ? cerning world peace and friendliness toward peoples of other races is doubted . This implies a serious psy. chological impasse in the cold war . President Eisenhower is moving wisely to enlist the cooperation a learned individuals and private agencies to combat it by means of a " people-to-people " program . JOHN E. MERKEL Jr. , zxecutive Director , Unofficial Ambassadors , Inc . Washington , June 4 , 1956 . Problems of Mental Health Current Needs of Patients Outlined , Legislative Study Favored To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK Tams t The past year has produced numerous forward steps by Governor Harriman and Mental Hygiene Commissioner Hoch in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there remain numerous problems worthy of the attention of New York citizens . ? ? Increased appropriations are needed for drugs , so that all mental hospital patients who might be benefited will receive the new drug therapies . Wheel chairs are needed in many hospitals where the patient is not only mentally ill but also bedridden . Since patients may not smoke in bed , lack of wheel chairs often means that they can not be taken to day rooms or porches for the smoke that is as comforting and enjoyable to the patient as it is to us on the outside . Families of long-term patients , who have for years traveled many miles to distant hospitals and borne the high cost of such travel , , should be given more equitable treatment . There is no reason why transfer of long-term patients should not be permitted after a period of years . It is unjust for the Department of Mental Hygiene to require some families permanently to visit distant hospitals while others , whose patients may have been admitted only recently , have the privilege of visits to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bus for a 15-cent fare . Part-time Workers Although a shortage of social workers has existed for years , the Department of Mental Hygiene has refused to hire on a part-time basis the many trained women who , having dropped out of social work for personal and family reasons , are now available for part-time work . The claim that part-time social workers can not be used effectively has not been substantiated . The returned patient , after discharge from a mental hospital , needs a job more than anything else . A few agencies have struggled heroically and have helped a small percentage of returned patients . But there is needed still a massive effert to educate industry to accept the former patient ; until that is accomplished many patients will suffer relapses because society refuses to help them return to the community and resume normal , everyday activities . Although the New York State Constitution requires it , the Legis ? lature has not in many years , if ever , conducted a thorough investigation of the manner and extent to which the state and local governments are protecting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ high time that a joint legislative committee on mental health was created to do an exhaustive study of this problem . A bill sponsored by our association to create such a committee failed of adoption by the 1956 Legislature . DAVID N. FIELDS , President , Association for Improvement of Mental Health , Inc . New York , June 1 , 1956 . To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Any person who has read , carefully or otherwise , the reports issued by the Hoover Commission as a result of their study of governmental activities must be greatly concerned with the monumental amount of funds expended needlessly . It would seem to me that Congress , viewing these reports , should realize that moneys collected under present laws must be treated similarly to trust funds and therefore do everything in its power to eliminate wasteful spending . Any appropriations approved should constitute " musts " because they would benefit materially the country as a whole . It is apparent , however , that Congress is completely ignoring any theory of conserving funds in ' order to balance budgets @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ debt and taxes . This is clearly evidenced by the recent proposals to remodel the Capitol Building ; to construct a third House Office Building and to remodel two House Office Buildings so as to convert their present two-room suites to three and provide a new restaurant and garage . The estimated cost of these projects is about $125 millions , but , based on past records , it is not unreasonable to believe that these projects will cost in excess of $150 millions . With respect to the remodeling of the Capitol , this has been discussed for fifty years , and I urge that this discussion be continued for another fifty years . The esthetic and historical value of the Capitol is famous both nationally and internationally , and to change the present set-up would , to me , be equivalent to a criminal offense . Dangers Seen in X-Ray Use To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : In your issues of May 23 and 24 Associated Press dispatches reported proceedings of the second World Congress on Fertility and Sterility , being held in Naples . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ York Medical College as saying that " sterility in some women now could be overcome by carefully controlled X-ray treatment of the ovaries and the pituitary gland . " The second story was headed " Use of Xray as Aid in Childbirth Cited . " This quoted Dr. Ira I. Kaplan of New York as stating : " It is safe to report that X-ray therapy properly administered to the pituitary and ovaries of the infertile woman is effective and harmless to the mother , her children and her children 's children . " The undersigned wish to record their vigorous dissent from these statements . There is abundant evi ? dence that exposure of either ovaries or testes to ionizing radiation such as X-rays is associated with damage to the genetic material . Irradiation of germinal tissue inexorably in ? creases the mutation rate . That the grandchildren of irradiated women appear to be normal does not negate the fact that these grandchildren may be the carriers of X-ray produced " recessive " mutations . Even though the effects of our actions may be far in the future , we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ area of endeavor the future generations are at our mercy . The X-ray irradiation of human germinal tissue is fraught with hazard . LYTT I. GARDNER . H. J. MULLER . Syracuse , N. Y. , May 31 , 1956.                     