@@714720

txt A bullet fired by an East German police border guar grazed a United States military policeman a n d damaged his jeep today in an incident th at prompted a quick American protest to the Russians . Maj. Gen. Lem- uel Mathewson , Pvt . Chenevert the American commandant , denounced the shooting as " this latest example of barbaric and undisciplined violence by police under soviet control . " He demanded punishment of the German in a letter to Sergei Dengin , Russian political chief in Berlin , and assurance " that such deplorable incidents will not occur in the future . " Shot Without Provocation Pvt . Wilfred P. Chenevert ; of North Grafton , Mass. , serving here with the 759th military po ' lice battalion , was seared on the left leg by the bullet as he was turning around near a sign marking the line between the American sector and the Russian zone . Mathewson said the shot came " without warning and without provocation . " CA Reuters dispatch reported an eyewitness , West Berliner Carl Lange , 54 , said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had turned and was across the white line well inside its own sector . 1 saw the East German policeman kneel down behind the bushes and take deliberate aim . " Chenevert 's wound was slight and he was able to return to duty after first aid treatment . His patrol mate , Pvt . Robert D. Oswald , was not injured . The bullet damaged the engine of the jeep . Chenevert was the first American casualty in the latest Berlin crisis , growing out of* communist efforts to frighten West Germany into not ratifying her military and political alliance with western nations . Trouble with French Fifty Russian soldiers fired , warning shots into the air to drive a detail of West Berlin police from a disputed Frohnau church cemetery astride the French sector 's border with the Russian zone , then backed off to negotiate when French military police moved up . The few square yards of graves Ithat lie in the Russian zone had only symbolic worth , but the Russian gunplay emphasized the critical pressure now being exerted on the city 's borders . Two German @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sectors tonight by mixed squads of Russian soldiers and communist police . About 450 young East Germans , fearing conscription in a Russian sponsored national army , fled to western occupied sectors . Seven hundred slipped across yesterday , appealing for refuge . The East Gernian People 's police have ringed Berlin with 5,000 armed men .                     