@@714135

txt As school bells ring across the nation , with a record throng of some 33,000,000 pupils responding , educators are calling upon all Americans for increased moral and financial support of  --  the country 's school system . Hitting back at critics who see communism under every school desk , Willard E. Givens , executive secretary of the National Education Association , declares that if communism comes to the United States , " it will not come through the educational institutions . " Communists Banned . Communism , he declares in the annual report of the profession to the public , is " aided and abetted , not retarded " by critics whose " fears and tensions over the possibility of losing our way of life have driven them to the point . of hysteria in attempts to defend it by clamorous protest . " He sees the defense of America against the encroachments of totalitarianism in any form as " a solemn obligation " upon every citizen . But he emphasizes that this should not mean the exclusion of controversial subjects from the classroom , as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ programs and developments of which they do not approve would " cut back education below the thinking level , " in his opinion , and " destroy the usefulness of the school in preparing youth ? for intelligent understanding of what their country has done and is doing . " As evidence that the NEA has no Communist sympathies , Dr. Givens cited the fact that the association has only recently reaffirmed its position against employment of Communists as teachers in the public schools , and has banned Communists from membership in its ranks . Dollar a Day " In the practice of politics and economies , American citizens have never been in full agreement , " the report states . " It can hardly be expected that there will be full agreement regarding the teaching of these studies . But there is a common ground of principle that must be found and respected if we are to produce tomorrow 's leaders from the classroom students of today . " On the subject of the cost of education , it was reported that , in the school year 1948-49. it cost @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , or hardly more than a dollar a day . Educators Disturbed That the cost is increasing . he did not deny , and the fact that there is some criticism over this increasing cost is disturbing to educators . The NEA believes that the American public is fully capable of paying this cost , however , holding up the $4,225,000,000 spent for tobacco , $8,000,000,000 for alcoholic beverages , and nearly $2 , - . 000.000,000 for amusements in 1949 against the $5,000,000,000 cost for schools . ? " A people who expend for three luxury items in one year nearly three times the cost of schools are not straining themselves to support education , " the report observed .                     