@@717052

txt A week 's precautionary delay in starting polio vaccinations for school children in New York City and upstate was ordered today . The rew target date will be May 1.6 , as against a tentative start set for next Monday . City and state health officials said the delay would permit them to benefit from advice of a committee of experts meeting in Washington to evaluate the . relation-chip of the vaccine to polio cases that have occurred after inoculations . BY LAURENCE BURD ? , ( Picturt on page 2 : : ( Chicago TriSune Preas Service Washington , May 4 ? President . Eisenhower is ready to propose federal purchases and allotments of Salk . vaccine if any children are deprived of the polio shots because of inability to pay , the White House said today . The White House announced this after Mr. Eisenhower told a news conference no child in the nation will be denied the vaccine " for want of ability to pay . " The President told his newt conference he had considered and rejected over-all federal controls of the vaccine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the various states for distribution within their borders is best . Calls It Safe , %Vise Mr. Eisenhower said that in his opinion , , as in that of an expert government advisory group , it is beth safe and wise to go ahead with the inoculations , altho some inoculated children have been stricken with polio . Presidential Press , Secretary James C. , Hagerty , elaborating on the President 's position later in the day , noted that available supplies of the vaccine are being allotted thru the National Foundation . for Infantile Paralysis with the federal government 's blessing . Hagerty , add-ed , however , that Mr. Eisenhower is determined that all children shall have an opportunity to be vaccinated , regardless of ability to pay . " If a situation ever develops in this country where children are deprived of the vaccine be- ' ? cause of inability to pay , " Hagerty said , " the President would immediately ask Congress for authority to permit the secretary of health , education , and welfare to buy the entire output of the vaccine , other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " An Emergency Period " " The department , in turn , . ? should this situation happen , would be in position to distribute free . of cost to the states their allotted share of the vaccine over an emergency period . " Hagerty said no emergency has developed that would . call for federal purchases . Asked whether the President 's pledge to buy up the vaccine in all emergency would continue inReproduced with permission of the copyright owner . Further reproduction prohibited without permission . definitely , Hagerty said he did not know . He also could not answer how or whether private physicians would be paid for giving shots of federal supplied vaccine , if such a program were . instituted . The President opened his news conference with a seven minute statement on the Salk vaccine program . He said distribution  --  s being made " equitably to every state " under standards approved by an advisory commission to Health Secretary Hobby . Cites Testing Problem He said there is the problem of testing the vaccine for safety as well as the distribution problem , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ being used are safe . The President said he has no evidence of racketeering or bleat marketing of the vaccine . He conceded that a small anfount of the vaccine was distributedcommercially , outside the polio foundation channels , but said this was stopped when it was apparent the demand exceeded the available supply . Asked whether ' he had considered compulsory federal controls on the vaccine 's dis ? tribution , the President said he had gone into this fully and had concluded the present ' noncompulsory system is the quickest and most equitable . The public health service , meanwhile , reported that Salk vaccine doses approved for use have fallen 01/2 million behind estimates made a week ago . The agency said it has approved 101/2 million doses for distribution , compared with an earlier estimate that 17 million would be available by now . The health service said ona factor in the slowdown was the ban on vaccine produced by Cutter Laboratories in Berkeley , Cal .. after some children getting Cutter shots contracted polio . It has withheld action on 3,900,000 cc. awaiting additional data . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ protocols up to this afternoon covering 14,780,000 cc. , exclusive of the product of the Cutter laboratories . T h e protocoiS are technical reports on the manufacture and testing of batches of vaccine . Senators in Parley The health service also reported f our new confirmed cases of polio among children who have received the Salk vaccine , bringing the national total to 33 . In addition , the service said , 10 more suspected cases are being investigated . In New Orleans , meanwhile , the 21/2 year old grandson of Dr. Alton Octisner , noted surgeon , died of polio eight days after he had received the Salk vaccine . The child was Eugene ? , Allen Davis Jr . Ochsner Foundation hospital authorities reported he was given an injection of serum obtained from the Cutter laboratories . A spokesman said doctors did not believe the vaccine was responsible for the onset of the disease .                     