@@717437

txt Correspondents of The New York 74.77148 in Egypt and Israel were asked to report on the attitude toward renewed warfare of leaders in the countries where they are stationed . Their reports follow . EGYPT ADDS TO ARMS By KENNET'r LOVE Special to The New York Times . CAIRO , Oct. ** in the Middle East had a very short fuse on Sept. 1 . The Egyptian high command wanted to " punish " Israel for a damaging reprisal raid on the Gaza Strip the night before . Israeli forces , marshaled in the Negev , were waiting for the Egyptians to step across the line . The mood in Jerusalem and TelAviv , among civilians left after the major overnight mobilization , was " let 's get it over with . " Premier Gamal Abdel Nasser of Egypt said " no " to his angry generals , snuffing the fuse on a situation that was as simple and explosive as a stick of dynamite . In the succeeding seven weeks the situation has become as complicated and explosive as the first atom bomb . Nobody knows @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will go off , but everybody expects that if it does go , off the explosion will have global rather than regional proportions . Soviet Arms Soviet guns , traded for Egyptian cotton , have been added to the variegated assortment of Arab weapons . Syria , which has also been offered Communist arms , joined Egypt on Thursday in what promises to be the first effective purely Arab defense treaty . Saudi Arabia , the third Arab recipient of a Soviet arms offer , has hinted that she might become more than just a. " spiritual adherent of the Damascus pact . " Premier Nasser believes that despite the increased gravity of the circumstances  --  or perhaps because of it  --  the threat of war has actually been reduced , although he . has not relaxed his military and political , precautions . The defense treaty with Syria , was rammed home to a conclusion after months of desultory negotiations when Israel 's reaction to the Egyptian purohase of Czechoslovak arms became an international issue . And Col , Salah Gohar , director of Palestine affairs , who deals with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has postponed indefinitely his scheduled trip to New York for the United Nations debate on the Palestine Arab refugee problem . Premier Nasser said that Czech arms would cut down Israel 's military preponderance and make . Israelis begin to think twice before launching military operations against him . Rightly or wrongly , Premier Nasser blames the frontier violence on what he believes is Israeli Premier-designate David BenGurion 's willingness to risk and perhaps provoke war to destroy Egypt 's resistance to signing a peace treaty . The major threat of war on the Egyptian frontier is Israel 's intention to throw the Egyptian blockade forces out of the Gulf of Aqaba . If Israel loses her confidence in beating Egypt , Premier Nasser believes she will not try conclusions in the gulf . United States diplomats questioned by this correspondent accept Premier Nasser 's assertion that he does not want war and will not begin one . George V. Allen , Assistant Secretary of State for Middle Eastern Affairs , said Premier Nasser had pared the military budget last winter to the point of a dispute with his general staff @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on Israel was considered in Washington to be very remote . Although neither side wants war both are preparing lest it come . Nobody in Cairo , either Westerners or Egyptian officers , was willing this week to make a concrete estimate of the chances of war . It was merely noted that there was no skirmishing at present : The one group in the Middle East which feels that it has nothing to lose by war is the Palestine Arab refugees who are developing desperate nihilism . It is possible that bands from the camps of the Gaza Strip or Jordan  --  refugees have been moved away from the Syrian and Lebanese frontiers ? may feel the time is ripe for forays into Israel in the hope of a war that would annihilate their dispossessors . Both Disavow Intention to Attack But Both Also Look to Arms                     