@@720118

txt The Atomic Energy Commission plans to concentrate future development work on just a few nuclear reactor types which seem most likely to produce cheap electric Dower . Only five reactor concepts , a top A.E.C. policymaker disclosed , are likely to be chosen for full-scale commercial development . He indicated the commission will give up on the other , less promising reactor types now under study . This decision , which has not yet been made public , marks a significant change in A.E.C. thinking . Until now , the commission has favored the simultaneous development of many different reactor types , as long as they offer hope of hastening the arrival of cheap atomic power . The Joint Congressional Atomic Energy Committee is believed sure to balk , at least initially , at such an A.E.O. policy change . The committee thinks the U.S. should push work on more reactor types , rather than less . The shift in A.E.C. thinking may well have a marked dollar-and-cents impact on the nuclear industry . Companies specializing in the reactor types chosen for future development will have a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has backed one of the concepts to be abandoned by the A.E.C. may find it knows how to build a reactor that will be hard to sell . Little Doubt on Three Types Top A.E.C. officials confide there 's little doubt about three of the concepts slated for future development  --  the boiling water , organic moderated , and gas-cooled types . They figure the fourth most likely will be a fast breeder type . They can see several candidates for the fifth spot on the list . The best bet , they believe , seems to be one of the liquid fuel type of reactors . One surprise is the omission from the list of the pressurized water concept , which so far has been the most popular in this country . In this type , water under such high pressure that it wo n't boil takes the heat out of the reactor core to a boiler where it produces steam . In advanced versions , however , pressurized water and boiling water reactors have become quite . similar . An A.E C. decision to emphasize only five reactor types @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to study other concepts . Nor does it mean the commission will completely abandon basic research on new and different concepts . But it does mean the commission will help underwrite construction of bigger plants only if they fit into the categories deemed most promising . The boiling water and organic moderated types , officials say , offer the most short-range promise  --  that is , over the next five to 10 years . In a boiling water reactor , water is pumped , through the reactor core , where the heat from fissioning 4toms of uranium turns the water to steam . In the organic moderated reactor , oil or wax is used to take heat qut of the core . The liquid then goes to a boiler where it heats water to steam . In both types , the steam spins turbines which generate electricity . General Electric Co. is a leading exponent of the boiling water type . Recently , it outlined a plan to build 50 small boiling water power plants and five bigger ones in the next few years . GE already has been chosen to provide @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ s Dresden , Ill. , plant , and Pacific Gas &; Electric Co. ' s Romboldt Bay , Calif. , plant . ACF Industries , Inc. , is slated to build a boiling water reactor for the Elk River Rural Cooperative in Minnesota , while Allis-Chalmers Manufacturing Co. will build at boiling water reactor for Northern States Power Co. ' s pathfinder project in South Dakota . , Atomics International , a division of North American Aviation , Inc. , had led in the development of the organic moderated reactor . This company built the A.E.C. ' 3 organic moderated experiment at Arco , Idaho , and will provide the reactor for the proposed Piqua , Ohio , municipal plant if a satisfactory site can be found . It 's also understood Westinghouse Electric Corp . and Burlington , Vt. , are trying to agree on plans to build an organic , moderated plant . The gas-cooled reactor , another type in line for future development , uses helium , nitrogen or carbon dioxide to take heat out of the reactor core . This gas can then either be used to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , or to spin the turbine itself and return to the core in a closed circuit . Two power plants using gas-cooled reactors have been proposed . The first , to be built in Florida , would use a reactor designed by General Nuclear Engineering Corp . The second , proposed just recently by Philadelphia Electric Co. and 53 other utilities , would use a reactor designed by the General Atomic division of General Dynamics Corp . In addition , GE , Atomics International , American Radiator &; Sta.ndafd Sanitary Corp. , and Kaiser engineers with ACF Industries have studied the gascooled concept for the A.E.C. Fait Breeders Studies The fast breeder type appeals to the A E.C . because it would produce more atomic fuel than it burns , in addition to generating electricity . One is being built near Monroe , Mich It will use a reactor designed by Atomic Pol , ver Development Associates , Inc. , which has 38 corporate members . Most studies of fast breeders so far use sodium to take heat out of the core . Thus , this type of reactor is similar @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ A E.C . at Santa Susana , Calif. , and Hallam , Neb . The liquid fuel concept is n't as far along as the others  --  and has been posing tough technical problems . Earlier this week , for instance , Westinghouse Electric Corp . and Pennsylvania Power &; Light Co. abandoned their plans to build a power plant using a reactor fueled by a slurry of heavy water , uranium and thorium . The A.E.C. is testing a homogeneous meted reactor at its Oak Ridge , Term. , laboratory , while a test reactor ruled with a liquid metal is under study at the A.E.C. 's Brookhaven , N.Y. , lab . A possibility , if the liquid fueled concepts seem too complicated , is that the A.E.C. instead might decide to emphasize the heavy water types . They use the heavy water , which contains an extra amount of hydrogen , to make the chain reaction more efficient . Westinghouse will provide a heavy water cooled and moderated reactor for a plant proposed by group of utilities in Virginia and the Carolinas . The Florida gas-cooled reactor will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Anchorage , Alaska , reactor designed by Nuclear Development Corp . of America . Westinghouse built the Shippingsport , Pa. , reactor , the nation 's first atomic power plant . and is providing a similar pressurized water unit for the Yankee Atomic Electric Co. plant near Rowe , Mass . Babcock &; Wilcox is furnishing a pressurized water reactor for the plant Consolidated Edison Co. is building north of New York City . A.E C. officials say the pressurized water type is fine for Naval vessels  --  one is used in the submarine Nautilus  --  because it is unusually safe , but lacks the potential for long-range commercial power development .                     