@@715808

txt President Eisenhower today issued an executive order directing that a government employe 's refusal to testify before a congressional committee on the constitutional ground of selfincrimination be made the basis for firing . The order 13roxnell added this basis to seven other grounds for discharging government workers listed in an executive order of last April 27 covering security requirement 's for federal employment . The other grounds include such offenses as espionage , association with subversives , excessive drinking , and sexual perversion . The new eighth specification reads " refusal by the individual , upon the ground of constitutional privilege against self-incrimina-. tion , to testify before a congres ? sional committee regarding charges of his alleged disloyalty or other misconduct . " Necessary for Security The President said in his order he found " such action necessary in the best interests of the naticinal security . " James C. Hagerty , White House press secretary , commented the order was another effort to " close up all possible loopholes " in the government 's security program . Discussing the order later in the day in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Gen. Brownell asserted that when Congress convenes in January he will ask enactment of legislation giving the attorney general authority  --  perhaps with the concurrence of appropriate " members of Congress ? to grant immunity from prosecution to witnesses who refuse to testify at congressional investigations under the : protection of the fifth amendment to the Constitution . The fifth amendment says no person may be cornpelled.to testify against himself . Would Have to Testify In exchange for this immunity , Brownell explained , the witness would be compelled to testify or produce books and records . If the witness still refused , to answer questions , he could be held in contempt of Congress and face a jail sentence and fine . In recent years , many witnesses have refused to testify at congressional investigations .                     