@@720155

txt Governor Rockefeller announced yesterday the appointment of Joseph J. Caputo. , New York City lawyer , as the State Rent Administrator . He will succeed Robert C. Weaver , who held the $18,500-a-year post under Go-v . Averell Harriman . The selection of Mr. Caputa , a former member of the Rackets Bureau in the Manhattan District Attorney 's office , pointed up the decision by the new Republican Administration to crack down on landlords who have escaped rent control by converting apartments into rooming houses . As part of its program to eliminate loopholes in the Rent Control Law , the Rockefeller Administration pions to give top priority to changes that will make it unprofitable to convert decent apartment buildings into slum dwellings . A provision of the rent law provides for the decontrol of housing when it is converted from apartments to a rooming house . As a result of conversion , landlords in many instances have been able to get several times the rent they obtained from the property while it was controlled . The conversion privileges , however , have resulted in some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ city . In some cases , whole families are being housed in single rooms , with rents ranging upward from $15 a week . Two years ago the Legislature sought to cope partly with the problem by providing for the recontrol of converted buildings where major health ' or fire hazards were found to I exist . But the law was weaklened by permitting decontrol again , once the conditions had been corrected . The principal abuse comes from overcrowding . The Rockefeller Administration is committed to the continuance of residential rent controls substantially as they exist . The Temporary State Commission on Rents and Rental Conditions is engaged in a study of amendments that may be necessary to make the law more workable . Assemblyman Joseph F. Carlino of Long Beach , L. I. , the Republican majority leader and charman of the Rent Commission , is particularly interested in improving administrative procedures . The complexity of procedures in his opinion has been one of the principal sources of complaints from both landlords and tenants seeking relief from the State Rent Administrator . The first objective of the commission , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and reasonable rents fixed on converted housing so that the rents will reflect stop ' the conversion of apartments , where a reasonable number of persons live into rooming houses in which ten to twelve times as ' many people can be crowded . According to figures compiled by the commission , 27 per cent of the people of Manhattan . live in rooming houses . The man the Rockefeller Administration has chosen to put : into fOrce any of the changes ' enacted by the Legislature joined the New York County , District Attorney 's office in ; 1939 , while it was headed by former Gov . Thomas E. Dewey. : Mr. Caputa , now 51 years old , ' remained in the office under , District Attorney Frank S. Ho-1 gan until 1946 . For three years , 1 from 1943 through 1945 , he . served as a captain in they Army , assigned to the Office : of Strategic Services . His assignment was as Chief of Political and Economic Intelligence in Italy , Albania andI Yugoslavia . Born in Cincinnati , Mr. Ca-i puta graduated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , was editor of the newspaper , The Campus . Three years later : he received a law degree from , Fordham University . He was in the private practice of law before joining the ; District Attorney 's office . He ' resigned from the office to prac-1 tice law in Italy and France , with offices in New York . In 1948 Mr. Caputa became : a Deputy Chief of Mission in ' the Marshall Plan and gained , extensive experience in the field of economic development . In 1954 , after the Korean conflict , he was appointed Deputy . Director of the Reconstruction and Development program . which distributed $500,000,000 ' in aid to Korea . Mr. Caputa has an , office at 501 Madison Avenue . He is married to the former Celia Ruth of Macon , Ga . They live at 310 East Forty-fourth Street .                     