@@713587

txt WASHINGTON , Feb. 2 ? General of the Army Dwight D. Eisenhower appealed to the country tonight to help raise about the free world " a wall of security " worthy of the free world 's traditions and past . It was a wall , he said in a report to the people , that must be manned with all steadfastness " until communistic imperialism dies of its own inherent evils . " Some hours before going to the public by radio and television , the general , as the Supreme Commander for Europe 's defense , had told committees of Congress bluntly that more United States troops must be sent to Europe , and sent soon . One United States unit dispatched now , he said , would be worth two or three later on in the drive it would add to the common European rearmament . After giving this advice to the armed services and Foreign Affairs Committees of the House of Representatives , the General walked briskly across the Capitol to tell a Senate Preparedness Subcommittee that his mission would be hopeless without the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the contribution of the United States to Europe in terms of ' ground troops , relative to the total force to be marshaled there on guard against Soviet attack , was to be " the small fraction and not the great fraction . " Still , he made it plain , it was an indispensable fraction and it had to be sent freely and without attempts at Congressional " ceilings " or limitations . This , for General Eisenhower was thus a day and evening of three reports : to the Housc Committees , to the Senate Subcommit // tee , and , finally , to the people of the country . The third of these messages was in a sense one to the world . The State Department 's international wireless system , the Voice of America , arranged to rebroadcast the General 's speech tomorrow in twenty-eight languages . Speaking tonight before a microphone in the great stone headquarters of every United States military enterprise , the Pentagon , General Eisenhower sought to stress above all the moral and morale basis of the alliance he heads to preserve Europe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " hysterical apprehension of the future " but rather to consider the vast strength of the Western world and to accept these three points : " First , the preservation of free America requires our participation in the defense of Western Europe . " Second , success is attainable . Given unity in spirit and action , the job can be done . " Third , while the transfer to Europe of American military units is essential , our major and special contribution should be in the field lof munitions and equipment . " Already , he said , there was enough military potential in the free nations and enough of everything else for their preservation , so long as there was " the determination to combine for mutual protection . " The chairmen of the two House committees , Representatives Carl Vinson , Democrat of Georgia , for the Foreign Affairs unit , and Representative Jame ? , P. Richards , Democrat of South Carolina , issued a statement on the testimony given by the General in private that said : " The General brought out in answers to questions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Western nations to build an effective defense force within a reasonable time . " He expressed confidence that European nations generally will work in full concert and union in building an effective military organization . " It was especially emphasized that Great Britain is contributing very powerfully to the Western effort , and the general expressed regret that , through inadvertence , he had failed to emphasize Britain 's efforts during his extemporaneous presentation to Congress on Feb . I. " He expressed great satisfaction at the stepping up of defense efforts in the last week . The general also expressed extreme pleasure and gratification at the news that Holland is about to redouble its defense effort . " Confronted by a Critic Before the Senate Preparedness Subcommittee , which is headed by Senator Lyndon B. Johnson , Democrat of Texas , General Eisenhower was confronted by the- one now active Republican critic of the nature of his plans Apr building a defensive force for Europe , Senator Kenneth S. Wherry of Nebraska the Republican Senate floor leader . Senator Wherry is the author of a pending Senate resolution that would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ without the prior sanction of Congress . General Eisenhower had come out yesterday against any attempt by Congress to apply mathematical ratios or flat ceilings to the United States troop contributions . Today , Senator Wherry attempted to revive the issue . He contended that the dispatch of troops to Europe would be an " extension " of the obligations undertaken by the United States in the North Atlantic Treaty . " Do you not feel , " he asked General Eisenhower , " that Congress should determine that policy of extension prior to any commitments by the Executive or anyone else outside of Congress ? " Balks at Policy Question " I am not going to be evasive , " the general replied , " but I am not going to try to answer that question , Senator , for two very logical reasons . " First , I am a soldier , and you have entered into a question of policy here . Secondly , I have not studied the whole question at all . " Pressed by Senator Wherry , General Eisenhower said also that he was unable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could make specific recommendations as to how many United States troops would have to be sent overseas . " Referring to your earlier question about policy , " he said , " as I see it I have been given a job in Europe that is difficult enough , but it would be rendered impossible of execution unless I knew that the bulk of opinion , the great overwhelming public opinion of the United States , were in support of what I am trying to do . " Therefore , as far as I am concerned , if the Congress were not willing to state that this is generally what we want done , I would have an awful thing to face . " In other words , " Senator Wherry asked , " you need flexibility ? And if we go into this policy should not the American people be advised that it might be one division sent to Europe or it might be more di1 visions and they should be willing to go all out to back up this policy ? " " Well , " replied General Eisenhower @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to go all-out to back up the policy . ' All-out ' does not mean to me that the policy is that the United States is attempting to pick up and carry the world and be its nursemaid . I do not mean that by any manner of means . " " You want flexibility and you want the American people to understand if they go in they have got to go all-out if necessary ? " asked Mr. Wherry . " That is correct , " said General Eisenhower , " and I do want it understood that for that type of force you are talking about in Europe the bulk must be produced by European nations . "                     