@@715533

txt The three Western powers demanded tonight that the Soviet Union lift its military barrier virtually cutting Berlin in two and denounced as a " travesty of justice " the Soviet execution of a West Berliner as an alleged instigator of yesterday 's riots . A note sent to their Soviet counterpart by the British , French and United States commandants in Berlin condemned the Russians ' " irresponsible recourse to military force " in quelling the disorders in the Soviet sector . The note declared that a " considerable number " of West Berliners had lost their lives or had been wounded by resulting gunfire . The Allied note also was sent in the names of the three Western High Commissioners in Bonn . Under the martial law proclaimed by Maj. Gen. P. T. Dibrova , Soviet commandant in East Berlin , a Russian firing squad executed a man charged with havinghelped to start the riots " on the orders of a foreign intelligence agency . " The Western note denied the executed man had any such connection with the rioting . It described the execution as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the world . " The wife of the executed man said he must have been caught in the disorders while passing through the Soviet sector to collect unemployment benefits . Soviet Guns Calm Sector Under the guns oi Soviet troops and tanks East Berlin appeared to be calm , but large numbers of workers still had not returned to work . The Soviet sector of Berlin was virtually sealed off from Western eyes . Only doctors , nurses and residents of East Berlin were allowed to cross the line from West Berlin . One or two Soviet tanks were stationed at the most important street crossings in the downtown area . Their guns were trained on West Berlin as though to underline the Communists ' contention that the primary source of their trouble lay with West Berlin " rowdies " and agents of foreign powers , ' who were alleged to have led the rioting . The West Berlin police raised their total of known casualties in yesterday 's fighting to five dead and 119 wounded . Of the dead , all but one were West Berliners , most of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at Potsdamerplatz , where the British , Soviet and United States sectors converge . Some of the wounded were East 1Berliners though all were in West Berlin hospitals , West Berlin police officials added . They believed // others had been wounded and possibly killed deep in the Soviet sector . Much of the fighting was within a block or two of West Berlin , so that the demonstrators could ; carry their casualties there . For the first time A. D. N. , official East German news agency , indicated that the disturbances had spread to other areas of East Germany . In a report from Jena , it said workers in the nationalized Zeiss optical plant there had agreed to make up the time lost in the last few days and . repair damage done to the plant . A. D. N. said the attitude of workers now was that " it is impossible and untenable that wages should be paid for hours in which no work was done . " Transport in East Berlin appeared to be returning to normal , despite the contention of antiCommunist labor groups @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ progress . A spot check of Western police outposts with views deep into Soviet sector showed that street-car service had been normal since 8 A. M. The East Berlin radio announced that two of the subway lines were in operation . It also said by 4 P. M. the damage done by the rioters to the elevated railway power supply system had been repaired . The actual functioning of these iwo systems could not be Verified because of the closing of the border . The elevated railway system in West Berlin was at a complete standstill . Ticket agents at the Zoo station in the British sector , where trains start for West Germany , said the trains were running as usual from East Berlin to various parts of the Soviet zone of Germany . Workers Remain Hostile The most serious problem facing the East German Government was the hostility of an important part of the working class  --  the group on which it must depend primarily for support .. The fact that workers in various factories were still on strike was reflected in appeals broadcast repeatedly by the East Berlin @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the morning a broadcast said " agents and provocateurs are loitering in front of factory gates trying to halt workers from going to their jobs . " In one case it announced that at the Kodak camera supply plant workers had seized " provocateurs " and turned them in to the authorities . In another broadcast an East German union , urging its members I to return to work , said " the union has suggested to the government , proposals for improving the standard of living . It will repdrt about them later today . Workers return to your jobs : " Another morning broadcast announced that East German and , Soviet troops had taken over " thel southwest factory " on the edge of East Berlin . The announcer declared that " some of the construction workers on the Stalin Allee housing project in the Soviet sector had returned to work . It was their demand for a reduction in the work norms that precipitated the first demonstration Tuesday . At noon the radio asserted that the " main body " of workers had returned to their jobs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The broadcast cited the need to keep supplies of food and other goods flowing into the city . 21 Persons Under Arrest The East German Government announced that twenty-one persons had been arrested so far in connection with the riots . There were two instances in which shooting was reported when small groups gathered near Potsdamerplatz this morning but all was between Berlin and West Germany quiet in the afternoon . The superhighway between Berlin and West Germany was closed during the curfew hours last night . Some believed this was to permit heavy Soviet troop movements . West Berlin was awash with rumors all day . In Gera , workers were said to have thrown members of the People 's Police from the windows of their barracks . In Magdeburg a crowd was said to have opened a prison for political prisoners . Otto Nuschke , East German deputy premier , continued in the custody of the West Berlin police after United States authorities had ' completed questioning him about the Government 's views on the riots . Bishop Otto Dibelius , head of he German Evangelical Church . appealed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who also is head of the Christian Democratic splinter group in East Germany , was pushed into the United States sector when rioters spotted his car . He is an important figure in the field of church-state relations . The East German radio enlarged a claim that the United States had had a hand in the riots by asserting that uniformed United States officers had directed the demonstrators from radio cars in West Berlin .                     