@@715316

txt At an unusually late session last night the City Council by a Note of 19 to 1 adopted a ) rent-control resolution offered by Majority Leader Joseph T. Sharkey and other Democrats asking the State Legislature either to vote down the proposed 15 per cent rise in rents or to let the city enact its own rent-control legislation . Co-sponsors of the rent resolution with Mr. Sharkey were , Charles E. Keegan of the Bronx , Frederick Schick ? of Richmond , Frank V. Smith of Queens and John J. Merli of Manhattan . In adopting this resolution the Council rejected a very simiiar ? rent control resolution drawn up last week by Council President Rudolph , Halley . The Sharkey resolution contended that studies of the city 's housing situation had proved " that there have been rent increases in one form or another inflicted upon the average tenant throughout the city , whether it Was by reduced service or actual " increase in rent or charges for privileges heretofore not charged . " For the last ten years , the resolution argued , apartment house @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reductions in service , deterioration and neglect of buildings have become " the accepted practice . " Mr. Halley was not present // when the vote substituting the Democratic resolution for his measure came at the late session ending at 8:30 P. M. Minority Leader Stanley M. Isaacs , Manhattan Republican-Liberal , cast the only negative vote against the Sharkey resolution , declaring that the state 's legislative proposal to increase rentals was " not too unreasonable and not too uujust . " Except where buildings were substandard , Mr. Isaacs argued , a 15 per cent increase in rents was generally justified . In a dramatic appearance before a City Council committee meeting at City Hall , Brooklyn District Attorney Miles , seeking passage of a home rule request for state legislation restricting the sale of ammunition in this city , dumped an assortment of rifles and " zip-guns " onto the committee table . Declaring that the rifle had been used to kill a Brooklyn man and that the " zip-guns , " crude homemade mechanisms fashioned of lead pipe with a striking mechanism operated by rubber bands @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ crimes , Mr. cried : " Any one of these could kill you and me . " The home rule bill , introduced by Councilman Jack Kranis , Brooklyn Democrat , sought approval of passage by the Legislature of a measure introduced in Albany by Assemblyman Frank J. Pino and Senator Louis Freedman , both Brooklyn Democrats . The Pino-Freedman bill would permit the purchase of ammunition in the city only by persons possessing hunting licenses issued by the State Conservation Department , city licenses for carrying pistols or licenses issued by incorporated rod and gun clubs affiliated with the National Rifle Association . Kranis Measure Adopted The Kranis measure was adopted by a vote of 17 to 3 by the late session of the full Council . Earlier it had received a favorable message from Mayor Impellitteri . Mr. 's plea for approval of the home rule request was made earlier in the day at a morning open meeting of the state legislation committee . At the morning meeting representatives of some fifty rod and gun clubs and sportsmen 's groups appeared in opposition to any restriction in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that hunters ' purchases of ammunition would be made outside of the city , with loss both of busines and of city sales tax revenue , Mr. argued that " the amount of business and sales taxes we lose are not worth the life of a single innocent citizen . " He added that " we are trying to prevent the sale of ammunition to young people to use in gang warfare . " The rifle displayed by the Kings District Attorney , it was explained , had been used in June , 1952 , by youngsters " bn a dare " to kill Rabbi Samuel Bernard London in McCarren Park , Brooklyn . A 17-to-3 vote also approved a resolution asking the State Legislature to prohibit the manufacture of switch-blade knives in the city . The switch-blade resolution was introduced by Mr. Kranis , and was supported by a Mayoral message . An 18-to-2 vote approved a Legislature bill dealing with service credit in the city retirement system that would affect several score of city employes , including Mayor Impellitteri . According to one informed observer , the Mayor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if he had credit for about two years in the Navy in World War I. Another service credit bill , said td affect City Treasurer Spencer C. Young 's pension , was laid over by the Council . The Council also approved a resolution urging passage of a bill by the Legislature adding the village of Deposit , in Delaware and Broome Counties , to other localities permitted to use water from city reservoirs . The " meeting adjourned until March 18 , with a memorial resolution in tribute to Cornelius A. Hall , former Richmond Borough President , who died last Thursday .                     