@@715355

txt President Eisenhower made it clear today that he did not intend to allow the Kremlin 's long catalogue of broken promises to interfere with his determination to explore the present Soviet peace offensive . The President told his sixth news conference this afternoon that he did not mean that he should ignore the history and frustrations of the past Communist peace feelers , but he added that ihe thought we should now take at face value every offer that was made to us until it was proved unworthy of our confidence . Meanwhile , officials at the State Department , who have been adding up all the recent Communist peace feelers , were saying tonight that they thought these amounted to the most active Communist effort to negotiate peace since the beginning of the Korean war . Peace Moves the First Question When the President walked into the press conference room in the old State Department Building , the first question asked was his estimate or analysis of these peace overtures . The President , who was dressed in a brown double-breasted suit , white shirt and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ guesswork involved in trying to answer such a question . But in this whole business of a peace approach , in which the hearts of America were so deeply involved , he observed , he thought that we should take at face value every offer that was made to us until it was proved insincere . When an offer comes along , he added , we should go right at it , just as it is meant , exactly as it is said . The President illustrated this by an example , and in the process he gave some indication of what he had meant in the past by saying that this Government would be impressed by Soviet deeds rather than by mere words . Sees Exchange as an Indication If the sick and wounded prisoners in Korea were exchanged , as Gen. Mark W. Clark , the United Nations commander , had requested and the Communists had approved , this would , the President said , be a clear indication that deeds rather than words or frustrating conversations were now coming into vi-sion Every right-thinking human person would welcome such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , rather than speculate further , he should say that this Government stood prepared to meet every honest advance from the other side . The President has been saying this , with more and more emphasis , every week since the new Government of Premier Georgi M. Malenkov took over in the Kremlin , but there was no indication , as yet , // that he was prepared to propose any specific meeting with the Russians on a general settlement . For example , he was asked today whether he had talked to the new United States Ambassador to the Soviet Union , Charles . E. Bohlen , who is leaving for Moscow tomorrow , about the possibility of arranging a meeting with Premier Malenkov . The President replied that he had seen Mr. Bohlen this afternoon but that he had not raised the possibility of seeing Mr. Malenkov because there was no basis at this particular moment for discussing it . No Message to Malenkov It was learned later that the President , Mr. Bohlen and Secretary of State John Foster Dulles had conferred for some time today lon , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reporter , however , whether Mr. Bohlen was carrying any personal message to the Soviet dictator , the President declined to comment . Later at the State Department it was declared that no special message had been given to Mr. Bohlen for the Soviet Premier . The United States will sit in on a series of conversations with the British , French and Russians on ways to avoid any more air incidents in Germany , but when he was asked about this today , the President said he had n't heard about it . He added , however , that he assumed that if any such invitation looked promising , he would accept it . In short , the President 's intention seems to be to approve negotiating specific points with the Communists as they come along ? first the sick and wounded prisoners proposal in Korea , and then the armistice talks there ? before jumping into any major discussion on political questions . This is in keeping with various actions by General Eisenhower in the past . He has tended to let bygones be bygones in his relations . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ discussions of general principles . And he has proceeded slowly , as he did in the military preparations in ' World War II and his diplomatic negotiations when he was head of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization forces in Paris . ? The Soviet and Chinese Communist proposals have , however , produced a great stir behind the scenes in the Federal Government . The proposals came before the Eisenhower Administration had ' completed its review of all the major questions in Europe and the , Far East . Consequently , new efforts are now being made to complete these studies , to define all possible Communist tactics and objectives and to prepare the Administration to meet and counter them , New Diplomatic Phase In short , the Communist overtures are being taken seriously ? more seriously indeed , than at al1 most any time since the start of the " cold war "  --  and it is now generally agreed here that the Eisenhower Administration is beginning to enter another active diplomatic phase , much as the Truman Administration did in 1945 . Now , as then , the Administration @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ being it will do its best to keep the negotiations to specific questions , primarily in relation to the fighting in the Far East . The procedure on negotiating an armistice in Korea is as follows : CFirst the United States will wait to see whether the Communists exchange the seriously sick and wounded prisoners in Korea . If this is done in good faith , the United States will then proceed to negotiate with the Chinese and North Korean Communists for the , exchange of all other prisoners who want to be repatriated . ( lBeyond this , there are certain limitations on the United States ' authority to negotiate with the Communists on a political settlement in Korea . The United Nations has recognized the United States ' right , to conclude a military armistice with the North Koreans , but it has not yet authorized the United Nations Command in Korea to proceed with political discussions . elThUs , after settlement of the sick and wounded prisoners issue land the conclusion of an armistice , the third phase in the negotiations ' will take place . This will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ should be negotiated . Article 5 of the proposed Korean armistice  --  which has already been approved by both sides  --  contains a recommendation by the military negotiators at Panmunjom to the United Nations . This recommendation is that the United Nations and the Chinese and North Korean Communists should call a conference within ninety days after the cease-fire to discuss a political settlement in Korea  --  that is to say , a settlement governing such , things as the withdrawal of foreign troops , the holding of elections and the political fate of the country . The United States does not now have authority to enter into these political conversations on the future of Korea by itself . This question must come back to the United Nations .                     