@@720507

txt The Circuit Court of Appeals unanimously upheld today an order for a clean-up of the International Brotherhood of Teamsters . The three-judge court backed Federal District Judge F. Dickenson Letts on nearly every major point in his order directing the union 's leadership to carry out demands of the courtappointed monitors . This means the union must : Install model by-laws and accounting standards and controls , put a vice president on trial and end conflicts of interest . It must also assist in good , faith the investigation of gues- ' tionable local affairs , and pro-1 tect the rights of members to vote , run for office and speak at meetings without reprisal . Clear ' Authority Martin F. O'Donoghue , chairman of the three-man board of monitors , commented : " The board of monitors ' position in the Court of Appeals has been upheld in all vital areas . It is now clear that the District Court has authority to insist that corruption in the teamsters be wiped out before an election can be held . " In addition , the recommendations of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ order , were sustained , except in a few minor instances where they were clarified for further action . It is now clear that the board of monitors can go forward under the opinion of the court . " In Newark , James R. Hoffa , teamster president , said the union would fight the decision , United Press International reported . The decision , a serious *set- , back for Mr. Hoffa , was regarded as a landmark in the ' , history of unionism and the courts . The court 's weapon in case of disobedience is contempt action . Courts have long been reluc // tant to interfere in the internal affairs of voluntary organizations . They have viewed unions in that category . In this case , thirteen dissident teamsters from New York obtained an injunction barring Mr. Hoffa from office . They contended his election had been rigged . A consent decree permitted him to take office provisionally ; it also set up a board of monitors . The union 's recalcitrance led to a second order upholding the monitors ' orders . The union challenged @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The Circuit Court said the judge had had the right to modify the consent decree within limits . It declared that the second order was largely an interpretation , rather than a modification , of the first . The judges were Charles Fahy , who wrote the opinion ; Wilbur K. Miller and Henry W. Edgerton . They said that all orders to the teamsters must be explicit , orders of the court , and " must themselves provide what the defendants are to do , not simply refer to previous or future reccommendations " of the monitors . The monitors may only recommend or report to the court a failure of the teamsters to comply with an order . This appeared to call for a change in method only . The court found that Godfrey P , Schmidt , a monitor who is a New York lawyer , was in a conflict-of-interest position because he had represented employers in dealings with the union . " There is no suggestion by us that in any of these matters , or otherwise , Mr. Schmidt has not conducted himself lawfully , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said . " Since , however , Mr. Schmidt is an officer of the District Court , we simply state our disagreement with the finding that no conflict of interest was shown . Whether the conflict of interest which was shown disqualifies him as a monitor is a matter to be determined initially by the appointing court in the exercise of a sound discretion on our remand of the case . " Court 's Role Sighted The consent decree said that " a new convention and election of officers shall be held at any time after the expiration of one year from the date of this order , when the general executive board , by majority vote , shall resolve to call such convention , and hold such election . " The Circuit Court commented on this : " We realize the desirability of early transition from court supervision to normal organizational management , but the District Court is not required by law , or by the consent degree , to step aside until conditions advance to a point which gives reasonable assurance or new elections in accord with membership rights @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are not yet fulfilled , we think the time for doing so may be enlarged . " A decision when to hold a convention is exclusively the court 's , the opinion said , although the monitors and the union executive board may make a recommendation . One of the monitors ' " orders of recommendations . " a label that the Circuit Court ruled out of order , provided for disciplinary procedures against Owen ( Bert ) Brennan , an international vice president and a crony Associated Press HIS ORDER IS UPHELD : Federal Judge F. Dickinson Letts , whose program for a. clean-up in the Teamsters Union was backed in most points by appellate court . and business associate of Mr. Hoffa . Mr. Brennan , according to testimony before a Senate committee , usee welfare funds of the Michigan Conference of Teamsters to pay a prize fighter he was managing . Mr. Hoffa did not move to bring Mr. Brennan to trial . The Circuit Court said : " Proceedings should be instituted forthwith in accordance with the provisions of the union constitution for investigation and disciplinary action @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ done . " It also commented on the refusal of John J. , convicted extortionist , to take a leave of absence as head of Local 295 and secretary-treasurer of Local 808 , both in New York , and permit a year 's audit of 808 's affairs . " Without ruling generally on the use by the general . president of his coercive powers under the constitution , " the court said , " it is our opinion that in the circumstances of this particular situation , if the local 's refusal has persisted , the general president should exercise his full constitutional power to bring about compliance . " In the case of Raymond Cohen , head of Philadelphia Local 107 and a friend of Mr. Hoffa , the Circuit Court said Mr. Hoffa was under obligation to proceed in good faith with a hearing on charges that Mr. ! Cohen had misused union funds. , A Pennsylvania court had en-1 joined the hearing . In a separate case the appeals court upheld Judge Letts ' dismissal of a complaint that the ' consent decree was invalid because @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the union lawyers wereagreeing to it . In an important appendix , the Circuit Court reviewed the consent decree and set forth a " summary of obligations imposed upon defendants " by it . It follows : " Rights of individual members ? We construe this paragraph as requiring the teamsters to protect the constitutional rights of individual members and locals in regard to elections , qualifications for office and freedom to express Iviews at meetings . This conforms with the restrictive interpretation of this provision suggested by the monitors in , their brief in this court . " By-laws  --  The teamsters shall recommend for adoption by the locals a model code of by-laws , or model provisions for inclusion , in the by-laws , to be drafted by the monitors . " Fiduciary standards ? The teamsters shall review and , where needed , establish accounting and financial methods for all funds and properties held , and shall require all fiduciaries of these funds to adhere to recognized legal and equitable standards and obligations imposed on fiduciaries . " Trusteed local unions  --  The teamsters shall examine and review @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the trusteed unions be returned to self-government . " Call of new convention  --  The teamsters shall call a new convention and election after one year from the date the consent decree is signed . " New convention  --  The call for the new convention by the teamsters must be issued in accordance with the constitution . ' Delegates to it shall be elected ' according to the constitution , and the teamsters must recommend that such delegates be elected by secret ballot and , , where practicable , under the ' supervision of outside agencies . " Reprisals  --  These are prohibited . 