@@719067

txt Acting Attorney General William P. Rogers declared " International Nickel Co. of Canada , Ltd. , has a " now declining , but still substantial , dominance " of the U. S. nickel market . He said , however . " trust busters " are powerless to cut Inco down because it 's a Canadian company . Evidence needed to prove whether or not Inco has violated U. S. antitrust laws , he explained , " lies within Inco 's files "  --  and Canadian law forbids Canadian companies to turn over their business records to foreign authorities . On the other hand , he added , the 5850 million Uncle Sam has pumped into nickel expansion programs have reduced Inca 's share of the market from 95% in 1950 to about 66% today . The future , he declared . " may well promise increasing competition with a resulting decline in-Inco 's present control over nickel supply . " Mr. Rogers ' views were transmitted to the White House and Congress . The Attorney General is required to make such quarterly reports on the possible anti-competitive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Government nickel programs have boosted the U. S. supply of the silver-white metal to ZI00 million pounds a year , from 200 million pounds in 1950 . By 1961 , supplies are expected to total 450 million pounds . enough to meet all military and civilian requirements . Defense Program Cited " This expansion , " Mr. Rogers declared , " is the direct or indirect result of the nickel defense program . and by bringing supply into parity with demand , the program makes a necessary contribution to maintenance of a competitive supply system . " He also asserted the Government 's program has led to " a considerable new technology which may well be the greatest contribution to the development of a dynamic competition in this industry . " Mr. Rogers said Government aid has brought four new companies into the nickel business to compete with Inco . One , the Government-owned plant at Nicaro , Cuba , " is now a reasonably profitable concern and the second largest nickel producer , " the report said . National Lead Co. , it added , " has successfully solved technological @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is small . " Mr. Rogers claimed the facilities of Sherritt Gordon Mines , Ltd. , " promise a real possibility of aggresiive competition , " while Hanna Coal &; Ore Corp . ' s world " offers at least the possibility of developing into an operation which can survive the end of defense subsidization . " " In the main . " nie report declared . " Inco has fulfilled its commitment to the Government ) to distribute equitably . . . The Government 's over-all policy . . . seems to represent an acceptable compromise between the undesirable alternatives of inflexible allocation controls and total elimination of Government policy as a factor in nickel distribution . "                     