@@719385

txt George Meany told the merged labor , federation today that he was " very skeptical " about many key provisions of President Eisenhower 's proposals for laws to curb union rackets . The head of the American Federation of Labor and Congress of Industrial Organizations said he would delay final judgment until he saw the specific legislation , But he made it plain that he felt Congressional action should be confined almost entirely to additional laws to safeguard union funds . : Presidents Back Stand The same sentiment was expressed in a resolution adopted unanimously by the presidents of the federation 's 135 unions . They said labor would " resist to the uttermost any and every proposal which , under the guise of seeking to protect workers from corruption or improper activities , seeks instead to destroy honest , decent American trades unions . " The federation emphasized , however , that it was not reverting to the " hands-off " policy that most unions adopted when the Taft-Hartley Act was under : : onsideration in 1947 . La- , bor 's friends in Congress complained @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the refusal of unionists , to cooperate in accepting any kind of legislative restraints . The union presidents officially declared their readiness to support " goldfish-bowl " requirements for reporting and regulat- ing union ands management funds , plus any other measures needed to protect union members against exploitataion . Their statement was adopted at the annual meeting of the A. Ir . L.-C . I. 0 . general board as the federation took new steps to prove that labor could be relied on to clean house with a minimum of government help . Mr. Meany announced that the federation would charter a new union to replace the Bakery and Confectionery Workers Union , which is threatened with expulsion , unless the bakers complied with a reform mandate by Thursday . The essence of the statement on legislative policy was that the federation - believed in some new laws , , but not many . One speaker at the session  --  Paul Hall , president of the Seafarers International Union  --  indicated that he did not feel the federation should go even that far . " We do n't need any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ If anything , we have too much legislation now . " Bitterness was expressed toward the Senate Select Committee on Improper Activities in the Labor or Management Fields for putting too much emphasis on union misdeeds and too little on business rackets . The sharpest attp.ck came from George M. Harrison , president of the Brotherhood of Railway Clerks ands a member of the federation 's ethical practices committee . He said of the Senate investigation under the chairmanship of Senator John L. McClellan , Democrat of Arkansas : " I am one who believes the McClellan committee was established for the purpose of developing sufficient stench among labor unions to air-condition the public mind for restrictive and punitive legislation against organized labor . Thus far they have done a good job in that direction . " No one took the floor in support of the Eisenhower labor program , which was outlined to the federation 's convention at its opening session here last Thursday by Secretary of Labor James P , Mitchell . On the contrary , Mr. Meany said some of the proposals made by the , White House @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " He took particular exception to the President 's call for a mandate to elect union officers by secret ballot at least once every four years . He said a legal requirement to that effect would put the Government " pretty deep " into the internal affairs ' of unions . The federation chief also objected to the - proposed appointment of a Commissioner of Labor Reports , who would investigate the accuracy of financial statements and prosecute those who violated the reporting rules . " This will set up a new bureaucracy and it is only a very short step from this sort of thing to legislation which Would amount to licensing legislation , " Mr. Meany warned . " We would be in a position where a union , in order to operate , would have to g ' and seek a license from some porJcally-oppointed board and would have to establish its qualifications to operate as a trade union . " Mr. Meany criticized the White House program for not asking the same tight rules for corporations as for unions . He also criticized proposals to restrict organizational @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of which were reflected in the general board 's resolution , represented the fruit of the somewhat agonized reappraisal union leaders have been giving to the Eisenhower program this week . When it was presented , Secretary Mitchell emphasized that its purpose was to strengthen unions , not weaken them . He pledged that the Administration would fight all union-busting proposals . He specifically promised resistance to any national " right-to-work " law banning the union shop , or to antitrust legislation against labor . The first reaction of the convention delegates to the White House program was one of relief at its relative moderation . ' But the more they have studied it , the less they have liked it . Without alluding directly to the White House proposals , the general board condemned proposals to amend the Taft-Hartley Act to " further restrict legitimate picketing and boycott activity . " The general board is made up of the presidents of all affiliated ' unions . Its statement is slated for approval by the full convention later this week . The 900 delegates also are expected-to adopt more specific statements @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Eisenhower program . Walter P. Reuther , president of the United Automobile Workers , told the general board that the restrictive legislation immediately after World War II would " look like a dress rehearsal " compared with the proposals that Congressional critics of labor would seek to enact next year .                     