@@719731

txt WASHINGTON , May 2 ? Gen. Thomas D. White today put the Air Force unequivocally behind the spirit and letter of President Eisenhower 's Pentagon reorganization bill . General White , the Air Force Chief of Staff , said he did not share the fears of some other military chiefs that the bill could lead to a crippling of the services or a dangerous concentration of power . His was the firmest endorsement yet given before the House Armed Services Committee to the controversial language of the bill and to the military philosophy it represents . White Explains Views Earlier Pentagon witnesses had proclaimed support for what is vaguely called the " intent " of the President 's program , but none before General White had stood firmly against committee onslaughts on the language of the bill . Today 's military organization , he told the committee , was not geared to modern wartime requirements . It was important , he contended , to establish " corporate responsibilities and corporate views " at the top of the Pentagon in place of the divided authority that now existed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attention // was paid to divergence of views . Did General White want to see this attitude established for peacetime in the Pentagon ? he asked . " Yes , " the general said . " So there will be no transition " period necessary should war suddenly occur . Representative Porter Hardy Jr. , Democrat of Virginia , said that General White 's pholosophy " would almost certainly lead to military dictatorship . ' In the meantime the Pentagon produced , an example today of the type of confusion that has led to widespread interest in its organization . In a move apparently calculated to achieve more efficiency , Neil H. , Secretary of Defense , issued a directive abolishing joint Department of Defense committees . There are some 150 of these in existence and Mr. 's order was accompanied by an enclosure exempting certain committees from abolition . This showed that twenty-two committees or categories of committees would not be abolished . But persistent inquiry at the Pentagon failed to produce anyone who knew precisely how many committees , or which committees , would go . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ example of a committee that would be abolished . At the Capitol General White 's testimony centered on two controversial points in the bill . One would repeal restrictions on executive authority to transfer , abolish or consolidate service roles and missions . The other would reorganize the Joint Chiefs of Staff structure and enhance the stature of the chairman . White Backs Repeal General White favored repealing the restriction against roles-and-missions transfer because , he said , it was essential , to have the Secretary of Defense 's authority " more clearly spelled out to reduce the burden on him " when he made controversial decisions . It was " necessary for one man to have unequivocal authority " to settle these disputes , he went on . Other witnesses had testified that repeal could lead toward destruction of the individual services , if interpreted by an authoritarian executive . General White said ho had no such fears for the Air Force . It was conceivable , he said , " that some of the things we consider vested interests of the Air Force might go by the board . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this would be done " for the good of the over-all national defense . " Moreover , he said , the Secretary of Defense could " make his will known and felt much better than he can today " when he rendered decisions unpopular to some services . Thus , he said , the bill would limit interservice feuding . The bill , General White explained , would make it clear that the Secretary 's authority extended " right across the board . " When his decisions were disputed , he said , the Secretary could " fire Vice Presidents . " Committee members complained that the new bill would deprive the Congress of any voice in prescribing roles and missions and substitute in its place the judgment of one man  --  the Secretary of Defense . " I 'm willing to accept his judgment , subject to the appeals we can make to the President and the public , " General White said . " I have to fall back on my feeling that that kind of flexibility is required . " General White was also more enthusiastic than previous @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . He did not share fears that additions to the chairman 's authority would lead toward a dangerously monolithic structure , he said . And changes in the organization , he added , would enable the Joint Chiefs to develop " corporate views " that would inevitably put an end to duplication and lead to savings . The bill would give the service chiefs more time to devote to their duties on the Joint Chiefs , would remove the 210-man limit on the size of the joint staff , and empower the chaiiiman to select the staff director and assign work to the staff .                     