@@712767

txt Since the general election , news of crime has almost supplanted political reporting in a large part of the British press . There is hardly a day when the popular press does not feature some new instance of robbery of a woman or an aged person , with violence . Whether the country is in the midst of a real or a synthetic crime wave is not qiCite clear but the people at the moment are more worried about the problem than they are over the delicate balance of their Government or their precarious economic and financial situation . In any event , instances of assaults on women on the streets , in trains and even in their homes , have been far too numerous not to cause some concern , both among tha general public and in Parliai ment . There has been a rim on hardware stores selling door chains , Boy Scouts have been detailed to follow lone women home protectively through dark streets , and the public generally has been I warned to keep out of parks after nightfall . There has been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " should be armed . Instead , public clamor has turned to demanding that corporal punishment , , abolished in March , 1948 , by the Labor Government majority , be restored . , The British have considerable faith in the " cat-o ' - nine-tails " as an instrument of correction and while corporal punishment is forbidden in criminal cases , the cane is still used freely in such public schools as Eton . " Spare , the rod and spoil the child " is a generaly accepted maxim and the public , despite statistical evidence that crime has decreased since flogging was abandoned , is not sure that the " cane " and the " cat " are not society 's best protection against the thug : Lord Chief Justice Goddard has been outspoken in his belief that ) corporal punishment should be restored . In sentencing young offenders on several recent occasions he has expressed regret from the ' bench that he could not order whippings instead of long prison terms . Another high court judge , in sentencing a young robber , said : " Until the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ punishing , these cases of violence will continue in their de -- gree of savagery , ? if not in their total number . " This same judge stated that he neither knew nor cared whether . the number of such cases of robbery with violence had increased or decreased numerically since corporal punishment had been abolished , but he asserted that " I do know that the degree of violence in these cases against women and men , old and young , is much more brutal and cruel than it ever was . " The popular demand for a return . to whipping as punishment was further encouraged last week when several small boys were found guilty of pouring gasoline on a squirrel and setting fire to it . The Daily Mail , which conducted a poll among its readers , received replies from 64,000 persons who voted in the proportion of 800 to 1 in favor of whipping the young hoodlums . About a hundred policemen and prison wardens wrote to say that the " cat " was the only thing really feared by thugs . One police official said that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ subjected to whipping to . " return for a second dose . " Issue Raised in Parliament Last week the issue was raised In Parliament . James Chuter Ede , the Home Secretary , rejected a suggestion that the law abolishing corporal punishment should be reconsidered . Citing comparable periods before and after March , 1948 , he asserted that the number of crimes of violence was 597 now as compared with 711 while whipping was still permitted by law.t " For reasons which may be misunderstood a great deal of publicity is being given to this matter at this moment , " the Home Secretary said . Without saying so specifically , Mr. Ede was believed to be hinting that perhaps the preoccupation of the press with crime might be intended to embarrass the Government . The , whole problem of crime and punishment will be debated Tuesday in the House of Commons . Mr. Ede , however , is determined not to yield to ? the demand for a return to capital punishment . He has the support of the Cabinet . Various reasons are cited for the current @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the abolition of capital punishment , there are many who hold it is a natural aftermath of war . Others see United States gangster movies as a source of inspiration for juvenile criminals . In a speech today Lord Mancroft said that 15,000 deserters were still at large for whom crime was their only means of livelihood in the country when an identity card must be shown to get employment .                     