@@720272

txt Treasury Secretary Andemon ran into Democratic criticism of the Administration 's hurry-up plan for boosting the U.S. contribution to the International Monetary Fund . Mr. Anderson . leading off Congressional hearings on the Monetary Fund boost and the proposed 100% increase in the U.S. subscription to the World Bank . told the House Banking Committee prompt action is being sought because of " the very great importance for the United States to take the lead " and show other nations its willingness to contribute . The 81,375,000,000 gold and note contribution to the would count as spending , and the Administration admittedly wants to have it show up in the budget for the current fiscal year ending June 30. thereby holding down fiscal 1960 outlays and helping to balance that budget . The additional $3,173.000,000 World Bank quota would be appropriated immediately but not counted as spent until called by thi bank , which is considered unlikely . It would have no budget effect until then . Rep. Reuss ( D. , Wis. ) asked Mr. Anderson why Congressional passage of the measures would n't suffice to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Immediately chalking up the sum as spending . He said the Treasury in the near future might perhaps find it difficult to offset the outlay without having to pay high interest on bond issues . " Would n't you feel justified then in telling the Fund that you will wait for the required 75% of nations to sign the agreement before putting the cash on the barrelliead ? " the lawmaker asked . " Would n't a courteous letter be almost as good ? " Mr. Anderson disagreed . " It seems to us of great importance that we raise no doubts or problems in the minds of others , " he said . " but say to them simply that we in the United States are immediately putting in our fund with the hope and belief that other countries will do the same with dispatch . " Congressional pm-sage , or a letter , he said " would not have the same degree of compelling persuasion . " Another comipittee member , Rep. Multer ( D .. N.Y. ) . complained that the President attacked a Democratic housing bill as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we can afford international aid . " Despite the criticisms , the proposals are expected to clear Congress with little difficulty . Banking Committee Chairman Spence ( D .. Ny. ) said he 's for them . However , the regular foreign aid program later will encounter strong drives to slash the Administration 's proposals . The International Fund is a 68-nation organization which makes short-term loans to member countries for stabilization of their currencies and trade liberalization . The World Bank makes long-term loans for economic development .                     