@@718783

txt Letters to The Times Traffic Speed-Up Queried Effects on Residential Areas and on Pedestrian Safety Considered To THE EDITOR OF THR NEW YORK Timss : Your story in the April 30'Times headlined " Midtown Proves Faster One-Way " records the " impressive " success of the newest one-way avenues , specifically Broadway , Seventh Avenue and the Avenue of the Americas . north of Thirty-fourth Street . Granted that congestion has been reduced and traffic speed considerably increased . That is all very well , especially in commercial districts of the city where speeding traffic , with its related hazards and noises , is relatively undisturbing . The problem of major traffic arteries cutting through residential neighborhoods , however , is a very different question and the advantages to be gained from speeding up traffic must be measured against the damage this necessarily inflicts on the integrity of a community in which people live . Walking to work or to local transportation , neighborhood shopping on foot , children getting to schools and playgrounds , and just plain living in a quiet , dignified , urban way @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Avenues high-speed thoroughfares where they pass through East Side neighborhoods like . Stuyvesant Square , Turtle Bay , Beekman Place , Sutton Place and the rest of the upper East Side , including Yorkville . Difficulty in Crossing The same can be said for Chelsea and the West Village sections where Seventh and Eighth Avenues , already too wide as intra-neighborhood barriers , have been made infinitely worse through the difficulty of crossing them now , with the shorter light cycles and higher speed of vehicles resulting from the " phased-light " system of one-way operation . Residents of the Washington Square neighborhood will not be " impressed " by this reported great " success " in speeding up traffic if it is used as an argument for making lower Sixth Avenue impossible to cross and destroying the atmosphere of lower Fifth Avenue by eventually requiring the cutting away of its wide , tree-lined sidewalks . The Traffic Department has gone far enough in ruining residential values and adding to pedestrian hazards . There are other values to be considered in city planning than just that of helping cars , trucks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one of the many tools at the city planner 's disposal . The possibly justified pride in the whirring , shiny attractiveness of this particular toy , when set in motion in busy commercial midtown , should not he allowed to he used as an argument to let it endanger the far more important objective of maintaining and creating safe and attractive residential neighborhoods within our city . From the broad city planning point of view , speeding up traffic , however desirable an end in itself , must be kept in a distinctly secondary place to the ultimate goal of building a better city for people to live in . ROBERT C. WEINBERG . New York , May 2 , 1957 . To Raise Faculty Salaries To TILE EDITOR OFTitf NEW Yoe ! : TIMES : Several foundations , well aware of an impending shortage of qualified college teachers , are expanding a program of scholarships to encourage young people to enter the profession . This program shows an admirable concern over a very serious problem , but may , in the end , only aggravate the difficulty , since @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ positions without increasing the incomes of an already underpaid occupation . In our economic system we have traditionally applied economic incentives when shortages have to be overcome , and this device should not be abandoned . All available funds should be used to raise faculty salaries . The encouragement given by a scholarship may cause a student to look with favor upon the academic life , but the economic realities encountered will . soon turn him away . A scholarship program which bypasses the normal market mechanism inflicts injustice both upon those entering the profession and those already involved , since the incentive to devote proper attention to raising faculty salaries is correspondingly dulled . Mu it , m , ** Instructor in Economics , Barnard College . New York , May 3 , 1057 . The public is being defrauded by unscrupulous people posing as representatives of The Lighthouse and soliciting funds from door to door . Any solicitation of funds for The Lighthouse is done by volunteers who carry identification and who give receipts for any donations received . Such solicitation is always publicized and announced in the local @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are never used as solicitors by The Lighthouse . Our salesmen of Lighthouse Industries products never request , or accept , contributions . We would suggest that individuals scrutinize the credentials of any person purporting to represent The Lighthouse and requesting conSoliciting Funds for Blind tributions . If there is any doubt about the authenticity of these cre ? dentials , ask the ' solicitor to return at a later date . Then report the facts at once to The Lighthouse headquarters ( EL 5-2200 ) . Only thull can impostors be exposed and diva couraged . Plume S. PLAIT . Executive Director , The Lighthouse . New York , May 7 , 1957 . China 's Food Supply - - Shortages Charged as Result of Failure of Collectives Program To THE , EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMF.s : Alexander Eckstein , a Research Associate in East Asian Studies of Harvard University , whose letter you published on May 5 , disputes the conclusion that Communist " Chinese food production has badly lagged or declined so that rver greater masses are exposed to starvation . " Mr. Eckstein backs hi @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the re ? puted rise in the production of rice . In the same issue of The Nevi ? York Times your special correspondent in Hong Kong , Greg , reported that the internal troubles of Red China are seen as the worst since 1919 . In reporting on food . shortages , Mr. said : " At the beginning of this week Peiping announced that the prices of pork a Chinese staple , edible oils , salt * * , * would be raised about 2 per cent . It said that overinvestment in heavy industry last year , plus crop failures through natural causes , had made the increases necessary . " Retrenchment Called For In a speech last month , as reported by Reuters , the Deputy Minister of Economic Planning for the Peiping regime called for retrenchment and admitted serious shortages as follows : A shortage of 20 million hogs ; critical shortages in edible oils ; shortages in grains ( presumably rice is included ) totaling 20,000 tons . The speech intimated this was due to the failure of the farm collectivization program ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ peasant sabotage . If , as Mr. Eckstein says , food production has risen and the efficiency of food distribution has been greatly improved , then this is more than taken care of by the tremen'dolls rise in the export of grains and foodstuffs from Red China to Russia in exchange for machinery and war material . Reports Cited Mr. Eckstein says that " there is no evidence to support the often held conclusion that China in recent years has been subject to repeated mass starvation . " I would respectfully suggest that Mr. Eckstein direct his investigations to available reports issued by our own State Department from transcriptions of Chinese Communist broadcasts and official documents . He has but to read between the lines to see that the economy of Red China is in serious straits which bring on the " internal troubles " which Mr. , TacGregor reports and that the shadow of famine falls over the enslaved people of China . MA RN ' Li m N. Secretary , The Committee of One Million . New York , May 6 , 1957 . To Improve Slaughter Methods To @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ packing plants animals are subjected to great suffering . Humane methods making animals insensible to pain before they are shackled , hoisted or cut are available and are economical . It is clear that . the packing industry will not make the necessary reform without compulsion of the law . Of the several hills now bring considered t he best in the Senate S. 1107 a mi the best in the House H. R. 2020 . For information reg-a Ming conditions now prevalent , in the meat ? packing industry and what can he done about them write to the Humane Society of the United Slates , 733 Fifteenth Street , N. W. , Washington 5 , D. C. , for the folder " Facts About Your Meat . " L. V. STEWART . Great Neck , N. Y. , May 2 , 1957.                     