@@713032

txt There is a new theme , a new note , running through all top government official statements oh foreign affairs these days . It is that war is not inevitable , that peace is the basic objective of American policy , and that present policies are building a sure road to peace . This new motif to American official speeches appears to stem from the recent London conference of western Big Three foreign ministers . Since then , the stream of addresses from President Truman , Secretary of State Dean Acheson . Economic Cooperation Administrator Paul G. Hoffman , and a host of other officials has been pounding home the theme that " peace is our business , " that the United States is " on the road to peace , " that " our goal is not to win World War III but to prevent World War III , " that " war is not inevitable . " Plot to Steal Peace This has just been emphasized particularly by Mr. Hoffman , in addressing the conference of governors at White Sulphur Springs , W. Va. , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his command : " I am concerned by a growing acceptance of the inevitability of World War HI , That is a sentiment , uncritical and felt rather than expressed , against , which every nerve and fiber in me rebels . " The ECA chief traced the evolution of this mistaken concept . " You remember how Moscow took proprietorship of the word ' ' Democracy . ' She stole that one . Now Moscow is trying to stgal the world ' peace . ' The Communists are trying to get America to talk war while they talk peace . One of the greatest so-called ' peace offensives ' in history is now going on all through Europe . We are always painted as warmongers . " So any time any one ? of us makes the statement , ' We have got to do this or that to win World War III . ' he is just furnishing grist . for the Communist mill . Such statements give them exactly what they want and put us right where they want us . We do n't belong there . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dangerous trap and that is to recognize that our goal should not be to win World War III . Our goal should be to prevent World War III ever happening . " OtalitzNI bv Trt:Eran This new line was made clear by President Truman in his recent speech at St. Louis . There he declared : " Above all I wish to emphasize that the objective of our efforts is peace , not conflict . " And Mr. Acheson in reporting on the London conferences reported that all of the Atlantic Pact foreign ministers agreed war was not imminent . Reviewing the agree-. merits reached there among the Atlantic Pact powers and among the British , French , and American foreign ministers , he concluded : " This road is the road to peace ... The future belongs to freedom " , . in our unity there is strength , . . and in our strength is the foundation of peace . " That emphasis on the peaceful intentions of the United States has also been stressed recently by such other top officials as Gen. Omar N. Bradley , chairman of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Finletter. and the originator of the Marshall Plan , Gen. George C. Marshall . Speaking at Dallas . Texas , on June 13 , Secretary Acheson asked rhetorically : " What is the objective of our foreign policy ? " and he answered it thus : " I think it can be stated eery simply . We want a peaceful world . . . The objective of our foreign policy is to help establish the conditions necessary to a peaceful world . " Later in this same address lie said quite flatly : " War is not inevitable . " And he went on to explain : " It is our responsibilly to find ways of solving our problems without , resort to war , and . to exhaust every possibility in that effort . This is what , we intend to do . " Scares ' Backfire re There appear to be two reasons this new note of peace is appearing so conspicuously in top American policy addresses . First , the administration , which has been working on the assumption that the only way to get defense and foreign-aid @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prospects of war , is now realizing that that . policy has its drawbacks . Some of the legislators and many Americans were beginning to believe these forecasts of doom , to believe they were not only possible but inevitable . Second , the Soviet anti-American propaganda which has been stressing American war-mindedness appears to have had results in Europe and elsewhere . The foreign ministers of western Europe are understood to have told Secretary Acheson in London that American speeches were too belligerent , that they played right into the hands of Soviet propagandists . Certainly since the London conference there has been a marked emphasis in American public statement on the peaceful objectives of American foreign policy  --  that " war is not inevitable , " that " peace is our business . "                     