@@717049

txt A direct warning from the British against any action to oust absentee Chief of State Bao Dai , coupled presumably with similar indications from the American side , has dampened somewhat the mounting sentiment here favoring establishment of a republican form of government . The British warning , according to excellent authority , was delivered here by Malcolm , British High Commissioner in Malaya , who has been here in Saigon for several days as part of his tour of Southeast Asian countries . Mr. who always has been known as a stanch supporter of Ban Dai , reportedly told Premier Ngo Dinh Diem that the British Government stands unequivocally behind Bao Dai and that it would look with disapproval on any action taken by the Diem government to push him off his titular throne . The exact position . of the United States here on the question of Bao Dai is not so easy to ascertain . Meanwhile , Paris has issued strong denials of a South Vietnamese Government claim that the French had signed a secret treaty with the Communists of North Vietnam @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Communists . French spokesmen said the charge was totally contrary to the Geneva agreement of last summer . Monarchy Debated There is strong feeling here in official American circles that a constitutional monarchy might be the best form of government for troubled , unstable South Vietnam . And while these circles might not necessarily favor Bao Dai himself as the most eligible monarch , they nevertheless are against any sort of precipitous action that would affect the legal framework of government . How these dual influences will affect the local political situation may depend upon the extent to which Mr. Diem can curb the rising popular sentiment which has sprung up in the week of , if not as the direct result of the recent fighting between the government and the Binh Xuyen . It is well known now among a large segment of the population that Bao Dai in the past has drawn heavy financial support from the Binh Xuyen , particularly from a huge gambling establishment known as Le Grand Monde . Feeling toward the Binh Xuyen has been largely passive , although it was recognized that the gangster @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ operated many antisocial types of rackets . The destructions caused by the recent fighting , in which 20.000 , to 30,000 persons were left homeless , however , has resulted in sentiment here shifting from passive to active . The Binh Xuyen now is bitterly condemned by the general public . And as concomitant , two developments in popular thinking have taken place . First , sentiment against Ban Dai has increased because of Bao Dai Bao Dai 's known ties with the Binh Xuyen . And secondly , at least negative support has been added to the Diem government as successful defender of the city against the Binh Xuyen 's attempted coup . Revolutionary Group Capitalizing on this , a somewhat mysterious group known as the People 's Rovolutionary Committee has suddenly made its appearance with a massive , effective propaganda machine flying under the banner " Da Dao Bao Dai " ? " Down With Ban Dai . " Whether Mr. Diem himself actually is cooperating with or possibly even encouraging this committee is something which even the American Embassy here is unable to ascertain . The committee at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Dai in an attempted palace coup the night Of April 30 , Mr. Diem then summoned local and provincial representatives as an improvised national assembly to survey their attitude on Bao Dai . Meeting in the Premier 's palace on May 4 , thn assembly came out in favor of retaining the status quo and the monarchy . The problem faced by Mr. Diem , meanwhile , is that while he may he forced for the time being to submit to Bao Dal , he is doing so with full realization that the Chief of State probably is still plotting to unseat him . Bao Dai 's request that Mr. Diem and his Chief of Staff come to , Cannes during the height of street fighting here is taken by the South Vietnamese Government as clear indication that Bao Dal hoped thereby to precipitate a change of government . As the situation stands now , almost anything could happen  --  and probably will . There is little question that South Vietnam now is engaged in a nationalist type revolution of mounting proportions . French deny deal with Vietmlqh : Page 4. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @           