@@717703

txt Republicans may be counting chickens before the hatching but the highly favorable verdict which a group of doctor has given President Eisenhower means mainly one thing to the party politicians : It means to them plainly and simply : " He will run . " ? It still remains of course for President Eisenhower to accept the go-ahead signal which Dr. Paul Dudley White and his consultants have flashed . The President will analyze all factors and make up his mind , probably before March 1 . and probably while visiting at Treasury Secretary George M. Humphrey 's Georgia plantation . The President told reporters at his most recent news conference that he would trust his own feelings more than the doctors ' reports . But to the Republican chiefs who have been forecasting all along that the President would make a good recovery , and that he would run for a second term , this was a half-way vindication of their view which they were not taking in any half-stride . The President 's physicians have told him , without quibble , that there is no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . There is no medical barrier . In the carefully chosen words of Dr. White , Boston specialist : " I ? eleclically . I think we would agree that his present condition and Uric favorable chances in the future should enable him to carry on his present , active life satisfactorily for ... five to ten years . " The President . in short , has made a first-rate recovery . The White House says he now is carrying a normal work load , barring ceremonial functions . By spring he will be able to play golf again . The doctor 's report was even more favorable than some of Mr. Eisenhower 's own press-conference estimates of the future as when he said he would have to live a more carefully regulated life from now on . The effect of this verdict , which has sent the stock market enthusiastically up . is. definitely to make it more difficult for the President to refuse his party 's call . It now becomes more difficult for Mr. Eisenhower to refuse on grounds of health or possible incapacity . Polls Say He @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ term , the public-opinion polls and the views of the politicians and those who have sampled voter preferences all across the country say that he will win . - Hence the Republican jubilation . and the Democrats ' dismay . If Mr. Eisenhower should run . much would still depend on the character and intensity of the campaign . How strenuous a campaign would he undertake ? Would the Democrats still be able to make anything of the health issue , after Dr. White 's categorical report ? Previously the President had given notice that he would not wage a barnstorming kind of campaign . It had been expected that the Democrats would be able to make some capital out of this  --  would say he was having to " take it easy . " Now , however , ? the resounding medical verdict will make it more difficult for the Democrats to charge that Mr. Eisenhower . if reelected , would be a part-time President . The fitness verdict of the President 's medical panel , including Maj. Gen. Howard M. Snyder , the President 's personal physician , was based @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ job itself , the presidency , and the way the President has carried on during the last five weeks . " While during these weeks Mr. Eisenhower has rested for two hours each afternoon , White House press secretary James Hagerty contends thaf these weeks , which included the visit of British Prime Minister Sir Anthony Eden and the dispatch of a number of messages to Congress , have been a normal work load . As for the stress and strain of the presidency , to which Mr. Eisenhower himself has once or twice alluded , Dr. White does not regard this as a major hazard . Here is how a number of experienced observers add things up : The President qiiite evidently , all things being 1qual , would like to run for a second term . Now he has the medical report which is highly favorable ? which pictures him as well along the highroad to normal health , though not quite there yet . Things look good , and the President has personally done his part by erring on the cautious side in emphasizing to the public the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Eisenhower can now say to the people : " You know the picture . I have stressed to you the hazards . I have said I will not conduct another barnstorming campaign . I must somewhat regulate my life . If you want me on these terms , I will serve . " The Democrats believe they have a number of important issues , including the farm discontent . But the President 's tremendous popularity seems to ride high above such storms . A. new Gallup Poll shows his popularity in the South , for instance ; is at an all-time high . Week of Vacation The immediate verdict was that , despite the articulate and thoughtful exposition of critical issues by the probable Democratic standard bearer , Adlai E. Stevenson , the President could have a second term if he were willing to reach out a hand . Democrats as well as Republicans expressed their pleasure and gratification that the President had made such a good recovery . But the Democrats ' political reaction was understandably different . President Eisenhower has gone off  --  not fishing but hunting , flying @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ days of resting ; quail hunting  --  and pondering ? at the plantation , near Thomasville , of his Secretary of the Treasury . There is significance in this locale . Mr. Humphrey is President Eisenhower 's most influential and trusted adviser within the official Cabinet family . Mr. Humphrey is known to believe that the country needs Dwight D. Eisenhower in the White House for a second term , to complete the rejuvenation of the Republican Party and to maintain the national prosperity . Mr. Humphrey probably will give Mr. Eisenhower that kind of advice . President 's doctors answer press : Page 18.                     