@@716737

txt Democrats arc back again in control of both houses of Congress , but under conditions which make any sudden shock of transition unlikely . Democratic margins are so slim , the differences between Eisenhower policies and those of southern Democratic conservatives so narrow , and the popularity of the President so high that a substantial interval of fairly cooperative coexistence is indicated . The 84th Congress which was organized here in a brief but colorful opening ceremony puts Democrats in control , and thereby ratifies the effect of the election victory last November . But the majority is so small that neither party can tell it has a popular mandate . Indeed , a few changes in Senate make-up might actually swing control back to Republicans before the two-year session ends . Chief political change made by the election is that Democrats now control the investigative machinery with their own committee chairmen running things . Secondly , the South is now dominant in most committees . Finally , there has been a slight shift in mood to left of center  --  partly in the arrival of new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Clifford P. Case ( R ) of New Jersey and partly in the sharp slap administered to Senator Joseph R. McCarthy ( R ) of Wisconsin , just before the old Senate quit . In the House , the center of gravity also has moved slightly left with the return of powerful Sam Rayburn ( D ) of Texas to the job of Speaker . Symbolic of this change is the surprise elevation to Democratic whip of Representative Carl Albert ( D ) of Oklahoma . In the Democratic House heirarchy this post is important Mr. Albert is a Rayburn man , a former Rhodes Scholar , and an advocate of public power . He said he could be described pretty much as a " Truman Democrat . " Church Service Held President Eisenhower followed his custom of bringing his CabiI net to an early service of prayer and communion at the National ( Presbyterian Church here in Iconjunction with the new Con ' congress . It was a quiet service . but impressive , and streetcar riders shortly before 8 o'clock saw the big downtown church on Washington 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ knew that one of the colorful incidents of Washington was occurring . Among members of Congress officiating at the ceremony were a number of senators and representatives from both parties who are Presbyterian elders . In most particulars the details of opening Congress were perfunctory , involving swearing in all House members at once in a body , while over in the Senate the 34 newly elected members ( including former Vice-President Alben W. Barkley ) came down the center aisle in pairs , accompanied by sponsors , and took the oath from Vice-President Richard M. Nixon . On the surface , anyway , a mood of harmony prevailed . But nobody could tell how deep this ran . Eisenhower Republicans would like more power within the GOP ranks and their efforts to get it may complicate matters before the session is out . Simultaneously , Mr. Rayburn struck an ominous note at his off-the-record comments when House Democrats organized . It IS a subject upon which little is said publicly , but about which many Democrats feel deeply . He referred to Republican attacks in the last campaign which , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Rayburn is known to resent Vice-President Nixon 's speeches particularly , and the fact that President Eisenhower endorsed the Vice  --  President for his campaign work . Ceremonial Vote The vote that confirms Democratic control of the Senate is for the purely ceremonial office of " president pro tempore . " Republicans put up Senator Styles Bridges ( R ) of New Hampshire , generally considered the strongest figure in the Old Guard GOP wing , as contrasted to the pro-Eisenhower wing of the party . Democrats put up the veteran and respected Senator Walter F. George ( D ) of Georgia . ' He has served in the Senate 32 years . Irony lay in the vote of independent Senator Wayne Morse or Oregon . When free-wheeling Morse , who was elected as a Republican , campaigned against Mr. Eisenhower in 1952 and took the title of " independent , " Republicans threw hum off major comnuttees . Senator Morse , in reply , declared he would vote with the Democrats to organize the new Senate . Simultaneously , he campaigned ardently for the new Democratic Senator Richard L. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to sell livestock to raise funds . Senator Neuberger credits Morse aid as a major factor in his long-shot victory . The Morse and Neuberger votes are just enough to tip the balance to the Democratic side . Senator Morse , who lost committee assignments for his intransigeance , now unseats all Republican committee chairmen in the sequel . Senator Clifford P. Case ( R ) of New Jersey , who campaigned on a pledge to try to remove Senator Joseph R. McCarthy ( R ) of Wisconsin from his investigative role , found himself made a member of the Republican Committee on Committees which decides such matters . Senator McCarthy is a member of the same committee . General feeling is that the Republicans wo n't take Senator McCarthy 's committees from him . He will be ranking minority member of the Senate Government Operations Committee . Presumably he will be back as chairman if the GOP wins the next election .                     