@@715149

txt For the third consecutive year , Christmas today brought temporary cheer to American soldiers fighting in this ancient land of eroded hills and hopeless people . To GIs along the frozen front lines it was the best Christmas of them all . Troops are far warmer and better protected from the elements than they were last year , and there is no comparison with the tragic December of 1950 . The weather is a little colder than last year , but nothing like the numbing cold of two years ago when 20 degrees below zero was routine . There has bet little snow . Along toward noon it 's almost warm , but the thermometer readings drop like a shot after 3 o'clock when the sun dips in the West . Gifts Pour In Gifts have been pouring into Korea for weeks . Even today trucks loaded with last minute presents flown from Japan by emergency air force missions are rumbling toward forward units . A spot check of unit postal officers last night showed that 3,100 Christmas boxes from Chicago Tribune readers have been delivered in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Japan Sunday . Officers praised THE TRIBUNE 'S system of rechecking the addresses of the men at the last minute , pointing out this eliminated delivery delays in the 30 per cent of cases where addresses have been changed . The troops who received this year 's boxes were loud in their praise of their contents . Typical reaction came from Lt. Richard 8825 Saginaw ay. , Chicago , in the 40th infantry division . " It was really great , " said Mimi . " There were many good items ? particularly the heating pads and the ham . " " We 're Not Forgotten " The gifts were the work of Tribune readers in 27 states and the Canal Zone . They contributed $30,105 to the fund , or $2,100 more than was given in 1951 and about $9,000 more than the first effort in 1950 . The 6,232 letters that were received totaled nearly 800 more than last year . Most of the gifts came from the middle west . Everywhere the GIs were deeply impressed by the unprecedented flood of gifts which descended on them . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ after all , " was the remark made countless times by grinning soldiers . Officers tried to analyze the reasons behind this generosity . Many of them concluded that Gen. Eisenhower 's visit was primarily responsible . The fact that many presents were mailed in late November  --  well past the deadline ? seems partially to substantiate this . But conjectures and surface pleasantry failed to hide the inner misgivings of most of the troops . " Will we be here for another Christmas ? " was the most asked question . " What about the guys in enemy prison camps ? " was another , referring to approximately 5,000 men facing a bleak Christmas . Sober thoughts of these men , whose number is being increased by every week of profitless fighting , cast a cloud over most Christmas pleasure .                     