@@717641

txt Senator William F. Knowland joined Senator Walter F. George today in denouncing the President 's plan to put foreign aid on a longterm basis . The Republican leader of the Senate predicted " substantial resistance " to the proposed tenyear program . " It is my belief that it would be far better for the Administration to come up and make its presentation each year than to seek a ten-year commitment in advance , " Senator Knowland told newsmen . The California Senator added that " from a practical point of view , " no one Congress could bind another . Yesterday Senator George , chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee , warned that the bipartisan approach to foreign policy would be jeopardized if the President insisted on the long-term aid program he outlined in his State of the Union Message Jan. 5 . The objections of Senators Knowland and George present a powerful obstacle to the Administration . Both men carry substantial weight with their colleagues . They also exert great influence in the Foreign Relations Committee , which must pass ( NI the Administration 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Oppose Plan Senator Harry F. Byrd , Democrat of Virginia , in an article for the North American Newspaper Alliance , said he would oppose the foreign-aid program " and vote against further appropriations for foreign economic aid . " Senator Mike Mansfield , Democrat of Montana , who is a member of the Foreign Relations Committee , expressed doubts as to the wisdom of long-term commitments in the foreign aid field . He said that it was essential that this country " develop a degree of flexibility in our aid - so we can act on comparatively short notice as troubles arise . " The Montana Democrat said there was a danger we might become " too rigid " under a longrange program . He added that " one of the reasons for the success of Soviet diplomacy is that its leaders are able to move on extremely short notice and to achieve their ends because of flexibility . " Senator Mansfield said he would favor a greatly intensified program of Point Four ? technical assistance  --  what he called a " people - to - people ' program . Also @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cutting foreign aid as a separate item and giving the State Department a lump sum to carry out . all foreign policy , including foreign aid . He thought such a plan would enable the International Cooperation Administration , which operates the aid program , to be abolished and would give recognition to foreign aid as an integral part of foreign policy . Such a lump sum grant , Senator Mansfield said , would give the State Department more flexibility in using the aid where it might be needed suddenly . Representative Otto E. Passman , Democrat of Louisiana , who is chairman of the House Appropriations Subcommittee that will handle the foreign aid appropriation , also voiced opposition to long-term aid . Mr. Passman said in a statement that if Congress enacted a long-range program he would oppose the appropriation of " a single penny . " In his talk with newsmen Senator Knowland predicted that Congress would give closer scrutiny to foreign aid this year than ever before . He added that " what Congress does will depend on how strong a case is made " by the Administration @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ State , had , been informed of his opposition to long-term commitments , Senator Knowland nodded . He conferred with Mr. Dulles yesterday .                     