@@715314

txt WASHINGTON , ' March 10 ? Dr. Bella V. Dodd of New York , selfidentified as a former member of the Communist party national committee , swore before the Senate Internal Security subcommittee today that Communists had got into many legislative offices of Congress and into a number of groups advising the President of the United States . Testifying at a televised hearing in the Senate caucus room , Dr. Dodd said that Communists also had infiltrated the New York State Office of Education at Albany and the office of the Board of Education of New York City . At posts where these employes could see files or handle correspondence or reports , they helped the party 's program to reach the minds of students , the witness asserted . Through . other means , she testified , the party reached the ( minds of perhaps 1000 New York school and college teachers . Replying to previous testimony that a teacher ' might . be a Communist " personally " but an objective instructor , she declared that no Communist was a free agent , but had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Meanwhile members of the House Committee on Un-American Activities repudiated today the statement yesterday of Representative Harold H. Velde , chairman , that an investigation of the clergy was " entirely possible . " Mr. Velde , Illinois Republican , said his remarks had been ; misinterpreted and that there , had been no discussion of such an #iVeStigaton by committee members meeting . He added that no inquiry was contemplated " at ? : thi:s , time . " Dr. Dodd was a cooperative wit // ness . Short , stocky and dressed in black , she poured answers into the microphones  --  at times even before the questions were completed . Now a practicing attorney , she spelled out techniques of communism at work in education . Dr. Dodd , who taught political science and economy at Hunter College in New York from 1926 to 1938 , said it was " very easy " for her to inject her Communist beliefs into her lectures . She said the " function of a Communist teacher is to create people willing to accept Communist government . " She asserted that Communists @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , where the lines of study were set out . Dr. Dodd appeared to be ready to name names on Albany and New York City payrolls , and to go into further details , but she was blocked . The period of the alleged infiltration was not disclosed . Senator William E. Jenner , Republican of Indiana and subcommittee chairman , and Robert Morris , chief counsel , warned in advance that the subcommittee wanted no one named in public hearing . who had not been questioned previously by the group in open or closed hearings . Hence , identification of Communists held to be among Presidential advisory groups on Congressional legislative and investigative staffs , and in the educational boards and commissions of New York , were not made . The brevity of questioning on this line was taken as an indication that the subcommittee was concentrating on it in closed session and would carry it into the open later . Dr. Dodd was expelled by the Communist party in 1949 . She said she had been a member since 1943 , but had been closely associated with the party @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ resign but was told she could not . She then provoked expulsion , she said . She was received back into the Roman Catholic Church in April , 1952 . The hearing proceeded with some members of the panel apparently sensitive to public criticism of Congressional investigation into alleged Communist infiltration of educational systems . " Do you believe , Dr. Dodd , " asked Senator Olin D. Johnson , Democrat of South Carolina , " that this Congressional investigation is necessary ? " " I do , " Dr. Dodd answered . " I believe that the only way this sinister conspiracy of the Communist party can be really uncovered is by a Federal investigating group with subpoena power . " Infiltration of communism into education , Dr. Dodd contended , not only had placed Communists in key positions in classrooms , but also had made dupes of many loyal American teachers . She told the subcommittee that the 10 per cent or less of Communists in the Teachers Union of New York obtained full control through zeal and parliamentary tactics in which they were expert . She testified the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ through apparent sponsorship of popular programs With which.no American could disagree . But , she asserted , these- programs then were twisted into Cgmraunist objectives . Dr. Dodd estimated that , as she knew the Communist party up to 1949 , there was a peak of about 1,500 Communist teachers in American schools and colleges . Most of them , she said , were in the East , largely in the New York area . Despite exposures through investigation , she added , there might be about 500 in - the New York area now . An attempt to reach the mind of youth , " from the nursery to the university , " Dr. Dodd testified , was a main target of the Communist party . Thy ' Arty , she said , looked to ' youth to help in taking the country over . She knew this , she stated , because she had been active in this work .                     