@@716846

txt It Is perhaps possible not to pinpoint why the United States is likely to help the Chinese Nationalists defend Quemoy and the Matsu Islands , though it certainly is not bound to defend them by any ioint commitment . The reasoning is that if Nationalist Generalissimo Chiang Kai-shek should make a determined effort to defend these offshore islands against an all-out Chinese Communist attack , he might lose as much as one-third of his whole army  --  a loss which would have the most serious effect on Nationalist morale and the efficiency of the remnants of that army . General Chiang is loudly proclaiming that he will defend Quemoy and the Matsus against any attack . The United States , it would appear , has not been able to dissuade him from this determination . Consequently , it must consider the results , in terms of morale and in terms of maintaining intact one of the largest fighting forces allied to the United States anywhere in the world . Vital Defense Force The responsible military viewpoint in Washington is that General Chiang 's Nationalist Army is intensely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it stands strategically on the flank of Communist China , a potential threat against further Communist military adventures in Southeast Asia  --  or in Korea for that matter . Southeast Asia presently is defended by the weak Southeast Asia Treaty Organization , in many ways a " paper tiger " so far , uncertain of implementation . The real defenses of Southeast Asia lie not in the diminutive local armies of the area and not in SEATO , but in the threat of major American retaliation against China proper if the Communist armies advance southward . General Chiang 's forces on Formosa give weight to this threat . If Chinese Communist troops should move into Thailand or the remnant of Indochina in force , the best way to root them out , according to American military thinking , would be to counterattack against the Chinese mainland with Chiangtroops . And if General Chiang still held Quemoy and the Matsus , so much the better . Morale Guarded This reasoning and this viewpoint are reinforced , of course , by the vigorous opinions held among some of the United States ' topmost @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time or opportunity to consolidate itself on the mainland and develop into a formidable , modern , industrialized power , Hence Nationalist morale Is something to be watched with more care than a football coach employs in watching the esprit of his team . There is the added consideration in Washington defense thinking that a major Communist assault against Quemoy and the Matsus would almost certainly involve Formosa 's defenses too . To attack Quemoy safely and without Nationalist air interference , it is reasoned , Chinese Communist air power would have to wreck Formosa 'S air bases . Major air attacks on Formosa would bring the United States almost automatically into the picture and bring the new United States-Nationalist mutual I defense treaty into play . Invasion Doubted There is strong official doubt in Washington that the Chinese Communists will risk any such involvement by American forces . It is also thought that the Soviet Union  --  which still must provide Peking with most of its sinews of war in the shape of jet planes , tanks , and big guns  --  does not want a ? Far Eastern war @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to avoid even a major onslaught on the offshore islands of Quemoy and Matsu . One more " testing operation " against these islands , to see if the United States really intends to go to their defense , is not ruled out . But the expectation is that the present uneasy confrontation will eventually lapse into an uneasy , unofficial ceasefire . Then there may ensue a waiting period during which quiet diplomacy among the great powers may he able to discover some face-saving solution or temporary accommodation to the bristling problem . Obviously , some of the nonmilitary thinking within the Eisenhower administration takes another turn . It is possible to argue that if Quemoy and the Matsus were abandoned , as Senator Wayne Morse ( Ind. ) of Oregon and a few other senators have been urging , the Asian issue would be more clear-cut . the concept of the " two Chinas " more palatable to various allies , and the prospect of vigorous international support for the American solution still stronger . But the military chiefs see great value in retention of the offshore islands in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ N.Y . Efforts to bring about a ceasefire in Formosa Strait are being taken outside the United Nations into the field of traditional diplomacy . The UN Security Council has not proved to be a useful forum for such negotiations at this time for one simple reason . The Chinese Communists are not members of the Council  --  and they refuse to participate in its deliberations on any other basis . It is becoming more and more clear here that so far as Asia is concerned , the UN will be unable to perform the fundamental function assigned to it in the Charter ? " harmonizing the actions of nations " ? so long as the principal nation whose actions need harmonizing is not represented at its Council tables . Many western diplomats and observers regret that the UN must be bypassed again in this as in so many other recent issues of major importance . They feel that western bargaining power vis-a-vis Peking would have been much stronger if the Peking regime could have been hailed before the bar of world public opinion and made to justify its refusal to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the intense glare of publicity which focuses on UN debates , the Chinese Communists could have fumed and fulminated , squirmed and evaded , but they eventually would have had to bow to the world 's desire for a reasonable settlement or pay . a very heavy price , it is believed ; Much of the meaningful ridgotiation leading to a settlemenil ? indeed , virtually all of it  --  unquestionably would have taken place behind the scenes , in private , had Peking accepted the Council 's Jan. 31 invitation to UN headquarters . This same negotiation can be conducted , though less conveniently , at long range . There is every indication that an effort will be made to do just this . Heavy Pressure But when private negotiation takes place at the UN , the participants are under severe pressure to come to terms . Eventually , they must go before press , TV , and radio to justify their bargaining positions . Extreme stands are difficult to maintain . Even totalitarian stales have shown repeatedly that they are vulnerable to pressures of this type . The Peking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its refusal to come to the UN . And the West did its best Feb. 14 to make this setback as costly as possible . But one such setback is by no means so damaging as exposure over a period of weeks to a series of such blows . This is what the West felt would be in store for Peking if it came and remained adamant . This is what Peking was able to avoid by refusing to come . It doubtless goes far to explain the refusal . The Security Council met Feb. 14 to give Peking a verbal rap on the knuckles for declining the Council 's invitation . Representatives of the United States , Brit . a in , France . New Zealand . Brazil , and Turkey " deplored " and " regretted " the action . Dr. T. F , Tsiang of Nationalist China thought the verbal rap was too mild . He said he " marveled at the softness " Of . one rebuke  --  that by New Zealand  --  and himself characterized the Peking note as " brutal in substance , barbarous in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Move Defeated For the record , western delegates , notably Henry Cabot Lodge , Jr. , chief United States delegate , said the UN 's interest in the Formosa problem was not at an end . But there was no prospect of new UN action in the foreseeable future . No effort was made by the West to pay the principal price Peking had demanded for its participation  --  namely , a permanent seat in the Council . Soviet delegate Arkady A. Sobolev urged the Council to take that step , but the suggestion was ignored , Mr. Sobolev also proposed that the Council take up the subject he and Peking Premier Chou En-lai said they wanted to discuss ? " American aggression " against Formosa , This move was voted down , 10-1 , with the Soviet Union voting alone . The Soviet representative was careful to align himself totally with the position Mr. Chou had taken . Earlier , his demand &; had been more modest than those of Mr. Chou . This shift was the only visible change in Soviet diplomacy since the last Council meeting . Jan. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in power within the Kremlin which had taken place in the interim was a subject for speculation here . Several western diplomats , notably Henri Hoppenot of France , welcomed the incident-free evacuation of the Tachen Islands as a hopeful sign . Dr. Tsiang , however , spoke as if Nationalist China bitterly regretted it , declaring that the move had merely whetted Peking 's appetite for further con. quest .                     