@@713267

txt The Communist party of the United States has been told by its chairman , William Z. Foster , that support of the TruI man administra. tion is the best means to obtain a soviet America . This is the studied opinion of a number of experts on communist verbiage after examining a 10,000 word report by Foster in which he outlines a shift in policy , one of the sharp turns and twists which have featured communist procedure in the last 17 years . The Foster document reached Capitol hill recently . It was printed Aug. 11 in Bucharest in the official organ of the cominform , the soviet propaganda agency . International directives are carried in this publication but a statement of American communist policy has never been given such official recognition before . Study Report for Days Instead of the present all-out drive for communism in the United States , Foster called for support of a government " operating within the framework of a bourgois state " which would have the support of labor and " curb the power of the monopolists . " A @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ imprimatur , spent days studying the Foster statement . Ex-communist leaders were called for an opinion . The final unanimous agreement was that Foster , with the Kremlin 's approval , was conveying a sensational change in policy for American Communists under cloak of the customary communist double talk and tortuous wording . Just as the American Communist party switched suddenly from its " anti-imperialist , war " stand on the day Germany invaded Russia , calling loudly for America 's entry into the war , now an equally sharp reversal has been ordered , the experts agreed . Discusses Red Trail Nowhere does the Foster statement directly call for support of the Truman regime . But a number of significant passages were noted which , to those acquainted with communist procedure , point to such a conclusion . Foster began his statement with a discussion of the recent trial of 11 Communist party leaders which resulted in their conviction for conspiracy to teach and advocate the overthrow of the United States government by force and violence . He referred to a pamphlet , written by himself , which was introduced @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ party policy since 1935 . Paves Way for Change Paving the way for a change in this policy , Foster wrote apologetically in the Bucharest cominform publication : " In view of the immensity , complexity , and newness of the subject matter , certain errors and shortcomings could and did creep into it the pamphlet . The most serious shortcomings , dealing with the policy of the American Communist party , left a number of important propositions open to misunderstanding and distort tion . " I am writing this with the special purpose of clarifying and elaborating upon a number of questions . " Foster then paid tribute to the " tremendous political achievement . under the leadership of Stalin and Dimitrov " at the communist international- meeting in 1935 which called for " certain important changes in policy and action . " Must Change Tactics " From it came the great Chinese revolution , " he wrote , " the main line of which was stated by Stalin as long as 24 years back . " But , he added , the rise of " peopie 's democracies " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ accomplished by the same tactics everywhere . " Only political fools , " he emphasized , " would try to apply rigid , uniform tactics to all these widely ranging situations . " The statement then turned to the American scene . " It must be solidly emphasized , " Foster wrote , " that our orientation is for a people 's front government stated in terms adapted to American conditions . This clear policy is in its basic essentials valid for us now . " Supported by Unions F , y a people 's front government , Foster explained , he meant one supported by the labor unions . " The trade unions and every other organization of the workers and their allies would have to throw their whole strength into the struggle for a people 's front " he continued . " It may well be that the people 's front movement in ' this country will develop at a very rapid speed . " One of the most important factors is development of a deep economic crisis . It is possible in the United States , during such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ anti-imperialist government . " Foster then explained that a " people 's front " government would be compelled to move steadily towards communism . Must Go " Left " A people 's front party , " he wrote , " would have to orientate to the left or it would be destroyed . It would be compelled to attack monopolists in their economic , military , and p oli tic al spheres . " It would have to orientate toward nationalization of banks and industries , breakup of big land holdings , the beginning of a planned economy , elimination of reactionaries from all state insti , tutions . " Communists would defend such a government against reactionary efforts to overthrow it . " Such a people 's front govern ' ment , Foster continued , " operates within the framework of a bourgeois state , curbing the power of the monopolists . " This was not communism , he warned , but communism would evolve from such a government . He ' added a siniper warning : " Army Must Play Role " " Eventually , the soviet army must @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conception of Communist party policy was " directly opposite to the one which Browder deposed party leader once tried to fasten upon our party . " Browder , , he said , thought American capitalism had become so powerful as to make communism impossible here . , The responsibility for establishing communism in the United States , Foster concluded , " rests squarely upon the shoulders of the American working class and its political allies . " 