@@713993

txt ALLIED PUSH GAINS Renewed Drive in East Nets Several Hundred Yards Near Yanggu RAIN LIMITS AERIAL MD But Okinawa Superforts Hit Enemy Supply Dumps ? U. N. Ships Rake Both Coasts By GEORGE BARRETT Special to Tile New YORK Times , TOKYO , Wednesday , July 11 ? United Nations troops on the eastcentral sector of the Korean front renewed their drive yesterday in the area above Yanggu and advanced several hundred yards despite Communist resistance . It was a scene of fire exchanges and advances against enemy land mines and booby traps , with foot soldiers slugging it out . On the other end of the battlefront , where United Nations commanders and Chinese and North Korean Communists talked peace , there was virtually no fighting . The eastern drive was taken up again1yesterday following an initial rebuff by the enemy that had almost immediately thrown back the United Nations foot soldiers to their starting point of four days ago . While the enemy 's heavy , stubborn resistance was officially reported by an Eighth Army headquarters communiqu ? to have either diminished to light or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ugly procedure of clump by clump and hill by hill . Across the one-hundred-mile front there was a kind of crazyquilt pattern to the fighting . In some sectors in between there was the silence of peace and lazy , although alert , watching by both sides , while in others patrols clashed and fights blazed for brief periods . The air forces , which are taking on a good deal of the job of watching the enemy and pounding him continuously to keep him from building up troops and supplies during the lull of the cease-fire negotiations , had a bad break yes // terday in weather that blanketed most of North Korea with heavy clouds and rain and kept the tactical sorties of the Fifth Air Force down to the smallest number in more than two and one-half months . Airmen of the Fifth Air Force who did manage to get into the skies were able to fly only twentytwo effective sorties during the day and of this  --  total most of them ? eighteen to be exact  --  were reconnaissance missions . Radar techniques , however , helped @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ allweather Superforts of the 307th Bomb Group flew from Okinawa last night to drop 280 quarter-ton demolition bombs at enemy supply areas at Sinpo and Kowon on the east coast of Korea to help curb the flow of war materials along a key supply route to front-line units . The Air Force 's role in preventing the enemy from exploiting the present period of the cease-fire talks for , a military build-up brought into action yesterday B-26 fighter bombers also , despite the sticky weather . Four radar-controlled bomb drops were made in support of the ground troops . All told , the United Nations war planes mounted 275 sorties during the day . An Eighth Army communique described the fighting during the day as being a matter of " light enemy contact " along most of . the Korean front . On the western sector patrols of the United Nations troops on the prowl between Kaesong , site of the cease-fire talks , and Yonchon , fewer than thirty miles to the northeast , encountered light enemy forces . There was an increase of enemy artillery and mortar fire in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In the central sector around the former " iron triangle " of KumhwaChorwon-Pyonggang , wrested from the Communists after a bitter battle , United Nations patrols moving in the area northeast of Kumhwa spotted two enemy platoons doing a little prowling of their own . There was a fifteenminute fight before the United Nations troops withdrew to friendly lines and silence fell again over this portion of the sector . Small arms and automatic weapons fire was tivned against four United Nations patrols in the north central sector and artillery and mortar shells ' fell on a fifth patrol somewhere about halfway between Pyonggang and Kumhwa . The biggest fighting of the day was in the eastern sector , marking the renewal of the United Nations advance northward . Enemy forces , estimated at regimental size , in the area northeast of Yanggu  --  where the Communists have dug in to establish a defensive barrier on their east coast communications ? slackened from previous " heavy and stubborn " resistance to counter-attacks on a moderate scale with the use largely of semi-automatic and automatic weapons . In the area west-northwest of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be the size of a platoon was seen and brief contact was made . In the area northeast of Inje there was one minor fight and - several others occurred between Inje and the coast . Warships of the Allied navies , coming in close to both shores flanking enemy positions , kept up their battering of the Communists , smashing at military installations far behind enemy forward positions . The battleship New Jersey , flagship of Admiral Harold M. Martin , commanding the Seventh Fleet , teamed up with the destroyer Mason to shell Communist troop concentrations and supplies in the Kosong-Kansong area in eastern Korea . The main battery of the New Jersey fired as far as sixteen miles inland to drop explosives and by the end of the bombardment by the Navy 's ships in late afternoon nearly 30,000 pounds of highexplosive shells had been thrown into enemy ranks . In carrying out their strange Korean role as seagoing artillery for the land fighting , the navies of the United Nations gave a demonstration of a weird battle yesterday between a warship at sea and a train in a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ train heading for a tunnel near Songjin . Its long rifles moved slowly to keep pace with the moving train and as the locomotives rolled out of the tunnel the pin-pointed naval guns exploded toward the shore and struck the moving train several times , spreading fires and causing heavy damage .                     