@@717745

txt Letters to The Times Foreign Trade Plan Upheld Participation in 0 . T. C. Held to Imply No Delegation of Powers The writer of the following letter is an attorney and a lecturer at the Columbia Law School . He served as a consultant to the Association . of the Bar of the City of New York in a study of the constitutionality of American participation in GATT and 0 . T. C. To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YoRK TIMES : In your editorial of March 9 entitled " The Need for 0 . T. C. " you dismissed as " nonsense " the charge that approval of American participation in the Organization for Trade Cooperation would involve a " delegation " to an international body of the constitutional powers of the American Congress . In- the same issue of The Times your news columns carried an account by The Associated Press of hearings on 0 . T. C. before the House Ways and Means Committee . Under the heading " Foreign Trade Plan Is Opposed by Bar " the account described a constitutional attack on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Bar Association based on the very arguments rejected as " nonsense " by your editorial . The heading of the news dispatch , coupled with the failure of the dispatch to mention other testimony given before the committee on the legal issue , might lead a reader to conclude that your views on the constitutional question were at variance with the preponderance of informed professional opinion . Conclusions of Report Such a conclusion , of course , would be entirely erroneous . The testimony of the representative of the American Bar Association was contradicted on the very same day by a representative of the Association of the Bar of the City of New York who placed in the record a detailed report on the constitutional question by the association 's Committee on International Law . This report came to the following conclusions : " The President had the necessary authority to agree to United States adherence to and participation in GATT under the authority delegated to him in the Reciprocal Trade Agreements Act ; " There is no constitutional impediment to Congressional enactment of H. R. 5550 , recommending United States @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ report gave particular consideration to the charge that by approving American participation in 0 . T. C. Congress would be delegating its constitutional powers to an international body . It concluded that no " delegation " was involved , since neither the 0 . T. C. agreement nor GATT gives to an international body any of the constitutional powers of Congress to make American laws . Administrative Function The primary function of the 0 . T. C. would be to administer GATT . The 0 . T. C. agreement specifically provides that the organization can not impose on a member any new obligation which that member has not specifically agreed to undertake . The organization would have the power ( now exercised by the contracting parties to GATT ) to release a member from an obligation under GATT . When this power . is used to release the United States from a GATT obligation it gives the United States more rather than less freedom than it would otherwise have and obviously involves no " delegation " of Congressional powers . The same power of release , of course , can be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the United States . Foreign countries could thus be authorized to raise tariffs or other import restrictions on trade with the United States . But here again there is involved no power of the American Congress . In the words of the report : " The power to regulate commerce between the United States and foreign countries by tariffs and other restrictions imposed by such foreign countries on imports to and exports from their own territories is a power which exists in those countries alone * * * ? " RICHARD N. GARDNER . New York , March 9 , 1956 . Women 's Vote for Eisenhower To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : In a speech delivered here on March 10 before the Women 's National Republican Club and reported in The Times of the 11th , Miss Bertha Adkins , Assistant to the Chairman of the Republican National Committee , is quoted as saying that in 1952 President Eisenhower received 52 per cent of the women 's vote , In fact , according to a Gallup survey of May , 1953 , 51.9 per cent of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ women . But of the total women 's vote , 57.7 per cent went to Eisenhower . This figure is even more impressive than that given by Miss Adkins  --  and is not being overlooked by the political strategists nP both parties . ELEANOR CLARK FRENCH . New York , March 11 , 1956 . Preventing Drug Addiction To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Once again there is great public concern about the problem of narcotics addiction . Various remedies are suggested , ranging from giving addicts free shots of their choice to long prison terms . On the other hand , very little attention has been given to the exploration of the causes of addiction and of ways to prevent it . It is known , however , that drug addicts are mostly weak-willed , dee pendent persons seeking relief from actual or imagined unhappiness . Of course , not all unhappy people become drug fiends , but there are some hunches as to who will potentially become one . Continued and , before all , greatly increased research will determine more exactly the type of person @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ treatment , educational psychoto , gical and otherwise , will then be able to deal effectively with the potential addict , a procedure which will be vastly less expensive and much more successful than other methods of combating drug addiction . HERBERT S. LEWIN , Ph . D. New York , March 12 , 1956 . Role of Armenian Church Its Objectives Said to Be Spiritual Rather Than Political To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : During recent days three news items from Beirut concerning the election of the Armenian Catholicos of Cilicia were printed in The New York Times . The general tone of these articles , especially the first , moves us to make a few statements . Your reporter , Samuel Pope Brewer , obviously was misinformed about the circumstances and occasion of the election . The contemporary Near East situation has caused your reporter to present this ecclesiastical convocation as having political overtones . Certainly his headline reference , " Armenian Church Soviet Weapon , " has no justification . Mr. Brewer 's reference to a " Soviet Orthodox Armenian Church " is also misleading @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ designation , His sources of information do not appear to be well balanced nor do they appear to be unbiased : Mr. Brewer reports that the arrival in Beirut , Lebanon , of His Holiness , Vasken I , Catholicos of All Armenians , denotes that the Armenian Church is being used for political purposes . That implication too is incorrect . The objectives of the Holy Church of Armenia are spiritual ; and the Patriarch , His Holiness Vasken I , Catholicos of All Armenians , is the spiritual leader of the Armenian people  --  not a political leader . Since the fifteenth century the Armenian Church has had two Catholicoses . The first of these is the Catholicos of All Armenians , who resides in Etchmiadzin , where the Mother See of the Church has been established since the fourth century ; and the second is the Catholicos of Cilicia , in Antelias ( formerly in Sis , Turkey ) , whose history dates back to the fifteenth century . These two Sees , with very few exceptions , have always been in communion and have maintained religious ties @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ All Armenians , is himself eager to maintain the harmony of the Holy Sees and therefore went on a mission to Antelias , Lebanon , to use his historical authority to strengthen unity . The purpose of his trip , accordingly , had no political significance . We bring to your attention a resolution which was passed unanimously by the Diocesan Assembly of the Armenian Church of North America on Oct. 12 , 1952 , in Bridgeport , Conn. , which reaffirms that the Catholicos in Etchmiadzin is the spiritual and ecclesiastical authority of , the church and that he does not have or exercise political jurisdiction over his flock . Rev. Father VARTAN MEGIIERIAN , Acting Primate , Diocese of the Armenian Church of North America . New York , March 6 , 1956 . To Keep Politics Out of Politics To THE EDITOR OF THE . NEW YORK TIMES : Leonard Hall would like to keep the President 's health out of politics . Secretary of State Dulles would like to keep foreign policy out of politics . The Department of Defense would like to keep our armament program @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to keep the farm problem out of politics . Gov . Goodwin Knight of California would like to keep the election out of politics . This is going to make for a pretty dull election year . The only thing the Republicans have left in politics is the Supreme Court . May I make a suggestion ? Why not see if we can keep politics out of politics ? JOHN B. CURRIE . Cornwall , Conn. , March 7 , 1956.                     