@@715711

txt The loudly trumpeted " revision " of Yugoslav policy toward Trieste has now been announced by Marshal Tito , and if what he said is all he meant to ' Say , and if he means what he said , it is difficult to understand why such a storm was raised about it . True , Marshal Tito has expanded his previous claims , but he did not go as far as ' ' some advance announcements from Bel grade , and he even gave covert hints of possible compromises which merit exploration . Probably the most important feature of his speech is that , in contrast to Belgrade propaganda which claimed Trieste as an " inalienable " part of Yugoslavia , Marshal Tito in effect ? renounced all claims to Trieste itself with the admission that the majority of its population is Italian . But , instead of repeating previous offers indicating that Italy might have the port ofVrrieste and the strip of territory connecting it with Italy , known as Zone A , if Yugoslavia obtained Zone B , which it already occupies , he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ international control and that all of the surrounding territory should go to Yugoslavia , which means that the free port would be within the Yugoslav boundary . At the same time , while rejecting a plebiscite under present conditions , he does not rule it out if the Slovenes and Croatians he claims have been deported by Italy from Zone A are returned , which should mean . that the Italians he has forced out of Zone B should be permitted to return as well . Finally , though in the form of a challenge to Italy , he seems to suggest the submission of the whole issue to the United Nations . The first reaction of Rome appears to be that these proposals do not provide even a basis for discussion . But it will be noted that the Italian Government itself has in the past suggested both a plebiscite and submission of the question to the United Nations , and despite the uproar in Italy over Secretary Dulles ' statement regarding the possibility of alternatives to the Western Power declaration of 1948 , urging the return of the whole @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no means excluded the possibility of compromise . Thus Marshal Tito 's speech might conceivably provide a new impetus toward a solution of the problem . Unfortunately , it is in the nature of a dictator that he must strut  --  and Mar -- shal Tito is no exception , He has made his proposals under circumstances and in a tone which might nullify the positive elements in them . Certainly the previously announce a massing of some 200,000 fanatical partisans within five miles of the Italian border and the threats and taunts ' he has hurled at Italy will not improve the atmosphere and amply justify the security measures Italy has taken . It is to be hoped that , with his Hitleresque performance out of the way , Marshal Tito will re- , turn to a calmer mood and then make good his offer of direct negotiations and his expressions of friendship for the Italian people , on which his own safety may depend .                     