@@718496

txt and spotlighted in testimony before the House Foreign Affairs Committee by former Secretary of . State Dean Acheson , an articulate and brilliant witness . Whether his argument and reason will affect congressional action is another matter . Mr. Acheson scathingly attacked the Eisenhower Doctrine as " not a statement of a policy , but an invitation to devise one . " He asserted , " It does not present conclusions , but suggests beginnings . " The problem that confronts Congress , he declared , is " not whether to support the President , but what it is which the Congress is asked to support . " Procedure Hit The former Secretary of State , who may well be speaking for all critics of the Eisenhower Doctrine , argued that a policy should be formulated before it is announced , and there are better ways than through legislation to announce policy in this situation . Mr. Acheson urged Congress , if it must do something to clarify United States policy toward the Middle East , to approve something like the " Vandenberg resolution " of 1948 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to legislate action , which announced a position and then left it to the executive to move to implement that policy , he said . All that is needed , Mr. Acheson argued , was a simple resolution . " A policy can not be legislated , " he asserted ; " its execution can and must be legislated as occasion arises . " As for the President 's statement that " this program will not solve all the problems of the Middle East " ? that , said Mr. Acheson , is , " conservatively speaking , the outstanding understatement 1957 . " Compared to Indochina The first section of the proposed law , Mr. Acheson continued , would authorize the President to extend economic aid to the Middle East . Yet the executive branch " already is amply authorized " to do that , he averred . The second section , to authorize the use American armed force , " becomes more vague , more uncertain and inadequate as a statement of policy the more one studies it , " Mr. Acheson declared . He suggested it was comparable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Indochina , whereupon the Communists swallowed half the country by covert aggression . " Our threat was a grandiose gesture , " he said , " implying a virile and firm attitude but accomplishing nothing beyond temporarily anesthetizing the policy makers , and perhaps the American public . " " So , " concluded Mr. Acheson , " as policy  --  that is , as a guide how to act in situations likely to occur ? it is , vague , inade- Referring to some testimony before the committee by Secretary of State John Foster Dulles as to the possibility of the United States " taking action outside the arca " if it thought the Soviet Union were starting an all-out war , Mr. . Acheson asserted : " This sounds perilously like another approach to the brink .. ? . this is reckless talk . Vague phrases which suggest that we might respond to any but the most vital danger by nuclear retaliation carry a vicious risk , whether believed or not believed , and may cause a fatal miscalculation , There can be no bluff here . " Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ United Nations . He said : " If a great nation , like the United States , looks to the UN to form American policy , instead of fighting in the UN for what the American Government believes should be clone , then we have committed an unprecedented abdication of responsibility and power . We deserve what we get .... " Democrats batter Eisenhower Doctrine : Page 3.                     