@@714989

txt In alMost unbelievable bitterness the , Stevenson and Eisenhower leaders ' am fighting it out down to the last ballot in what probably will be a Presidential vote of 1,500,000 in Texas on Nov. 4 . The candidates , Gen. Dwight D. Eisenhower for the Republicans and Gov . Adlai E. Stevenson ofl Illinois for the Democrats , came into the state this week in urgent ' search for its twenty-four electoral votes , the sixth biggest bloc in the country . A total of 266 elec. , toral votes are needed for election . Now that the candidates have come and gone the struggle is in its last harsh phase . A careful sampling of professional political opinion , plus such indications as one can gather from among the ordinary voters , suggests that at the end of election night the Stevenson people are the more likely to be found in command . if only narrowly so . The final battle report front Texas is that the Eisenhower Democrats and their Republican allies are slightly more frightened of the result than are the regular pro-Stevenson Democrats @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ House of Representatives . All must be put in this negative way . Strong , affirmative words such as " confident " really do not apply to either side . In Texas this is the day and the hour of the burned bridge , and no one supposes that the Democratic party in this state will ever be the ' same again , regardless of the result in the Presidential election . In a world turned upside down the " loyalist " Democrats who have chosen to stand with Governor Stevenson are not meeting their most implacable opposition from the Republicans . Their really remorseless and unforgiving opponents are the Eisenhower Democrats headed by Gov . Allan Shivers , With all the power of the ordinary Democratic organization of the state at his command . The Stevenson regulars , from Speaker Rayburn down , are making it increasingly plain that they too will be remorseless . They are issuing plain warnings of punishment to come for office-holding bolters if the Stevenson cause prevails . There have been bolting movements in Texas before , bu ? on nothing remotely approaching- this one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of ' the Eisenhower Democratic leaders said : " We know that this time we have crossed the river . I am not silly enough to suppose that if we lose I , for example , will ever again be welcome in a Democratic organization in Texas controlled by Sam Rayburn or Lyndon Johnson Senator Lyndon B. Johnson , who is standing at Mr. Rayburn 's side . " Among the voters there is a harshness never before approached . One hears stories from Stevenson supporters of alleged business intimidation and social ostracism from the Eisenhower Democrats , who dominate the business and professional life of Texas to a degree so grat as to be obvious to the most casual observer . Two professional men who are for Governor Stevenson have told this reporter with every seeming sincerity that their careers have been put in such jeopardy as to be considered " almost finished " ? even if the Democrats should win . H. R. Aldredge Jr. , a member of one of the founding families of Dallas and one of the few among the wealthy and well placed who still @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ticket shortly after Mr. Rayburn hurried here in September to take over in the vacium left by the movement of the entire existing Democratic organization to Eisenhower . Mr. Aldredge said that shortly after this , on Oct. 3 , a sound truck appeared near his suburbans home at 11:30 o'clock at night and trumpeted through the neighbor-hood : " H. R. Aldredge , H. R. Aldredge are you a Texan ? Are you al Texan ? Are you going to vote for Eisenhower ? " Weldon Hart of Austin , who isl operating head of the powerful , campaign for General Eisenhower being run by Governor Shivers , declared that he had no knowledge of such an incident . No doubt , he added , there were cases of " overzealousness " by Eisenhower partisans , which no responsible Eisenhower man would approve . Wallace Savage of Dallas , the state Democratic chairman , and therefore an active worker for General Eisenhower , said , in answer to a general question repeating charges of intimidation : " I should say that this sort of charge is an unmitigated lie . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Dallas ' most fashionable churches , where her husband is a lay official , asserts that twice in meetings with fellow parishioners over church affairs , she has been publicly called " a Communist " for serving as a Stevenson volunteer . She was prepared to give her name for publication but her husband then said he hoped it would be withheld . If " Communist " is being used as an epithet on the Eisenhower side , there are Stevenson supporters who charge the Eisenhower people with " creating the beginnings here of a Fascist movement . " Mr. Savage asserts in substance that the intimidation lies on the Stevenson side . He notes that Speaker Rayburn has suggested that bolting members of Congress will be disciplined . He points also to the fact that Mr. Rayburn has raised some question whether Congress might continue to grant to the oil interests the 271/2 per cent depletion allowance . This allows oil producers to write off for depletion of their underground holdings 271/2 per cent of what they earn . Oil Is at the heart of much of the bitterness @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the offshore oil lands . Mr. Savage , the Democratic chairman of the state under Governor Shivers , has a partner occupying the same office , Alvin Lane , who is the Republican state chairman . The Rayburn people refer to this as " a cozy little arrangement " in which both party organizations ? the state Democratic organization committed to General Eisenhower and the state Republican organization committed to General Eisenhower  --  are headed in a law office that has oil company practice . Mr. Savage dismisses these suggestions as nonsense and declared : " The total oil retainers of this firm would hardly pay the salary of one of our stenographers . " Following are the probable sources of support for the candidates in Texas on Election Day : FOR STEVENSON  --  Many of the farmers , and probably . a majority of them ; a large core of old-1 line Democrats , typified by Speaker Rayburn and former Vice , President John N. Garner , who will support the Democratic party as long as they live ; a great majority of the Negroes and Mexicans of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at the top at least ; vast numbers of business and professional men and small and large merchants ; an obviously good number of young peopie ; nearly the whole of the state 's metropolitan press ; a fairly well-disciplined regular Republican minority . The Stevenson Democrats thus feel that at every cost they must get out the farm vote , the Negro vote and the Mexican vote . They have been given at least slight aid in the fact that Right-Wing groups have put General of the Army Douglas on the ticket as a Presidential candidate . Votes going to the former Far Eastern commander , by every sign , mean net losses to the Eisenhower can-didacy ,                     