@@719027

txt Letters to The Times T. ORCHARD LISLE.S.B.K.EMANUEL M. SNYDER.PAUL DENN , CLAUDE L. BENNER . Letters to The Times . Oil Stockpiling Proposed Government Purchases of Crude as Emergency Reserve Proposed The writer of the following letter was formerly publisher of The Oil Forum . To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Your July 31 editorial on oil imports has much to commend it . The serious problem of oil imports is so complex and covers so much ground that the outcome of the Eisenhower request to oil companies is not likely to have the satisfactory results expected . Only a simple plan can be lasting in effectiveness because both economics and national security are involved  --  two things which rarely travel together smoothly . The President 's threat of Government-controlled quotas is at odds with the inherent right of every United States citizen to trade with any nation not at war with this country . Also the President 's request is discriminatory , as it excludes certain states . A plan equally fair to domestic producers and importers alike must simultaneously provide national oil @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ well as keep foreign oil countries happy . One answer to the problem would be to let imports rest with the law of supply and demand , and for the Government to purchase as an emergency reserve and keep underground oil in enough new fields ( as discovered and drilled sufficiently to establish proved potentials ) to equal oil imports in excess of the 1954 figure . Reimbursing Producers , As each producing well is " brought in " in selected new fields the Government would promptly pay the oil man or oil company for the cost of drilling . Payment would include exploration , road making , royalties , etc . As soon as the new field 's potential was established by drilling an adequate number of additional wells , the oil underground would be paid to the producers by the Government . Potentials would be decided by an industry-Government board assisted by experienced geologists . For income tax purposes the payments could be made in five , ten , fifteen or twenty annual installments . Already the Government is the largest purchaser of petroleum products . Why not crude @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ market except in an emergency ? The Navy 's Kettlemen Hills has already set a precedent . In buying oil for stockpiling against war it could not truly be said that the Government would be directly in the oil business , any more than the purchase of uranium places it in the mining industry . Already some oil companies are selling their entire production of uranium to the Government , and getting a fair price too . The plan would encourage domestic producers to expand exploration operations , as they would have ample funds available as quickly as needed without having to borrow and pay interest , or rarely so . All oil produced over and above what the Government purchased would flow into regular commercial channels as usual . No matter what the quantity of oil imported , domestic producers would not suffer . T. ORCHARD LISLE . Fort Worth , Tex. , Aug. 9 , 1957 . Policing Areas of Delinquency To THE EDITOR OF T HE NEW YORK TIMES : It seems that a very small segment of our youth has declared war on our city . I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : First , a short course in emergency police tactics be established by our Police Department . Then volunteers should be gotten from critical areas . After a short training course they would be armed with a club , whistle and a walkie-talkie . They would patrol in pairs . A qualified patrolman could maintain communication in a staff car . The presence of these men in unpoliced areas would tend to halt much of street activity that eventually leads to the big rumbles . It is high time that the streets of New York are no longer considered enemy territory . Citizen Minute Men working with their police force could restore this safety . S. B. K. New Rochelle , N. Y. , Aug. 7 , 1957 . Literacy Requirements for Aliens To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : The interesting letter you published on Aug. 5 from former Congressman William S. Bennet contained a reference to an immigration bill signed by President Theodore Roosevelt in 1907 , from which literacy test requirements had been eliminated by the Congress although they had been favored by the President . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Feb. 5 , 1917 , passed over President Wilson 's veto , contained literacy test provisions . President Wilson declared at the time that the literacy test was the chief reason for his veto of the 1917 bill . However , the literacy test for immigrants has remained in the immigration laws since that time . It was retained in the codified statute that is our present immigration and nationality law , the Immigration and Nationality Act of 1952 ( Section 212 ) . There are certain exceptions , but generally speaking your average immigrant over 16 who is physically capable of reading , and who ig net closely related to an admissible alien or any alien lawfully admitted for permanent residence , or any citizen of the United States , is inadmissible for permanent residence unless he proves that he can read and under , stand some language or dialect . , Illiteracy does not preclude nonimmigrants ( i. e. , aliens who do not intend to remain here permanently ) ; from admission to the United States . EMANUEL M. SNYDER . New York , Aug. 5 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to Board of Education Opposed To THE EDITOR OF THE New York TIMES : I feel that I must take exception to one conclusion in your editorial of Aug. 9 on the current financial position of the New York City Transit Authority . To refer to the reduced fare program for school children of New York City as a " subsidy " and to recommend that the " deficit " incurred by this program be charged to the budget of the Board of Education is an indication of a lack of awareness of the history of the reduced-fare program and of the basic reason for its introduction . Originally , during the era of the 5-cent fare , students who used public transportation ( or what was then private transportation ) paid full fare . The Board of Education provided and still provides for the transportation of physically handicapped children and of elementary school children living beyond certain minimal distances from school . The transportation of these children comes out of the budget of the Board of Education . When the question of the rise in fare was introduced by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one of the major objections to a fare increase on the part of the public was the burden which would be imposed upon the families of children who used public transportation to get to school . It was in order to gain acceptance by the public for an increased fare that the Board of Transportation ( not the Board of Education ) recommended a reducedfare program for school children . Therefore to transfer the loss of revenue entailed by the introduction and maintenance of the reducedfare program to the Board of Education would be a grossly unfair addition to the cost of education in New York City . Incidentally , another subsidy which does not appear on the books is the clerical service rendered by the Bureau of Supplies and by the teachers , supervisors and clerks in the schools in administering the reduced-fare program . PAUL DEN N , Principal , Martin Van Buren High School . Queens Village , N. Y. , Aug. 9 , 1957 . It seems to us that the history of why a reduced transit fare was given to students explains but does not justify @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ deficit should be charged against education , which is supported by taxation , rather than transit , which is hard pressed to meet operating expenses with revenues ? as required by law  --  while keeping the 15-cent fare. ? Editor , The Times . Against Stimulating Spending To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : In a time of relatively full ern ? employment as is the present , to state as does Professor Slichter in his letter of Aug. 8 that the Number One economic problem of the moment is " to restore expansion to the economy by persuading individuals to increase their spending " is to argue for an increase in the forces making for inflation . With the level of expenditures for investment as high as they have been during the past year , where would industry have obtained the materials and labor to produce a higher volume of consumer goods ? The really phenomenal thing is not that consumer expenditures have not expanded during this period , but rather that it has been possible to increase expenditures for investment so much without causing their decline . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an enlarged plant capacity , the need may then be to increase consumer expenditures in order to keep the enlarged plant running to full ca. pacity . But not now when our economy is nractically bursting at the seams . CLAUDE L. BENNER . Wilmington , Del. , Aug. 9 , 1957.                     