@@715760

txt Tempers boiled yesterday in both camps holding prisoners of the Ko4. ? ean war who are resisting repatriation to their native lands . American soldiers who have chosen to remain on the Communist side shook their fists at a small group of United States Army officers inspecting their camp and shouted , " Go home , Yankee imperialists . " ' North Korean and Chinese prisoners raised crude signs threatening death to Communist officials who later this week will enter their compounds to " explain " to them why- they should choose to return home . Details were also revealed about the incident  --  during which a major of the Indian custodial troops was seized by angry Chinese prisoners and held as a hostage for an hour and a half . His release was finally , obtained by the personal intervention of Maj. Gen. S. P. P. Thorat , commander of the Indian troops , who entered the prisoners ' compound and coolly demanded hospitality rather than hostility from the prisoners . Brig . Gen. A. L. Hamblen , chief of the United Nations repatriation group , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , chairman of the Neutral Nations Repatriation Commission , today requesting him to inform the prisoners of the date for beginning explanations and suggesting a termination date of Dec. 23 , which " should further allay their fears and ease the burden on your custodial force . " The delayed explanations are scheduled to begin by Thursday . General Hamblen said the prisoners mught be " most apprehensive due to their understanding that explanations would begin Sept. 25 : ' In a second letter to General Thimayya , General Hamblen said that facilities provided for United Nations officers who will attempt to persuade prisoners from their side to return home " are considered entirely unsatisfactory as to design , location and layout . " He asked that facilities be provided by the Communists similar to those being provided by the Allies . The Neutral Nations Repatriation Commission agreed to turn over to the Communists sixty-six Chinese , mostly officers , who now have chosen repatriation . These men , by far the largest group to be handed over , had long been suspected by the Allies of being Communists . They @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ camp on Cheju Island and the Indian guards had been informed of their special status and had kept them separate from other prisoners . So far 106 North Koreans and Chinese have changed their minds and chosen repatriation . The American prisoners showed their hostility to their fellow countrymen yesterday when a party of three American officers and a civilian went to the Communist-built camp near Panmunjom to inspect facilities for explanation sessions there . The camp holds twenty-three Americans , a Briton and 335 South Koreans who do not desire to return home . The Allied party , accompanied by Indian guards , entered the compound through the main gate . Maj. Edward A. Morrer , a member of the inspection team , said his group noted that some Korean prisoners were playing basketball . ' By the time the party reached the huts , however , the American and Korean prisoners had begun assembling . They began to sing loudly " The Internationale , " anthem of communism . Clenched Fists Waved When the song was finished the prisoners cheered and began to shout at the visitors , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " " Go home , Yankee imperialists " and " Go home , American imperialists . " The prisoners made the clenchedfist sign of communism and shook their fists at the American party . Major Morrer described their attitude as " quite hostile . " Next the American prisoners gathered before one of their number who acted as a cheerleader . ' " Will we go south ? " the leader asked in a loud voice . The group answered with a , ringing " No ! " " Will we go north ? " the leader asked , and the prisoners came back with a roaring " Yes ! " Because of the possibility of further trouble , the Indian guards , . rather than make their way back through the compound , cut a hole in the fence and the United States inspection team left . In a final show of defiance , the prisoners waved their clenched fists in the air and cheered . Meanwhile in the North Korean and Chinese non-repatriate camps , the prisoners scrawled signs in white paint on the tops of their tents . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Object to dogs of Communist to come to our compound deceipt deceive us agin " and " We will firmly beat the Red dogs to death . " The prisoners sang and chanted slogans , some of which said that they would rather die than meet with the Communist " explainers . " The Indians , largely unarmed , won the respect of many of the Chinese prisoners in the camp as a result of Friday 's incident , whose full details were learned only late yesterday . On Friday morning Mal H. S. Grewal of . the Dogra Regiment , an interpreter with the Indian troops , was walking with an Indian lieutenant in one of the compounds when Chinese prisoners who were described as being in a highly emotional state suddenly seized them and dragged them off , toward a tent . The lieutenant managed to escape after losing the sleeve of his , coat , but Major Grewal was pulled , from sight by the prisoners . Ten Indian soldiers armed with sticks1 were sent into the compound and clashed briefly with the Chinese , who had armed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ troops were ordered to stop fighting by General Thorat , who was making the rounds of the prison compounds . He calmly stepped between men who were Lighting . The general asked the prisoners to return the major , and the Chinese told him . that he was being held as a hostage to exchange for one of their sergeants who the day before had been repatriated at his own request . They added that he would not be returned until they got their sergeant . General Thorat ordered his guards to put down their weapons and then said to some of the prisoners who understood English , " What sort of Chinese are you ? Where is your hospitality ? Yau have offered my men neither te'a nor cigarettes . " The anger of the Chinese seemed to melt . Some hurried away to bring General Thorat a can and a blanket to sit on . Within five minutes some of the prisoners came out of a near ; by tent with hot tea and cigarettes . A little while later Major Grewal was brought out , with an enlisted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Chinese decided on the spot to draw ' up a petition to the Neutral Nations Repatriation Commission to get their sergeant back . Then the prisoners formed an honor guard and cheered loudly as General Thorat and Major Grewal left the compound . The major was shaken up , but . otherwise unhurt .                     