@@714218

txt The EgNptian tiOVernMellt has officially rejected a western invitation to become a keystone of the proposed Allied Middle East command . The Egyptian Parliament at the same time formally confirmed abrogation of the treaty with Britain , thereby forcing a showdown on British troops presently stationed along the Suez Canal . By Neal Stanford Corepspondent of The Ch rIVIa n Science Monitor Washington The West is determined to go ahead with plans to establish a Middle East command , despite the apparent complications . Now that the four powers ? Britain , France , the United States , and Turkey  --  have officially invited F. : , , v to take part in such a defense scheme , the lollowing major obstacles must be overcome : I. Egyptian unv .. illingness to go along with the British-Fre  --  cliAmerican-Ttirkish defense scheme for the Middle East . The problem Hoy ; will to he to try to s " ? erteo the offer so Cairo eventually will ? on-le in , at the same time making clear that the four sponsorinc , pov. - ers will not he deterred @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ v : ill he necessary to allay the fears of Israel that Egypt ( with which it still is technically at war ) is going to he furnished western arms in large quantities , and to explain to Israel why it ( a Middle East country ) is not included in the scheme . This could become an explosive political issue in the United States , 3 . There will be the problem of Placating the other Middle East Arab tries not invited into this defense pact . The fact that their contributions could not be large  --  that they have no Suez Canal to contribute as has Egypt . or an army of 600,000 men , as has Turkey  --  does not hide the need of winning their approval for this new defense arrangement . 4 . Finally , there will be the need to build this - Middle East command into the North Atlantic Pact system so that it is part of the larger defense arrangement , though subsidiary to it . The Scandinavian members of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization , in particular , are alarmed over extension of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to this would seem to be an understanding that each of the several subsidiary commands in NATO would be responsible for its area defense unless the situation got out of hand , in which case they all would be in the fight together anyway . Bask Aims Stressed These are all problems that can not be overlooked or underestimated . In Washington , the intention is to do all that can be done to resolve these personal , national , and racial issues , but always with the objective of getting the Mideast oefense command , even if on less than fully satisfactory terms , The proposals that the four powers made to Cairo emphasized : That Egypt belonged to the free world ; That its defense was part of the larger problem of the defense of the whole Middle East ; That this defense could be secured only through cooperation ; That therefore an Allied Middle East command should be established ; That the United States , Britain , France and Turkey were inviting Egypt to be a founding member on a basis of equality and partnership ; That with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were not needed for the Middle East defense : That Egypt would make contributions of military and air bases and ports to such a defense arrangement : That Egyptian officers would be part of the command staff : That if Egypt agrees to this arrangement , Britain will turn over its base in Egypt to the Egyptians  - -  this base simultaneously to be-conic an Allied base within the Allied Middle East command . Bargaining ; Position If Cairo accepts the tour-power invitation , it is Washington 's hope that a conference of the interested powers can be called shortly to work out details . Presumably this would be in Cairo  --  but if Egypt hesitates about joining , it will be held in Turkey . It is evident that Egypt is in a position to exact a large price frOm the West for its participation in this plan  --  particularly its renunciation of claims to sole right of control of Suez . But the West is not without some high cards in its hand . The British are in actual possession of the canal and have treaty rights there despite Cairo 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ United States ? as not in the Iranian oil dispute is supporting the British position . It seems probable that there will have to be much diplomatic maneuvering and backstage discussion before Egypt 's immediate opposition to this proposal can be broken . The assumption in Washington is that given time and some incentives , the Egyptians will see the Nvisdom of cooperating with the inevitable  --  for the West is determined to build up the military defenses of the Middle East . It will be easier with Egyptian cooperation . But there is no evidence in Washington that Egypt is going to be allowed to block what is considered necessary here in the free world 's plan to to contain Soviet communism .                     