@@718681

txt American made guided missiles that could be fired from the British isles at targets in Russia in case of war will be given hiBritain . This was announced by America and Britain today in a joint statement summarizing the results of three days of talks by . President Eisen ? hower and Prime Minister Macmillan at Bermuda . The missiles will be donated to Britain , officials said . No estimate was available of the cost but the officials said it would be substantial . Bill Could be High There were unofficial estimates that the cost of the program would run into hundreds of millions of dollars . The joint statement , however , said that the gift misPresident Eisenhower coughing as he boarded plane yesterday in Bet+ muda for flight to Washington . sile program was in the " interest of mutual defense and mutual economy . " American , officials said that the " economy " would result ' from eliminating duplication in British-American missile programs . The gift missiles will be of intermediate range . Britain will not actually be handed the warheads now @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ weapons to other countries , but the warheads will be based with ' American troops in Britain to be given to the British at once in case of war . Such missiles are still in the development stage but . officials estimated they would be perfected hi less than two years and be produced in quantity not long after that . Thor Type May Go It was understood that the Thor missile , now being developed , is one of the types that will go to Britain . It is known as an intermediate ballistic missile and has a range of 1,500 miles . Britain and the United States also said in the joint statement that the testing of nuclear weapons must be continued for the present . ' They offered to permit " limited international observation " of such tests by Russia and.other nations if Russia agreed to do the same at Russian tests . The joint statement , issued in the names of the White House press secretary , James C. Hagerty , and a British for-eign officer spokesman , Peter Hope , said President Eisenhower and , Macmillan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the conference , which was hailed as a move to patch holes in the AmerIcan-British alliance . ' President Eisenhower , and Macmillan had a private chat ' of about an hour at the Mid  --  Ocean club , their swanky conference retreat , b eJ o r e the President left . The joint stateInent said that Macmillan Find President Eisenhower and 1 heir delegations conducted : discussions with " freedom and frankness permitted to old - friends . " ? The statement disclosed no new decision on the thorny mid-east policy , which : developed the rift between the t w o governments , b u t the statement said that both nations agreed to support fully the United Nations moves to ' , settle the Gaza strip , Aqaba ' gulf , and Suez canal issues . No Plan of Action The U. N. secretary general , Dag Hammarskjold , is in Cairo trying to negotiate an agreement with PresidentNasser of Egypt . Officials ' at Bermuda expressed doubt privately that the mission would succeed , but said no firm agreement for joint American - British mid-East policy in case @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ announced agreements follow : 1 . Sympathy for the Russian oppressed people of Hungary and condemnation of " repressive soviet policies " toward the peoples of eastern Europe , and soviet defiance of United Nations- resolutions . 2 . Reaffirmation of intention to support the right of the German people to " early reunification in peace and freedom . " 3 . Recognition of the special Importance of the North Atlantic Treaty organization ( NATO as the corner stone of American-British policy in the west . 4 . Agreement on need : or closer European unity and closer British association with continental Europe . 5 . Agreement that the " common market " and free trade area programs recently worked out for western Europe will be helpful if they do not lead to a high ' tariff bloc . 6 . Agreement that all countries should pursue liberal trade policies . Mum on Red China The statement also recalled the decision of the United States , announced during the conference , to join the ' military committee of the Baghdad pact , an anti-communist military alliance of-Britain and Iraq , Iran @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made no mention of Red China , altho the statement said that the far east was discussed . Officials reported that Britain raised , as she had before , proposals to relax western nations ' restrictions on trade with Red China to permit Britain to ship industrial machinery and other items . The American delegation agreed to review question in the weeks ahead , officials said . Informants said the United States stood firm in its opposition to the proposed admission of Red China to the U. N. and to proposed American recogni Lion of the Red regime . Britain , which recognizes thePeiping government , reaffirmed - her stand in favor of a U. N. seat for the Red government .                     