@@712914

txt At the close of the second day 's talks with Ernest Bevin , British Foreign Secretary , today , Dean Acheson , United States Secretary of State , issued a statement expressing  - -  sympatny ana approval " of the aim and purpose behind the French proposal for the integration of the French and German coal and steel industries . He withheld final judgment , however , ' pending an analysis of the details of the plan , which presumably Robert Schuman , French Foreign Minister , brought with him when he arrived tonight for opening of the Big Three Western Foreign Ministers ' conference tomorrow . The text of the French plan is on Page 11 The reaction of the British was more reserved and tinged with an overtone of annoyance that the proposal had been sprung on them without prior warning on the eve of what was regarded here as the most important diplomatic meeting since the Soviet Union disrupted the grand alliance of the war . Bilateral Talks Ended Today marked the end of Mr. Acheson 's bilateral talks with the British in preparation for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ meeting of the twelve Foreign Ministers on the Atlantic Council next week . In their final talks , Messrs . Bevin and Acheson centered their attention on common United States and British problems throughout the world . They spent more time considering their common aims and purposes outside Europe than they did with the Continent itself . Their first meeting yesterday was concerned chiefly with the problems of Europe and with how a renascent Germany could be fitted safely into the Western comity of nations . As both bipartite sessions were exploratory and preliminary no decisions were called for or reached . And , although the French initiative toward a rapprochement between France and Western Germany , the two historic protagonists in modern European life , overshadowed all else , it was hardly mentioned except for the ex- pression of opinions by the two foreign secretaries on the basis of what is known about it thus far . The French proposal seems to have come as a surprise to Mr. Acheson and the United States delegation as it did to the British Foreign Office when Rene Massigli , French Ambassador , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ either officially or unofficially during Mr. Acheson 's Paris visit and talks with M. Schuman there . The reason for the secrecy probably was concern over the domestic political effect in the event the plan leaked out before it had received the approval of the French Cabinet . In any event , it was said that any suggestion that it had been stimulated by United States prodding of the French was welcomed in principle by the Secretary of State and by other United States sources as a step along that road toward the unity of Western Europe that had become the goal of United States diplomacy and of the Marshall Plan . United States sources said that the issues involved were so complex that a long , serious study would be needed before the plan could be finally accepted . Under the circumstances it is hardly likely that any concrete decision on the plan can be reached at this conference . At the Foreign Office a spokesman said : " You will expect some comment on the most ' mportant proposals made by M. Schuman yesterday but you will appreciate that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in that His Majesty 's Government heard of that proposal only yesterday when it was communicated to Mr. Bevin by Mr. Massigli . I would emphasize the im.dortance of the proposals at this moment when the whole problem of Europe and the Atlantic community is under active consideration . I would remind you that His Majesty 's Government has always been anxious that a permanent solution of the age-old feud between France and Germany should be found . " It is in the light of that anxiety that this proposal will have to be examined , together with all its implications , however remote . " Even more caution was expressed in London by British steelmakers , who feared that Britain might lose some of her steel trading advantages if the pool plan went through . French circles declared their conviction that the plan would stand or fall according to the ultimate British attitude . Approval of the British High Commissioner in Germany would be needed before the plan could become effective . And it is held desirable by the French for the British to throw their own coal and steel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have to be overcome concern the sharing of markets and the coordination of prices . Because of the coking of French and Saar coal , France is relatively independent of Ruhr coal now and is therefore industrially in a more favorable position than ever before to negotiate with Germany . In both France and Britain the coal mines have been nationalized but in both countries the steel industry is in private hands , although in Britain it will pass to Government ownership next winter unless the present Labor Government is ousted . The reasons for the surprise move of the French would have caused less speculation in British quarters had Paris not chosen to make its announcement on the eve of the opening of the Foreign Ministers conference . Among other matters scheduled for discussion is how and when to relinquish controls over Germany and it is thought that M. Schuman will argue that it would be easier for France to agree to some United States and British proposals in this connection if she had less cause for anxiety regarding the future of the German heavy industry . At present France @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ industry in Germany may eventually fall into the hands of reactionary German nationalists or be nationalized , leading to an excessive concentration of economic power and military potential in the hands of a German government . The French feel that there is reason to believe that German cooperation in the International Authority for the Ruhr will be unenthusiastic if Germany remains for long the only nation subject to international control . It was generally taken for granted that United States support for the plan would be more forthcoming than British because the implications for the British steel industry obviously will require a long study by many Government departments .                     