@@714746

txt The Republican National Committee decided today to pass on the validAy of seventy-two out of ninetyfive delegates whose right to sit in the national convention has been contested . The remaining twenty-three contests will be sent back to state committees for decision . Included in the seventy-two contests to be ruled on by the national committee are those involving the Texas delegation of thirtyeight . This delegation has been the object of heated dispute between the backers of Senator Robert A. Taft of Ohio , and General of the Army Dwight D. Eisenhower . The general , who will speak in Dallas Saturday night , declared his " voice will be raised " in Texas against the methods used by Taft forces in choosing delegates . Announcement of today 's action was made by Mrs. Charles P. Howard , secretary of the national committee and Republican committeewoman from Massachusetts . The ruling , which will affect delegates in eight states , is generally considered to be a liberal interpretation of the 1948 Republican convention rules of procedure under which the party is operating . The ruling also @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of General Eisenhower , who consistently have advocated adjudication of contests by the national committee rather than by the state committees . There were these other political developments today : q Senator Taft said that if elected he would consult with General Eisenhower about military matters and also would be " willing to pledge a straight 15 per cent cut in taxes . " qIn Denver , General Eisenhower , referring to the Texas delegate dispute , declared he wanted no delegate unduly influenced toward him , and indirectly challenged Senator Taft to take the same stand . qAverell Harriman , elated by his 4-to-1 victory over Senator Kefauver for the six Democratic dele- // gates from the District of Columbia , said , " I think I am going to get the nomination . " The ninety-five certifications of contest and their disposition announced today include nineteen announced last Friday . Of these , eleven were sent back to the state committees and eight to the National Committee . Under literal interpretation of the Republican rules , contests involving district delegates are sent to the state committees while those involving @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ One of the phases of the Texas dispute concerned the orig-1 inal contention of Eisenhower supporters that the entire delegation of thirty-eight was state-elected and therefore came within the at large category . Senator Taft spoke out twice today on the Texas dispute and , while not completely abandoning the position taken by his supporters regarding the distinction between district and at large delegates , said he thought that the . entire thirty-eight should be judged by the National Committee . He stated this belief before the National Committee Secretary 's decision had been announced . Senator Taft , in a statement distributed from his headquarters here , said : " I have examined the rules of the Republican National Committee as related to the Texas contests and under these rules I believe that the contests on- district delegates as well as delegates at large should be decided by the National Cc ; rniz.ittee and not certified to the state committee , because these delegates were not ' elected by district conventions . ' " In addition to Texas , the contests involving delegates of the following states will be sent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ delegates of the following states will be returned to the respective state committees : Virginia two , Louisiana seven , Georgia thirteen and Mississippi one . The entire Texas delegation was certified to the national committee , it was explained , because the certificates of the rival delegates showed that while the district delegates were " recommended " by district caucuses , they were " elected " by the state convention , rather than by the district conventions . The Texas Republican convention at Mineral Wells last month unseated the entire slate predominantly for General Eisenhower and seated instead a slate predominantly pro-Taft on the ground that the former slate had been " recommended " by a large number of Democrats in Republican caucuses . Contest in Florida In Florida the four at large and fourteen district delegates were certified to the national committee because in one instance , the entire slate , including district as well as at large delegates , was elected by the Republican Executive Committee and a rival slate elected at district and state conventions called by the Grassroots Republican Committee of Florida . In the Georgia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the rule was observed with all thirteen district delegates being referred to the state committee and the four at large delegates to the national committee . In Louisiana the election of two delegates in the Third District was vacated by the State Executive Committee on the grounds of improper procedure in calling the district convention . The state committee was sent contests involving two delegates each from the First and Second Districts and one delegate each from the Sixth , Seventh and Eighth Districts . There were no contests in the Fourth and Fifth Districts . In Mississippi all of the four contests involving at-large delegates were sent to the national committee with the sole districtdelegate contest being sent to the state committee . There were no details given in the protest through which a contest was certified to the National Committee on one delegate at large in Missouri . The rule dealing with contests stipulates that contests must be filed with the National Committee 's secretary within twenty days before the opening of the convention . The deadline was last midnight . Decisions by the state committees are nonappealable , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ twenty-four hours of the decision to the Credentials Committee . If , in turn , there is a minority report in the decision of the Credentials Committee it may be appealed to the floor of the convention as a whole , but with the contested delegation not voting .                     