@@719912

txt Scientists on both sides of the Iron Curtain have now agreed that most nuclear explosions are easy to detect  --  if one has the special scientific " senses " to tune in on them . This purely scientific , entirely nonpolitical East-West agreement , reached at Geneva after seven weeks of secret talks , was hailed by President Eisenhower at his weekly press conference , Aug. 20. as a possible first step toward a world disarmament agreement . He also indicated that it could help make possible some future East-West summit meeting . ? Impressive as is this evidence of East-West cooperation at the scientific level , there still remains , however , many political obstacles to any international ban on testing of nuclear weapons . But the first big step has been taken . Scientists from the Communist world and from the free world have agreed that it is scientifically possible to police a ban . One of these obstacles is America 's attitude toward a testing ban . Washington has always held that before a ban could be considered there would have to be agreement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ now realizable if East-West politicians can accept them . Thus the United States demand that any ban must be premised on workable means of detecting evasions has been met . A workable detection system is possible . Soviets Recalcitrant Another obstacle is the Soviet Union 's attitude toward inspectioh . It has resisted internal inspection , except for a few ports and railway centers . But its scientists have now agreed that any workable inspection system must have inspection stations in the Eurasian land mass , which includes the Soviet Union . Thus Moscow 's scientists have agreed that there should be inspection stations within the Soviet Union , if detection is to be assured . A third obstacle that faces the East-West politicians , distinct from the scientists , is the question of Communist China : Need it , must it , be included in any control system ? President Eisenhower told his news conference Aug. 20 that it was not necessary for all countries to be included in any international agreement . The impression he gave was that Communist China would not necessarily have to be included . But @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ size it would seem necessary to include it . And if Peking must he included , then what of America 's nonrecognition of Peking ? It is hard to visualize Peking agreeing come tinder the monitoring umbrella without insisting on United States diplomatic recognition in return . Pressure Mounts Now that the scientists have agreed that policing a ban is possible , the United States is going to be under mounting global pressure to agree to a ban ; and the Soviet Union is going to be under mounting pressure to agree to placing as many monitoring posts in its territory as are necessary . One problem is : how many are necessary ? It seems that the scientists at Geneva have agreed that about 200 is the smallest number possible , scattered on the world 's land masses and on ships at sea . But they also agreed that it would take thousands , and in all parts of the world , if even the smallest blasts were to be detected . One startling conclusion of the scientists was that earth satellites , equipped with instruments , could be used @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stations on earth . The Geneva conference included three scientists from the United States , two from Britain , and one each from Canada and France . The Soviets had four Czechoslovakia each two , and scientists present , Poland and Romania one . Methods Outlined These scientists agreed seven possible methods of detecting secret tests : by recording electromagnetic waves ; sound waves ; earth tremors ; radioactive particles in air or water ; light waves ; radio waves ; and gamma rays and neutrons . They agreed that fixed stations around the world should be n:Pt up to use all of these seven methods . It is now up to the politicians to consider the number , place , composition such stations , and try and reach agreement . The recommendation is that these observer stations be placed under the supervision some international body such as the International Atomic Energy Agency Vienna . Meanwhile , however , testing goes on . The British have warned that a wide area around the Christmas Islands in the Pacific again would be a danger area because of nuclear tests . And only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stratospheric nuclear missile tests above Johnson Island in the Pacific . However , with the conclusion of these scientific talks in Geneva , the East and West have laid the technical basis for an international agreement to suspend atomic tests . It was this agreement that President Eisenhower hailed as an encouraging first step down a road that could lead to a genuine disarmament agreement and to a summit meeting . A-selentista agree : Page 5                     