@@714909

txt Richard Judd , 23 , of 10742 S. Hale ay. , has been having considerable luck in the last six years but most of it has been bad . On May 2 , 1946 , Judd , then a student at Morgan Park High school , was assisting a tree surgeon treating a lofty elm when he lost his footing and fell 40 feet to the ground . He was taken to the Little Company of Mary hospital where it was found that his injuries had paralyzed him from the waist down , making him a paraplegic . Injured In Crash Judd 's next touch of tough luck occurred more than a year later . With three of his former school mates , Ann Chandler , Nancy Tatersall , and Marvin Beste , who later married Nancy . he had gone to the Edgewater Beach hotel to watch from the sidelines in his wheelchair while his school friends danced . On the trip back to the hospital their car , driven by Nancy , was struck by a street car at 87th st. and Jeffery ay. , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was the only occupant of the car to be injured . Witnesses said that the accident occurred when the street car , moving east in 87th st. , failed to observe a stop sign for Jeffery ay . and crashed into the car . Surgeons patched up Judd 's broken leg at the hospital and he continued to stay on as a patient . The former athlete 's unfailing cheerfulness and good nature in RICHARD JUDD the face of his woes soon made him a favorite with the nuns and nurses , and two years ago a romantic interest sprang up between Judd and a new nurse , Patricia Paterson , of 9343 Trumbull ay. , Evergreen Park , who had gone to the Little Company of Mary after graduation from Presbyterian hospital . In the meantime , suit against the Chicago Transit authority had been instituted for Judd by Attorneys William H. De Parcq and Robert Martineau , but the young patient 's interest in the litigation was eclipsed by his attentiveness toward Nurse Paterson . He had an automobile , equipped with hand controls , and the pair went @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ few months ago they became engaged . Cruelest Blow of All Judd felt that he had found happiness at last , but a week ago there came the cruelest shock of all . An X-ray examination showed that Miss Paterson had contracted tuberculosis , and she was taken to a sanitarium in Naperville . But even bad luck can run its course , and yesterday Judd was all smiles again . He had learned that his attorneys ' suit had brought about a reported settlement from the CTA of $47,500 and that the lesion in Miss Paterson 's lung was responding to treatment . She would be released from the sanitarium in six months or less . " After all the tough luck that I 've had , " he grinned , " to have two wonderful things like this happen to me is almost more than I can believe . "                     