@@714557

txt Special to Tux New Yortx TIMES . HOUSTON , Tex. , March 22 ? When Senator Tom Connally snapped at Mutual Security Administrator W. Averell Harriman recently over the amount of foreign financial aid this nation should allocate , Texas voters saw something more than a man who felt that the public purse strings were too loose . They saw a man beginning a fight for his political life . The switch of the colorful Texas Senator from the ranks of the supporters of the Administration 's foreign policy to , a position among the antis has caused quite a Stir in Texas . Voters in the Lone Star State have a feeling that the move was made with an eye on the July primaries when Price Daniel , the state 's 41-year-old Attorney General , will battle the Senator for his seat in Congress . There is also a feeling throughout the state that Senator Connally had to join the ranks of anti-Administration forces to bolster his position in the pre-primary politicking . Political Observers Surprised When Mr. Daniel announced that he would be a candidate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ complaints against the Senator was established . The reception Mr. Daniel has received thus far has amazed even the most placid political observers in the state . The 74-year-old Mr. Connally has been a Senator since 1928. and a Representative for years before that . In his political life he has repaired many fences . Whatever the outcome of the race , the Senator will have faced his toughest opposition since 1928 when he defeated Senator Earl B. Mayfield . In-subsequent races for re-election , he . has won easily , usually with negligible opposition . The Senator 's recent outburst is looked upon in Texas as a Johnnycome-lately conversion to a popular feeling in the state that the nation can not continue to pour out billions of dollars in foreign aid without placing its own economic structure in extreme jeopardy . Other Dissatisfactions But there are other dissatisfactions with the Senator in Texas . In May , 1950 , Senator Connally was quoted as saying that the Communists could overrun and take all of Korea and Formosa whenever they got ready . He echoed Administration feeling that neither was strategically @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Taft , speaking in Texas recently , referred to these statements as a direct invitation for the Communists to move into Korea . It was a telling attack that lingers in voters ' thoughts . Senator Connally 's failure to take a stand against the dismissal of Gen. Douglas also annoyed Texans to whom the deposed General is a revered figure . There is talk that the dismissal will be an issue in the Senatorial campaign . Senator Connally has not gained much sympathy from other reports that he frequently has been bitter over some of Secretary Acheson 's statements and policies but has refrained from publicly stating his differences because of his committee chairmanship . With freshman and junior Senators finding instances of corruption in high places in Washington , some people are asking if Senator Connally , who has been in office for almost twenty-four years , has not been winking at governmental dishonesty . Others are saying that as chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee he should have taken a stronger stand against the occupancy of State Department posts by persons suspected of being " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the past , Mr. Connally has allied himself with a Secretary of State who is not popular in Texas . He is also popularly aligned with President Truman against whom opposition is surging . The two principals in the Senate race provide a contrast . Senator Connally , is one of the fast-vanishing speakers of the old school . Mr. Daniel is not a spellbinder although he has the knack of holding his audience . He stands more on dignity and is not the backslapping type . That his methods are successful was evidenced in his election as Speaker of the House while he served in the Texas Legislature before becoming Attorney General . He has since become the state 's top tactician in the legal battle over oil-bearing tidelands . Although Senator Connally 's supporters are quietly working on organization it is doubtful that the Senator will do any real campaigning until he can break away from his duties in Washington and return to Texas .                     