@@719232

txt Secretary of State Dunes returned tonight from a five-day rest to face a new challenge to United States policy in the Middle East . The challenge came in the disclosure of the dispatch of Egyptian troops to Syria following close upon serious setbacks to Western policies in the Arab nations . Egypt announced yesterday that " basic elements " of her armed forces had been sent to Syria in the last month . Experts here agreed that the Egyptian move was of slight military significance . The State Department said it had known for nearly a month that the movement of troops and techclans was impending . Other sources estimated the number of Egyptians actually in Syria at only 1,000 to 1,600 , or about the strength of a United States battalion . Effects on U. S. Policy Studied But officials considered to be experts on Middle Eastern affairs observed that the Egyptian troops ' arrival would stiffen the anti-Western Syrian regime and encourage opposition to United States policies , in particular the Eisenhower Doctrine , in neighboring pro-Western countries . Mr. Dulles is known to have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ials looked to him today for 7resh thought on how to deal . with the troubled Middle East . The Doctrine , which Congress , roclaimed in a joint resolution ) n March 9 , is known to have ) een formulated by Mr. Dulles without consultation either with , , he policy planning staff of the 3tate Department or the Naional Security Council . The program contained an ffor of military and economic 121p to Middle Eastern states . he President was authorized to ise United States forces to asist any one of these states that skal for help against CommuList aggression . But when the United States 7ontinued on Page 3 , Column 5 DULLES ' POLICIES FACE CHALLENGE Continued From Pate 1 hinted in August that the provisions of the Doctrine might be invoked against Syria , the Arab states closed ranks to defend the Syrian regime . The Doctrine , which had seemed for a time to be consolidating pro-Western forces , boomeranged against the United States . The Lebanese Government now faces a rising demand by opposition groups that Lebanon disavow the United States program . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ carefully evading all Mention of its association with the Doctrine . King Saud of Saudi Arabia has permitted reports to be published denying that he ever endorsed the Doctrine . The Jordanian regime , in deference to anti-Western forces in the country , had steered clear of any association with the Doctrine from the start . This is the situation the Egyptian Government hopes now to exploit by its movement of troops . Egyptian and Syrian propagandists are proclaiming the move as a step to defend Syria against United States and 1Turkish threats to use military force against Syria . More specifically , Egyptian and Syrian propaganda alleges that the United States attempted to organize a coup to overthrow the Syrian Government and that Turkey , with United States encouragement , is massing , troops on Syria 's northern borders . That Turkish forces are massed on ' the Syrian border is generally accepted as a. fact . According to diplomatic sources , a Turkish Army corps has been manuvering on the border in hopes of influencing the course of events in Syria . But it is also taken as a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the slightest intention of agreeing to any move against Syria by Turkey . Turkey and the United States are linked in the North Atlantic Treaty Organization . The diplomats observed today that Egypt probably would not have dared make this move were it not for the presence of the United Nations Emergency Force within her borders and in the Gaza Strip , providing a guarantee against any action by Israel . It was suggested also that President Nasser had been disturbed by the focus of Soviet attention on Syria as its maim base for penetration of the Middle East . By using Egypt 's authority under the terms of the joint command in existence since 1955 to send Egyptian troops to Syria , President Nasser seeks a share in the limelight , according to these diplomats . In their opinion , it is a stroke meant to reinforce his claims to leadership of the Arab world in the eyes of his own people and those of other Arab states . Syria and Egypt signed a mutual defense pact Oct. 20 , 1955 . It pleaces the armed forces of the two @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Egyptian general . Armed attack against one of the countries is considered as an attack on both under this pact . The agreement was extended to include Saudi Arabia on Oct. 27 , 1955 , and Jordan on Oct. 25 , 1956 . But in the case of Saudi Arabia and Jordan it has for the most part remained a dead letter . ? British See Move as Political Special to The New York Times . LONDON , Oct. 14 ? The Egyptian troops sent to Syria amount to less than one bat talion , authoritative sources said today . The object of their journey is political , not /military . British officials see the landing of Egyptian troops at Latakia as part of the process whereby President Gamal Abdel Nasser of Egypt is attempting to assert his country 's leadership of the . Arab world . Recently the lead in Middle Eastern affairs has been grasped by leaders friendly to the West . These men have striven to reestablish the authority of civilian leaders in Syria at the expense of the army and internal security forces , which are generally @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ remind Syrians , military and civilian , of the importance of the Cairo-Damascus-Moscow axis , it was said . The military value of the Egyptian forces sent to Syria is slight , according to one source . The force probably amounts to two companies of what might loosely be described as combat infantry , or about 250 men . In previous months Egypt has sent some officer-instructors and trained non-commissioned officers to Syria to assist in the retraining of the Syrian Army . What is known here of the Syrian Army 's order of battle , state of training and morale does not indicate that these forces have been of great value to Syria . Although the British minimize the effect of the Egyptian forces in Syria , they do not disguise their acute uneasiness about the situation in the Middle East .                     