@@713481

txt Results of the Brussels conference have been received here with marked reserve and skepticism as far as new proposals for rearming West Germany are concerned . ' Not even the fact that the Bonn government for the first time will be consulted officially instead ' of merely informed about the findings of the international conference which vitally concerns the German future has stirred up any enthusiasm in most of the press . The new plan of rearming is seen here as little more than the so-called " Spofford plan , " which both the government and opposition had rejected as incompatible with their claims of " Gleichberechtigung " ( equal rights ) before the Brussels conference met . Official Word Delayed Officially the Bonn government will not declare its attitude until after Chancellor Konrad Adenauer has heard the Allied High Commission report of the conference . This is expected at a meeting scheduled for Dec. 21 . The atmosphere of disappointment and resignation which prevails here makes it apparent that even sudden granting of full sovereignty and " Gleichberechtigung " West Germany would not automatically end opposition @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to bear arms . 1Scored by Schumacher Dr. Kurt Schumacher , sharp-tongued leader of the Socialist opposition party , was quoted by the United Press as saying the Brussels conference was fooling itself if it thought its decisions were binding on West Germany . " We Germans do not fit into the role of partisans or a rearguard for another Dunkirk , " he said . ? Gen. Hasso von Manteuffel , once one of Hitler 's top Panzer commanders , said he believed a joint European defense force a good thing . 1 " But , " he said , " I shall personally have no part in it as long as honest Germans , soldiers and civilians , are kept behind prison walls as war criminals . The honor of the German soldier must first be restored . " Maj. Gen. Ernst Otto Remer , who smashed the 1944 bomb plot against Hitler , said he would prefer to be a traffic policeman for the advancing Russians than to sacrifice himself " in the Maginot Line . " Dim View Taken The Brussels conference , it is realized , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the proposed four-power meeting and particularly the attitude of France . That country , one paper commented , must first determine whether it really sees the necessity for a strong Atlantic defense force with German troops in it or intends to continue its distrust of Germany . Sii3ce France has not yet done this , the comment concluded that the Brussels conference ended without even half a result . " The outlook of the politicians of the western powers , " wrote the Frankfurter Allegemeine. " is basically not ripe for rearming West Germany . Their experts demand a German army and their politicians say they agree . But they hesitate before taking action which can make this possible " ? that is , without making West Germany completely equal with the other powers . " The fact that the Spofford plan still remains the basis for German forces is proof how little the Allies understand the way to create a German force which will be really efficient . All this means at best a postponement . Any federal government which would carry through the Brussels plan in Parliament must @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ More Coal Sought However correct all this criticism may be , it is remarkable how little is heard here about the Germans ' own inability to get things done . Months have gone by without agreement between the federal and state authorities regarding the new mobile police which is to be established . And in the economic sphere , while other countries are not only talking but actually taking restrictive measures to deal with an abnormal situation , one sees little evidence that Germans are doing the same . This is particularly illustrated in the case of the coal shortage . The federal government and spokesmen for public and private undertakings are loud in their demands for reduction of German coal export quotas under the terms of the international Ruhr agreement . But one looks in vain for strong appeals in the press or over the radio or stronger action for local economies in the use of coal . There are no electricity cuts here and the amazing amount of electric power is used in the lighting of towns and shops in this pre-Christmas season must use up a large amount @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                     