@@716432

txt Mayor Wagner backed Police Commissioner Francis W. H. Adams yesterday in his urgent plea for an enlarged police force . The Mayor pledged that the city 's ' ' finest " would be increased even beyond the 1,724 additional patrolmen promised in the 1954-55 budget . That figure would have raised the total to 20,878 policemen this year . The reaction at City Hall came shortly after Police Headquarters had reported that 251 crimes were recorded in the twenty-four hours ended at Sunday midnight . In a " radio-television report to the public Sunday afternoon , based on average data , Commissioner Adams had forecast that 327 crimes in stated categories would be committed during the twenty-four hour period . Commenting on Mr. Adams ' speech , Mayor Wagner also outlined a program to support the police in their unceasing struggle with law-breakers . Mayor 's Supplementary Program This comprised stepping up the control of juvenile delinquents ; enlarging the Youth Board ; giving the courts more money for probation and psychiatric services and continuing the round-up of undesirables in midtown . Earlier the police had announced @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ midnight . The Mayor also conferred with Mr. Adams and representatives of the police line organizations , inviting Budget Director Abraham D. Beame to join the discussion . Mr. Adams had said Sunday that salaries were not high enough to attract the right personnel to police work . In his forecast of crime Sunday , Commissioner Adams proved to have been conservative in three categories  --  rape , felonious assault and narcotics cases . In the deadliest offense ? murder ? he was off by five hours . He had declared there would be one killing within " this hot August Sunday . " Actually death came to a Bronx infant  --  at the hands of its father , according to the police ? at a few minutes after 5 A. M. , Monday . A table based on Commissioner Adams ' forecast and the figures released at Headquarters follows : Various public officials and city groups agreed with Commissioner Adams yesterday that the crime problem was acute , and the need for additional manpower essential . There were several court appearances by teen-agers arrested either during the round-up of undesirables @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to later dates . Eighteen more men and one woman were booked at the West Forty-seventh Street and West Fifty-fourth Street stations last night . In Youth Term of Felony Court , Magistrate Milton Solomon held two suspects in $10,000 bail on charges of attempted rape at knife-point of a 50-year-old woman in Central Park on June 25 . Held for the grand jury were Victor Caban , 17 , of 72 West Eighty-eighth Street , and Enerio Santa , 16 , of 180 Columbus Avenue . Magistrate Solomon left no doubt that he regarded the case as representative of the worst type of delinquency . Earlier , he had freed five young Puerto Ricans charged with annoying pedestrians at Eighth Avenue near Forty-sixth Street shortly after 10 P. M. Friday . The magistrate accepted police testimony that the youths had formed a Club to play softball and were on their way to a movie . He gave them a lecture and told them to keep out of congested areas . In Brooklyn , County Judge Samuel S. Leibowitz , a candidate for re-election-this fall said while seating the August grand @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ years when a Police Commissioner has shown the courage and honesty to tell the people of New York the shocking truth about the menace that faces our citizens at the hands of the vicious criminals in this great metropolis . " Our streets are unsafe at night and thousands of policemen must be recruited if we are to stein the tide which engulfs us . " The rookie policeman is mortgaged from the start when he enters the department . This is the only city I know of that forces a recruit to pay more than $300 for his uniform and equipment . It may sound ridiculous , but it is true that if a policeman fires a bullet at a murderer or hold-up man , he must replace the bullet with money out of his own pocket . " The city administration is now engaged in a struggle to obtain a more equitable share of state funds , and we are told that there are no funds with which to raise the pay of our policemen , firemen , teachers and other civil service employes . " But Bob Moses @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of millions . This was and is true during past and present administrations . He spends it on expensive trees and shrubbery to beautify parkways . " It is high time we start thinking of the human beings and their families in our city departments . These human beings are certainly more important to the welfare of our community than the gorgeous landscaping that costs so much money . " Judge Leibowitz suggested that 10 cents of every 35 cents paid as toll on the BrooklynBattery tunnel be " taken by the city and used to raise the pay of our city employes . " In Brooklyn Felony Court , Magistrate Anthony E. Maglio said he was " heartily in accord " with a " get-tough policy on copfighters , " as reported to him by Assistant District Attorney Lewis Joseph in behalf of District Attorney Edward S. Silver . Robert K. Christenberry , president of the Broadway Association , said in a letter to Commissioner Adams that the organization hoped the Times Square clean-up would ' continue unabated . He offered the fullest cooperation of the members of the Broadway @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' morning were Joseph Gutierrez , 29 , of 133 Brown Place ; his wife , Geraldine , 19 , and their daughter , Elizabeth , 6 months . The police said the husband , idle since his release from a tuberculosis hospital two months ago , had attacked his wife with a knife . When she wrenched it away , he leaped out the window of their second floor flat . The mother then found the baby , with six stab wounds in the next room . Another child , Wayne , 19 months , was unhurt . Gutierrez is in Bellevue Hospital .                     