@@713954

txt There are four principal reasons the Communists are losing in Western Europe : 1 . In all the free nations , the Communist Parties have exposed themselves to some extent as the obedient tools of the Soviet Union . 2 . Soviet " peace " propaganda , blandly alluring for so long , has lost some of its power to deceive by virtue of Moscow 's obvious role in the Korean aggression . 3 . Economic conditions have improved in the Marshall Plan countries . 4 . The slowly gathering strength of the North Atlantic Alliance is giving the people of free Europe a somewhat greater sense , of renewed confidence that they can defend themselves successfully and avert war . A A A To appreciate how the Communists have fared at the hands of the voters , it is useful to look at the results of each of the European elections during the past two years : Ausjria  --  Here is a people . with the Soviet Army in its midst , which gave only 5 per cent of its total vote to the Communists in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ deputies in the 212-member National Chamber dropped from 12 to 7 in June , 1950 . Denmark  --  The Danes pared their Communist deputies from 9 to 7 in their 150-member House . Western Germany  --  In the 1949 federal elections , not a single Communist candidate won a majority of votes in any district , and only 15 Communist deputies won seats in Parliament through proportional representation . Subsequent West German By ROSCOE DRUMMOND state elections have shown a decline in Communist Party strength . In the state of North Rhine-Westphalia , for example , which includes the Ruhr Valley and which was considered a stronghold of Communist support in Germany , the Communist Party received only 5.8 per cent of the ' votes cast in the June , 1950 , election and lost 16 of the 28 seats it had previously held . Italy  --  the recent municipal elections here were the major disappointment in the otherwise somewhat improved picture of receding communism throughout Western Europe . It is true that the Communists through party coalitions formed against them , lost control of hundreds of mayoralties in Italy , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 37 per cent . There are internal economic reasons for this , for until basic social and economic reforms are carried through , the Communist Party will continue to attract a large and dangerous protest vote . Netherlands  --  In the provincial elections of April , 1950 , the Communists lost 27 seats and now hold only 31 seats out of a possible 590 . Norway ? The Communist Party suffered a heavy defeat in the 1949 election for the Norwegian Parliament . Previously the Communists had held 11 of the 150 seats . Now their seats have been reduced to zero  --  a good round number . Great Britain  --  In the 1950 elections , the Communist vote was reduced from 102,780 to 91,815 and the two sitting Communist members of Parliament were erased . France  --  This week the Communist-voting deputies in the National Assembly were reduced , also through a clever use of anti-Communist coalitions , from 188 to 100 . Despite the fact that more French voters went to the polls this time than in the previous election , the Communists lost approximately 500,000 votes . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the largest representation in Parliament-115 deputies  --  but the coalition of middle parties , which has governed France for the past five years , has a working majority of the 627 seats . The French election results are on the credit side of the ledger , but they do not guarantee either a very stable or a very decisive French government . The coalition of the center parties is bound together more by what it opposes than by what it favors . It opposes three things  --  the Communists , the Gaullists , and losing office . Furthermore , the coalition has to take in such basically opposed elements , from Socialists to industrialists , that it rarely is in a position to undertake positive social and economic measures . Thus the fact that some 25 per cent of the French voted for the Communists is still a warning sign which must be heeded . A A A There is no need to slur over the politically weak spots in Italy and France  --  which need the most understanding attention  --  to demonstrate that the postwar tide of communism has receded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Moscow would find it extremely hard to conquer free Europe through the device of internal aggression . When the Atlantic Pact countries complete their defenses , they will have , it is hoped , a shield of security behind which a better life for all can be built .                     