@@720670

txt President Eisenhower 's request for authority to raise interest rates on Government bonds was shelved today by the House Ways and Means Committee . The committee , in a surprise reversal of an earlier decision , voted , 14 to 11 , to " suspend action " on the proposal for the rest of the Congressional session . The apparent effect was to kill , at least until next year , a bill that would have authorized the . President to disregard ceilings of 41/4 per cent on marketable bonds and 31/4 per cent on savings bonds . The committee was understood to have set the bill aside at the behest of Democratic leaders , who feared a partysplitting fight over the " tightmoney " issue . Leaders Are in Doubt The leaders were also said to have been doubtful whether sufficient votes could be mustered to pass the measure . Robert B. Anderson , Secretary of the Treasury , issued a statement calling the committee 's decision " a matter of great concern . " " The nation , " he declared , " can not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ levels of business activity and allow a situation to continue in which both the fact and the fear of future inflation can be generated . " Representative Richard M. Simpson of Pennsylvania , in a statement on behalf of the committee 's Republican members , accused the panes majority of " incredible folly . " He attributed the reversal to " a default in Democratic lead- ership and a willingness to jeopardize the fiscal stability ; and economic growth of ' purl nation . " A dwindling market for Gov- ; ernment bonds at interest rates within the existing limits prompted the President 's request for repeal of the ceilings . The Treasury argued that the only alternative was to force more of the national debt into inflationary short-term securities , to which the ceilings do not apply . The proposal brought sharp dissent from the outset by some , Democrats , particularly vocal ini the Senate . They charged that it was part of a " tight-money " policy involving high interest ) rates for all borrowers . Democratic leaders have been under much pressure from these party elements to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recommendation . Instead , two compromise proposals were devised at the urging of the principal House Democratic leader , Speaker Sam Rayburn of Texas . The aim was to appease Democratic tight-money critics while granting authority for higher interest . The first compromise foundered on a " sense-of-Congress " amendment that the Administration had termed unacceptable . The amendment suggested that the Federal Reserve system buy bonds in the market when conditions warranted expansion of credit . The second compromise embodied a more broadly worded sense-of-Congress amendment , which the Administration said was satisfactory . It was approved by the Ways and Means Committee last Wednesday , 151 to 10 . But only five Democrats voted for it , and ten were opposed . The opponents included the chairman . Representative Wilbur D. Mills of Arkansas . Mr. Mills declined to sponsor the bill , and its future was immediately cast in doubt . Today 's motion to drop the matter for the rest of this session was made by one of the compromis. formula 's authors , Representative Frank Ikard , Democrat of Texas . ' Confusion ' Feared He @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would not win Congressional approval this year . " Any attempt to move it . " he added , " would have created greater confusion in the bond market . " Mr. Ikard said there was still a possibility of the approval of a bill repealing the ceiling on savings bonds alone . He had planned to propose such a bill as a substitute today but decided against it when Republican members registered their opposition to any " piecemeal approach . " he reported . All fourteen votes for the Ikard motion today were cast . by Democrats . Representative ' Burr P. Harrison , Democrat of Virginia , joined the committee 's , ten Republicans in opposing it . Mr. Harrison and Mr. Ikard had devised the second compromise formula in consultation ! , with Secretary Anderson . The text of Secretary An-1 derson 's statement today follows : The action of the Ways and 1 Means Committee this morning in connection with the Administration 's debt - management proposals is a matter of great concern . The nation can not afford to sit idly by at a time of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ continue in which both the fact and the fear of future inflation can be generated . We have tried to make it clear that under present restriction the Government , in the management of the debt , can actively contribute to in. flationary pressures by being confined to short-term financing , which , the shorter it gets , is more nearly like money . We have tried to make it clear that the Government has a dual responsibility to 40,000.000 savings bond hold ' era First , we should see to it that they get a fair return on their savings and , second , we should take such actions as will help guarantee their savings against loss in the purchasing power of the invested dollar . We have tried to make it clear that vital to the security of the free world is the maintenance of international confidence in our collntive resolve to maintain sound financial systems . Because of our position as a leader in this community of nations , many countries hold large dollar deposits with us and have large investments in our securities . They have therefore @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ States manages its financial affairs . In asking to have the artificial restrictions removed from our debt-management . legislation , we seek to assure the people both at home and abroad that we will manage the debt in a way consistent with the preservation of the dollar as an international standard of value . The Administration will continue to earnestly urge appropriate action to obtain adequate flexibility in the management of our debt . This is a matter of such great importance as to require the best efforts of all Americans on a bipartisan and national basis .                     