@@716879

txt LONDON , Feb. ** eminent British physicist said today that the Soviet Union and the United States each had , or soon ) would have , enough hydrogen bombs to destroy the main centers of population and industry of the other . The United States has a stockpile of about 4,000 atomic bombs and the Soviet Union has about 1,000 , according ? to " plausible estimates , " Prof. Cecil F. Powell said . These will be used as detonators for hydrogen bombs in the event of war , he predicted . Ten or twenty well-directed hydrogen bombs would make " ordinary organized life impossible " in Britain , Dr. Powell added . Commenting indirectly on the Government 's decision to manufacture the hydrogen bomb , Dr. Powell said " it would be a poor consolation to the pathetic remnant of our country that we had been able to reduce other lands to a similar condition of ruin . " Dr. Powell is the latest British scientist to voice forebodings over the effects of thermonuclear weapons . He asked the British Government to counsel " restraint @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' with France , the.A.Tnitad States , Ow : and the - Professor .. , of ' Experimental ' PhYsicS , " at , s ; 13risol .. Dr. PoWell'Aiion'the Nobel Prize for ' physics in 1950 . Dr. Powell addressed a meeting sponsored by the London Cooperative Society , one of the organizations that make up the British Labor movement . His lwarnings came three days before the opening of a major debate on defense in the House of Commons . The discussion Will center on the hydrogen bomb and Britain 's decision to make it . This decision has the backing of the Conservatives and the qualified support of the Parliamentary Labor party . But there are signs that this attitude does not sit well with large sections of the Labor movement , whose outlook is fundamentally pacifist . The suggestion that manufacture of the hydrogen bomb is futile comes from other sources less well grounded in physics than Dr. Powell . Aneurin Bevan , leader of Left-Wing Socialists , declared in this week 's Tribune , organ of his faction , that in view of the destructiveness of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Using this reason to bolster his familiar argument that United States air bases in Britain should be closed , Mr. Bevan said that in a hydrogen bomb war these " would be wiped out with all the rest of Britain 's social and economic ' furniture . " No Limit to Bomb 's Size The decisive effect of the hydrogen bomb on Britain is. ' dmployed as an argument ' by the Bevanites and by many others in the Labor party , who customarily follow the leadership of former Prime Minister Clement R. Attlee , against further hesitation in seeking a high-level conference on disarmament with the Soviet Union . c ' These politicians found abundant material in Dr. Powell 's report on the new weapons . In principle there is no limit to the size of the hydrogen bomb 's explosion , he said . The new ' weapon requires an atomic bomb to explode it , but its other substances could be prepared " in substantial quantities relatively cheaply , " Dr. Powell said . From a military standpoint , he added , it is wasteful to use ordinary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for hydrogen bombs producing a much greater explosion . - The additional cost , he said , is " relatively small compared with the effect produced . " Discussing the effects on Britain of hydrogen bomb explosions , Dr. Powell commented on secondary effects beyond the immediate destruction and complete dislocation of British ports and the transport system . Such secondary effects , resulting from the mounting level of radioactivity , would include " the debilitation of the population from radiation , lack of food and shelter , the multiplication of diseases and many other consequences which we can not at present foresee , " Dr. Powell said . Long-range rockets with thermonuclear warheads will come into operation in a few years , he observed . The world ' will then reach a point where statesmen will know " they can utterly destroy an enemy in the course of half an hour and that their own country will suffer the same fate immediately afterward , " he continued . Hydrogen bombs already exploded have been each equivalent to 20,000,000 tons of high explosive , Dr. Powell said , and the material for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the labor of all the miners of the country provides in a year . Solution of international tension depends on " acceptable compromises " between the views of the great powers on control of nuclear weapons , Dr. Powell added . Without it , he declared , " we shall all continue to live in the shadow of a catastrophe , in a situation which grows ever more precarious and threatening . "                     