@@717351

txt Australia unfolded today a 100,000-word story of far-reaching Soviet espionage here , imperiling the security of " the whole Western world . " A Royal Commission on Soviet Espionage , created after the sensational appeal for asylum last year by Vladimir Petrov , third secretary of the Soviet Embassy , reported " a principal target " Ilad been the Department of External Affairs . That department , the commission noted , holds not only vital national data " but also much other confidential information entrusted to Australia ' by her friends in full expectation that it will be kept secret . " Soviet spying against the department " met with substantial success " between 1943 and 1949 , the commission said . But it reported " no trace of any significant leakage " there since 1949 . The report cited a Moscow ' directive to the Soviet apparatus in Australia asking it " to send data on the operations of United States " intelligence or counterI intelligence organizations " in ' the country . Another Soviet " basic design " here was to get the French code @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Embassy in Canberra , the commission said . In such an event , it added , " the communications security not only of France but of the whale Western world might well have been in jeopardy . " Defection Balks Plot But the defection of Mr. Petrov , chief of the Soviet M. V. D. ( Ministry of Internal Affairs ) espionage section in Australia on April 3 , 1954 , " exposed and frustrated " the Soviet designs , according to the report . The volum ; nous document was introduced by Prime Minister Robert G. Menzies in the House of Representatives in Canberra . It may well lead to dissension in the Opposition Labor party whose leader , Dr. Herbert V , Evatt , has charged that the investigation was conducted as a conspiracy to hurt him . Mr. Evatt had been Attorney General and Minister for External Affairs in 1941-1949 . The commissioners , three Supreme Court judges headed by Justice William Langer Owen of New South Wales , discussed the evidence of 119 witnesses . Owing to the state of Australian law on espionage and the admissibility @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . They held Australian law now inadequate to combat espionage , especially in peacetime . The investigation began with documents turned over to the Government by Mr. Petrov when he invoked asylum ; after having vorked in the Soviet Embassy since February , 1951 . His action was followed by the dramatic defection by his wife , Yevdokiya , seventeen days later . Australian police took her from the custody of Soviet agents aboard a Soviet-bound plane . The Soviet Union broke diplomatic relations with Australia , charging the Petrov documents were " forgeries . " The report said the Soviet Union had maintained two " legal apparatuses " here  --  legal in Soviet terms because their chiefs had " diplomatic cover . " One was a G. R. U. ( Chief Intelligence Administration ) apparatus for military , naval and air intelligence , operating from about 1943 until at least February , 1953 . The other was the M. V. D. organization , acting from 1943 until the Soviet Embassy 's withdrawal in 1954 . In addition , when international tensions were at a peak in June , 1952 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " illegal apparatus " available if war compelled withdrawal of the Soviet embassy . This involved sending workers into the country " in the guise of ordinary emigrants , " including one to be planted as the grandson of an old Russian woman living in Sydney . Noting the importance of guided missiles and like developments in Australia , the commission warned that it would be " unwise to assume that G , R. U. operations in Australia have ceased . " Mit and Mrs. Petrol Were upheld as s " witnesses of truth . " The report added that " over many months they were questioned on behalf of the counterespionage services of other Western countries on matters not directly related to our inquiry , with results we know to have been of the greatest value in those countries . " The commission said the espionage organizations were " rigidly controlled " from an M. V. D. Moscow center collecting dossiers from world-wide sources and issuing " minute instructions . " This center had selected " at least 120 Australians as being of interest to it , " the report @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as the evidence shows , know . ingly assisted Soviet espionage directly or indirectly were Communists , " the commission said . " We believe that the Soviet deliberately refrained from using the Australian Communist party as a party for espionage purposes lest exposure should lead to its serious political embarrassment and possibly to its outlawry . " The commission said $25,000 had been paid by the Soviet Embassy in Canberra in October , 1953 , to Lawrence L. Sharkey , secretary of the Australian Communist party . But it said this was to repay the party 's campaign expenditures in a 1951 referendum that defeated pro . posals to give Parliament power to legislate on Communists and communism . The commission said an agent named " Klod , " who obtained Department of External Affairs data between 1945 and 1948 was Walter Seddon-Clayton , an Aus. tralian Communist party func4 tionary in those years .                     