@@720132

txt An exclusive interview with Cuban Rebel Leader Fidel Castro , obtained by Chicago Tribune Correspondent Jules Dubois , is printed in full beginning on page 2 . The interview was published in some of the late editions of The Sunday Tribune . HAVANA , Cuba , Jan. 4 UP ) ? Fidel Castro , rebel leader , Sunday night called off the general strike that has para . Girl assigned to patrol duty by rebels in Havana . lyzed Cuba , since his forces ousted Fulgencio Batista 's government . Workers Urged to Work The Havana radio broadcast that Castro urged all workers to go back to their jobs . All stores and business establishments , closed since New Year 's day , were told to open their doors . Industries , transport , and communications were told to resume regular schedules . Castro spoke from Camaguey province , central Cuba . He is on his way to Havana and may make his entry Wednesday . The end of the strike , which was called to hamstring any attempt by Batista forces to upset the revolution , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ back to normal . Batista Men Hanged At least five of Batista 's henchmen have been executed by the rebels in speedy revenge for the repressive measures used by the former president 's security forces . Capt . Jose Garcia Menocal , a police inspector in westernmost Pinar del Rio province , was f ound hanged Sunday . The rebel radio previously announce% Brig . Gen. Joaquin Casilla , who was Batista 's commander in Las Villas province , and three of his top staff officers , had been captured and executed after a swift trial before a military tribunal . Revolutionary authorities also announced the arrest of Dr. Joaquin Martinez Saenz , president of the National Bank of Cuba under the Batista regime . Other Leaders Hunted The hunt for many military leaders and politicians long branded by the rebels as " assassins and enemies of the Cuban people " was being pressed . A sign of a return to normal , came from the airlines . A Pan American airways executive ' said late Sunday night that all commercial airlines had received permission to resume flights between the United @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Castro 's announcement gets around , stores are expected to be back in business . Some food stores were permitted to open for two hours Sunday in an attempt to relieve the acute food shortage that has resulted from the strike . Lines Form at Doors Lines formed at restaurants and food stores and lines of hungry people soon began moving thru a few opened doors . But most shopkeepers either were in no hurry to go back to work or were unable to do so . Many families lack refrigeration and buy perishables on a meal-to-meal basis . An acute food shortage has developed . Few Now Tote Guns The government of Dr. Manuel Urrutia , 57 , who has been sworn in as president , went a long way toward restoring order in Havana by radioing the thousands of young volunteers here to surrender their arms to regular army troops . Only a few of these guntoting patriots were on the streets and it seemed most had obeyed . For the first time since Batista fled to the Dominican Republic on New Year 's , the city took on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with long hair and beards , poured into the city in trucks , tanks , and armored cars . Red Threat Balked Communist party members threatened to take over by force the headquarters of the Construction Workers ' union in Lealtad street . Revolutionary headquarters rushed reinforcements to the area and talked them out of it . There is little question the Communists want to assert authority in the Cuban labor movement . The party was out-1 lawed by Batista and has lost much of its underground ' strength . It is believed to have a hard core of about ' 8,000 members . Castro 's 26th of July movement advocates extending civil liberties to all shades of opinion and probably will legalize the Communist party . But it appears that it will try to keep the party at arm 's length .                     