@@715528

txt The public libraries in the United States are in a deplorable condition . Nearly every state needs morel , adequately trained personnel . Only three states meet the minimum standards set by the American Library Association in terms of money spent for library services . More than 53,000,000 persons do not have easy access to books , while 24,000,000 have no public library service of any kind . Of the 3,000 counties in this country , one of every six has no library service . Most of the 7.500 separate library systems of the country are sub-1 standard , with insufficient reading materials and inadequate staffs the general rule . These conclusions were reached in a survey made of the nation 's ' public libraries , the results of ' Describing the condition of the ! nation 's public libraries as " shock-i ing. " the report said that some ' ' states spent as little as 14 cents per capita annually for library ' ( books and services . The American ( Library Association recommends ! the expenditure of $1.50 per capita . The largest amount @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' spends $1.40 . The median for the United States is said to be 80 cents . Six states reported that more than 50 per cent of the population lacked efficient , modern library service . Nine states reported that 40 per cent of the people had no free book service of any kind . Dr. Gosnell and Miss Moran found that the public library had been overlooked in the tremendous increase in the cost of governmental services . A basic factor in Voluntary adult education programs and one of the best weapons in the arsenal of democracy , they said , the public library " has been shamefully neglected by local units and state agencies . " Commenting on the prevailing condition of the public libraries ? Dr. Luther H. Evans , Librarian of Congress . declared : " Most of our existing libraries are small , substandard institutions , so poor in materials and staff that their potential for community service is largely unrealized . " Effect of Inflation Noted The survey observed also that inflation had dealt the libraries a serious blow . This is particularly true in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ described as " appalling . " In an effort to overcome the gaps in library service , 77 per cent of the state librarians report they are encouraging the development of regional libraries . This effort to consolidate service and provide all citizens of a state with library books and other services , and the services of skilled , professionallytrained librarians as they are needed , is endorsed by the American Library Association . The report noted that a pilot project  --  the Watertown Regional Library Service Center , which embraces three counties in northern New York  --  provided books , professional leadership and advice , and stimulated cooperation among the local public libraries . The local communities retain autonomy over local functions , such as selection of personnel , location of libraries and services to the community , while the state library seeks to equalize the service available through the organization of union catalogues and the encouragement of inter-library loans and to effect economies possible only through large-scale operation . The original plan for New York State called for the establishment of fifteen regional centers . The success of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more than 400 visitors from twenty-five states and fourteen foreign countries have personally studied the plan in operation . Plans are now nearing completion for regional centers in Westchester and Nassau Counties . Personnel Problem Big One The shortage of trained personnel is one of the major difficulties facing the public libraries today . Eighteen states reported they needed more personnel with professional library training . In twenty-two states , fewer than one-half of the library workers had professional training . Montana . Nebraska and Texas reported that only 10 per cent of the workers employed in their public libraries could be considered as having had adequate training . Twenty-five per cent of the states held that increased funds to attract better personnel was the most pressing need of the public libraries . Dr. C. R. Graham , head of the Louisville , Ky. , Public Library . noted that . while the shortage of personnel was nation-wide , it was particularly acute in the South because of the lower salary scale . He reported that 80 per cent of the rural population of his state ! was without adequate libraryl @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ P. Price . State Librarian of Missouri , who declared : " Not until the prevailing small size of library service units is changed to larger library organ- , izations with a full range of pro-I fessional positions paying better ) salaries will we be able to recruit ; capable and promising young peo-I ple into the library profession . " Thirty-one of the state libra- , rians reported that increased local , support for the public libraries ' was essential : twenty-four held , that state aid , either financial or through field agents to assist local ' communities , was a " must . " States as widely separated as Rhode Island and Texas agree that an educational campaign on the value of libraries and good ) public relations between the state agency and the local community , are vital if the free public library ' ' is to survive as a democratic in " stitution that serves the whole community . In this connection , Roger H. ( , director of the New Jersey State Library , reports that the library development committee I of New Jersey @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to public libraries that will encourage the smaller communities to join some kind of a regional library group . Additional ' regional libraries with bookmobile service to rural areas are needed urgently in New Jersey and the prevailing county system must he strengthened financially if it is to meet the increased demands resulting from the state 's growing ( population . I While nearly all public libraries report service to children and ' community groups , some do not give service to hospitals and other institutions . Eighteen states reported few or no adult education programs . The public libraries of Mississippi , Nevada , North Carolina , South Dakota and Wyoming db not have adult education programs , although the first three make their facilities available in some cases for independent discussion groups . The state librarians report also that the construction of new public library buildings has not kept pace with the demand . Since 1942 , fewer than nine library buildings have been erected in twenty states . The Division of Public Libraries in Massachusetts reported that many of the library buildings in that state were more than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ difficult to light and heat and were not adaptable for modern library service . The division said that 315 of the 351 public libraries in Massachusetts did not meet the minimum standards of the American Library Association . Proud American Institution The public library always has been a proud American institution with a great tradition for encouraging self-education of adults , the ' Foundation concluded . Today the Ford ' Foundation is encouraging the public library 's role in adult education through its sponsorship of the American Heritage Series . " If the free public library is to i remain an important factor in the citizenship training and adult education of the people of the United States , as a democratic institution it must have local support from the community and leadership and financial assistance from the state agency , " the survey stressed . " It must find trained personnel to administer its many functions an ? it must provide the books and other ' library materials so necessary for an intelligent and informed citizenry . " Educators recognize that the I public library is a major bulwark ' against @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ essential in the strengthening and furtherance of a democratic society .                     