@@717591

txt Premier Edgar Faure and former Premier . Pierre Mendes-Prance , ' two . leading opponents in the present electoral campaign , termed Algeria today the most urgent problem for the next National Assembly and Government . M. Mendes-France called for free and honest elections in Algeria as part of a program for re-establishing peace . He outlined his ideas in a speech in Marseilles opening the last week of the campaign before the elections next Monday . He spoke in favor of the Republican Front . his alliance of l &adicals,; Socialists and some Gaullists . M. Faure , also a Radical party member who has allied himself with the conservatives , spoke in Paris , first on a television program and later at a political rally in Wagram Hall . His review of political problems also stressed the importance of constitutional reform ' to obtain greater governmental stability . He spoke on a television program and later at a rally at Wagram Hall . M. Mendes - France declared that France could not stay in North Africa by force and repression alone , and urged a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had re-established peace in TwiisJa through negotiations with the nationalists there . First , M. Mendes-France proposed that wide powers be given to the fiext Government to deal with the situation . He said such powers would permit the reorganization of the police and judiciary in Algeria , the concentration of power in civilian hands and the liberation of political " hostages . " Second , he called for a solemn declaration by the Government that free elections for a new Algerian assembly would be held in the next six months . M. Mendes-France elsewhere has said that the Algerian statute of 1947 , which calls for such elections , has not been applied . He has asserted that the candidates have been handpicked by the Administration and previous elections falsified . " We have discredited the democratic procedures that . , we offered to these peoples and this is why they have turned toward propaganda that separates them from us , " he told his audience in Marseilles . Municipal Vote Also Urged M. Mendes-France indicated that the representatives freely chosen by the people would be the ones with whom @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Algeria . On the municipal level , he also called for new elections supervised by nonpartisan commissions . ' Third , M. Mendes-Frante called on the Premier to give personal attention to the problem . The Premier should visit Algiers " as long as possible " to overcome opposition to this program , the former Premier said . This is characteristic of M. Mendes-France , who personally led the negotiations that ended the French-Communist fighting in Indochina and who then flew to Tunis to announce a new deal in French North African policy . Fourth , M. Mendes - France suggested a social and economic program that would include the shipment and distribution of agricultural surpluses to the needy Algerians . He said this would be less costly than the military operations now being undertaken . He also said public works , such as irrigation , should be apportioned " more democratically " to benefit all classes . The former Premier said his goal was " to save France 's presence in Africa . " To attain it the reciprocal agreement of the different peoples living there must be obtained , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ French and native peoples must live side by side , he added . M. Faure ' also said the Algerian people should be consulted . He declared that complete integration or assimilation with France was too difficult and negotiations should concern the formation of political institutions that would be proper to Algeria . The Premier said that at present there was an " odious exploi tation " of the Algerian question ' to gain a few votes or seats . He ' said the attacks on him were being made in bad faith . M. Faure declared the Army ' staff plans called for 325,000 men in North Africa of whom 200,000 would be stationed in Algeria . " But the use of these troops is not enough , " he said . " We must seek a political solution . " To obtain governmental stability the Premier called for the automatic dissolution of the Assembly if a government fell within two years after it had been formed . He called the present system one of " six-month governments " and asked " what business can stand two changes in management @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ optional and M. Faure 's use of it a few weeks ago was , much criticized by M. MendesFrance and the Socialists .                     