@@716399

txt take what will be looked on as The Flanders resolution on an " appeasing " stand by the 1 anti-McCarthy group , quite Senator Joseph R. McCarthy probably voting to table the rest ( R ) of Wisconsin will appear olution in the name of speeding inexorably on the Senate floor the administration program . No ! next week and many reluctant doubt this stand also will save politicians will be recorded aye him the votes of the large Boslor nay . ton group that supports Senator The vote probably will not be McCarthy . on the resolution itself , which Meanwhile , Senator McCarthy would dismiss the Wisconsin called the Senate Investigations senator from all his committee subcommittee to a meeting chairmanships , but on a move to July 15 which could involve table the resolution which Ma- bickering over possible staff firjority Leader William F. Know- ings. land ( R ) of California indicates An Associated Press account he will produce . of the July 14 developments on But it is probable that an im- the Flanders resolution follows : mediate vote will be taken @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he will fight an attempt to have for voting one way or the oust Senator McCarthy from his other , his vote will be taken by powerful committee chairmanmasses of people to be " for " or ships . Senator Knowland spoke " against " the Wisconsin senator . out in the Senate after Senator Republican Argument However , there will be an argument which some Republican senators will be able to advance for voting to table the resolution at this time : It would delay the administration 's program in these crucial last days . This is the ostensible reason for Senator Knowland 's strong opposition . And he has noW'been backed by the Senate Republican Policy Committee . This powerful group has unanimously authorized Senator Knowland to take action to table the Flanders resolution . This vote poses a dilemma for many senators who are up for reelection this fall . Typical of these is Senator Leverett Saltonstall ( Ft ) of Massachusetts . He has been a supporter of the administration and takes the stand that to deal with the Flanders resolution now would only delay action on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ January or February to consider the Flanders move . Senator Saltonstall represents a constituency that contains large pro-McCarthy elements , a healthy number of pro-Eisenhower Republicans , and an indeterminate but resolute group that feels he should speak up against the Wisconsin senator pronto . There are Indications he will Ralph E. Flanders ( R ) of Vermont , who has been stalking Senator McCarthy for several months , reported he thinks he has " an excellent chance "  --  and an improving one  --  to unseat the junior senator from Wisconsin . Reporters told Senator Know-land later that they interpreted his remarks in the Senate as meaning that , regardless of how he does it , he will actively oppose Senator Flanders on the McCarthy issue . Pandora 's Box ' " That is correct , " the majority leader replied . He has contended all along that Senator Flanders is making a mistake and that his move could open a " Pandora 's Box " of trouble . Senator Flanders had called a news conference earlier to announce that while he has not actually counted noses , he seems @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ discusses his ouster resolution with GOP colleagues . " I seem to be encountering support , " was the way the Vermonter put it . Shortly afterward Senator Flanders told the Senate the reason he is trying to unseat Senator McCarthy from his charmanships is " to put an end to the destructive forces in the power and influence " of the Wisconsin Republican . Senator Knowland heard him through and then arose to scold Senator Flanders for having disclosed what had been said between the two senators at a private meeting of the Senate Republican Policy Committee . Straight Vote Pledged Senator Flanders had told reporters that he had obtained from members of the committee a pledge they would allow " a straight vote " on the McCarthy issue without invoking any parliamentary tricks to avoid a showdown . Senator Knowland confirmed that he had promised he would not use any " artificial means " to block the Vermonter . " But I think I made it perfectly clear , speaking for myself at least , that I would consider a decisive vote on the matter a motion by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the table . " " A motion of that sort , " Senator Flanders responded . " lies well within the perquisites and the rights of any senator , and I shall not be surprised , nor will I be pained , if the majority leader makes that motion . " After a series of warm-up speeches in the Senate in recent months , Senator Flanders went after Senator McCarthy 's scalp in earnest June 11 when he demanded that the Senate strip Senator McCarthy of his investigative powers as a committee chairman until he purges himself of " contempt " by answering charges made against him in 1952.                     