@@714755

txt muitary and industrial leaders see defense production nearing a crisis as the steel strike continues . No sign of a break has appeared in the dispute which has idled more than 750,000 workers from coast to coast . General Eisenhower , met with Paul G. Hoffman in Denver before flying to Texas tomorrow for a speech . Washington : Steel Strike Hits Home Building inc ' government announced the steel strike has forced postponement of plans to relax controls July 1 on home building and residential construction . President Truman signed the $6,447,730,750 foreign aid bill . The amount is 18.6 per cent less than he had declared was the minimum necessary . for next year . President Truman ordered Attorney General James P. to make an immediate study of possible legal action against the United States Lines in connection with the federal subsidy for the new superliner , SS United States . Senator Williams ( R ) of Delaware said the Treasury failed for years to collect delinquent income taxes from racketeers Frank Costello and Philip Kastel , and has now " marked off " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sales in New England department stores increased 15.9 per cent during the week ended June 14 , compared with the corresponding period a year ago , according to the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston . Europe : East German Women Work in Coal Mines East Germany has started to train women for work in coal mines . An official trade union newspaper hailed the experiment as already " successful . " Capt . Kurt Carlsen , famed skipper of the Flying Enterprise , was received by King Frederik of Denmark aboard the ; royal yacht Dannebrog . Mideast : Iranians Charge Britain With Piracy The Iranian press charged Britain with piracy on the high seas after a British court order forced the tanker Rose Mary to stay in the port of Aden with 1,000 tons of Iranian oil . Far East : U.S. Accused of Blocking Korean Truce A propaganda barrage from Radio Peking accused the United States of blocking a truce in Korea to keep war production going . Japan plans to give its wartime pilots refresher courses , and press reports said the national police reserve has asked United @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The International Red Cross in Geneva has asked the Red Cross societies of the Soviet Union and Communist China to report the names of Japanese prisoners of war still held , the Japanese chapter has been informed . 