@@716819

txt A story old on the pages of : history , but new and very bitter -. - for the United States of America , rolled toward its inevitable - crisis this week . The new , truculent , and asiertive power of the Communist : Government at Peking was detnanding that it be recognized in fact as the supreme authority in all the domains of the ancient Chinese realm . It carried this demand this week to the point of : 1 . Insisting that it be granted sovereignty over the islands ly'the off its coast , including even the great island of Formosa . which was taken from China by : Japan in 1895 and from Japan by the western Allies in 1945. ? , 2 . Refusing to come to the United Nations unless and until the refugee Chinese Nationalist Government on Formosa be unseated as the representative of China on the Security Council of the UN . 3 . ? Developing military operations toward the seizure of the islands which it claims and - which the United States would =prefer to see remain in the : hands @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it is an : Old story . It has happened every -. time a revolution has thrown up a ? new government which is hostile to old allies . It happened to France when a revolution in England over , threw the friendly Stuart dynasty . France gave refuge to the Stuarts and supported them in successive efforts to regain the English throne . It happened to England when a revolution in France overthrew the Bourbon dynasty . England gave refuge to the survivors and sustained them in a succession of efforts to achieve a political restoration in France . It happened to Britain and France together when a revolution in Russia overthrew the friendly Romanov dynasty . Both gave refuge to the surviving exiles and supported their efforts to achieve a political counterrevolution . No government likes to see a friendly government overthrown and replaced by a new and unfriendly government . The old Chinese government of Generalissimo Chiang Kai-shek was friendly to the United States . Washington had sustained it against the Japanese through the ordeal of World War II ; Washington had in fact accepted war with Japan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the ambitions of Japan . Washington had built its hopes for a friendly China after the war on the assumption of the survival of the Chiang government in China . Peking Demands Security It was a bitter thing for Washington when a revolution in China overthrew the friendly government of General Chiang and elevated in its place the unfriendly government of Mao Tse-tung and Chou En-lat . It is in the pattern of history for Washington to cling to its old friendship , to nourish and sustain the survivors of the lost cause , to defend them in their place of refuge , to hope for a possible restoration to their power . It is also in the pattern of history for the new revolutionary government to declare war to the end against the survivors of the old regime and to seek to drive the foreign friends of that regime far away from its frontiers . There is no security for a revolutionary government until the last chance of a counterrevolution has been destroyed and until the surviving pretender to the throne has been eliminated . Britain fought a 12-year war @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a Stuart restoration . This week the two great historically natural urges of Peking and Washington came closer to conflict , and it was difficult indeed to see how the conflict might be avoided . Test of U.S. Pledge To the men of Peking the survival of the Chiang government just off their coast on Formosa had plainly become an intolerable condition which they had decided to liquidate once and for all . To the . men of Washington the survival of the Chiang government on Feirmosa represented at the very least the discharge of the obligations of friendship . But it represented also a test of their own ability and willingness to protect friends and allies . If the men of Washington were to abandon General Chiang , then some of their other allies in Asia might lose confidence and seek a reconciliation with the common enemy .. The abandonment of General Chiang could play havoc in Japan , the Philippines , Thailand , Pakistan . Could those friends count on Washington 's fidelity if Washington were to fail in its commitments to General Chiang ? For these reasons hope @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . What hope there was lay in the fact that as yet the Chinese Communists had not launched an invasion of Formosa and per haps would not be capable of doing so for a long time . Washington was committed irretrievably only to the defense of Formosa and the Pescadores . Not until Communist troops struck directly at those places was the United States committed absolutely to fight . But it might fight sooner , over Quemoy and the Matsus . It might even find itself fighting in the process of helping General Chiang withdraw his troops from the untenable Tachens . Plainly , Messrs . Mao and Chou were not interested merely in recovering some offshore islands . They were interested in eliminating the threat of a Chiang restoration in China . In effect , they had been offered a deal . If they would leave Formosa alone they would be allowed , gradually , to acquire the offshore islands . By this week it seemed fairly clear that Messrs . Mao and Chou were not willing to accept such a deal , for it would not give them the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the base for a possible attempt at a restoration in China , They wanted Formosa for the same reason which impelled Queen Elizabeth to behead Mary , Queen of Scots , which impelled the French revolutionaries to behead Louis XVI and Marie Antoinette , which impelled the Russian revolutionaries to behead the last of the Romanovs , which impelled Marshal Tito to execute Mihailovic . A losing cause is never a dead cause as long as the deposed head of state lives on in exile with a powerful foreign supporter . General Chiang lives in exile on ? Formosa and is sustained by the formidable military power of the United States . War between Communist China and the United , States may not be inevitable . But this week it was difficult to sec how the determination of Washington to sustain General Chiang could ever be reconciled with the determination of Peking to eliminate General Chiang . Historically Logical v Peking 's demand for the unseating of General Chiang 's representative on the United Nations Security Council was as historically logical as all the rest of its emerging purposes . As @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Security Council . it sustains the hope of a Chinese Nationalist restoration . If the story of history is a measure of the future , then Washington must ultimately do one of two things . Either it must seek the restoration of General Chiang in China by force or renounce his cause entirely . The ultimate measure of the renunciation would be the admission of Peking to membership in the UN and to China 's seat on the Security Council . By this week Washington had renounced the idea of using its armed forces on the mainland of China to secure a restoration , but it was not willing to renounce the hope of such a restoration by other means . Its policy was to keep alive the very hope which Peking was determined to eliminate . It was this situation which made the Formosa Strait a magnet drawing in the men of war from far corners of the world .                     