@@720014

txt The Democrats are n't waiting for the election to wind up before starting their own bitter private battle . ? Democratic leaders are he-ginning to rock the boat before they have the boat . In probably the strongest language ever used by a Democratic National Committee chairman on the subject , the South has been told that if it wants to bolt ? it can bolt . , Filibuster issue That is what Paul M. Butler has said and keeps repeating . A former Democratic ' President , Harry S. Truman , publicly assailed two leading southern Democratic conservatives ? Senators James 0 . Eastland of Mississippi , and Barry F. Byrd of Virginia . The Truman warning is the same  --  support the party or quit . Penalty for bolting  --  the South will lose its grip on congressional committee chairmanships by which it exercises power out of all proportion to its population . Nor is this all . Right from the word " go " in the new Senate there is going to'be what promises to be a terrific ' tight over the old South-supported @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Democratic liberal spokesman , and others are laying the groundwork for this now . The liberals look to the addition of . eight or 10 new senators at the election to aid the fight . The fight starts the minute the Senate meets . Vice-President Richard M. Nixon will be right in there fighting . too . He will be lighting on the side which will probably cause the greatest disruption to the Democrats , to modify the filibuster rule . COnerm DwittdirS What it all boils down to seems to be this : the threat of a southern Democratic bolt does n't disturb the outside Democratic leaders the way it used to . They appear to have made their big decision . On the desegregation issue the northern leaders think the party has more to gain by sticking to civil rights than by trying to avoid a southern break-off. if Dixie wants to bolt. ? so what. ? Again and again this point is hammered home . Democratic leaders outside the South obviously do n't think the South will bolt . Mr. Truman said as much in a week-end interview @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Truman , and if they do ? off with their heads ! Do n't take them back into favor again ( with congressional seniority utiiinpaired ) as happened after 1948 . Senator Eastland , for example . campaigned for a states ' tights candidate running against Mr. Truman . Afterward , Senator Eastland argued that he was still a " Democrat . " His seniority was unimpaired . Today he is chairman of the all-powerful Senate Judiciary Committee and a militant against civil rights . Council Snubbed " Never again , " says Mr. Truman , who has a long memory . What is n't well understood is that there arc two separate and competing centers of power now among top Democratic leaders . One is the new Democratic National Advisory Council . It meets regularly , studies national problems . and issues statements lambasting the Republicans . Mr. Truman , various state committee chairmen , Dean Acheson , Adlai E. Stevenson , and most of the conspicuous leadership outside Congress belong to it or support it . The council is also the voice of Democrats without representation in Congress @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Sena 1 e- louNe leadership . Senate Majority Leader Lyndon B. Johnson ( Dl of Texas was invited to join the advisory council . He snubbed it . So did Speaker Sam Rayburn , also of Texas . They are the two dominant figures in Congress . Why , they probably asked , should they share the power with anybody else ? Herbert H. Lehman , Democratic elder statesman . and former senator from New York , sharply assailed the Johnson leadership before he quit the Senate . lie argues that Senator Johnson is smoothing over party differences , following a waitand-see course , bottling up liberal views , and harmonizing differences ? too many differences , Mr. Lehman thinks , New Votes Hold Key The point is that the southerners in the congressional Democratic Party in Congress have power out of proportion to their size , This comes from two reasons : 1 . Chairmen of committees largely run Congress and these assignments are allocated ? by seniority . Southerners come from one-party states and tend to have the seniority . ( When iNir . Truman won in 1948 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) 2 . The filibuster . This is the power in the Senate to block , by interminable debates . measures which are abhorrent to a. minority . It is against this second power that a big tight is now brewing . If the Democrats win heavily Nov. 4 as expected , the new senators will conic mostly from outside the South . The new votes will make a difference . Related stories : Pages 5 and 14                     