@@716743

txt The argument may yet have to be resolved by another purge in high places . Uninistakable references in the Soviet press to serious heresies and factionalism within the Communist Party hint at a showdown . Foreign policy seems definitely involved , particularly to the extent that it is concerned with plotting the course of world communism in the immediate future . Thus world peace  --  or the lack of it ? may depend upon the outcome of such an internal Soviet struggle . Press Switches All signs seem to point to this sort of division : On one side  --  the Communists of the Stalin school , devoted to the principle of dynamic communism which has produced such dangerous situations as the Berlin blockade and the Korean war . On the other side  --  the Communists of more conservative and cautious leanings who believe that time is on their side and they can play the waiting game while building internally . This sort of approach led to the Korean and Indochinese truces and to a surface slackening of world tensions after Stalin 's passing , March , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Communist leadership , has been going through a strange series of reversals ever since Stalin passed on . From a peaceful tone . it has gone over to one of belligerence on the international scene . Foreign Minister Vyacheslav M. Molotov 's statements bristle with threats and bluster . Yet , with confusing suddenness , the Soviet press then switches to a tone of hurt dismay that Prime Minister Georgi M. ** proposal for a big-power negotiation of Far Eastern tensions received so cool a reception in the West . All this is accompanied by increasing prominence for the First Secretary of the Central Committee of the Communist Party , Nikita S. Khrushchev . His name is appearing in authoritative statements with rising frequency and importance . By Leninist definition , Soviet foreign policy simply is an extension of domestic policy all keyed to the ultimate goal of a world dominated by Soviet communism . Thus twists in Soviet foreign policy can reflect indecision and even disputes inside the Kremlin walls . For the first time since before Stalin 's passing , the Soviet press refers to the " blood @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by which he maintained the " steel unity " of the party . Articles in important journals on the 75th anniversary of Stalin 's birth were dotted with such references . Pravda , official Communist newspaper , carried a six-column editorial Dec. 21. by an outstanding party propagandist , which twice referred to Stalin 's service in ridding the party of heretics . Twice he mentioned " Trotskyigts . " He also belabored " right capitulationists. " " right opportunists. " " bourgeois nationalists . " and other " enemies of the people . " Doctors Accused The last time that sort of thing occurred in the Soviet press was just after the notorious " doctors ' plot " of January . 1953. when doctors were accused of plotting the murder of Soviet leaders . Those denunciations of " Trotskyists " and other public enemies signaled an impending purge which did not come off because Stalin passed on . Ordinarily , the Soviet press does not dwell on the history of the great Stalin purges . The party seems quite conscious that the Soviet public  --  particularly the intellectual class  --  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The purge idea is trotted out at moments when the party considers it vitally necessary , possibly to justify a political need to resort once again to the old party remedy for heresies  --  terror .                     