@@715244

txt Possibility that the Chinese Nationalists will soon begin air raids on the mainland is ruled out here . There are , however , strong inditations here that the United States is considering a blockade of the Chinese coast  --  a blockade in which the meager Chinese Navy would undoubtedly play a role The reasons for withholding Chinese Nationalist air raids are rather obvious here at Nationalist headquarters , only about 80 miles-10 minutes ' flying time  --  from the nearest Communist Chinese territory . There are only some 150 fighters and bombers based on the island , all of them ' propeller driven . Communists have up-to-date night fighters as well as formidable ** and they have constructed a number of new airfields along the coastal belt opposite Formosa . Retaliation Eyed The likelihood of retaliatory raids against Formosa is undoubtly a factor in the decision to limit Nationalist Air Force activities for the present to reconnaissance and leaflet dropping missions , Nationalists have been making dropping sorties for more than a year now , and on one occasion one of their night-flying B-24 bombers penetrated as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ het e , too , that bombing raids would tend to harden public opinion against the Nationalists at a time when thei is considerable disaffection on the mainland . From this vantage point , there ale two major questions about any attempt to blockade Communist ports : First , of course , is the British opposition to any such step . However , although this may not be the true reflection of sentiment in Washington , there is an easily discernible feeling in American circles in Taipeh that United States policy has been unduly ' Influenced by Britain for too long . British Reaction The second question is whether the Nationalists , Americans , or a joint force could effectively enforce a blockade . It would not be easy . And , apart from complications with Britain , the Chinese Communists might react forcibly by committing their Air Foice against the blockade vessels , and thus spread war beyond Korea . Neither American nor Chinese ( ) Metals in this Nationalist capital will admit that such a move has been prolected or is under consideration . But they all agree on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the first of a number . of moves designed to bring pressure on Chinese Communists other than in Korea . ' Alternatives Studied Examination of alternatives ( confronting the United States and Nationalist China in this regard points to an attempted blockade as the next step . The Chinese already have made it clear that no large-scale landings will be attempted for some time . " We shall be thinking defensively for quite a while yet , " one general said . It is likely that hit-and-run raids , such as the Nationalist have been conducting for sonic months now , Will be stepped up in tempo and strength . But Nationalist ground forces , improved as they ha e been , will not be capable of anything on a /Gaily large scale fin at least a year . By the Assof holed press Taipeh , Formosa The Chinese Nationalist Interior Min istt y has repelled that some 1,500 guerrillas swarmed out of the Khingan mountains in Manchuria last month and fought with Communist Army regulars for 24 hours before retiring . The attack took place at Ihkhoteh according to information @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ northeast of Harbin on the main railroad line running between Chita and Vladiovstok in Siberia . The Interior 's Ministry Ta Tao news agency described the attack on Jan. 2 as tha biggest of its kind in the Manchurian-Inner Mongolia region in three years . It reported that as a result of the raid , the scheduled depot ture of a battalion of Mongol cavalry , men to the Korean front was delayed . Danes Talhs Sen ft ION 'S By Richard L , Strout Stop Correspondent 01 The Christian Science Mordor Washington The Eisenhower administration has greatly broadened the range of possible action In Korea , but has no intention of letting Chinese Communists know what its plans are , This was the comment of senators after talks with Secretary of State John Foster Dulles , who reported to the Foreign Relations Committee on his trip to Em These two points stood out in Mr. Dulles ' reported comment : There is no immediate plan to clamp a blockade on the Communist China coast , and talk about such a blockade is " premature . " Without prompt iatilleation of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have to reconsider its policy of foreign aid . Closed Session The Senate committee heard Mr. Dulles in closed session , but members were quick to report on some of the comments ; and the chairman , Alexander Wiley ( R ) of Wisconsin , Issued a prepared statement , in conjunction with the Secretary of State , regarding the European trip . Over-all effect of the Dulles testimony may be to calm some of the reports that have spread over the Capitol on the next move in Korea . Since President Eisenhower opened his " psychological warfare " - drive against Communists in his State of the Union message announcing de- ' ' neutralization of Formosa , varied stories of stronger American action have gained currency . These have included : blockade of the coast , bombing of the mainland , invocation of the doctrine of " hot pursuit " - of fleeing enemy planes beyond the Yalu River , use of atomic weapons , direct invasion of China . Not ' No ' but ' Maybe ' Mr. Dulles does n't say " no " to these stories  --  some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ uneasy  --  but he says " maybe . " In addition , his testimony may restrain some who would go it alone in Asia , if other nations , particularly Britain , decline to come along . According to Senators H. Alexander Smith ( R ) of New Jersey and William Fulbright ( D ) of Arkansas , he told the Senate committee he knew of no immediate plan to blockade China , bomb the coast or Chinese railways , or use atomic weapons in Km ca . Other senators reported that Mr. Dulles told the committee that many persons at home and abioad were " reading things " into Mr. Eisenhowe ? ' s State of the Union message . Another Talk Slated Conugress has produced belligerent statements by the dozens recently , like that of Senator Styles Bridges ( R ) of New Hampshire , who told a Saint Paul audience he would use atomic weapons if feasible , and also attack Communist bases in Manchuria , Democratic leaders have shown a tendency to ask how tar the administration is going in Korea and to complain that they are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) of Ohio , answering Democrats , declared they were told of the decision to deneutralize Formosa long enough in advance to protest , lied they desired to , and that this constituted " consultation . " No Democrat objected , Senator Taft reported . The Republican , Majority Leader , like Mr. Dulles , showed a disposition to try to cool off some of his colleagues . While he favored a blockade , he said he would make it contingent upon approval by Britain .                     