@@716267

txt Queen Elizabeth sailed homeward along the south coast of England today and her subjects , from the Prime Minister to grinning boys in rowboats , went down to the sea to greet her . The royal yacht Britannia paused in The Solent and Sir Winston Churchill , aged but indomitable , clambered aboard to pay his and the nation 's respects to the young Queen , returning after the longest journey ever taken by a reigning monarch , 50,000 miles around the world . An armada reminiscent of the fleet that steered for Dunkirk fourteen years - ago came out of the great ports and fishing coves to scamper through the stately naval escort while crews and passengers waved frantically at a slim figure on the saluting bridge . Ashore , on headlands where in times past beacons blazed to signal the approach of the Spaniards , French and Germans , hundreds of thousands of Britons peered through the mist and rain to sight the sleek black hull of the royal yacht . In the wet streets of this ancient capital other thousands began to gather to await @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It will be a gay and colorful welcome , less lavish than last year 's coronation but much more a family party . This paradoxical people , who combine stout democracy with affection for royalty , may be said never to feel completely at ease when the monarch is away . It is symptomatic of the political realities that lie behind tha mass emotion of such occasions that The Economist suggested that the success of the Queen 's tour in binding the Commonwealth and Empire raised the prospect of " more frequent visits to her peoples overseas . " " The Crown is now proclaimed as the most precious crucible of the Commonwealth , " the weekly added . Recognition of the unifying role of the monarchy is raising the question in British politics of extended stays by the Queen in older members like Australia , Canada and New Zealand , and of frequent tours of the restive new nations of the Commonwealth . In common with others , The Economist realizes that the gradual change in. the position of the monarchy from a uniquely British institution to one of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ morning , the Britannia , escorted by the cruiser Glasgow and the destroyers Saintes and Barfleur that had steamed with her from Gibraltar , met seventeen ships of the Home Fleet seven miles southeast of Eddystone Lighthouse . The guns of the Vanguard , in this day of carriers . nu marines Britain 's only active battleship , slammed out a salute , cruisers and destroyers took stations , and the fleet moved eastward - behind the Britannia . " It is a wonderful moment * * " the Queen signaled to the Home Fleet . As the flotilla neared France , a message of " respect and friendship " came from President Rend Cott ' . From Plymouth eastward the littoral was crowded with people . Some caught a glimpse of the escort and the Britannia . Some saw only the Shackletons , Neptunes and Sunderlands of the air escort or heard only the booming of the salutes across the gray seas . When the ships passed Berry Head , near Brixham , the sun broke through and thousands saw ' them and the white sails of the yachts and fishing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Here and at dozens of other vantage points , families unloaded picnic baskets after the ships had passed and settled down to a nice , quiet chat about Queen and the royal family . Sir Winston , dressed in the uniform of an Elder Brother of Trinity House , smoking a cigar and apparently happy at the break from routine , sailed from Southampton to meet the Britannia in The Solent . The Prime Minister boarded the royal yacht at the Queen 's hinvitation . He will remain aboard tonight and debark early tomorrow . With other members of the Cabinet he will be at Westminster to greet the Queen when she sets foot in England about 3:15 P. M. Every sort of craft from ferryboats  --  these listing dangerously as passengers thronged to the side nearest the Britannia ? to rowboats , flocked around the royal yacht , evoking some harsh words from navigating officers aboard the naval escort . Ashore , guns of half-forgotten fortresses fired salutes , and at sea , the aircraft carriers Implacable and Indefatigable , with their companies fallen in and cheering , steamed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Edinburgh , Prince Charles and Princess Anne were on the saluting bridge . Off the Isle of Wight , the Home Fleet bade farewell and turned away into the misty twilight . With the lights of England glowing along the shore , the Britannia steamed into the night toward the mouth of the Thames .                     