@@715201

txt Id a deeply reverential mood Dwight D. Eisenhower took the oath of office on the steps of the historic Capitol and called on each American to conseci ate his life to the achievement of peace and victory in " a time of tempest . " " No person , no home , no community can be beyond the I each of this call . " the new President said , just after taking the solemn oath from Chief Justice Fred 51 , Vinson . The inaugural address was strikingly different from many that has e gone before : it carried no outline of legislation for the new administration , but was rather a declaration of faith  --  a prayer  --  in which the soldier who had become President summoned America and the flee world to be united and strong . In symbol of this unity , Mr. Eisenhower and outgoing Pi estdent Truman lode up bannered Pennsylvania Avenue together , each pi oud m his oui n way of the chance to bear testimony to the continuity and loyalty of all political ' actions to the common @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ President Eisenhower declined grimly " The enemies of this faith know no god but Fin ce , no de- Ev a Staff MUM , votion but its use They tutor men in treason . They teed upon the hunger of othef.4 . Whatever defies them , they togure , especially the Truth . " At the moment of his inaugural President Eisenhower had a reassuring message for the balance of the free won Id . They must unite , he declared  --  the " stn ? nal of all free peoples lies in unity , their danger is discord . " And he continued : " To produce this unity , to meet the challenge of our time , destiny has laid upon our country the responsibility of the free world 's leadership , " So it is proper to assure our friends once ? again that , in the discharge of this responsibility , we Americans know and observe the differences between world leadership and imperialism : between firmness and truculence , between a thoughtfully calculated goal and spasmodic reaction to the stimulus of emergencies . " all We face @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ith confidence and conviction : ' The inaugural ; Rich ess was the testament of a deeply crential man speaking his heart and attempting to inspire the incalculable audience of radio and television listeners with his own sense of consecrated duty . The new President listed nine " lutes of conduct " of " fixed principles " upon which , he promised , the United States will be guided . America , he said , must : 1 . Develop the strength " that will deter the forces of aggression and promote conditions of peace . " He said , " We stand ready to engage with any and all others in joint effort to remove the causes of mutual fear and distrust among nations and so to make possible drastic ' eduction of armaments . " 2 . Reject appeasement ? " We shall never try to placate an aggressor by the false and wicked bargain or trading honor for security . " 3 . View America 's strength as a " trust " upon which rests the hope " of free men everywhere " ; each citizen , he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 4 , " We shall never , " he promised . " use strength to try to impress upon another people our own cherished political and economic institutions . " 5 . While helping " friendly nations to secure their out is security and well-being " America must likewise count upon Him to assume " their full and just burdens In the common defense of freedom . " 6 . Practice policies that encourage " productivity and profitable trade . " 7 . Encourage regional groups within the United Nations . In particular , he said , " only as flee Europe unitedly marshals its strength can it effectively safeguard , even with our help , its spiritual and cultural treasures . " 8 . " Hold all continents and peoples in equal regard and honor . " Continuing , he declined , " We reject any insinuation that one race or another , one people or another , is in any sense inferior or expendable . " 0 . Support the UN . In this connection , he promised solemo'Ike ' and the Press " President and Press , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's newspapers , radio , and television , appears on the first page of the second section , Fifth in flue series " IVhat the New President Faces . " ly that " In our quest of honorable peace , we shall never compromise nor tire nor ever cease . " The new President concluded with the same reverent note with which he began . This , he says , is a " century of trial " and he added : " This is the work that awaits us all , to be done with bravery , with charity  --  and with prayer to almighty God . " In further reassurance he added : " We wish our friends the world over to know this above                     