@@713115

txt The defense department announced today that the army , the navy , and the air force will start at once to recall some of their reserve personnel for service of at least a year . There was no indication how many reservists will be ordered to duty . There was no mention of calling up the national guard , but it is expected a call for some guard units will be issued soon . In his message to congress today , President Truman authorized Defense Secretary Johnson to call up the national guard and reserves as required by the emergency . The defense department announcement said the army and the air force will call their reserves on a " limited " basis . The navy will order its reservists to active duty on a " selective " basis . Specific Shills Sought The men to be called will be : hose with specific skills or qualifications which are " immediately asable . " The three services said : hose called will serve at least a year and will go on active duty at their present reserve ranks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ except in cases involving key billets in industrial activities vital to national defense and in cases wherein community welfare would be seriously affected . " The army and air force announcements said nothing regarding deferment policy . The navy added that members of its voluntary reserve will not be ordered to duty except as necessary to fill specific quotas not obtainable from the organized and fleet reserve sources . The army said the reservists it needs most are infantry , engineer , and medical officers in the grades of captain and lower . Enlisted Specialists Needed " Enlisted reservists most urgently needed by the army , the announcement continued , " are airborne-trained personnel , electronic , tank , and armament maintenance personnel , certain . military intelligence , medical , communications and wire maintenance technicians , as well as certain engineering and construction spy cialists in landing craft operations , camouflage , road , beach , port , and air field construction . " Similarly , the air force said most of the reserve officers It requires are captains and lower ranks and that certain critical specialists , as well @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ units , will be required in other grades . Officers Chief Need The air force said its chief need is for officers who have been trained as navigators , bombardiers , communications , radio , and radar specialists , medical and dental officers , weather specialists , and armament officers . A smaller number of officers is needed in most other categoriesAs for enlisted men , the air force continued : " Airmen whose specialities are most urgently required include those with experience as aircraft and engineer mechanics , radar and radio specialists , communications personnel , armament specialists , and personnel of the medical fields , as with officer requirements , a smaller number of airmen also are required in other fields . "                     