@@716079

txt ADAMS DENOUNCES DEMOCRATS ANEW But in Talk Here He Avoids Mentioning Party 's Name -- Asks G.O.P. Victory in Fall By CHARLES GRUTZNER Sherman Adams , assistant to President Eisenhower , said last night that- unless a . Republican Congress was elected this year the nation " could be turned back once more to the spending sprees and political orgies to which the American people called a halt in 1952 . " Mr. Adams addressed the American Paper and Pulp Association convention dinner in the Waldorf-Astoria Hotel . His political invective did not appear to have been diminished by the President 's recent suggestion that a display of great partisanship ? by a member of his official party was inappropriate in these times . In fact , Mr. Adams told his audience , when he was asked to address the association he decided to make an exception to a rule that he thought members of the President 's staff should observe ? " keep your name out of the newspapers . " He Quotes His ' Boss ' " Perhaps I should do a better job a that , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said , ' Never miss an opportunity to keep your mouth closed . ' " The President 's principal assistant went on to characterize the period of the Roosevelt and Truman Administrations as " two abnormal decades . " In these , he said , the individual surrendered his responsibility to a Government that then suffered a decline in standards of honesty and " created a climate in which occasionally spies and subversives and low-grade public servants could and did flourish . " Mr. Adams had drawn upon himself a storm of Democratic protests when he charged , in addressing the Republican National Committee twelve days ago , that the Democrats were trying to talk the country into a depression , and were " political sadists " attempting to substitute a " Fear Deal " for the " Fair Deal . " The President 's remark about mod- ADAMS DENOUNCES DEMOCRATS ANEW // eration being appropriate among members of his official family came four days later . Last night Mr. Adams accused the Democrats of many things , but refrained from calling them Democrats . In a 4,500-word speech he did @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ once . He referred to his targets as the former " Government " and " party in power . " Mr. Adams credited the Eisenhower Administration with hayins stopped the fighting in Korea ; with having reduced Government expenses and as looking forward " hopefully to something better than balance in cash expenditures in the coming year " ; with working out " honest and conservative " tax reductions ; and with b havince " begun to work out a plan of national defense in keeping with the realities we encounter in this , the second half of the twentieth century . " Saying that other pfficials of the Government had spelled out this country 's military aim as an ability to retaliate quickly and devastatingly " so that an attack will be launched only by a demented enemy in utter despiration , " Mr. Adams added : " We do not think Soviet Russia is that demented . " Speaks of Tax Cuts Mr. Adams , in his plea for support of Republican candidates in November , held out the prospect of further cuts in taxes. / He said : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the taxpayer as fast as we believe it prudent to do so . " Mr. Adams blamed the previous Administrations for the farm problem , which he said remained unsolved . " We committed nearly seven billions of dollars to stabilize the farm economy of America in the price support program , " he said . " With all of this investment , this farm problem remains unsolved . It is still seeking an answer , an honest answer that will retreat from the delusion that the Government is smarter than the people . " We know in the long run that American agriculture will profit by the stability of an honest farm program . However , in undoing the mistakes already made , it will cost hundreds of millions of the taxpayers ' money in the liquidation of this investment and again putting farmers back on a sound and stabilized program . " Borrowing a description first worded by the President , himself , Mr. Adams declared that President Eisenhower 's program , as presented to Congress , was distinctly " liberal " in regard to the problems of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . A Choice for Voters " You and the rest of the people of this country now have a choice , " Mr. Adams told the dinner audience . " It is a choice that makes this a key year of deci-sion , " If the program of the Eisenhower Administration is adopted with enthusiasm by the Congress , with the popular support it deserves , the next Congress will be composed of a majority of the President 's party and in support of his principles . " If it is rejected , the party of the President will very likely lose its control in Congress , and we shall be faced with a frustrating situation . " . Mr. Adams said that " a contagious national fear " grew in the depression that followed the 1929 market crash , and led the American people to entrust the Government with all decisions . Asserting that all the evils of the " two abnormal decades " had stemmed from that philosophy , he declared the ' Eisenhower Administration was " dedicated to the belief that a more equitable sharing of responsibility between @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ way toward the preservation of greater individual opportunities . " Observing that the Eisenhower Administration is " pro-everybody and anti-nobody , " Mr. Adams said : " The President Is not trying to expunge the New Deal or to project it . He is taking off from the facts of life as they are in the United States , A. D. 1954 , going on from there to outline in a new tone of confidence a new course . " The strength of America is not in its Government . The Government is strong only if its industry , its productive facilities , its laboratories ; its schools , its sixty-three million employables , its magnificent communication system , its machines , its transportations , its inventions are strong . " 