@@715631

txt The Communist rulers of East Germany , harassed by widespread protest riots , demonstrations , and strikes , have partially lifted their ban on travel to Berlin . Thousands of hungry residents of the Soviet zone immediately swarmed to Berlin 's west sectors to obtain " Eisenhower parcels " of free American food . By the A ssocteted Press Berlin The Communist blockade and a number of trials have sharply cut the rush of East Germans and East Berliners to receive free American food parcels in West Berlin . Despite police threats and rain . hundreds of persons from East Berlin still came over for aid as the giveaway swung into its 10th day and toward the million-anda half-parcel mark . But the 18 million Germans in the rest of Russian occupation zone were barred by a virtually airtight blockade on rail travel to Berlin imposed last week end . Protest demonstrations against the travel ban were put down by German Communist police . The Communist government added terror with . a series of drumhead trials to punish persons who had come to Berlin to fetch the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Black lists " of East German reliefers. sometimes with pictures , denouncing them as " traitors and provocateurs . " The Communist press was stonily silent about the United States offer to release $1,400,000 of frozen East German funds in American banks if it is used only to buy food for the Soviet zone . Manifesto Issued But the Communist Party 's Central Committee indirectly answered with a bitter tirade declaring : " Those who take American food will die of it . " The Communist " declaration " claimed the food-relief campaign was " another provocation by the American profit hyenas " and declared that any new revolt like the June 17 rebellion would be crushed ruthlessly . The manifesto admitted that an anti-Communist underground still operated in Russian zone factories despite the terror trials staged to crush it after the June rebellion . In almost hysterical language the Central Committee commanded a continued hunt : " Smash the fascist underground organization in the factories . Throw the provocateurs out of the factories . " The Communists obviously published their manifesto before they received Moscow 's instruc tions on how @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Instead , they again flouted Communist Minister-President Otto Grotewohl 's recent boast that he was ready to buy 15 million dollars ' worth of American food  --  a boast he now can start . to make good if Moscow will permit him . Hailed in West Berlin The West Berlin press hailed the American funds proposal as a shrewd diplomatic stroke which will increase the Communists ' embarrassment over the " food war . " It said rejection will further inflame the angry , hungry Germans , while acceptance will be an admission that Russia is not making the shipments  --  for pay ? which it promised several weeks ago when it rejected President Eisenhower 's offer of 15 million dollars ' worth of free food . West Berlin police maintained reinforced riot squads at the Soviet sector borders to prevent new attempts by East Berlin Communist Action squads to storm the food stations . . The police said that the three attacks Aug. 4 were " organized - by the East Berlin Communist Party . " Only the ringleaders of 150 Communists arrested in the affrays were still held in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ .                     