@@719521

txt A house subcommittee investigating the Federal Communications commission today summoned Richard A. Mack , FCC commissioner , and four Florida men to testify next week on charges of a payoff in a disputed television license case . Chairman Oren Harris ID. , - Ark. of the house commerce subcommittee which is ' con , dueling the inquiry:said Mack Mack , at door of office , terms charges " reckless. " will be questioned in public session either Wednesday or Thursday and the four other witnesses on Tuesday . ' Earlier today , Mack , under fire in the sensational probe , had written to Harris demand-. ing an early hearing to answer " unsubstantiated charges , accusations , innuendoes and distortions so recklessly made " against him . Names of-Four Others The house subcommittee promptly granted Mack 's request and also called the four others to testify . They are : Thurman A. Whiteside Miami attorney , named as giving Mack checks totaling 9,650 Mid pledging Mack to vote for his client , a subsidiary of National Airlines , in getting the Miami television channel 10 license in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Miami political figure . and close friend of Mack : ' Judge Robert Anderson , . and Paul Scott , who were members cf a law firm representing the National Airlines subsidiary , Public Service Television , Inc. , which got the channel 10 license over three other applicants . All Named by Schwartz - All four men were mentioned in sworn testimony yesterday by Dr. Bernard Schwartz , ousted , chief counsel ' of the subcommittee , who identified the canceled checks . from Whiteside to Mack and gave further information concerning the case . In Miami , Whiteside 's counsel , Judge Richard M. Hunt , said " We 'll be there Johnnyon-the-spot . ' This case is just beginning . " Anderson , now a circuit judge , said : " No comment . 1 do n't know anything about being summoned . " ? Palmer , a former Miami mayor , was reported in New York on business- Scott could ' not be reached for comment . Will Let Schwartz Tell All Harris said Schwartz will continue his testimony in public session Monday and will be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ com ? mittee has subpenaed the files of the parties involved . He said the subcommittee is going to let Schwartz tell all he knows . Harris said Mack will he requested to bring his finan-i cial records with him . In Iris letter to Harris today , Mack , 98 , a Democrat appointed to the FCC in 1955 by President Eisenhower , also promised to cooperate ? withi the Federal Bureau of Investigation in its investigation of trios ordered yesterday by ' Atty . Gen. William P. Rogersj after Schwartz ' testimony . Harris said FBI agents have already examined certain documents in the files con. corning Mack , and that the subcommittee is giving " wholehearted cooperation " to the FBI . Schwartz claimed that Mack admitted receiving the checks in an interview with subcommittee investigators  --  who secretly recorded the conversation  --  and that he claimed they ' represented " loans , ' but that he could not recall repayments . Wo n't Resign from Job Mack had remained silent until today when he released the letter to Harris . He also told reporters he had no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reporters since Schwartz 's testimony which rocked the capital , after Schwartz 's equally sensational . charges of undue influence from ' a " White House : clique , " including Sher. man Adams , No. 1 assistant to President Eisenhower , and other high officials . Schwartz I earlier had hung a " whitewash " label on the subcommittee , his former bosses . Slack posed smiling for photographers at his office but refused to elaborate on his letter to Harris , saying it is " self-explanatory " The letter said : " Due to Poe widespread and extensive peelirity given to the statements of Bernard Schwartz made at a public hearing held by the subcommittee on legislative oversight yesterday , and made on other occasions directly to the press , I respectfully request that I be allowed an early opportunity to appear - before your committee and answer the Unsubstantiated charges , accusations , innuendoes and distortions so recklessly made by Bernard Schwartz . Schwartz Back Monday " I have this morning cernmunicated with the office of Mr. J. Edgar Hoover , director of the Federal Bureau of investigation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with him or his representatives at any time in every way possible . " I am confident that when all the facts are presented to your committee , you will conclude that the accusations of Bernard Schwartz are without foundation . " Other Developmesits of Day Meanwhile , there were these other developments : Rep. John Bell Williams D. , a subcommittee member , said the charges against Mack were " shocking " and may demand action both byli the committee and the executive branch . Legal experts said the President is the only official empowered to remove an FCC commissioner from office . Rep. John J. Flynt Jr . D. , Ga , another investigator , demanded that the subcommittee hear the wire recording made of Mack 's interrogation by two ' subcommittee staff members .                     