@@715977

txt A key decision in the interunion contest for control of the waterfront will be made today by the National Labor Relations Board . Charles T. Douds , the board 's regional director , will disclose this afternoon whether he will send to Washington his recommendations on what to do about 4,399 challenged ballots cast in the election among 21,000 New Bork and New Jersey dock workers three weeks ago . The American Federation of Labor pier union , which trailed by 1,02 votes in the first count of unchallenged ballots , has asked %hat the report be held up until idle board passes on a demand *at the whole election be set aide . The federation contends Ong violence and intimidation made it impossible to get a fair expression of the workers ' will Although Mr. Douds declined ! to discuss his decision in advance of its formal announcement , it was believed likely that submission of the regional director 's ideas on which disputed ballots should be counted and which discarded as invalid would be delayed until his office had completed its investigation of the plea @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a setback for the old International Longshoremen 's Association , which has been relying on a count of the challenged ballots to give it a clear-cut victory over the A. F. L. On the first tally the old union , received 9,060 votes to 7,568 for its rival . The Douds report , it was learned , calls for discarding about half the challenged votes on the ground that the workers who // cast them were not eligible to take part in the balloting . This would leave only about 2,200 votes to be counted and it would be virtually impossible for the A. F. L. to wipe out the old un1 ion 's 1,492-vote margin in so small a total . If the I. L. A. got as few as 360 of the 2,200 contested votes it would win . The old union has made ' it . clear that it would take such a victory as final and would insist that the shipping employers sit down to negotiate a new contract without waiting for fol -- mal certification from the Labor Board . A. F. L. Opposes Count The A. F. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to moves intended to prevent a count of the challenged ballots , all of which , are locked up in a downtown bank vault . The federation has the support of Governor , Dewey in its contention that the entire poll should be invalidated and a new election held under conditions that will guarantee a free vote . I. L. A. officials , who have been threatening a coastwide dock strike if the election is thrown out , declined to speculate last night on what might happen if the board held up any action on counting the challenges until it ruled on the basic objections filed by the rival union . While awaiting the Douds decision , Capt . William V. Bradley , president of the I. L. A. , took his first action toward cleaning up his much-buffeted union . Captain Bradley , who succeeded Joseph P. Ryan as the union 's head in November , appointed a trustee to take over the affairs of Local 1247 in Jersey City . The local has bec one of the most turbulent in the I. L. A. Last August it ousted a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and installed a new regime headed by Nicholas ( Fiat Top ) Marchucci and Chester ( Blackie ) Jurgelski . Captain , Bradley declined to discuss the conditions that led to his designation of a trustee , but aides said racket influence in the local was a factor . Joseph Moriarity , vice president of the union 's Atlantic Coast district , will assume ' Ais duties as trustee tomorrow . Bradley aides said additional moves intended to oust corrupt elements from I. L. A ; locals in Manhattan and Brooklyn would follow , but it was indicated that these would await action on the Labor Board election . Dispute Debated on TV In a television debate over Station WABD , an A. F. L. leader accused Captain Bradley of leading a " wrecking crew " that blocked action on ridding the I. L. A. of gangsters before its expulsion from the federation last September . The charge was made by Larry W. Long , acting president of the I. L. A. pier union and a former vice president of the I. L. A. Mr. Long said a committee of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ouster charges be pressed against sixteen I. L. A. officials , including Thomas ( Teddy ) Gleason , now , the union 's chief organizer . Captain Bradley and Mr. Gleason , both of whom were on the program , took violent exception to the charge that they had been derelict in dealing with corruption . At times the debate grew so heated that it appeared it might lead to blows . Settlement of a week-old strike by 150 A. F. L. longshoremen at Pier 29 in Brooklyn appeared in prospect for today . The strike has delayed loading of two Isbrandtsen Line freighters . It began when the Universal Stevedoring Company discharged Joseph ( Bananas ) Schelero , an A. F. L. shop steward . Union and company attorneys are scheduled to confer on the situation today . The A. F. L. expressed confidence that reinstatement of the ousted steward would be arranged .                     