@@716338

txt Americans from California to Maine and from Puget Sound to Miami Beach shared yesterday the first nation-wide civil defense test against atomic attack . Alaska , Hawaii , Puerto Rico , the Virgin Islands and the ten provinces of Canada also participated . President Eisenhower , symbolizing the responsibility of every citizen , moved to an underground shelter the moment the red warning signal reached the White House . In theory , one of the nuclear bombs struck the capital , burning out its heart and killing 287,000 persons . Throughout the United States , it was estimated , there would have been 12,000,000 fatalities in the simulated multiple assault . Of these , 2,175,000 would have been New Yorkers . Boston , Philadelphia , Chicago , Louisville and San Francisco also would have suffered frightfully . Unaware for the most part of these gruesome statistics , but apparently largely aware that they live in the era of the atom bomb and of the hydrogen bomb , New Yorkers in general did their part with a will . The public was involved in the drill from 10 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ streets were supposed to be cleared and business and professional activities halted . Preliminary evaluation by state and local officials suggested that the metropolitan area had reacted swiftly and with encouraging efficiency . Pending more detailed analyses to be available this morning , Lieut . Gen. Clarence R. Huebner , ' New York State Director of Civil Defense , asserted that the public response had been " excellent . " In New Jersey , Gov . Robert B. Meyner pronounced the demonstration " most effective . " In Boston the exercise was de // clared a success . In Canada Maj. Gen. Frank Worthington , Director of Civil Defense , said he was " pleasantly surprised at the few weaknesses uncovered . " In Washington defects in the over-all communications network were acknowledged . For example , after five hours the operation 's theoretical nerve center at Olney , Md. ? functioning as a display duplicate of the real center , which operated secretly ? had casualty reports ' from only nine of the forty-one continental cities hit . Harold Aitken. executive assistant to Val Peterson , director of the Civil @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ slow , but perhaps that is good . " He suggested that regional headquarters apparently was studying the problem as it developed , in the light of local conditions , rather than assuming that the emergency would develop strictly according to advance plotting . Some Flaws Noted Here There was no attempt to gloss over obvious flaws in the performance here . For example , people in the Paramount Building drew praise from General Huebner and Col. Lawrence Wilkinson , chairman of the New York State Civil Defense Corn , - mission , for the way they kept away from the windows . But even as General Huebner and aides were smiling their approval up at the Paramount Building , at least half a dozen people were looking or leaning out of windows in the Claridge Hotel , directly across Times Square . Similarly , although most buses and automobiles followed instructions and veered to the curb , enabling their passengers to take shelter , some just stopped where they were . A woman coming off the West Side Highway ramp at Fifty-sixth Street did this and caused a line of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the lane . No warden appeared to correct their alignment . But no major instances of recalcitrance or mishaps were reported . Herbert R. O'Brien , director of the city 's Office of Civil . Defense , was particularly pleased with the way pedestrians cleared Times Square in seventy seconds . Also generally encouraged by what he saw was Lieut . Gen. Willis D. Crittenberger , retired , Mayor Wagner 's adviser on Civil defense . The general pointed out that the advent of the hydrogen bomb had " outstripped the progress made in our civil defense strides to defend against it . " The circumstances of the test varied from city to city . Altogether , fifty-four cities were pre- ' sumed to be under attack . The bombs were " delivered " by about 300 planes  --  out of 425 that sought to penetrate continental defenses  --  and by long-range submarines , in the case of the islands . Two Phases of Attack Here Because the test locally involved two entirely separate phases , it tended to confuse many New Yorkers who went loyally to shelters at 10 A. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be happening . Here is what it was : In the first phase , a yellow or " lemon-juice " warning signal was originated by air defense command divisional headquarters at Roslyn , L. I. , at 9:30 o'clock . This was picked up by the civil defense communications system and transmitted by police precincts to every part of the city . Thus the entire civil defense machine was activated , although the general public was not . At 10 , the red or " applejack " signal touched off the city 's 679 sirens . This meant the clearing of the streets , the suspension of the Stock Exchange , the interruption of office work , school routines and normal traffic patterns  --  and sent the millions into the shelters . At 10:10 , the allclear or white " snowman " signal wound up the public participation . In other words , the public was ordered to safety on the basis of a city-wide warning , but the all-clear was sounded before any bombs were- considered to have fallen . The second phase began at 10:55 , with another yellow @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " southeast of Boston and heading for this area . The red followed at 11:53  --  but with no further use of sirens ? and the actual " bomb drops " were timed at 12:26 . There were three supposed hits , each by an atomic bomb designated 8-X , that is , eight times the power of the Hiroshima bomb , which was the equivalent of 20,000 tons of TNT . One was taken to have struck at Fifth Avenue and Forty-seventh Street . This would have put Times Square into the innermost circle of complete destruction . The other " Ground 0 " points were taken to be St. Ann 's Avenue at East 157th Street , the Bronx , and Schermerhorn and Smith Streets , Brooklyn . In such a case , both Manhattan and Brooklyn borough headquarters of the city civil defense structure would have been destroyed , as well as eleven of twenty-four ' district control centers . That would have put additional strain on city-wide headquarters , which is in Queens . And at that underground center , the second phase of the test found @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that realistically suggested a major catastastrophe . Altogether , nearly 12,000 communications workers were to man the city set-up through 11 A. M. this morning . They were charting reports of casualties , equipment losses and emergency conditions as phoned from the local police stations and firehouses . The New York Times Some watched the " big show " from fire escapes of building on Thirty-seventh Street just east of Broadway .                     