@@716806

txt , Organized crime in the form of illegal gambling " running into many , many millions of dollars a year " exists in Massachusetts , the Massachusetts Crime Commission reported today Tim commission , headed nY Judge Charles C. Cabot of Dover , former Associate Justice of the Massachusetts Superior Court , said : " Leaving out of account entirely lotteries run by fraternal , charitable , and religious organizations which , although apparently not frowned upon by the general public , are nevertheless illegal under the laws of the commonwealth , we are satisfied that there are at least six magr lotteries being conducted within the commonwealth . Other Gambling Found " Betting on horse and dog races , outside of the legalized betting at the tracks , is widespread and very large in volume . " Other forms of illegal gambling , such as dice games . although not as nrevalent as lotteries and oft-track betting , are of very significant volume . " The investigatory group urged a $150.000 additional appropriation for continuance of the investigation by the commission . " This sum is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " the commission said . " If the commonwealth now hesitates to pursue vigorously the work that it has already started , every crook , gambler , leech , and parasite will cheer , and the great body of good and honest , law-abiding citizens of the commonwealth may well shudder . " Mass of Evidence The commission pointed out that it has accumulated a mass of evidence and that commission members have not had the opportunity or the funds available to hire necessary assistants to make an analysis of the evidence necessary for a proper final report . The commission al , o stated , " It is clear to us that there is a weakness in the investigatory facilities of the commonwealth which are necessary to curb the widespread and organized illegal gambling activities which now exist and which would help to prevent and to curb ( If they should arise ) other forms 01 organized gambling " The commission called attention to a case in Lynn where a person identified as -X " was arrested by the Lynn police and convicted for the sale of lottery tickets @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Lynn , and it certainly is apparent to us , that there were others involved in the promotion of this lottery , and yet so far as we are aware neither the police of Lynn nor any other officer or body of the commonwealth charged with the investigation and prosecution of crime did anything further in connection with this particular lottery . Merely Stating Fact ' " In making this statement . we are not blaming the police of Lynn , or any other officer or organization in the commonwealth . We are merely stating the fact because it illustrates the weakness we hale referred to . " The commission pointed out that various law-enforcement , officials felt ? they had no duty to carry on the necessary in- 1 vestigation to bring to the bar of justice " the relatively few Persons who were conducting illegal gambling enterprises on ' an organized and extensive basis . " To correct this situation , the I commission recommended establishment in the State Department of Public Safety of a division with ample manpower and financial resources , whose duty would be to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ do so and with the primary responsibility of continually investigating the existence of organized , illegal gambling and any other organized crime that might I arise . The purpose would be to turn over the persons involved iii such illegal enterprises to the i proper prosecuting officiaLs with requisite evidence to obtain convictions . Mandatory Sentence The commission also recommended that there be no minimum sentence imposed for first offenders of antigambling laws , but that in second and subsequent offenses the sentences provided by law should be mandatory . Discussing illegal gambling in general , the commission pointed out that " there have , in years past , been convictions of relatively unimportant ' little persons ? involved in illegal gambling , but these have done virtually nothing to cure the evil . " The evil can be cured only if those really responsible for these illegal enterprises are tracked down , brought to trial , and convicted . The fact is that this is not being done . and can not be done because the responsibility for doing so is not , under the present laws of the Commonwealth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ body , nor are sufficient funds and personnel available to do the necessary work . "                     