@@715688

txt Communist China 's first official statement about the forthcoming postarmistice political conference on Korea , . as received here , does nothing to smooth the path toward the parley that will seek final settlement of the Korean war . Another warning signal of potential postarmistice difficulty ahead is the Peking announcement that 400 Allied war prisoners iii Communist hands refuse to go home voluntarily . In addition to criticizing the barring of Communist China and North Korea from preliminary United Nations discussions in New York on the conference , Premier Chou En-lai repeated the familiar Communist theme that 411 ? foreign troops should be withdrawn from Korea as the first item of priority  --  in order that other issues can be settled peacefully at the parley . Tough Problems Raised A high Peking spokesman also called for a round-table type of conference with the membership as outlined at the UN Political Committee meeting Aug. 19 . Peking thus is endorsing the general Soviet views on the composition and type of conference that will deal with the weighty problems not solved by the Korean.armistice agreement . The problems @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that ' the conference will face considerable negotiation between the two sides before the issues left unsolved by the armistice can even be approached . Mr. Chou characterized as " unreasonable " the fact that his country and North Korea were not represented at the UN meetings now being held to sketch the broadest outlines of UN strategy at the conference . It meanwhile is considered probable that the Peking move was made at this time to exploit the strong differences of opinion on conference membership being expressed in the Political Committee sessions . This is regarded as an appropriate time for Peking to endorse seating India as a conference member  --  as proposed bythe.Soviet Union and opposed by the United States . Communist strategists are fully aware that considerable sentiment for seating India exists among some Allied nations which participated in the Korean war . They also know that South Korea is the most outspoken opponent of Indian participation  --  and may suspect that the American position is partly the result of concessions to the South Korean stand . Article 60 Cited Peking 's reference to troop withdrawal cites the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vague articles , however , states only that the political conference OAT " settle through negotiation questions of withdrawal of all foieign forces from Korea , peaceful settlement of the Korean question , etc . " It does not say troop withdrawal shall precede other Korean problems ? foremost of which , - in the American view , is Korean unification . The UN position on troop withdrawal is that this can not take place until after the conference has reached a satisfactory agreement on other outstanding issues . Involuntary Repatriates Regarding the 400 UN prison-. ers allegedly unwilling to come home , it has been hinted from the outset of Operation Big Switch that not all UN captives would be returned . But this is the first confirmation by the Coromunists of the number of involuntary repatriates involved . The question of involuntary repatriates was raised by the UN during the armistice discussions and delayed settlement for more than a year until a complex compromise was reached . The UN holds roughly 15.000 Chinese and 7.000 North Korean prisoners classified as refusing to go home without force . The Allies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ South Korean Government unilaterally released them in mid-June.                     