@@713002

txt The mystery of James Forrestal 's intervention in the Amerasia secretIdocuments case was cleared up.today by publication of an entry in the late Defense Secretary 's personal diary . A quotation from the diary , made available to reporters by the Justice Department , showed that Mr. Forrestal , then Secretary of the Navy , had opposed the arrest of Lieut . Andrew Roth , one of six defendants in the case , at a time when President Truman was engaged in delicate conversations with the Soviet Premier , Joseph Stalin . Mr. Forrestal , according to the diary , felt that " the inevitable consequence of such action now would be to greatly embarrass the President in his current conversations with Stalin , because of the antiRussian play-up the incident would receive out of all proportion to its importance . " The entry was dated May 28 , 1945 . This was during the founding conference of the United Nations at San Francisco , but Mr. Forrestal did not specify to what " conversations " with Stalin he alluded . Lieutenant Roth , then a Naval @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the magazine The Nation , was to have been taken Into " surveillance " two days later , the Forrestal diary stated . Use of the word " surveillance " apparently was a slip of the pen , as it is known that Mr. Roth had been under surveillance prior to that . Mr. ? orrestal presumably meant " custody . " The arrests of Mr. Roth and the other Amerasia defendants were announced by the Department of Justice on June 6 . Mr. Forrestal 's intervention presumably resulted in the week 's delay . A Senate investigating subcommittee has received testimony to that effect . The Justice Department declined to disclose the circumstances of its possession of the diary , but the book is believed to have been turned over recently to James M. , assistant attorney general in charge of the Depart-1 // meat 's Criminal Division , by Mathias F. Correa , an executor of the Forrestal estate . A Federal grand jury in New York City is now investigating the Amerasia case , and the Justice Department has a special assistant attorney general assigned to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was Mr. Forrestal 's aide when the latter was Secretary of the Navy . Text Released by Department The text of the diary entry , as released by the Justice Department , follows : " Major Correa reported to me that the Department of Justice has evidence to the effect that Lieut . Andrew Roth has been furnishing confidential and secret documents to a man named Jaffe , head of a publication named Amerasia in New York City . Jaffe has had intimate relationship with the Russian Consul in New York . " Other departments of the Government involved are the Office of Strategic Services , the Department of State and the Foreign Economic Administration . " Major Correa reported that it was proposed that Lieutenant Roth should be taken into surveillance Wednesday . He said that the F. B. I. thought that unless speedy action were taken important evidence would be dissipated , lost and destroyed . I pointed out that the inevitable consequence of such action now would be to greatly embarrass the President in his current conversations with Stalin , because of the antiRussian play-up the incident would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " I asked Captain Vardaman James K. Vardaman , then Mr. Truman 's Naval Aide to see to it that the President was informed in this matter and I then called Mr. Edgar Hoover and suggested that he advise Mr. Tom Clark then in charge of the Justice Department 's Criminal Division and now a Supreme Court Justice and have him also see that the President is in full information of all the facts in the matter as well as their implications . " Vardaman Repeats Statement Informed of the diary 's reference to him , Mr. Vardaman reiterated his assertion of Wednesday that he had " nothing whatever to do with the case at the time . " He said he knew- of the diary entry when he first made that statement . The Senate subcommittee investigating charges of Communist penetration of the State Department has been reviewing the Amerasia case in an effort to conform or refute insinuations that the prosecutions were delayed and finally dropped , for the most part , because of Communist influences in the Government . The Forrestal diary , which the subcommittee expects @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ refutation of suggestions that the temporary delay in the arrests could be laid to any such influences . In this connection Mr. Forrestal 's reputation and the diary 's word that his intervention was motivated by this country 's Interests alone were regarded as bearing this out . Still to be settled , however , is the question of whether the prosecutions were handled correctly . The contention of the Federal prosecutors has been that they were hampered by the illegal seizure of evidence by agents of the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Office of Strategic Services . Hundreds of ' Government documents , some classified as secret , were seized at the New York offlees of the now-defunct Amerasia magazine . Of the six later arrested on charges of conspiracy to obtain illegal possession of Government documents , only two were convicted . They were Philip Jaffe , editor of the magazine , and Emmanuel S. Larsen , a State Department em-1 ploye . They were fined after pleading guilty to unlawful posses- ' sion of Government documents . Results in Other Cases A grand jury refused to indict @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Department foreign service officer ; Kate Mitchell , coeditor of Amerasia , and Mark Gayn , a writer . The indictment of Lieutenant Roth was later quashed . A House judiciary subcommittee investigated the case in 1945 and a majority agreed that the Justice Department had done as well as could be expected in prosecuting the case . Recently published testimony of a F. B. I. agent at that inquiry was to the effect that the Justice Department had decided to delay prosecutions until the conclusions of the San Francisco United Nations conference . But President Truman later called the F. B. I. " and stated that he wanted action taken in the case as quickly as possible and wanted it to be vigorously followed , " the witness testified . The current Senate inquiry has received testimony by Mr. that it was Mr. Forrestal who sought the delay . Brig . Gen. Julius C. Holmes , Assistant Secretary of State when the arrests were made , has testified that he seemed to recall that the delay was requested by Captain Vardaman . Executor Silent on Papers Mathias F. Correa @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Justice excerpts from the personal papers of the late James Forrestal , " for use in an investigation . " He declined to tell what the papers contained or when he gave them to the department , but said he had acted on behalf of the executors of the Forrestal estate . He said any further information should come from the proper Government officials . Mr. Correa , who served as , an officer in the American Army in the second World War , was assigned in 1945 as a special assistant to Secretary Forrestal.                     