@@716484

txt President Getulio Vargas:71 , fired a bullet thru his heart today after Brazil 's military leaders forced him to resign . Violence quickly spread thruout the country and several persons were reported . killed by gunfire in Brazil 's big southern city of Porto Alegre . Reports said at least 26 were wounded . The suicide of the nation 's strong man was an explosive climax to the two week old crisis over the murder of an air force major during an attemped assassination of an antiVargas newspaper editor . Police and angry demcnstra ? tors were ? reported to have ex , sk , , W Gen. Mucarenhu de Moraes left , Brazilian gvieral staff chief , who handed army 's ultimatum to Vargas before , suicide , and Gen , Zenoblo Da Costa , retained by new president as war minister . changed gunfire in riots at Porto Alegre . Military law was imposed in the city . Damage U. S. Consulate The Porto Alegre mob smashed into the United States consulate and damage was reported heavy . Another United States consulate at Belo Horizonte @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ crowd . A crowd of several hundred tried to surge past some 200 troops guar ding the United States embassy in Rio de Janeiro . Two demonstrators were injured . Cavalry and police fired " over rioters ' . heads and , drove the mob back . From across the street , they hurled rocks and smashed four big plate glass windows in the big , ultra-mod-. ern building . . Believed Red Inspired There were reports that some of the attacks  --  many of them against United States firms or those thought to be owned by United States interests -- were inspired by Communists who seized the opportunity of tension to foment anti-United States reaction . Tho branch offices of the National City bank were , attacked as were places displaying signs of American firms . At Sao Paulo , mobs attacked shops that refused to close down . One riotous mob turned its ire against Carlos Lacerda , the crusading anti-Vargas editor who was the assassin 's target . Offices of Lacerda 's newspaper , Tribune da Imprensa , were attacked and copies of the paper were burned in the streets @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Galeao airbase . Varga 's ouster under military pressure at dawn turned out to be a hollow victory for Lacerda , who repeatedly had demanded the president 's resignation . Running on an anticorruption ticket as National Democratic Union party candidate for Rio deputy in congress , Lacerda was considered a front runner for the Oct. 3 elections . But with the suicide of the widely popular strong man , his chances dwindled and he was considered a liability to his party . Wife Rushes In There were conflicting accounts of Vargas ' last moments . The government-owned newspaper A Noite said Gen. Caiado da Castro , chief of the president 's military staff , rushed into the room when he heard the shot and found Vargas dead . Immediately on his heels came the president 's wife , Mrs. Darcy D'Ornelles Vargas and then their son Lutero . When she saw the body of her husband , the paper said , Mrs. Vargas cried : " Getulio , why did you do this ? " Another son , Manuel , and Vargas ' brother , Benjamin , also were reported @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ collapsed and was taken to a hospital . Vargas ' sister-in-law , Mrs. Alba Sarmanho , died of a heart attack when she learned of his suicide . Also surviving are two daughters , Mrs. Alzira Vargas do Amaral Poixoto , wife of the governor or Rio de Janeiro state , and Jandira Vargas Gama da Costa . " To the wrath of my enemies I leave the legacy of my death , " Vargas wrote in a let-ter shortly before taking his life . Name New President " To those who think they have defeated me , I respond with victory , " he wrote . " I was a slave of the people and today I free myself for eternal life . " Soon after Vargas ' death , and without ceremony , Joao Cafe Filho , 55 , assumed the presidency . Cafe , a former editor , had been elected vice president with Vargas in 1950 . In a statement , the new president identified himself closely with the dead leader and said Vargas ' suicide " hit me like a blow . " Presumably at the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Eduardo Gomes --  -- who sparked the opposition to Vargas  --  as the new air minister , replacing pro-Vargas Gen. Epaminondas Dos - Santos . The new president asked Gen. Zenobio Da Costa to remain as war minister and the latter accepted . View Vargas ' Body All other Vargas ministers reportedly presented their resignations . But since Cafe announced his government would continue along the lines laid down by his predecessor , some ministers will remain in their posts . A family source said Vargas ' body will be flown tomorrow to Sao Borja , the prairie village where he was born to a peasant family . The funeral will be there . Roman Catholic authorities here said there will be no religious assistance at the final burial rites , since Vargas died by his own hand . Despite the air of ominous tension , the doors of the presidential palace were thrown open this evening to let the public view ' the dead president 's body . A line of mourners 10 blocks long gathered on either side of the street . In his letter , Vargas said " the forces and interests @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ blamed international as well as national groups , especially in the economic field , but did not name them . Last week the price of coffee was forced down , in terms of American dollars , and there have been predictions of further blows against Brazilian currency . Vargas mentioned this situation in his farewell letter . Except for a five year interval , Vargas had governed Brazil since 1930 ? first as a dictator and later as constitutional president . His present term as president of the country 's 54 million people ran until 1956 . Pressed to Resign His death came with dramatic finality after night long pressure on him to resign . He had said Sunday night he would quit office only dead or under arrest . At that time 26 air force general officers had demanded that he resign : The air force was incensed by the slaying of the major . Members of Vargas ' personal bodyguard were Involved in the incident , and Vargas dissolved the guard . At first the army supported Vargas , throwing a heavy guard around the presidential palace . But @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in demanding Vargas ' resignation . Vargas was born April 19 , 1883 , at Sao Borja , a prairie village in the state of ' Rio Grande do sul . His career was one of continuous activity since he became an army sergeant at 17 . He won a law degree at 24 , then entered journalism and politics . Vargas twice represented his native state in the chamber of , deputies , the lower house of congress . He was named finance minister in 1926 , but resigned to become governor of his state in 1927 . New Chief U. S. Friend Vargas had trouble attaining the presidency . He ran the first time in 1929 . His predecessor , President Washington Luis , had picked Julio Prestos to succeed to the office . Vargas led an uprising in October , 1930 , and climbed to power . He headed a provisional government for four years , then was named president by a constituent assembly under a new constitution in 1934 . In 1937 Vargas dissolved congress , scrapped the constitution , and set up his dictatorial " Estado @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ United States in World War II and did not face serious challenge until elections were called in 1945 . Then , the army leaders suspected his motives and ousted him . After his return to power in the 1950 election Vargas identified himself with the western hemisphere opponents of communism . The Communist party is outlawed in Brazil , and the Brazilian delegation gave full support to the United States plan at the Caracas conference in March to prevent Red penetration in this hemisphere . He also sent a military force to fight the Reds in Korea . President Cafe has long been regarded as a friend of the United States and had been expected to visit that country in October . His sudden elevation to the presidency may interfere with the trip .                     