@@713083

txt New York City will supply 1,203 men for the Army as its part in the nation-wide call for 20,000 men , local Selective Service officials reported last night . They said it would take ? about sixty days for the men to be inducted . After receiving the city 's quota from Washington , Col. Candler Cobb , local Selective Service director , sat down with his staff to break the 1,203 figure down into smaller quotas for each of . the sixty-eight boards in the five boroughs . Colonel Cobb estimated that it might be " a couple of days " before the **31;442;TOOLONG notices were sent to some of the 60,000 young men already classified as 1-A . Part of the delay , it was explained , was necessary to permit the Army to set up places and procedures for mass physical examinations and to gather the necessary manpower for the tests . First to be called will be men who are 25 . It was estimated , how- ever , that many of these would not be eligible for service because most of them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ service under the provisions of the Selective Service Act . After them will come the 24-year-olds and it may be necessary to dip into the 23-year-old group to fill out the city 's quota , according to Colonel Cobb . New York City is the largest manpower pool in the nation . In previous draft calls it has been asked to furnish from 9 to 11 per cent of the national figure . However , the current quota is only slightly more than 6 per cent . No explanation for this figure was made . No draftees from this area have been supplied to the armed forces since Jan. 31 , 1949 , when the Selective Service system halted its procurement operations but continued its classification procedures on a skeletonized basis . Since then , the local boards , working with only a few paid clerical employes , have classified 240 , - 1000 of the city 's 600.000 registrants , producing the 60,000 1-As . A doubling of the clerical crews , from 60 to 125 , has been author " ized . Selective Service officials were busy yesterday trying @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ kept busy , too , all day by young men who had been late in registering and who were hurrying to make up their lapses . Each of the borough headquarters reported its heaviest day in years . Some of the undermanned boards were so busy that they stopped answering the telephones . There was a constant busy signal at others . At all the boards , there were long lines of late registrants and information seekers . A line of seventy-five was waiting at 8 A. M. at Brooklyn draft headquarters , 44 Court Street , when its employes went to work . More than 500 men between 18 and 26 arrived during the day to register , 150 more made inquiries , and the telephones rang all day . A " very large percentage " of those who registered in Brooklyn , as in other boroughs , were young men who should have registered earlier . Among them were 18-yearolds who forgot they had ? to register within five days of their birthdays and many World War II veterans who said they had not been informed they had to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . At Manhattan headquarters , 80 Lafayette Street , more than 500 men arrived . Many registered late , but there also were many who reported changes of address and loss of their cards . Some of those who tried to register were turned away and told to return later because they did not have proof of their birth date , A , sharp rise in the number of registrants also was reported , at the Staten Island draft offices , in the Borough Hall Building at St. George . An official there said 50 per cent of these were delinquents who should have reported earlier . At the Flushing , Queens , office , 39-01 Main Street , it was reported that some of those who registered were a year to a year-and- a-half late . Officials there said persons in the draft age group could save themselves time and help the overburdened offices by mailing information such as change of address or marital status , by appearing in person to register only . In the Bronx office , 1910 Arthur Avenue , some of the delinquents. said they did @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ read President Truman 's message Friday . Draft officials in New Jersey estimated that 800 men would be called from that state . In Connecticut the figure was put unofficially . at 300 . A similar rush of delinquent registrants was reported in cities throughout the nation , according to correspondents of THE , NEW Yuan TIMES . In most states , draft board employes who had been working part- time were put on full-time status to handle the increase in activity .                     