@@713948

txt Forceful arguments for immediately increasing by many millions of dollars the state 's expenditures for education were made by legislators and educators today at the hearing in the State House on the tentative report of the Special Commission on the Structure of the State Government on this subject . Representative Irene K. Thresher ( R ) of Newton declared : " We are niggardly right now in the amount we spend on education . We are economizing in the wrong places . " Reminded by a member of the commission that more money for education would require voting for higher taxes , Mrs. Thresher said : " Then I would certainly vote for them , if the money were for education . " Board Criticized She criticized the nine-man State Board of Education for not having worked more aggressively in the past for bigger appropriations . " They should have made it almost a crusade , " she asserted , " to get the best educational system possible for the state . " The board of education was represented at the hearing by its chairman , Dr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the commission 's tentative report had given the erroneous itnpression to the public " that we have been asleep at the switch , " he welcomed it if for no other reason than its purpose which , in his view , was " to disturb the mental paralysis of the citizens of this state on the subject of education . " Dr. Brin declared education had been relegated " to a pretty low point " by previous General Courts , and he added : " Why , we had to beg and cajole the Legislature at one time to get a part-time nurse at Salem Teachers ' College . " He ended his presentation of the board 's point of view by the statement : " If we had $10,000,000 for capital expenditures , we could setup in Massachusetts a system of education that would be second to none in the country , that would be an example to all other states , and woi:Id attract to its faculties the best minds in the nation . " Among the legislators who spoke in favor of the commission 's tentative report was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ declared , " Massachusetts has been sitting on its educational reputation for 100 years . " The expenditure of S10.000,000 in capital funds for this purpose is not an extravagance : it is almost an absolute necessity , we have dropped so far behind . " The special commission , in a 33-page tentative report , has charged that the eight teachers ' colleges are badly administered largely because of lack of funds or faulty budgetary practices . They point out that the staff of the Department of Education is far too small to carry out the responsibilities allocated to it , and that the personnel of the college faculties should be increased and their physical plants repaired , enlarged , and otherwise improved without delay . Warning Issued It even went so far as to warn that the American Association of Schools and Colleges , now operating under revised and stricter standards , might withdraw accreditation from Bay State teachers colleges . An item in the recommendations by the commission which drew considerable attention today was that the board of . education should be composed " of persons who are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ favored the report , suggested that this provision be made only a recommendation , and not be written into the law , lest it sometime prevent appointment of a useful member because his background happened to be in education primarily .                     