@@719488

txt Associated Press Ftadlophoto DULLES IN IRAN : The Secretary of State conferring in Teheran Saturday with Shah Mohammed Riza Pahlevi during stop-over on way to Ankara for Baghdad Pact talks . DULLES IN ANKARA FOR VITAL SESSION OF BAGHDAD PACT Members Expected to Urg4 a Reluctant U. S. to Play More Active Role COUNCIL TO MEET TODAY Bombs Damage Warehouse of the American Embassy , and a Near-by Bookshop By SAM POPE BREWER Special to The New York Timm ANKARA , Turkey , Jan. 26 ? s Secretary of State Dulles az .. rived here tonight to head a , delegation of United States observers at Baghdad Pact meetings opening tomorrow . The Secretary 's party , in a Constellation of the Military Air Transport Service , arrived at 5 P. M. instead of noon , as scheduled , because heavy snow had prevented an earlier landing here . The plane , coming from Teheran , Iran , landed in Istanbul and waited until conditions allowed it to fly back to Ankara , Bomb explosions damaged a building in the United States Embassy compound in. the Turkish @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , The Associated Press said . Much Expected of U. S. The coming meeting itself , if not stormy , does not have entirely sunny prospects . Much is expected from the United States that it does not appear to be prepared to give . The session is widely considered to be a critical one both for the prestige of the Baghdad Pact and for United States influence in the Middle East . This is the fourth session or the Ministerial Council of the pact , which is composed of the premiers or foreign ministers of the member states . The United States has been a member of all the pact 's committees ' but not a signatory to the . pact . The full members are Iran , Iraq , Pakistan , Turkey , and Britain . Statement by Dulles On his arrival Mr. Dulles made a brief statement to welcoming officials and to the press . In it he said : " I know that as head of the American observer delegation to the council meeting I shall gain a more intimate knowledge of the workings of the pact @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ security and human welfare . " The United States looks forward to a fruitful continuation of its association with the Baghdad Pact . " The United States may be called on by the member coun - // tries to give stronger proof of those feelings in the next few days . Committee meetings were ended today and an agenda was being drafted of matters the council must deal with in the next four days . Recent feeling among the Middle Eastern members of the Baghdad Pact has been that unless the United States endorsed the pact by accepting full membership responsibility the organization might begin to fall to pieces . Iraq , in particular , is believed to have become nervous about her position as the only Arab state in an organization that is linked with the West and bitterly attacked by the anti-Western forces of Egypt and Syria . The position the United States may take bulks larger than any other . item in speculation here . Member countries want to know whether the United States will finally make the leap and , as one ? pact country 's ambassador @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ East . " They Want also to know whether they can hope for substantial economic aid from the United States , which , as a member of the Economic Committee , joined in the committee 's recommendation last week that such aid , be " considered " by " the donor states . " It is significant in itself that at these preliminary meetings the term " donor " states and " area " states have been coined . The " area " states are the Middle Eastern members of the pact . The " donors " are the United , States and Britain . Efforts have been made by United States sources to convince the pact countries that Mr. Dulles does not intend to present a surprise package to , them at this meeting in the form of economic aid or fresh political support . They seem still to be unconvinced . Failure to come through with , something of that sort may cause disappointment and possibly resentment in this area , observers here believe . Another point arousing speculation is the possibility of linking the Baghdad Pact , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Turkey 's Minister of Foreign Affairs , Fatin Rustu Zorlu , said in a press conference today that the pact countries already formed " a physical link " between the two larger defense organizations . The council begins its meeting at 11 A. M. tomorrow in Turkey 's still unfinished Grand National Assembly Building , where the Parliament is eventually to meet . The chairman will be Adnan Menderes as Premier of Turkey , the host country . Except for the opening meeting , the sessions will be behind closed doors . Their results will be announced in a communique Thursday                     