@@713088

txt WASHINGTON , July 14 A spokesman for the Army General Staff declared today that American troops in Korea , despite their steady retreat , were by no means being " slaughtered " and that there was no prospect that the withdrawal would be a re-enactment of Dunkerque . Rather , an Army official said today at one of the twice daily Army press briefings held at the Pentagon , " there is n't any doubt in the world that we are going to hold . " The general officer conducting the briefing sounded this optimism after a series of questions by reporters who were trying to find out the Army 's true assessment of the Korean fighting . A veteran of many hard-fought engagements in the European theatre of operations in World War II , the officer emphasized the time it took to get in shape for an offensive . He declared that " we have the means to handle the situation . " This statement was coupled with reports here that supplies , particularly the critically needed ones such as anti-tank weapons , were // starting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fighting men in Korea , the spokesman said : " Of course the man on the ground is feeling low . His socks are wet . He 's tired and his food is n't all it should be , but he is in there doing a good job . Things are n't hotsy-totsy , but we are getting organized . " He added : " It is not hopeless like Bataan , but it takes time . Give us time and we 'll get the ball and start back toward the other end of the field . You have n't got a catastrophe staring you in the face . It is n't a rout . " That does n't mean that people are n't getting killed , " he added . In his appeal for public understanding of the difficult task the American troops had taken on when they had never been prepared for the action and when they had to act on inadequate intelligence , the Army official cited a twenty-four hour casualty report . It showed one killed , twenty wounded and none missing . In addition , there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in accidents . North Koreans Underrated tin the intelligence score ( the information provided United States military greatly underrated the potential of . the North Koreans ) , the Army spokesman declared , that Gen. Douglas had turned over responsibility in Korea to the State Department at the end of the occupation last year . This explanation , it was noted , , did not take into account the fact that an American military mission of about 500 officers and men had been continually with the South Korean forces manning the Thirty'eighth Parallel . Gens . J. Lawton Collins and Hoyt S. Vandenberg , Chiefs of Staff of the Army and Air Force , respectively , are due to reurn here tomorrow morning from their talks with General in Tokyo .                     