@@719973

txt The present trend of major business indicators points to a marked rise in . national output and income in the third quarter of this year , the Commerce Department reported .. The agency drew this conclusion from its latest survey of current business , which it said showed a further extension in August on the recovery from the lows of last spring . N1/4 Production and demand continued to advance in August , the department reported . While output still is below the record reached in August , 1957 , the gap is being narrowed . Ticking off the improvement in the major economic indicators , the agency said personal income in August rose to a record annual rate of $355.5 billion . It added that the August rate was $3.5 billioNabove the August peak of last year , but that most of this was because of a $5 billion increase in transfer payments  --  social security , unemployment compensation and the like . The rise in personal income reflected the gain in non-farm employment during August and the lengthening of the factory work week In recent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reflection of the rising rate of personal income is the increase in consumer buying , the department remarked . This increase has been concentrated in non-durable goods and services , however , with individuals still cautious about incurring new instalment debt obligations . Thus , sales of new cars showed no improvement in August , continuing to run considerable below a year ago . The department declared that no change in the trend can be expected during the coming weeks while the auto industry completes the model changeover . Stronger retail sales , a rise in Government purchases , and the slacktning pace of inventory liquidation in August have brought a rise in production and in the sales of manufacturers the department said . Sales for many of the durable goods industries , including primary and fabricated metals , electrical machinery and industrial machinery  --  all of which showed weakhiess during the recession  --  hve either firmed or expanded over recent months , the agency added . The rise in manufacturers new orders starting in May and running through July the department reported , reflects in part the expansion of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' billion increase in Federal spending this fiscal year over last , the department calculated $3.5 billion would be in increased outlays for purchases of goods and services by the Federal . GOvernment . The rest would go for higher costs of interest . grants , subsidies and the like . With state and local government outlays expected to increase , it added , all levels of government will provide greater demand for goods and services during the next few qutirters . Another factor adding a boost to demand , the department said , will come in the important ' plant and equipment sector . As it reported earlier , spending on capital goods is expected to turn up in the fourth quarter of 1958 ? some months before Government econmists had expected .                     