@@712673

txt Saving Boston taxpayers thou , sands of dollars by putting the city 's departments on a businesslike basis was seen as possible today by the Boston 2inance Commission in two detailed survey reports . One analyzed the Public Buildings Department and the Suffolk County Courthouse Commission , while the second covered the City Clerk 's Department , City Messenger , Clerk of Committees , Registry , and Statistics Departments . Consistent with other surveys and the final report already reJeased by the commission , today 's surveys disclose costly waste , in- , efficiencies and padded payrolls. as the rule rather than the exception . By adopting various recommen dations by the commission on the Public Buildings Department and the Courthouse , " more than a dozen positions in the Courthouse could be eliminated , 34 in the City . Hall and the City Hall Annex , and as many as 29 in 43 other buildings under the jurisdiction of the Public Buildings Department , " according to the survey . I'Forceful Management ' Operation and maintenance costs of City Hall and the annex are " unwarrantedly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ management and the limited work week of cleaning personnel , " according to the Finance Commission . Although the Suffolk County Courthouse Commission operates its responsibilities efficiently , the report .. recommended .. that .. it should be abolished since it duplicates the work of the Buildings Department . Establishment of an architectural agency staffed with qualified architects was also recommended by the Finance Commission to eliminate many costly fees to private firms . " Nowhere within the city government is there an organization capable of designing or redesigning public buildings or of preparing necessary drawings , plans , estimates , and architectural specifications , " pointed out the report . $75,000 Saving The second detailed survey report estimated a savings of $75 , - 000 annually through the consolidation of five interrelated municipal departments . The commission suggested placing the Registry of Births , Deaths , and Marriages under the city clerk and abolishing the Statistics Department and the positions of city messenger and clerk of City Council committees . " The existence of the offices of city messenger and clerk of committees , both reporting direct to the president @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ many serious deficiencies , " ac-. cording to the survey . Duplication of Effort ' " It has resulted in confused lines of authority and responsibility , inadequate supervision over the ' activities of the staffs , duplication of effort , and excessive staffing in the organization units under the officers of the city council . " The housekeeping responsibilities of the City Council are discharged in a " very disorganized and unbusinesslike manner , " con-I tinued the report .                     