@@715340

txt The 23 men who spent 59 days locked inside the submarine Haddock clambered out yesterday to soak up natural light and fresh air  --  their first since they were virtually sealed aboard on Jan. 19 . " Operation Hideout " is the nickname for what is said to be the largest experiment of its kind in the history of the United States Navy . Conducted by the medical research laboratory of the Naval Submarine Base at New London , Conn. , it was designed to measure the ability of men to live in confined quarters over a long period of time . Demands for such a study have mounted as construction progress on the first atomic powered submarine brings nearer the date when submersion for many months is expected to be proved mechanically feasible . 23 Men Involved " Operation Hideout " involved one officer and 22 enlisted men , all volunteers , chosen from about 200 applicants . They were " sealed " aboard to measure , among other things , their reactions to a ready-mixed air containing a higher-than-normal percentage of carbon dioxide . Fresh @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ duties but had a great deal of free time . Newspapers and magazines kept them informed , and movies , radio , and television were available under a planned recreation program . Although medical examination of the volunteers was a key purpose of the test and will not be completed until the Navy is satisfied the men have suffered no harm , certain other aspects of the experiment were highlighted during a mass ' interview with newsmen an hour after the men were released . Keeping Them Happy What was the biggest problem during the test ? Newsmen asked Five men passed general education development tests qualifying them for high-school diplomas . Six passed examinations of first-year college level . Seven took tests for advancement in rates and 27 completed rate advancement courses . Spark plug of the education program was Roy E. Lanphear of Roseville , Calif. , a torpedoman 's mate first class who served as executive officer during the experiment . He also turned income tax consultant as the March 15 deadline for filing federal returns drew near : Only Two Submarines Assignment of a petty officer to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's iron-clad rule requiring a commissioned officer for that post . But Lt. Comdr . Faucett approved the assignment , noting that " the men brought him their problems , because they felt at ease talking with a fellow sailor . " The normal yarn-spinning atmosphere was reported absent from conversations aboard the Haddock . Because of their youth most of the volunteers had little war experience . Only two were qualified submariners . Most were ? submarine school graduates awaiting their first assignments to sea duty . Others were " surface sailors , " from warships that do not submerge . On deck to shake hands with the men as they climbed from the hold in rapid succession was Comdr . Gerald J. Duffner , project director . Four Sport Beards Looking none the worst for wear , the volunteers wore fresh haircuts and clean shaves  --  except for four men who sported beards grown for fun . They seemed not . a bit disappointed at the gray skies and rain-soaked deck that greeted their return to the workaday world . Would they do it again ? Most of them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were promised the men , but they are                     