@@716865

txt The United Nations Across is generally considNational ered to be the world 's Boundaries most promising effort to date toward a sound basis for international understanding and the peaceful negotiation of disputes and differences . The United Nations , however , is not the only contemporary example of what men might do under the impact of a Civilized wish to live together peaceably . Various organizations have been able to demonstrate effectively that men and women of widely divergent geographical and political backgrounds can work toward common goals and achieve useful objectives . Radio hams , scientific research workers , philatelists , Esperantists , Boy and Girl Scouts and many other groups have frequently made news merely by proving that strangers are not a bit strange once we find out what they are interested in . Today is the golden A anniversary of an orGolden ganization which set Anniversary out to do nothing more than provide business and professional men with a convenient channel for informal contact and fellowship with representatives of other professions , businesses and occupations . Because the original band held meetings in rotation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . calling them- ' selves the Rotary Club . That was fifty years ago ; for the last twenty-1 five years standard dictionaries have recognized ' the Rotarian as a sufficiently important individual to merit a proper noun , an individual recognizable in eighty-nine different countries , which is more than belong to the United Nations . As Carl Van Doren Chicago , pointed out more than in fifteen years ago , the 1905 basic idea of an informal semi-business , semi-social club existed long before the present Rotary Club came into being ; Benjamin Franklin 's Junto paralleled closely the structure and purpose of the modern organization . Even the use of the word " rota " ( Latin for wheel ) in one form or another for describing a group whose members exchanged visits and dinners , - eivas three hundred years old when Paul Harris , Silvester Schiele , Hiram Shorey and Gustavus Loehr first got together at 127 North Dearborn Street in Chicago on Feb. 23 , 1905 . A. second club was not established until more than three and a half years later , but today there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' men belong to them . The blue and gold Whence cogwheel , familiar to the everyone who travels Wheel by automobile , was not the club 's symbol in the beginning . An engraver who joined the first Rotary Club within a few months of its founding had hit upon the.wheel as an appropriate badge for the group to adopt , unofficially signifying the idea of rotation , and also standing for one of the basic devices of human progress through centuries of past history . But this engraver had used for his model the ordinary wagon wheel on which civilization was moving forward in 1905 . In 1912 , at a meeting in Duluth , two important things happened to Rotary Clubs , then numbering about twenty in the United States , Canada , Great Britain and Ireland . First an international association was set up and , second , the cogwheel replaced the wagon wheel . The success of the A New Rotary idea with its Stamp , simple emphasis on Too ' Service above self , " and its adherence to the rule of one representative from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ development of a dozen similar service clubs for men and a half-dozen for business and professional women . International recognition of the Rotary Club in this tense and high-strung world of 1955 is eloquently reflected in the fact that the United States is only one of a. dozen nations in which specially designed postage stamps are being issued to commemorate the golden - anniversary of a movement which has grown great because it has remained a siiiple and straightforward expression of goodwill to others . And the United States stamp is no , . mere three-center , but an eight-cent stamp , Ike denomination most commonly used for letters going from our midst into the international mails.                     