@@713833

txt The conference here in Paris of the Big Four deputies  --  whose sole duty was to agree on an agenda for a later meeting of the Big Four Foreign Ministers  --  is running to form ; that is , it is dragging on indefinitely . And the size of agreement is not evident to the naked eye . On March 5 , the Soviet delegate . Andrei A. Gromyko , laid out the Soviet proposals to be discussed at a Big Four meeting ; and his latest dissertation , about a week ' ago . was a twohotir tirade on Allied " atrocities " in Korea and a " warning " that " the Wall Street imperialist invaders " would shortly be thrown out or killed . On March 2 , 17 , and 27 , the French , British , and American delegates offered new versions of a full-scale agenda : and , so far , Mr. Gromyko has advanced no alternative proposals . He has either said " No " or he has said nothing ? each time in about a one-hour or two-hour speech @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ German demilitarization and armaments  --  be left to the Foreign Ministers themselves . Mr. Gromyko refused . Finally , then , Dr. Jessup proposed , in order to bring about the Big Four meeting which Moscow had taken the initiative to urge , that the four nations ' deputies at least agree upon an order of business by simply stipulating the disputes which the Big Four should discuss without attempting to define them . Mr. Gromyko refused . A A A. This does . not mean that the Paris meeting is breaking up . Mr. Gromyko , after objecting to the dispute-listing approach to an agenda , announced that he reserved the right to return to these proposals " at another time . " But those who have closely followed the long weeks ' of the Paris negotiations are disposed to interpret Mr. Gromyko 's increasingly unyielding attitude as meaning that the Soviet Union , after propagandizing for a Big Four meeting for months , has now decided that it does n't want it . This development is no cause for dismay or discouragement . Sr a Staff Artist It does @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . There has been no convincing evidence that Moscow wanted a Big Four meeting for anything other than propaganda purposes  --  to provide a platform , as Mr. Gromyko has used the present Paris conference , for attacking Allied motives and acts in every part of the world . There has been no solid evidence that Moscow wanted to negotiate seriously with the other principal powers and to attempt to relieve world tension in any substantial and decisive way . A A A It is interesting to try , at least , to appraise why Russia has , for the present , become disinterested in a Big Four meeting  --  when it was the Kremlin 's idea in the first place . Observers in Paris are inclined to believe that Moscow is veering away from a meeting of the Foreign Ministers because the current meeting of their deputies has not been accomplishing what Moscow wanted it to accomplish . Moscow 's unspoken but visible objectives in coming to Paris were : 1 . To keep West Germany from contributing to the defense forces of the Atlantic pact ; 2 . To @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in order to weaken the North Atlantic Alliance ; 3 . To delay , and if possible to prevent , the western powers from carrying forward their rearmament programs . Russia may change its tactics at any time , and may finally agree to a Big Four meeting if it feels that more talk and no action will suit its purpose . But there are no signs yet that Russia is changing its unspoken but visible objectives .                     