@@720195

txt Senator J. W. Fulbright said today that Secretary of State Dulles was " considering very seriously " countering Soviet proposals with new Western ideas for a solution of the German problem. , The Arkansas Democrat , who takes over tomorrow as chair-1 man of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee , spoke to newsmen after an hour-longl conference at Mr. Dulles ' home . The Secretary is to depart tomorrow for London , Paris and Bonn , where he will discuss the issues of Berlin and Germany with Western leaders . West Germany , committing itself in favor of a Big Four foreign ministers ' conference , said a logical date would be between early April and the second half of May . Bonn denied officially that the Western camp was split over policy on Germany . Critic of Administration The Senator , known as one of the most impatient critics of Administration foreign policy , paid his visit at Mr. Dulles ' invitation . The Senator said that one of the main subjects due for consideration on the Secretary 's trip was whether a high-level East-West meeting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ detail about what counter-proposals might be negotiated at such a high-level meeting , he said he had discussed with Mr. Dulles a possible withdrawal of Allied and Soviet troops from a 500-mile zone in Central Europe . 1955 Proposal Recalled In the past the Western powers have not proposed withdrawal from a zone of a specified size . But at the Geneva summit conference of 1955 they did propose a zone of unspecified size in which there would be a limitation . of forces and arms . Senator Fulbright said Mr. Dulles anticipated difficulty in getting Britain , France and West Germany to agree to counter-proposals to the Soviet ' Union . It has called for a demilitarized free city in West Berlin and a twenty-eight-nation peace conference with the Governments of East and West Germany . Senator Fulbright said Mr. Dulles had agreed that " we ought to make more counterproposals to the Russians . " Mr. Dulles explained , Mr. Fulbright said , that it was easier for the Russians to be flexible because they did not have the difficulty of getting allies to agree . The Senator noted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Western Allies to agree to counterproposals . If , as was widely believed , Mr. Dulles ' invitation to Mr. Fulbright was a move to win Democratic support for Administration foreign policy , the indications were that he had partly succeeded . The Senator said that he believed his foreign-policy aims were the same as the Secretary 's but that they had differed on means of attaining them . " I think he wants to work with the committee , " the Senator added . Dulles Leaves Today Mr. Dulles will fly from Washington at 3:30 P. M. tomorrow accompanied by Mrs. Dulles ; Livingston T. Merchant , Assistant Secretary for European Affairs ; Ma-tin J. Hillenbrandt , director of the Office of German Affairs , and Andrew H. Berding , Assistant Secretary for Public Affair &; On Wednesday he will meet Prime Minister Harold Macmillan and Foreign Secretary Setwyn Lloyd in London . Meanwhile , in Washington a working committee of United States , British , French and West German diplomats will start drafting a reply to the Soviet note of Jan. 10 proposing the peace conference with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " no . " But there will be a good deal more in it affirming the willingness of the West to negotiate the interrelated probIlems of Berlin , Germany and , European tsecurity . A State Department official cited Mr. Dulles ' high-level talks in Europe and the care with which the Western reply to the latest Soviet note was being prepared as evidence that a " major re-examination " of Western policy was under way . This official cautioned that the department was " far from admitting that there is anything wrong with the policies we have been pursuing all along . " But the feeling has been growing among Western diplomats here that new developments in Western policy will soon become inevitable . Mr. Dulles , who is acutely sensitive to Senatorial views , is believed to be responding to the prospect of extensive association with the acid-tongued Arkansan . Senator Fullbright was reported six months ago to have lost all confidence in Mr. Dulles and to be on the verge of leading younger Democratic Senators in a revolt against assuming bipartisan support for policies they believed unsound or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whole range of policy in mind he compared President Eisenhower to Albert , the alligator in - the Pogo comic strip , who always borrows his ideas . The Senator also compared the President to President Buchanan , a " tired and amiable man with tired policies . " Over and over in the Foreign Relations Committee , Mr. Fulbright has demanded that Mr. Dulles embark on negotiations for solution not only of the German problem but of the problems of Taiwan , Vietnam , Korea and other East-West issues . He has demanded  - -  tat the Administration meet Soviet proposals with counter-proposals instead of mere " noise . " But he has not publicly stated what he would have the Administration propose on Germany . Senator Fulbright 's aides indicated that he was willing to listen to Mr. Dulles today and to wait to see what Mr. Dulles ' trip to Europe might produce before taking any initiative . Mr , Fulbright acted as chairman of the Banking and Finance Committee for the last time today before handing the reins over to Senator A. Willis Robertson , Democrat of Virginia .  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @          