@@717140

txt The air raid sirens have wailed , enemy bombers are : heoretically winging past the DEW line in Canada , and I am evacuating Washington , along with 15,000 selected government personnel , including Dwight D. Eisenhower . President . We have had precious hours 3f advanced warning . At 3:25 ? . m. an atomic bomb-10 times is powerful as the bomb which lit Hiroshima  --  will supposedly smash into the nation 's capital . This test , biggest civil defense exercise ever held , will relentlessly assess evacuation techniques . It will speed the formulation of dispersal plans under which the Executive Branch ? the President , Vice-President , Cabinet , and federal agencies  --  can function outside and well away from Washington . Two other correspondents and myself make up a car pool , rolling over the Potomac bridges . Armed with toothbrush , typewriter , and overnight bags , we are heading for three days at an " emergency press headquarters , " which must be nameless . ' Yellow Alert ' President Eisenhower left at the same moment as everybody else , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ setting out in a short motorcade . He is said to be taking the civil defense exercise very seriously , but I 'll bet he has his golf clubs along . Defense Secretary Charles E. Wilson has flown off by helicopter , we are told . A cross section of the Executive Branch  --  ranging from cabinet members to messenger boys  --  will hide out in 31 dispersal centers located from 30 to 300 miles from Washington . Good thing the simulated attack does n't involve a 10 megaton bomb . Then they 'd have to hie more than 30 miles away . As commentators have been intoning all week , this is the first time since the British captured Washington in 1812 that the government has fled . It is n't easy for citizens of a proud democracy to consider taking to the hills  --  and leaving families behind without a word  --  but the bureaucrats are generally accepting the orders with good grace . Congress in Capital Members of Congress and the Supreme Court are sitting light in the capital . Civil defense authorities just had n't found a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had to be firmed up . They 're looking for a big inland resort hotel . For most average Washingtonians , this is merely a day when the sirens trill with a continuous five-minute blast . Ordinary citizens are n't supposed to flee anywhere this time  --  they are advised just to note how the siren sounds , remind themselves to stash away emergency rations , and resolve to keep the family car 's gas tank half-full on all occasions . " If a real attack comes , " Federal Civil Defense Administrator Val Peterson told a Congress committee , " I would completely abandon the city . " Citizen evacuation tests are going forward in some cities . " Operation Alert 1955 " is based on a hypothetical nuclear attack by various-sized A-bombs and H-bombs , on 50 of 92 target cities . Events of nine days are theoretically being compressed into 48 hours . Authorities frankly expect the nationwide tests to show up a lot of weak spots in civil defense planning . For the Civil Defense Administration , the time of the test will represent the first nine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Los Angeles , St. Louis , Cleveland , Pittsburgh , and other big urban complexes . Secret Hideaway Mr. Eisenhower 's destination is a deep secret . It wo n't he the much-publicized White House bomb shelter ; that 's not safe enough in these days of thermonuclear superbombs . He has two or three alternative emergency headquarters . All that can be said is that Vice-President Richard M. Nixon is going to be located elsewhere ; all the top eggs wo n't be in one basket . A small " pool " of lot-chosen reporters are covering Mr. Eisenhower . They were told to bring just one bag with them and a typewriter , and wear old or sports clothes . Other newsmen , including your correspondent , will operate from a central news clearinghouse through which all news dispatches of this govern- , ment-in-exile will file . All 31 relocation centers are linked by teletype and telephone , with wires by-passing Washington . The President will be in touch with crucial agencies like the Defense Department , State Department , and Central Intelli4ence Agency by microwave and closed-circuit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Cabinet secretaries Timis- ' , rimed to luxury suites in capital hotels . Some will sleep on Army cots . Few will take baths . Key personnel will be standing in chow lines and sleeping in tents . Pentagon employees have been advised " one piece of hand lug-                     