@@719100

txt Letters to The Times Enforcing Integration Solution at Local Level to Retain Advances Advocated To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : The tragic situation in Little Rock and the growing racial bitterness in the Southern states comes as no surprise to any close student of history . The past is studded with the failure of attempts to force upon a liberty-loving people laws that conflict with the deep-seated mores of the community . Modern Holland stands as a monument to William the Silent and the heroic burghers who dared defy the attempt of Philip the Second to force upon them a hated religion . And who can forget our own experience with prohibition ? I suspect that many vociferous advocates of dragooning the South into racial integration were among the most ardent flouters of the Eighteenth Amendment and the Volstead Law . The race problem is probably the most difficult one confronting the nation today and he is indeed a presumptuous man who dares be dogmatic as to the right answers . As Pilate said , " What is truth ? " If there is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ goodwill at the local level . Otherwise the bitterness engendered will cancel out all the advances made in recent years . The old British Fabian Socialists used to talk about the " inevitability of gradualness . " How apposite that sounds today ! Justice Holmes , that far-seeing liberal on the Supreme Court , was almost invariably opposed to declaring local state laws unconstitutional . He looked upon the states as laboratories where different methods of approach could be worked out on a trial-and-error basis . In his opinion the legislature was the judge of what was best for the health , morals and welfare of the community . The Supreme Court in the past stood as the bulwark of our liberties . It is most unfortunate that it is now looked upon by vast numbers of our fellow citizens as an instrument of judicial tyranny . WALDO HUTCHINS Jr . New York , Sept. 9 , 1957 . Not Representative of South To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TtAtEs : Thank you for your perceptive editorial of Sept. 6 " The Heaviest Battalions . " That we all owe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Negro youngsters willing to brave the hooliganism and threats of organized forces of bigotry and prejudice in order to assert their rights is a fact we should never forget . At the same time , even when faced with these degrading and disgusting mob spectacles that seem to be our inevitable lot as desegregation proceeds throughout the South , ? it might be well to keep in mind that such demonstrations are not representative of the white South . From personal observation I am certain that the Christian spirit and decency of Mrs. Grace Lorch is far closer to the white South than are the ' regimented forces of lawlessness and un-American hate that make all the headline-consuming noise . The large majority of the white South is not organized . Its voice does not come through with the stridency of the rabble rousers . But as a white Northerner firmly convinced of the simple justice of racial equality on all levels of American society may I voice the hope that we of the North , and of the racialequality persuasion in particular , never lose sight of the fact that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the real image of the white South . That South , together with its Negro neighbors , seeks to work out their problems with peace , fairness and dignity , and with due regard to all the complex and troublesome elements that plague interracial relations in the Southland . WENDELL S. RICHARDSON Jr . New York , Sept. 6 , 1957 . Governor 's Action Supported To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : I would like to have it known to the entire nation that all people in my community endorse 100 per cent the action of Governor Faubus of Arkansas . Also , every person I have spoken to in the South and the North have the same feelings . This should indicate that the South will never tolerate outside interference by cheap political scabs whose only desire is to gain a few Negro votes in Harlem . JAMES R. SPLAWN . Forest Cfty , N. C. , Sept. 5 , 1957. mobs . Let us show the world and these children that we regard them as people , not puppets ? mere symbols . The handling of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reputable human relations agency such as the National Conference of Christians and Jews , the Anti-Defamation League , etc . As one who has lived in the South for the past six years and helped organize as a citizen the Nashville Community Relations Conference , which is currently resisting the lawless segregationists , I can assure you that contributions to an American Conscience Fund for the college education of children of courage will come from the entire nation . They will include the South  --  and include men and women of goodwill in Little Rock and Charlotte who feel today a sense of shame and outrage at what has happened in their cities . WILLIAM VAN TiL , Chairman , Department of Secondary Education , New York University . Chicago , Sept. 7 , 1957 . Basis of Girard Case Importance of Language in the Agreement With Japan Stressed Migrant Workers ' Camps Sanction by New York State of Slum Living Conditions Charged to THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES I ! I am not a member of the N. A. A. C. P. I was a member of ant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , N. Y. , and our job this summer was to provide recreation facilities and recreation leadership for the children of migrant workers . I was at the project for eight weeks and spent much of that time in the migrant camps . I was not shocked to witness the slum conditions ; I had seen slums before , What did shock me was to learn that these slums were sanctioned by the State of New York . All six of the camps in the vicinity of Clinton are hovels , ill-fitted for human use . These poor housing con ? ditions are not the result of deterioration , as are the slums of New York City . These slums started out as slums : they met and are meeting the sanitary and building regula ? tions of the state , The farmers declare that these workers are necessary to the farm ? ing economy of the region . However , the migrants are housed and paid as if they were not only unnecessary . but also un-human . They are , of course , guaranteed no minimum . wage . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ best thing . It is rather crude and bold-faced exploitation . Some cry that the migrants would only debase good housing if it were provided . This is far from the truth . Many migrants take surprisingly good care of the hovels allotted to them . Also , the migrants are toe well isolated from their more educated and neater neighbors to learn by example , as the rest of us do . They are housed far away from the main community , and they have no cars . Trips into town are brief and infrequent . Migrants are not welcome as people , but as customers only . It would seem that the progressive North has substituted isolation for the segregation of the decadent South . The Governor has found only technical violations of the sanitary code . Even technical violations of a code that guarantees only the most primitive of health conditions loom big in my eyes . The wretched code itself looms still bigger . It mocks any pretense of civilization or progress . I am confident that if the writer of the law had to live under @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ justly revi ' . nd. hrwut tr.4 , gzesT Rochelle Park , J. , Aug. 28 , 1957 . To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Your editorial reply to Noel Hemmendinger 's excellent letter ( Sept. 5 ) commenting on your editorial of Aug. 27 about the Girard case is based of course on the facts , but it should be obvious enough that it fails to answer the objection raised . As the letter points out , the agreement with Japan concerns offenses resulting from acts or omission done " in the performance of official duty . " You call attention to the certification of Girard 's commanding officers that he fired the fatal cartridge " while performing his duties as guard . " But surely this does not cover the case . An act or omission done " in the performance of official duty " means that the stipulated act or omission is " part of " the official duty and in performing or in failing to perform the man is " doing " or " not doing " his duty . This is a very @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ omitted " while performing duties . " After all , Girard no doubt did many things  --  bent his knee , sneezed or winked his eye ? " while performing duties , " but the crucial question is whether these acts would have been regarded by anyone as part of his duty . I may do a great many things " while performing my duty " without all of these things being part of my duty . I am assuming , of course , that the language of the original agreement concerning jurisdiction means that acts or omissions giving rise to offense must themselves be part of the individual 's duty and not merely done while he is performing his duty . I believe that the Army is well aware of the distinction , and the " while performing his official duties " formula is an ingenious way of saying something more than that Girard was simply " on duty " without also saying that what he did was part of or in performance of his duties . In any case the objection of . , 01.1 ? c-rrespondent remains in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Yale University . New Haven , Conn. , Sept. 6 , 1957 . To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : I was surprised to find that James M. Power , president of the city 's Board of Elections , in his letter published Sept. 5 , thinks that registering 558,878 voters in the first effort to put Permanent Personal Registration into effect was a success . As one who twice tried in vain to register but found the central place of registration hopelessly jammed , I thought that this excellent idea was , like most of the political gestures made in New York , badly planned its handling . When large masses of people have to be processed quickly , special skills in designing the printed forms and in training personnel who can deal expertly with both the people and the paper work are needed . These skills were conspicuously lacking in New York 's first attempt at permanent registration . 1 have yet to meet anyone who was not annoyed at the long delays and the notable inefficiency displayed during the all-too-short registration period . New York @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ special census which showed that our City Fathers did not even have a vague notion of how many people live here . Seventy-five years ago Robert Louis Stevenson said that " politics is perhaps the only profession for which no preparation is thought necessary . " We seem to have made no progress since then . PHILIP VAN DOREN STERN . Brooklyn , Sept. 6 , 1957 . To Beautify New York and bungled in Immigration Law Criticized To THE EDITOR OF THE iN EW YORK In his letter published Aug. 31 iNaarvin Karp-Akin ably argues for repeal of the literacy test as a requirement for immigration to the United States . This writer recently had an opportunity to witness another case where legislation providing for literacy test produces undesirable consequences . A naturalized United States citizen wished te register and enroll under the New York system of permanent personal registration at his local Board of Election branch office . Although he has a very good command of the English language he was asked to prove that he was literate . lie was unable to claim that he had attended school @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ examined by the persons officiating at the branch office . His request was not granted and registration was refused . There are of course other cases when the immigrant or naturalized national realizes that although he has some or all obligations of the native-born citizen he does not have his full rights . A young male immigrant has to register under the Selective Service System and may be inducted for military service in the United States Army . This does not make him a United States national and he is , therefore , unable to obtain clearance for a number of assignments in the services and as a rule he can not become an officer . The present Immigration and Nationality Act has special provisions concerning the loss of nationality by naturalized nationals which do not apply to native-horn citizens , These features of our law have definite discriminatory results , are apt to create bitterness on the part of those whom they affect and certainly do not enhance the prestige of our country . PAVEL R. KORBEL . New York , Aug. 31 , 1957. better education . An American @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of college education for these two high school girls and for other boys and girls to come who must also take the lonely walk from which they and this nation can never turn back , despite militia and some years ago when I noticed the ample use of both means of beautification . I hope individual stores and apartment houses throughout the city will cooperate to make New York City more beautiful . FLORENCE MOSS ,                     