@@718206

txt Just when the Internal Security subcommittee under Senator Eastland began to be interested in Attorney General Jacob K. Javits of , New York is not clear . Mr. Javits announced his availability for the Republican nomination for a United States Senate seat on March 4 . On May 6 he stated publicly that he had " reservations " about the candidacy of Vice President Nixon for re-election , a position that may not have set well with some Republicans . At any rate , as long ago as June 14 Dr. Bella Dodd , former Communist , was before the subcommittee talking about some New York political figures as having been associates of Communists . Why Senator Eastland did n't proceed forthwith to call these political figures in rebuttal is not known . But on Aug. 3 Mr. Javits , having heard the whispers , asked for a hearing . Mr , Eastland , unfortunately , was away fishing and could n't be reached until Aug. 6 . Despite his having " tried in every way to have this hearing earlier " than Sept. 5  --  a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ between the Javits request and the hearing in Washington . The resulting delay has been extremely damaging to Mr. Javits , for the Republican nominee for the Senate is scheduled to be chosen next Monday . The delay is now being prolonged , with a Senate committee effort to resolve conflicts in testimony under consideration , in part apparently on the insistence of an absentee committee member , Senator Jenner , Republican , of Indiana . We must say that the evidence made public thus far leaves our confidence in Mr. Javits unshaken . Most of it is the tawdry , dreamy stuff so often pulled out of a committee hat to make somebody look a little gray when he can not be utterly blackened . Did you get off the train with a certain man ? Did you meet a young man on a ferry , not only on a ferry but early in the morning on a ferry ? Did you take a " voyage " on a train with somebody ? Did you meet somebody in a West Coast living room that was to the left of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ room , it took him to a cocktail party at the Mark Hopkins in San Francisco , it showed him as a bachelor on ? terminal leave after four years in the Army being introduced by a friend to an " heiress to a considerable fortune , " but to no effect . Mr. Javits says " Hi " to somebody at a U. N. meeting , he says hello and good-by to somebody in a Greenwich Village ? grocery store . There is even a " parlor discussion " somewhere . No evidence is offered at any point that Mr. Javits had direct or even lefthanded help from Communists or left-wingers in winning public office , unless it be held against him that he was sometimes opposed a Congressional race by an A. L. P. man and this helped divide the Democratic vote . There are some things eight and ten years ago that Mr. Javits can not remember , or where his recollection differs from that of others . Most of us would have similar trouble . He was n't too clear back in 1946 , whet he first @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Labor party , whose rightwing broke off and formed the Liberal party in 1944 . Liberal party leaders set him right on what A. L. P. meant , and he never ran with the A. L. P. endorsement . The Javits record  --  and he stands unimpeached in our considered opinion as a good , fair-minded , liberal , loyal American  --  belies these lasthour efforts to besmirch his good name . If this is all the Eastland committee has to deliver it should say so and offer apology and an honorable discharge to Mr. Javits.                     