@@712801

txt Letters to The Times ARTHUR C. HOLDEN.WILLARD JOHNSON.A.L . HEWETT.S . " GOODWIN WATSON , Letters to The Times Planning City Development Program for Coordinated Action in Modernizing New York Outlined To THE EDITOR OE THE NEW YORK TIMES : Within one week three important statements appeared bearing on congestion and the redevelopment of the heart of Manhattan Island . One was in The New Yorker , by Lewis Mumford ; the second in The New York Herald Tribune , by Frederick Gutheim ; the third , a letter to the editor of THE TIMES , by Goodhue Livingston of the City Planning Commission . All three voiced the growing suspicion that difficult problems for the future are being created by the forces which are molding " the design and erection of office buildings in midtown Manhattan , even though these forces may be giving temporary relief to the seemingly insatiable demand for business floor space . Mr. Mumford criticized architects for their willingness to serve short-sighted speculators . Mr. Gutheim quoted leading realtors like Felt and Zeckendorf to show that a few farsighted leaders recognize that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and more modern-looking buildings . Mr. Zeckendorf pointed out that , new buildings erected at higher costs should be really better than their existing prototypes . Modern buildings , if they are to hold their value , should provide for greater flexibility for tenants ' needs as well as better comforts and working conditions . Above all , the office building in the congested area should provide reasonable garage space for irs tenants . Mr. Livingston deplored the opportunities missed to plan for large-scale redevelopment , and the failure of the Legislature to authorize the creation of Public Community Redevelopment Authorities . It should command respectful attention when , within a few days of each other , authorities of the caliber of Livingston , Mumford ? and Gutheim sound the alarm as to what is happening in congested parts of the city  --  especially when they are able to reinforce their own opinions with constructive criticisms given by leading real estate authorities . Relief of Congestion It was only a little while ago that the zoning law was amended so as to permit , with proper safeguards , the installation of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ few weeks amendments have been offered which propose to establish minimum requirements for garage space according to prescribed ratios for the zone in which the building may be located . Here is evidence that the city fathers also are concerned about a threatened increase in street congestion . The difficulty is something greater than can be remedied by restrictions imposed upon the development of individual lots . The time has come for the recognition of the principle that plans made for individual lots are no longer sufficient to protect the long-range interests either of the individual lot owners or of the community . The time has come when each building plan should be developed and evaluated as part of a larger group plan . This does not mean that . governmental agencies must necessarily take over the planning of large areas . Zoning is a form of , regulation designed to protect both the community and neighboring owners against damaging uses of property . In cases where agreements between owners permit plans to be made for whole blocks instead of for one building , regulations under zoning may be greatly modified @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ planning means taking steps necessary to make the block a working entity . It means making the most of opportunities that offer common benefits . As a result . of block planning and group planning by private property owners , methods may be devised for developing and maintaining certain common facilities that may in time substantially reduce many of the problems and burdens which are faced by the municipality . This should logically lead to tax credits where , through concerted action by property owners , common benefits are maintained which reduce the need for uneconomic and wasteful restrictions by the city as well as the need for expensive extensions of public services in the attempt to overcome congestion and other difficulties due to lack of forethought and coordination . The failure of the Legislature to pass the Mitchell-qzmcq#Mullen bill creating Community Redevelopment Authorities is a challenge to private property interests to take the initiative in planning . If a part of the expanded appropriation for the City Planning Commission can be used for exploratory planning for urban redevelopment , that would provide an incentive to the development of group plans @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the city . ARTHUR C. HOLDEN . New York , April 7 , 1950 . To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK Tans : In 1952 the Marshall Plan is scheduled to end . President Truman has directed Gordon Gray to formulate a plan for world trade drive to insure foreign ability to obtain our goods and services when Marshall Plan aid stops . " We can not continue , " stated Mr. Truman , " sending abroad much more of the product of American farms and factories than other nations are able to pay for from the sale of their own goods and services . " That means increased selling to us to obtain dollars , It is preposterous to assume that at the end of the Marshall Plan in 1952 we shall be in a position to accept , as you phrase it , " a high level of imports accompanied by a high level of exports , " or , in other words , close a dollar gap of many billions , unless there has taken place in the meantime a great increase in the ability of Americans @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of living . You say , " It will not be easy to convince specific interests in this country that importations which compete with their own business are wholesome . " Imports , which in any degree create unemployment , by the same token decrease our ability to absorb imports . Such imports are definitely unwholesome . We do not benefit by the lower living standards of foreign workers . Our ability to import for exports , the disposition of aid to Europe and the non-Communist world rests on the prior necessity of putting our own economic house in order , not on world trade drive . Expediencies to bolster up the maladjustments within our own economy which were part and parcel of the " distorted " " economic relations with Europe " prior to the Marshall Plan , still leave these maladjustments uncorrected . The American taxpayer has footed the bill for Marshall Plan aid . Has there been any intimation that when the , Marshall Plan . comes to an end the American taxpayer , relieved of this burden , will find taxes reduced , as they should be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or for increased domestic production . Rising unemployment , ten million American families living on , $2,000 or less a year and the record of itinerant farm labor in this country does not augur well for ability to accept " a high level of imports . " It is not a matter of " awakening the American people to today 's economic facts of life . " The " task " is first one of " education " for those in authority and their advisers of the functioning of our so-called capitalist system . A. L. HEWETT . Bayside , N. Y. , April 5 , 1950 , It seems obvious to me that all American children should have safe transportation , adequate textbooks , balanced lunches and health services irrespective of the schools they attend and which may be designated by state or federal governments to administer these social service programs . If any children in a state or the nation receive such aid , why should all not receive it ? Would any other procedure not constitute discrimination ? The issue is not aid to schools but services to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Y. , April 8 , 1950 . When Marshall Plan Ends Necessity Seen for Putting Our Own Economic House in Order A D. P. Views Our Policy To THC EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : As a Russian anti-Bolshevist and democrat I would like through your newspaper to thank Secretary Acheson for his statement about American foreign policy . This statement is a good answer to all appeasers and old-fashioned imperialists who dream about the division of the world into " spheres of influence . " I am sure that the Russian people and other peoples behind the Iron Curtain will see in him their true friend . At the same time , these people will find their enemies in the fellow-travelers and the Communists on one side , and the reactionaries , who identify the oppressed peoples with their tyrannic Governments , on the other . " S. " Braunschweig , Germany , March 24,1880 The Case of Lee Loreh To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK Trim : This is a note of appreciation of your editorial on the case of Lee Lorch . You have struck exactly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to correction of what seems to be a grave injustice and a denial of essential human rights . GOODWIN WATSON , Professor of Education , Teachers College . New York , April 10 , 1950 . Services for All School Children To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : It is difficult to keep issues clear and facts straight in the discussion of federal aid to education . For example , William Robert . Kapp in THE TIMES for . April 8 says , " Under no possible circumstances ? ? ? can any private school system qualify for any federal aid , " and an earlier paragraph indicates he means auxiliary services as " aid . " Mr. Kapp seems not to know that such aid has been given by both federal and state governments , has been approved by the Supreme Court as constitutional ( textbooks and bus transportation ) and was specifically designated by Congress in the School Lunch Act .                     