@@715618

txt The Navy and the Air Force , sometimes bitter rivals , were slated to tell President Eisenhower and his Pentagon chiefs , July 25 , what each conceives as its defense mission . But the heads of the two services prepared their presentations along the lines of teamwork laid down by firm-handed Secretary of Defense Charles E. Wilson . Mr , Wilson called the top civilian and uniformed brass of the Defense Department to an extraordinary " get - together , " joined , July 24 , by Mr. Eisenhower , to iron out any kinks in service unification . The Secretary wants no wrangles over aircraft carriers and bombers , such as the one a few years back . Looking over his shoulder is the President , himself an old soldier and an old hand at dealing with inter-service feuds . Feud Dwindles If the Air Force had any intention of making an issue of the five-billion-dollar cuts in its budget ordered by Mr. Wilson , or of openly challenging approval to build a third super-size Navy carrier , the opportunity presented itself at the Quantico @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Air Force cutbacks before he retired a few weeks ago . Like Mr. Talbott , Secretary of the Navy Robert B. Anderson has displayed no disposition to revive the , feud carried on by some of his predecessors . The talks by the Navy and Air Force chiefs , July 25 , follow similar discussions July 24 by Army officials and by Mr. Wilson 's Defense Department assistants . President Golfs Mr. Eisenhower was expected to attend a luncheon July 25 . The President motored the 30 miles from Washington July 24 . He was out on the first tee of the 18-hole golf ? course here within minutes after his arrival . He banged out a tee shot satisfactory enough to encourage him to remark , " I hope to come in with an 80 . " But whether he did remains unknown . The presidential golf score is a secret . The day before , Mr. Eisenhower was in a foursome made up of Mr. Talbott , General Twining , and Gen. J. Lawton Collins , chief of staff of the Army . Mr. Eisenhower told reporters his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ did n't say on what course had made that mark . July 24 was the first tme he had played the Quantico course . After a dinner for all conferees given by Mr. Talbott July 24 , Mr. Eisenhower went to a theater on the base to watch a variety show . Secretary of the Air Force Harold L. Talbott has adhered carefully to the policies laid down by the President and Mr. Wilson . Gen. Nathan F. Twining , Air Force chief of staff , let the issues drop when he took over command from Gen. Hoyt S. Vandenberg. who fought a vigorous but vain battle to                     