@@717258

txt Washington Planners See New Era ; In Relations With Communists postulates of our current foreign policy . The firmness with which Mr. Eisenhower has accepted this new viewpoint was demonstrated in his reaction to word from Moscow that Premier Bulganin had thrown some cold water on the famous Eisenhower plan for mutual free aerial inspection by United States and Soviet reconnaissance planes . The President quickly rejected any suggestion that this was a pessimistic development . Instead , he took occasion to point to the brighter side . He read the country a small homily on the virtues of patience and open-mindedness in difficult international negotiations . The Secretary of State said Knowland , that this does not constitute " diplomatic recognition " of Communist China , the Administration no longer attempts to preserve the juridical fiction that Communist China does not exist as an entity . Moreover , the United States has quietly and unostentatiously used , for the first time in a formal way , the designation of " The People 's Republic of China , " instead of Mr. Eisenhower 's free-and-easy portmanteau appellation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ acid reflections of yesteryear on " the Chinese Reds . " Nor is this all . Mr. Dulles himself spelled out in A. B. C. terms this week a very simple procedure which Communist By HARRISON SALISBURY ( Special to The New York Times . WASHINGTON , Aug. 6 ? The United States is now looking to I the future in terms of probable I peace , rather than of possible I war . A year ago the men who make the long-range estimates for the White House and State Department would have put the emphasis the other way around . They would have said that peace in the foreseeable future was possible , but that war was Imore probable . This does not mean that anyone in authority in Washington has come to the conclusion that it is now safe for us to rest on our defense oars . Nor does it mean that the policy planners translate security in the nuclear age in terms other than being " fustest with the mostest . " But it does mean , as Secretary of State Dulles puts it , that international @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is more elbow room in which statesmen may confer , negotiate and disagree ; that there is at last a dawning hope that fission and fusion weapons may not shatter ' the world we know beyond recognition or even beyond survival . President 's View President Eisenhower is using similar terms to describe the ' state of the world . He says that it is possible that we stand att the beginning of a " new era . " I Before Geneva , neither Mr. Eisenhower nor Mr. Dulles was using this kind of language . Both the President and the Secretary of State were at considerable pains to caution the country against anticipating too much . They warned that great expectations were apt to be disappointed . Geneva , they said , was to be just a start . Actually , it may be said that Mr. Eisenhower and Mr. Dulles were somewhat more hopeful before they went to Geneva than they were willing to admit in public . Their fingers were still crossed on their return from Geneva . But the evidence that was disclosed both in public discussions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the Secretary that it was now possible to make a fundamental revision in their estimates of the future . No one in Washington is yet inclined to say publicly that the era of the " cold war " is ending , although Marshal Bulganin , the Soviet Premier , said almost precisely that in Moscow this week . But privately , and particularly in the formulation of long-range plans , it is apparent that a conclusion very much like Marshal Bulganin 's lies at the core of our forecasts of what is likely to happen . Cola Peace Official Washington is not yet certain what form the new era in relations between East and West is going to take . It may prove to be a " cold peace . " Some of its early manifestations bear some surface resemblance to what might ' be called competitive existence . The word " coexistence " has been so badly smeared by Communist propaganda use that it is regarded as a semantic fellow-traveler . The fundamental premise of ' the new world situation , however , is recognition that both East and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . There is one vital qualification to this premise as the situation Is viewed in Washington . Generally speaking , we accept the premise as applied to the Soviet Union  --  for the time being . But we are not yet sure about Communist China . Mr. Dulles spelled out the difference very precisely this  --  week in an unusually revealing glimpse into the fundamental that the policies of Communist countries , generally speaking , were based on expediency rather than upon moral principle ; that the test of a Communist policy usually was what kind of results it produced . The Soviet Union , he declared , had been for a considerable time following what he called a " rough " policy . This Soviet policy had not been very profitable . Therefore , he said , Moscow had apparently decided Ito switch over to a more peaceable line . Mr. Dulles spoke of Soviet policy in the tones of a man who was sure that he knew where he stood . But he went on to differentiate pretty sharply between the Soviet Union and Communist China . Communist China @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its right to be admitted as a full fledged member of the international community . There are a number of encouraging signs in the Peiping Government 's policy , but ' the history of recent years has shown the Chinese Communists much more aggressive than the Russians , and the United States is not yet ready to accept the sincerity of Peiping 's intentions , ( Negotiations On However , Washington 's view of the Chinese Communists has advanced a long way in the past year , The United States no longer regards the Communist Chinese as a species of international outlaws . It is actually at this moment engaged in direct diplomatic negotiations with them on the full ambassadorial level . While the United States strenuously insists for the record and the benefit of the Senate Republican leader , William China may follow and which , he strongly implied , will bring it a formal place in the world community of nations . The key to this procedure is acceptance of the principle that Mr. Dulles regards as lying at the heart of civilized relations between nations . This is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ threat of force as an instrument of national policy  --  what is sometimes called " the No-Force Doctrine . " Doctrinal Basis More and more , as time goes on , Mr. Dulles reverts to this principle . Perhaps it is his long years of legal training and his lawyer 's habits of thinking . But when the Secretary discusses in ternational relations in terms of a rule of peace , he almost automatically translates that into terms of a rule of law . And at the heart of the rule of law he envisages world-wide acceptance ' of the No-Force Doctrine . There is an interesting but not l entirely promising parallel to Mr. Dulles ' preoccupation with the principle of the renunciation of the use of force . Another Republican Secretary of State , Frank B. Kellogg , once pursued this objective with energy and a good deal of imagination . He found a receptive colleague in the late Aristide Briand of France . Together , the two statesmen produced their crowning achievement , the Pact of Paris , signed in 1929 by fifteen nations which thereby renounced the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The pact of Paris did not bring an end to war in the world . Within two years Japan marched into Manchuria and a little later Mussolini invaded Ethiopia . The wars of the Thirties and the outbreak of World War II inspired many cynical comments about the naivet ? of Messrs . Kellogg and Briand . But the principle that they sought to Introduce into the relations between nations has not died . When the United Nations was founded an almost identical proviso was written into the Charter as its cornerstone . Once again , the mere writing down of this principle on a piece of paper did not bring about its universal recognition by all nations . The use of force and ' I threat of force by the Commufi n ist nations continued through the post-war era and until very , recent times . I Now , however , there is substantial agreement among the Washington policymakers that the Soviet Union  --  for pragmatic rather than principled reasons ? has for the time being given up the application of force as a means of getting its way in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seems to have accepted Mr. Dulles NoForce concept . If , now , Communist China will follow through with a similar acceptance , the world may indeed stand on the threshold of a new era . Dulles on China This is precisely what Mr. Dulles and the Administration have been saying since the return from Geneva . Mr. Dulles has even gone so far as to recognize that Communist China has taken steps in the direction of the acceptance of his prized principle . He had kind words for Peiping 's Premier and Foreign Minister , Chou En-lai , for the first time . He noted that a week ago Mr. Chou had quoted with apparent approval some of Mr. Dulles ' own remarks . Inspection of the full text of Mr. Chou 's remarks shows that Mr. Dulles had substantial justi-1 fication for his indication thail Mr. Chou had taken a step in , the right direction ? in the direction of renouncing forceful means of achieving national policy . Whether Mr. Chou is prepared to take the further step that Mr. Dulles has suggested to him is not yet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so and should the Geneva I talks on mutual repatriation ' go , well , there f5 every reason to suppose that a new relationship with Communist China will evolve . We are still a long way from meeting Communist China at the summit . Mr. Eisenhower ine dignantly rejected oUly this week any suggestion of a meeting of himself and Mao Tse-tung . But neither he nor Mr. Dulles is making a flat denial of the possibility of a meeting at the ministerial level  --  that is , a meeting between Mr. Dulles and Mr. Chou . Talks Basic A Chou-Dulles conference , of course , would be almost essential to any real change in relations with the Communist Chinese . However , if events continue to move in the direction that is clearly envisaged in the postGeneva attitudes of Mr. Eisenhower and Mr. Dulles , the day of a United Nations seat for Communist China and diplomatic ' relations may not be so distant as some continue to suppose . Neither of these events is possible so long as the United Nations denunciation of Communist China as an aggressor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ remains in force . But if Communist China should renounce the use of force as an instrument of national policy and formally embrace the Dulles NoI Force Doctrine , the foundation would be laid for the first steps toward a review of all these Chinese questions .                     