@@718332

txt Letters to The Times HANS J. MORGENTHAU , M. ELLIOT JACKSON , M.D.THOMAS J. PIERPOINT.ISAAC S. HELLER ... pg . 36 Letters to The Times To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : The first week of November , 1956 , is likely to be remembered as one of the most calamitous episodes in the history of United States diplomacy , Some of the basic assumptions of our foreign policy have been put to the test of actual performance , and they have failed that test . One of these assumptions has been our commitment to the independence of the nations of Eastern Europe . It was over this issue that the cold war started and was in good measure waged . Yet when the Russian empire started to disintegrate , the United States renounced from the outset the use of force and thus gave the Soviet Union , for all practical purposes , a free hand . Another of ' the assumptions of our foreign policy las been the preservation of the power of Great Britain and France as members of the Atlantic alliance . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ irreparable damage upon the position of Great Britain and France in the Middle East and in the world at large . Regardless of the intrinsic merits of their military venture , once it was started we had a vital interest in its quick and complete success . Our foreign policy has assumed , at least in recent years , that our ability for atomic retaliation was sufficient to protect our interests by peaceful means . However , we have just witnessed the sudden and complete collapse of the Western position under the impact of what amounts to a Russian ultimatum . This is the most ominous calamity of all , which casts a dark shadow over the future . For if the Soviet Union continues to protect and promote its interest by threatening or using force while we refrain from threatening or using it except after it has been used against us , are we not Well on the road to surrender on the installment plan , which may end in an atomic war of desperation ? HANS J. MORGENTHAU , Director , Center for the Study of American Foreign Policy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Yale Universities . , New Haven , Conn. , Nov. 9 , 1956 . India 's Leadership Queried To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : India is the unquestioned leader of the Arab-Asian bloc in the United Nations and Prime Minister Nehru of India is certainly one of the most ardent and vocal advocates of peace in the world . But when it comes to the Middle East there is a wide gulf between the moral protestations of Nehru and their practical application . Most striking is the fact that India 's moral authority has never been put behind peace discussions between the parties in interest  --  the Arab states and Israel . When in 1952 a resolution in this sense was offered in the United Nations India played a leading part in producing its defeat . At the London Conference , in the discussions on free passage through the Suez Canal following the seizure of the Suez Canal Company by Egypt , the Indian representative made it clear that freedom of passage did not automatically include Israeli shipping , despite a U. N. resolution to this effect . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the International Court of Justice at The Hague . This double standard , which India made its own , was the Egyptian standard . And the Egyptian claim of the right to bar passage to Israeli shipping was made on the score that Egypt was still at war with Israel . In the emergency session of the General Assembly India has been the leader of the Arab-Asian bloc in the formulation of the resolutions of censure , in demanding a cease-fire and the withdrawal of all foreign troops from Egyptian soil . But when it came to an Assembly discussion of Soviet Russia 's invasion of Hungary and a U. N. resolution calling for the immediate withdrawal of their , troops the Indian delegation abstained from the vote . One has a right to ask where the moral leadership , of India has vanished and whether it is indeed as nonpartisan and neutral as it claims to be . India 's leaders can still drop the standard of expediency and seize the opportunity to re-establish their moral position by initiating proposals calling for direct peace discussions between the Arab states and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , N. Y. , Nov. 8 , 1956 . Respite From War hews To THE EDITOR OF THE NEy7 YORK TIMES : In the past few weeks , as your editorials have dealt with real and revolting happenings that none of us like , Topics of The Times has stood , almost conspicuously , as a means of momentary refuge . By delving into odds and ends concerning home and work and matters relating to these , Topics continually pulled us from the foreign shores , back to our country , to ' our homes and to our very selves . Using as apparent underlying themes the little failures of us all ? namely , procrastination , avoidance and just plain laziness  --  Topics brings to the fore as a treat for us the bits of our own daily , personal lives , as we know them . And ' of course , let us not forget the elements of life which are closest to us ? namely , the elements of family love and " cooperation ' ' - which are involved in a great many of the Topics of The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of us realize that we are normal , very normal . THOMAS J. PIERPOINT . Alexandria , Va. , Nov. 8 , 1956 . For City Parking Lots ; Setting Up of Parking Areas on Perimeter of Manhattan Advocated To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES t ! This metropolitan island is unique . It . has only about sixteen major roadways north and south , while there are over 300 east and west . Its peculiar shape , its dense population , its great flow of commuters ? southbound in the morning and northbound in the late afternoon ? present a traffic problem differing from that of any other city in the country . City-owned and operated parking garages would not begin to improve the condition . They would worsen it , Further , this great city should not embark in the garage business . As a matter of fact , it should not embark ' in any business in. competition with any of its citizens . Not only would this be improper , but eventually management would become inefficient and the taxpayers would be saddled with the deficit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to create public parking lots ( not garages ) in the outskirts or perimeter of the city at the termini of the subway and bus lines , and to invite car owners who live outside Manhattan to park their cars in those public parking lots and to proceed to their destination by subway or bus . To popularize such public parking lots may take some time , may require some advertising and pubs licity . Express train and express bus service would have to be provided . However , if the public parking lots are equipped with rest rooms , telephone booths , and if in the beginning low rates are set , e. g. , 10 cents for all day , it would not be long before these lots would be well patronized , This idea is not ' altogether new . The New York , New Haven and Hartford Railroad already has plans for huge parking lots in Stamford and New Rochelle , to he serviced by express trains to and from Grand ' Central station . The city should lease the public parking lots on a competitive bidding @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to any one tenant . Thereby each parking lot would be operated at its own greatest efficiency . The Traffic Commissioner should have ? the authority to regulate the parking lots , vary the rates and direct other details . If a system of public parking lots was begun by the city as above outlined other privately owned parking lots would soon spring up in Westchester , Bronx , and the towns of Long Island and New Jersey would soon follow . ISAAC S. HELLER . New York , Nov. 1 , 1956 . Thankful for Freedom ro THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : The election is over and a great American has lost to a greater American . The people have spoken and the loser has congratulated the winner , wished him kick and pledged support to the Administration ; a living example of true democracy : Perhaps we Americans take things for granted . May I strike a serious and sober note here ? Regardless of party affiliations and beliefs , let us all bow our heads and give our thanks that we are Americans , human @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ God that while we have seen a strong campaign involving big issues , with charges and countercharges traded back and forth , we did not Fitness any violence , we did not see bloodshed and we did go to the polls to choose our government freely . Peoples today are fighting for the right to have a government of their own and sacrificing their lives in the process . We have a lot to be grateful for , so let every day be a thanksgiving day , for this is a blessed nation . LAWRENCE NISSAN . New York , Nov. 8 , 1956 . Diplomatic Calamities Seen Basic Assumptions of Our , Policy Said to ' Have Failed Test                     