@@718390

txt One month ago today the Hungarian revolution began . It began as a peaceful demonstration of students and workers demanding redress of their grievances . It became a revolution when bullets from murderers in the uniforms of the secret police and of the Soviet Army slaughtered unarmed men , women and children . It continues as a revolution today , though the general strike has replaced arms as the chief weapon . History contains no brighter chapter telling of any people 's heroic struggle for its freedom . Many weapons have been used against the Hungarian people . Overwhelming Soviet forces with tanks and planes have committed wholesale murder . Treachery in its most repulsive form has been employed . Cold and hunger have been eagerly enlisted as allies by the Soviet oppressors . A small clique of traitors headed by the infamous Janos Kadar has been put forward to deceive the Hungarian people . Yet the- plain fact today is that all these weapons have failed . Unarmed , hungry , cold , impoverished , the Hungarian people still defy the tyrants whose guns command every @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ longer one of arms and shooting . It is now a moral conflict . On the one side stand the tyrants of Moscow , blustering wildly of " fascists . " On the other side is the Hungarian nation , workers , peasants and students enduring every hardship and insisting on freedom and national independence . The unity of the Hungarian nation has been cemented by the blood of the martyrs who have fallen victims to Soviet murder . It will not be easily broken . It is the world 's realization of this moral issue that now dominates the scene . The outrage of the world was expressed in the United Nations votes which so overwhelmingly called for an end to Soviet barbarism in Hungary and for the entrance of United Nations observers . Even the Polish and Yugoslav Govern-1 ments refused to support the Soviet opposition to U. N. observers in Hungary . Even among Communists in the free world the moral bankruptcy of the Soviet oppressors is becoming more apparent , so that every day brings its news of the questioning and rebellion among those who in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a profound sense we may already say that the Hungarian revolution has won . The Hungarian people have forced Moscow to show its true face , to reveal the reality behind the honeyed words of " peaceful coexistence " and " many roads to socialism . " But the Hungarian people have paid and are paying a heavy price for this moral victory . We of the free world are their debtors . We must acknowledge that debt by pressing in every forum of world opinion for Htngary 's freedom , by using every political and economic weapon at our command against the Soviet oppressor , by providing relief and safe havens for the tens of thousands of refugees who have escaped . In all this we of the United States have a special obligation as the richest and strongest part of the free world .                     