@@712621

txt Dean Acheson , Secretary of State , ordered today the withdrawal of consular personnel from the entire mainland of Communist-occupied China . The step had the specific approval of President Truman . The action followed the seizure yesterday of the United States consular offices in Peiping in disregard of treaties of 1901 and 1943 , and over the repeated formal protests of 0 . Edmund Clubb , Consul General in Peiping . The seizure , described by Chinese Communist officials as a " requisition , " was effected by four civilian officials supported by the police . The seized building was in one of four United States compounds in Peiping , and had been used prior to 1943 as barracks for the Marine Legation Guard . In 1943 the United States surrendered its extraterritorial rights under the Boxer Protocol of 1901 . China guaranteed possession of this and other official United States buildings in perpetuity . Connally Calls for " Amends " Senator Tom Connally , chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee , said tonight that the Chinese Communist Government must " make amends " for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . This incident , the latest in a series of humiliations and harassments the Chinese Communists have visited on United States officials in several parts of China , has been building up since Jan. 6 . The State Department had withheld any public announcement or discussion of it in the hope that higher Communist authorities would appreciate the gravity of the contemplated step and would find a way to overrule the action without " losing face . " Announcement was held up until it was certain the seizure had taken place and that there would be no official reconsideration . It was also delayed until Mr. Acheson 's withdrawal orders had been dispatched to , the 135 consular representatives and their families in Peiping , Tientsin , Shanghai , Nanking and Tsingtao . The consulate at Tsingtao has been closed for business for some time and its personnel is ' awaiting transportation . W. Walton Butterworth , Assistant Secretary of State for Far Eastern Affairs , was the departmental spokesman in explaining the background of the incident . " It is completely unprecedented , " he said . " That is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is more in the nature of application of tribal law than international law . " Recognition Made Remote A high Administration official made it clear that the complete break Of contact with the Chinese Communists would have no effect on President Truman 's declared policy of non-intervention on behalf of the Nationalist Government in Formosa . What is left of the United States Embassy to China is with Generalissimo Chiang Kaishek 's Government , because that Is the only Chinese Government ofEicially recognized by Washington . The Peiping incident , in Ade ninistration opinion , has pushed : yen further into the future the iebulous possibility of United States recognition of the Chinese " Jommunist Government . In all the innoying actions against United States officials , the Peiping Govornment has never once apologized or undone unauthorized actions . It has not only manifested no Iesire for United States recognition , but it has demonstrated it will not live up to the obligations that are a sine qua non , under international law , of recognition of a new government , in the opinion of officials here . Such obligations Include @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mutual respect for sovereignty and terri torial integrity . Mr. Butterworth said today that if the Chinese Communist Government was serious about seeking China 's seat on the Security Council Of the United Nations , it would have to accept the obligations of membership in the United Nations . The Peiping seizure was carried out without any show of military force , and no United States repre-1 sentatives were arrested . The building from which they were ' ousted adjoins another principal building , and they simply moved codes and records , such as were not destroyed , into the second . The movement started on Jan. 6 , when the Chinese military authori-I ties in Peiping issued a proclamation stating that land formerly occupied by foreign countries , under " unequal treaties , " for the purpose of stationing troops would be recovered . The following ' day , they sent a communication to the Consul General " requisitioning " the building that was seized yesterday , as the proclamation had said that military exigencies would require immediate requisition of the foreign barracks . At that point the State Department @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Foreign Minister of the Communist Government , that the land and building in question were occupied as a result of the treaties of 1901 and 1943 and had not been used for quartering soldiers since 1943 . They now house the offices of the ' Consulate General . Mr. Clubb 's communication to General Chou , as well as subsequent formal notes , was returned to him , although it was evident it had been opened and read . Some of the notes were sent back by the messenger who delivered them , and others were returned by registered mail . None of them , however , elicited any reply . Move Made Through Britain In Washington the State Department had notified the British Embassy of the developing situation , and on Jan. 10 it requested the British Foreign Office to have its officer in charge in Peiping convey a note of protest on behalf of the United States to General Chou or to the highest Communist official available . This was done . In this communication an effort was made to give the Communists a face-saving device . It was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ turning over to the Peiping authorities a plot of ground west of the consular compound , on which a United States building had been erected . Mr. Butterworth explained today that the withdrawal of United States consular staffs would be done in an orderly manner , stretched over considerable time , and that " there wo n't be any one big dramatic exit . " He said the officials would proceed to inventory Government property , pack their records and personal effects , and then await transportation . The State Department will seek to supplement available commercial transportation , so that the diplomats may get out of China reasonably soon . Whatever means are provided for the officials will also be made available to about 3,000 United States citizens who are still in China , despite repeated warnings issued by the State Department as the Communist armies swept southward . In his statement tonight Senator Connally said : " The Department of State of the United States very properly has lodged aggressive protests with the Chinese Communists . It has also directed the closing of all of our , consulates in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ heartily approve of the same . The Chinese Communist Government is seeking diplomatic recognition . No nation is entitled to such recognition that does not respect inter- ' national law and does not respect the representatives of other Governments and the rights of their citizens . "                     