@@720663

txt Massachusetts legislators are seriously considering a new formula to make more equitable assessment of Metropolitan Boston sewer-construction costs on communities in the gigantic ! system . The new formula . proposed by a special commission , headed by Senator John J. Beades of Boston , has been three years in the making . It would base assessments to pay off existing bond issues on the capacities of the Metropolitan sewers available to the communities . The existing formula is based on the equalized valuations of the various cities and towns established for state tax purposes . These equalized valuations have not been changed since 1945 . Therefore , they have become greatly outdated , particularly in view of the vast expansion of communities outside of Boston . Also to be changed would he the method of paying for future Fairer Lery trunk lines and connections to tierl. c additional communities coming into the system . As recommended by the commission , communities coming into the system would pay the full or proportionate cost . of construction that is of direct benefit to them . The measure already @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ final passage it still uncertain because it would boost the cost to some communities in the system while lowering assessments on other communities . Under the same bill . the north and south metropolitan sewer system would he merged into one gigantic system , with assessments for outstanding bonds to be based on capacity or the system to serve the communities . Senator Beades 's commission has stated that merging the systems would eliminate arbitrary decisions regarding allocation of capital costs and operating costs on . Suburbs behveen the north and south systems . In addition , the commission 's bill would eliminate the present connection charge on new members designed to cover a share of the existing debt . The new formula would make such a charge unnecessary because the new member would pay the cost of new construction necessary to serve it and also its share of the existing debt payments through annual assessments based on capacity . The new formula is the result of a controversy which developed regarding the construction of a trunk sewer to serve Randolph . Under the then existing system , Boston would have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Randolph trunk sewer cost . The principle of requiring cities and towns to pay the cost of construction to serve them was applied in the Randolph case , and a special study was set up to bring 001 a new formula for the entire district . Regarding the existing formula . based on equalization valuations . the special commission stated in a 1053 report : " Assessments for metropolitan sewerage construction costs based on state tax apportionment were instituted in 1906 automatically . " So long as those apportionMents were regularly and frequently revised they provided a seemingly acceptable basis for apportionment of costs on the ability to pay . " A new apportionment was enacted every three years , and occasionally more frequently from 1901 to 1943 , and again in 1945 , Since then . the General Court has not enacted a new apportionment : the 1945 figures are still being used . " The growth of suburban towns has rendered . the 1945 state tax-apportionment tigures1 obsolete and inequitable as a basis for apportioning costs . " Suburban rates compared : faire 2.    @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @        