@@713938

txt By a vote of 12 to 11 the House Banl. ing and Currency Committee acted tonight to cancel the remaining two of the three rollbacks on beef prices designed to save  --  the consumer 10 cents a pound by October . It accomplished this by inserting into the new defense production bill a provision that " no ceiling shall be established or maintained for any agricultural commodity below 90 per centum of the price received ( by grade ) by producers on May 19 , 1951 . " ? The first of three beef rollbacks , cutting back by 10 per cent the amount the producer can get for his cattle , went into effect on May 19 . Two other rollbacks of 412 per cent each , applicable acrossthe-board to producer , packer , wholesaler and retailer , are scheduled to go into effect Aug. 1 and Oct. 1 . Administration supporters fought the cancellations , contending angrily that rescinding the last two rollbacks would not help the cattleman or the consumer . They maintained that the consumer could not get any benefit at all from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the later cutbacks . " It 's a gift to the packing interests at the expense of the cattle producers and the consumer , " Representative Abraham J. Multer , Democrat of New York , said after the session . The motion to have the remaining rollbacks rescinded was put by Representative Torn B. Fugate , Democrat of Virginia . The votes of eight Republicans and three other Democrats put it across . Recorded for the change , which would prevent any other rollbacks on agricultural commodities to less than 90 per cent of the price prevailing on May 19 , - were : Representatives Fugate , Albert Rains of Alabama , Paul Brown of Georgia and John C. Kluczynski of Illinois , Democrats , and Jesse P. Wolcott of Michigan , Henry 0 . Talle of Iowa , Clarence E. Kilburn of New York , Albert M. Cole of Kansas , Donald W. Nicholson of Massachusetts , Gordon L. of California , Howard H. Buffett of Nebraska and Jackson E. Betts of Ohio , Republicans . In opposition were : Ralph A. Gamble of New York , a lone Republican @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the chairman ; Mr. Multer , Charles B. Deane of North Carolina , George D. O'Brien of Michigan , Clinton D. of California , Hugh J. Addonizio of New Jersey , Isidore Dollinger of New York , Richard Bolling of Missouri , Clarence G. Burton of Virginia and William A. Barrett of Pennsylvania . Await Deane 's Arrival Representatives Multer , Dollinger and Bolling led the fight within the committee against the amendment and , when it became evident . that the outcome was going to be close , kept the discussion going long enough to permit Mr. Deane , at home ill , to come down town to vote . In other actions at the night session , the committee agreed to the following : 1 . To exempt barbers and beauticians from both price and wage control . 2 . To make the parity price on agricultural products at the outset of a marketing season apply for the full marketing season for the purposes of price controls . Parity is a theoretical figure that attempts to set a fair , relationship between the price a farmer receives @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ buy . 3 . To withhold from the Secretary of Agriculture the right to determine fair ceiling prices for milk in areas not covered by marketing agreements . The committee worked on into the night , rushing to complete action on a new defense production bill , as public pressure mounted for continued and strenghtened economic controls . The Senate Banking and Currency committee , responding to the same pressures . rushed action also but after a full afternoon session it appeared that the bill reaching the Senate floor would be little more than an extension of existing regulations . In test votes today , Democrats on the committee held ranks to defeat all proposals to pare down present controls , But all strengthening amendments were beaten , too , because Southern Democrats , for the most part , - refused to support them . Republicans on the House Committee sought vainly today to strike out provisions for limited subsidies , for Government - owned and operated defense plants and for authority for creation of Government corporations to conduct such operations . The sole Republican victory was scored when Representative Wolcott , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a blank check money authorization for ' these operations . The original act set up a $600 , - 000,000 revolving fund and , in addition , authorized $1,400,000,000 in appropriations by Congress for these purposes . Of this latter source of funds , $1,000,000,000 already has been appropriated and set up also as a revolving fund . Viroleott - amendment Voted This Wolcott amendment , one of several he proposed , prevailed by a vote of 12 to 10 , with Southern Democrats on the committee breaking . ranks to decide the issue . The accelerated committee activity came after Congressional leaders promised President Truman at their regular Monday conference that they would try to pass a new bill before June 30 . La ter , the Congressional leaders and the Senate and House Banking chairmen lunched with Charles E. Wilson , director of defense mobilization , and his top aides . At the luncheon 's conclusion , Mr , Wilson expressed the opinion the Administration might have to settle for something short of what it asked in the way of new controls . Members of Congress , meanwhile , began @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ strengthened economic cotnrols . Mail reaching many offices doubled , trebled and quadrupled , obviously as a result of President Truman 's nation-wide appeal last Thursday for stiffer regulation . Senator Irving M. Ives , Republican of New York , who only yesterday lamented the lack of public expression on the subject , received 352 letters in his morning mail , 312 of them backing the President . The Senate Banking Committee , in perhaps its major vote , rejected , 7 to 4 , a proposal by Senator Everett M. Dirksen , Republican to remove all price-wage controls .                     