@@718744

txt Senator Hubert Humphrey of Minnesota offered some advice to President Eisenhower the other day in regard to the Administration 's request for $4.4 billion for foreign aid . " I want to underscore the importance of President Eisenhower really staking his ' personal reputation , his personal political reputation and his personal political strength upon promoting and backing an effective foreign aid program , " the Senator said . Post-war foreign aid began 10 years ago with the Marshall Plan . That was supposed to be a four-year economic treatment to put Europe back on its feet . The Marshall Plan was known as the European Recovery Program . Later foreign aid went under a variety of names  --  Economic Cooperation Administration , Mutual Security Administration , Foreign Operations Administration , and now International Cooperation Administration . More than $55 billion in grants , gifts and a few loans have been sent overseas since General Marshall made his ? arvard speech . During the intervening years a great deal of waste and foolishness came to mark the program of giveaways , as the book review on this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was no waste and no foolishness , the basic approach to the problem  --  that nations can be helped to economic health by assuming the role of international remittance men and that countries can be kept friendly to the U. S. by an annual gift of dollars ? was in the beginning questionable and at the end of 10 years has been proved wrong . Further , there is no demonstrable proof that , as its proponents like to claim when , all other arguments fail , foreign aid has " halted " ? political and economic encroachments by interna , - tional Communism . There is no reason to doubt that a nation with an eye to some free American dollars might itself suggest those dangers as ample basis for a gift . But the Soviets seem to have had since Stalin 's death enough economic trouble within the U.S.S.R. and enough political trouble within their complex of satellites to cause some hesitation about more ventures in aggression . And when all the cards are on the table , the odds are high that America 's military might and not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any warlike moves . To be sure , foreign aid can make the job of the State Department for a time easier ; a substantial check can make a U. S. position on this or that matter more agreeable . That , though , is not the soundest way to promote foreign policy , for the agreeableness has a way of diminishing with the money . Foreign aid is not an issue we would like to see the President stake his reputation and political strength on , for a Continuance of our policy of keeping foreign nations is not only impractical ; its morality is in question as well . But if Mr. Eisenhower does play those stakes , it might be well to remind the Congressmen he persuades that they also are hazarding high stakes .                     