@@715047

txt British commonwealth countries and France tonight deserted the United States and joined India in support of a resolution that seeks to appease the Communists on the question of repatriating Korean war prisoners as part of an armistice agreement . The defection of America 's socalled allies in the Korean war apparently means that a resolution submitted to the United Nations political committee by State Secretary Acheson on Oct. 24 will be abandoned in favor of an Indian substitute proposal . The Acheson resolution , cosponsored by 21 nations , including the British commonwealth countries and France , called upon the Communists to accept an armistice on terms proposed by the American negotiators at Panmunjom , including the principle that force should not be used to repatriate prisoners against their will . Sets Up a Commission The Indian scheme calls upon both sides to turn over all prisoners to a commission consisting of two communist and two noncommunist countries , and an umpire if one can be agreed upon , in " agreed demilitarized zones . " It affirms the principle that force should not be used either @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ provision is made for those refusing to go back to communist territory . The fate of prisoners remaining after 90 days would be submitted to a political conference of " countries concerned on both sides , " presumably including communist China . Ike Backs U. S. Proposal Earlier today President Elect Eisenhower , in a conference with Sen. Wiley ER. , Wis. declared his support of the American delegation 's position . Wiley , a membeE of the American delegation , said Eisenhower " reemphasized agreement with the principle of no forceful repatriation of communist prisoners . " At the same time it was announced that Anthony Eden , British foreign secretary , who is a leading backer of the Indian appeasement maneuvers , will be Eisenhower 's guest at lunch tomorrow . British commonwealth and western European diplomats have been wringing their hands at the prospect of Eisenhower 's impending trip to Korea , fearing he will commit himself to a program of trying to win the war and their countries will be called upon to contribute something more than the token forces now representing them in the so-called first @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Canada , Australia , and France , all members of a committee appointed to seek a reconciliation between the American and Indian resolutions , announced their support of the Indian proposal at a closed meeting tonight . This committee was equally divided , with four members ? the- United States , Colombia , Denmark , and Turkey  --  standing fast in support of the American resolution . Therefore , no recommendation will be made when the committee reports to the 21 original sponsors of the American resolution tomorrow . There is general agreement in informed circles that the American resolution is dead and wffi be replaced by the Indian proposaL British commonwealth spokesmen said they would support the Indian resolution but would at- tempt to " clean it , up " with amendments to safeguard the American position that force must not be used to return prisoners to communist territory . lopes to Put Them on Spot When asked how they could expect the Communists to accept the Indian armistice proposal if it should be " cleaned up " with amendments to safeguard the American principle against forcible repatriation , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ soviet union and Red China on the spot . If the Communists reject it , these spokesmen declared , they will demonstrate to the Indian appeasers and to all the other people of d.efalbat they do not want to end the waillyt There a , no evidence the Communists would accept the Indian resolution if it should be adopted without amendment . Mosco w 's Peiping puppets have not acknowledged receiving a draft of the resolution , sent to them more than two weeks ago . Soviet Foreign Minister Vishinsky has insisted his government " will not budge " from its demand for the immediate and unconditional repatriation of all prisoners . Wants Red China in U. N. V. K. Krishna Menon , author of the Indian resolution , disclosed at the beginning of a long speech ' to the general assembly 's political committee this afternoon that his government hopes communist China will be admitted to the U. N. as a reward for an armistice in Korea . 1 , fy government has never disguised . and never will disguise , " he said , " the fact that it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ counsels as one of the hindrances in the way of solving all these problems which form a series and which must end in pacification , settlement . or a generally suitable arrangement with regard to the far east as a whole . " These empty chairs are in our way at the present time , and we hope that the problem to which we are addressing ourselves now , namely , the question of an armistice in Korea , will mark the first constructive and effective step along the road which will lead us to the consummation that is to be desired . " Insult to Nationalists The reference to " empty chairs " %%as an insult to members of nationalist China 's delegation . ho occupied the chairs allotted to China . Menon professed to be in accord with the principle that force should not be used , either to retain prisoners or to return them to their homelands . " The Chinese have repeatedly said that no one is asking for forcible repatriation , " he said . " Their argument would appear to be that they have become @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may say that in that way you unforce them , remove the force , and that is all . That is what is meant by release . " Menon thus referred to the communist argument that the United States , using " brutal police methods , " has forced prisoners to reject repatriation . lie ignored Vishinsky 's argument that war prisoners are subject to the military discipline of their own country and must be repatriated whether or not they consent . Vishinsky has insisted that prisoners have no choice whatever in the matter .                     