@@716792

txt The immediately important thing about Yikiangshan Island , objective of the latest Chii , ese Communist military attack off its coast , is that it lies about half way between Toumen Island , held for over a year by the Communists , and Tachen. a strong point of the Chinese Nationalists which has now been subjected to Communist bombing . If , as seems highly probable , the Communists desire and intend to capture the whole of the screen of small offshore islands along their coast Yikiangshan would be a logical military approach to an assault on Tachen . Yikiangshan is about 12 miles from Tachen . Twelve ? 1 's would be an easier distance for the Communists to co.er than the 24 from the mainland harbor of Taichow . A A The background importance of the operation lies in its relationship to the larger question of the whole screen of offshore islands along the China coast . Two years ago the Chinese Nationalists held most of these islands . They constituted a Nationalist-held outpost screen covering a stretch of 500 miles of the China coast @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this screen of islands has both offensive and defensive values . For example , Tachen Island , the presumed ultimate objective of the present Communist operation toward the northern end of this screen , includes a radar station which is of some value in warning of air or sea forays from the neighboring China coast which might be directed at Formosa , Okiana , or even at Japan . It is useful in the defense of these three major American outposts in the Far Pacific to have Tachen in friendly hands . But from a Chinese mainland point of view , the possession of Tachen by the Chinese Nationalists , who are allied with the United States , presents an offensive threat . Tachen can be . and has been . a base for the harassment of the mainland , and for interference with Chinese Communist coastal shipping . It could also be useful in the event of an attempted invasion of the mainland of China by Chinese Nationalist forces . Thus , the Chinese Nationalists and the United States have a defensive reason for wishing to keep Tachen out of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ What We Need fensive reasons for desiring control of Tachen , and ultimately of all the offshore islands . From the United States Paint of view Tachen , and most other islands of the offshore screen , is more important offensively than defensively . It is not vital to the defense of Japan . Okinawa , or even Formosa . It is merely of minor usefulness . It is important primarily as a means to interference with Chinese coastal shipping and as a base for harassment of the mainland . The increasing Communist military pressure on the off-. shore islands is , therefore , a challenge primarily to the retention in Chinese Nationalist hands of military positions useful for execution of a policy of possible blockade of the China coast and a policy of continued harassment of that coast . So long as the Korean and Indochina wars were going on , it was United States policy to use Formosa and its dependent islands as bases for diversionary pressure on the Chinese mainland . Now that those wars are ended , there is no direct United States purpose which is served @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ continuation of the forays against the mainland . A A A However . continuation of such operations , and continued possession of the means to carry them out , is important to the hopes of the Nationalist Chinese on Formosa . These operations constitute a means of exercising their military forces , and the principal method of keeping alive the idea of an eventual return to the mainland . If the possession of the islands for these ends , and their use in this manner , were to be ended either by an international " cease fire , " or by United States action , or by loss of the islands , then the hope which has sustained the Chiang Kai-shek cause on Formosa would largely flicker out . Formosa would cease to be the center of a government in exile still enjoying a living prospect of a return to power on the mainland . It would instead be the living place of a rump China . This is really the heart of the issue . Is the United States going to continue to nourish and hold in readiness the possibility @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so , it should seek to help Formosa retain its offshore islands . Or is it going to accept the existence of Communist China as an intrenched condition in the world ? If it is , Washington should either support a cease fire , or stand aside as the Communists gather in the offshore islands . The decision is not an easy one .                     