@@720543

txt A psychiatrist at large in the big and busy West German delegation to the foreign ministers meeting here last week might have diagnosed the mood as slightly schizophrenic . By rights the West Germans ought to be crying in their beer over the way the East-West parleying has dashed their dream of ieunifying Germany anytime in the next decade or so And yet the attitude of the men of the West German Federal Republic is one of stoic calm The explanation . When it comes to reunifying their war-divided country . West Germans are . in fact . very much of two minds Nobody really questions that the popular yearning for unity is genuine and profound . But West Germans for the most part are also strongly attracted by a sense of belonging to the Western " club . " And their reunification urge is dulled not only by the sort of complacency that goes with glittering prosperity but also by the inertia that comes from almost absolute faith in a strong leader . The upshot of all this inner conflict at the moment is a powerful @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all the recent angry attacks against aging West German Chancellor Adenauer , hardly a whisper has been raised against his rock-hard policy of stiff resistance to any Russian reunification terms that might pry the Bonn Republic even slightly away from the West In almost all their deliberations with their Western partners . insiders report , Dr. Adenauer 's representatives have counseled caution and dragged their heels . " They 've been afraid to put their name to anything for fear it might change their setup somehow . " says one Allied official , adding ? " You 've got to remember this is a young country : they lack confidence in themselves Sure they 'd like to unify , but they also like the security and respectability that goes with being in the Western Alliance . " Immediate Impact Ironically . if the immediate impact of this inner conflict is a partial paralysis in West Germany 's approach to reunification , the upshot over the long haul may be just the reverse The real question bothering U ' S Secretary of State Herter and his aides is not whether the %Vest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but whether they 'll continue to wait indefinitely for it on their terms With the West and Russia lest . it Celli-Hocked on the German question . the future state of mind of the West Germans themselves could have a rather important effect Nobody to he sure , expects the West Germans , however great their reunification frustration may grow as a result of the rebuff their hopes have so far received here , to plunge into reunity talks on Russia 's terms when the foreign ministers meeting resumes or any other time soon Not many West Germans are tempted by the sort of " confederation ' between a capitalist West ' Germany and Communized East Germany that the Russians have proposed . Russian boss Nikita Khrushchev , it should be noted , probably could not go much beyond that offer and still hope to hang on to his puppet East German regime But he might he able to play on reunification hopes with offers that could lure the West Germans Into trimming ties to the West a bit by resisting rearmament or taking other steps pleasing to the Kremlin At @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ many American diplomats here To understand it requires a 10011 at the mixed emotions that make West German* at once fervently for reunification and keen to remain a member of the Western team . To a great many West Germans . acceptsore as a Western partner barely 14 years after the Nazis were terrorizing Europe is something of a miracle in itself " Maybe it 's only because the Germans are so rich that the welcome mat is out for them all over Europe but they ca n't help being impressed by it " says one allied diplomat He and others argue that a West German mm e tniva z d neutrality , in an effort to ineratiate the Russians and grease the way iowa is reunification , might blight their %% estern " family ' membership It 's Chancellor Adenauer 's specific aim to entangle West Gel mans so tightly with the test that can only come on the basis of his Federal Republic simply absnthing the puppet East German outfits The common market is the machinery Dr Adenauer has in mind for doing this , its unspoken aim is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that comes about , if it ever does at all , common trade policies , uniform labor standards and perhaps even a common currency will have to he hammered nut Within a decade . West Germany and its fop common mat ket partners , France . Italy , and the Benelux trio , will have had to surrender considerable sovereignty to common market economic institutions and the Federal Republic . Chancellor Adenauer fondly hopes , will be inextricably entwined with the West . A booming economy is another reason West Germans . while sold on the idea of reunification . do n't want to tamper with the status quo . There 's no guarantee , of course . that reunification would necessarily end West Germany 's prosperity , but the feeling is that the safest course may be not to change anything at all The postwar economic resurgence can be measured in such things as a six-fold boost to the number of autos on the toad since 1950. with 20M of these cars owned by workers . One West German house in five now has a refrigerator , whereas the ratio @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to these considerations some special ones . The reigning Christian Democratic party is not unaware that the electorate of East Germany , if added to that of West Germany , would boost the proportion of socialist voters in a reunified Germany and thus upset the political power balance . This could end the Christian Democratic edge which has brought it victory in the three national elecions ' since the Federal Republic was established . West German businessmen also would find ftesh competition on home markets from expanding , if still relatively backwaid . East German firms De-communizing East German industry would bring headaches galore . Almost everybody in the Federal Republic would wind up paying higher taxes to help rehabilitate the Eastern sector and recent public opinion soundings established the not surprising fact that the idea is n't much relished . As important as anything in the West German frame of mind towards German reunification is the politically overpowering per . sonality of Chancellor Adenauer himself . In chats with West Germans you quickly discover that they credit him , rightly or not , with much of the economic and political @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ idea that ' papa knows best ' is a strong one with Germans . " says one Western diplomat permanently posted there . " Whatever the press is saying about Adenauer and his one-man rule , you can bet the man on the street is stringing along with the old man A West German politico who says he 's " very angry " about the Chancellor s latest political power pia in which he reclaimed his Chancellor 's job after agreeing to run for the less powerful Presidency is nonetheless sold on the " old man 's tough , pro-Western foreign policy . These things help reconcile West Germans to the status quo But they represent only one side of the story Moreover , some of the most important factors in favor of the prevailing attitude towards reunification are particularly subject to change . For example , despite impressive evidence to the contrary . it seems logical that Dr Adenauer can not go on running the Federal Republic indefinitely ; departure from the scene is certain to have deep repercussions on the reunification IssIle Strong 1-land Without a strong hand at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about t eunificatinn would have freer play Some 30M. of the Federal Republic population halve relatives living in East Germany under the Communist thumb Some 12 million of the riser 52 million West Germans ate then.sek es r efugees from East Germany or from the lost territories East of the Oder Neisse line gobbled up by Russia and handed over to Poland after the war . Prosperity . too , plays its part An economic ' downturn , while it might take West Getman minds off reunification . might also set the stage for a political upheaval in country thought to be highly susceptible to political chance in troubled times . The very real concern of S experts is that a demagogic leader might use the reunification issue in a hid for power , playing on overa might West Ger man emotions White Komar ! Adenauer is Chancellor , the ti S 1-imitable has little to worry about on this score , es en afterwards . changes wmild probably conic slow Iv . barring a depression or a sudden change of Smiet strategy . there 's pet haps not much a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ without making monumental concessions to the Russians The current West German stoicism about reunification may he misleading nonetheless , just as is the notion that the West German hankering for reunification know s no bounds The fact of the matter is that there Is a little truth in both for on the issue of reunification , West Germans , collectively , are of two minds .                     