@@714385

txt Senator Lodge has encouraged the hopes of those who have waited eagerly for news that General Eisenhower will accept the Republican nomination if it is offered to him , but a clear and unequivocal statement from General Eisenhower himself is still lacking . The reason for this is obvious . General Eisenhower has been reluctant to make any statement of a political nature while he is still serving his country in a military post , and it is characteristic of the man that he should wish to continue this service up to the point at which he decided  --  if he should so decide  --  that he can be of still greater service to his country if elected to a higher office . This is the situation which has explained General Eisenhower 's personal silence on political matters in recent months . It is a situation which is readily understandable , but one that has brought small comfort to many in this country . While General Eisenhower has maintained his self-imposed silence the prestige of the Truman Administration  --  which has done many good and bold and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been steadily declining . At the same time , on the Republican side , there is evidence of the rise of a new " semi-isolationism " which pays lip service to the necessity of American leadership in world affairs , but which openly or covertly puts its real emphasis on the high cost of American rearmament , of American alliances and of American efforts to keep our friends abroad from going under . In these circumstances we venture to hope that the period of General Eisenhower 's silence is nearing an end , and that he will soon give a direct and affirmative answer to the many Americans who are convinced that he is superbly equipped to carry the great responsibilities of the Presidency . This widespread faith in General Eisenhower 's fitness to be President is deeply sincere and wholly spontaneous . It rests on an appraisal both of the man and of his works . It is founded , in the first instance , on the feeling of trust which is inspired by his simplicity , his candor , his habit of forthrightness . It is reinforced by respect @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ high courage and firm resolution which he has brought to the handling of every situation with which he has been called upon to deal . These are the fundamental qualities of leadership . There is no inclination on the part of the American people to look upon this man as a superman ; there is , instead , a belief that here is indeed a very modest man , part of whose great strength lies in the fact that he knows how to seek good counsel and to profit from it . There is no readiness , on the part of the many Americans who wish him to be President , to load upon his shoulders the responsibilities which they as good citizens should not shirk individually ; there is , instead , a reassuring faith that here is a plainspoken man who can make the individual citizen more keenly aware of his own responsibilities and who can achieve the willing cooperation of all groups and all factions in the common interest of the nation . It is true that General Eisenhower has not yet had occasion to describe in dot:Ill @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ equally true that he has revealed , in every act of his exceptional career , qualities of fairness , of reasonableness , of compassion and of sound common sense which justify faith in his intentions . It is also true that in the field in which he has had occasion to take definite positions , because he has had definite responsibilities  --  the field of foreign policy  --  his views have been expressed clearly and vigorously , in his counsel and in his actions . In this field he has shown himself to be fully aware of the necessity of American leadership , highly efficient in achieving the cooperation of valued democratic colleagues , and thoroughly capable of upholding the prestige of the United States with dignity and honor . In three of the last five Presidential elections this newspaper has given its support to the Democratic candidate ? not always because we favored the domestic policies of those candidates , and , in fact , in more than one instance , despite strong and openly expressed disagreement on our part with many of these policies . We have given our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we were reluctant to trust the Republican party on issues of foreign policy and because we believed these issues to be the decisive issues of the campaign , towering high above all domestic issues  --  for the clear and sufficient reason that without a sound and courageous foreign policy the safety , the prosperity , even the very independence , of this nation would be endangered . In General Eisenhower we have a man who shares this conviction . We are confident that he would be able to lead even the laggards among his fellow Republicans away from isolation and toward world responsibility . We are confident that he would use the great power of the United States bravely , but with a sober sense of values . We are confident that the keynote of his policy would be peace ? through strength . If Dwight Eisenhower should be nominated by the Republican party as its candidate for President , we shall support him enthusiastically .                     