@@713639

txt United Nations Secretary-Genel al Trygve Lie has minimized the importance of Russian Prime Minister Joseph Stalin 's recent denunciation of the United Nations and , in effect , dismissed it as intended primarily for Russian home consumption . This virtually unprecedented reply by the UN secretary-general to a statement by the head of a member state came on the eve of the opening here in this sunny picturesque Chilean capital of a four-week session of the United Nations Economic and Social Council . Dramatic Emphasis The recent upsurge of " sharper " statements by East-West leaders " should not cause any surprise , " Mr , Lie told a press conference of more than 100 Latin-American journalists . " This does not necessarily mean that governments are changing their positions . " he said . Stalin had charged in a Pravda interview Feb. 16 that the United Nations " is becoming a weapon of aggressive war " and that it therefore " dooms itself to disintegration . " Mr. Lie 's reply was that the Stalin statement was propaganda and rather bewhiskered propaganda at that  --  although @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ blunt terms . What he said was that statements by Stalin and others comprised " an attempt to convince their opponents or adherents . or both . of the wisdom of their particular viewpoints and attitudes . This sometimes is done in a more dramatic way than before . " Mr. Lie said he believed there is " far less difference between the statesmen of the great powers on the overriding issues of war and peace than appears from some of their public statements . " Mum on Soviet . ' Exit ' Mr. Lie dodged questions speculating on Russia 's withdrawal from the UN , describing them as " premature . " He said he agreed with the Soviet generalissimo that war is not inevitable . Significance of the secretary-general 's brief comment is seen here not so much in what he said as in the fact he sought to quiet widespread concern in Latin America on the effect of the Stalin interview on the UN . It was clearly Mr. Lie 's intention to set the incident in the broader perspective of the Korean war , the declaration of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ build collective security . The secretary-general 's purpose in flying to Santiago for the first meeting of a major UN organ in Latin America  --  a trip which has made a great impression here ? is to focus attention on the stability of the United Nations , its constructive work on behalf of underdeveloped countries , and the importance of economic well-being in long-range efforts for peace .                     