@@719746

txt WASHINGTON , May 10 ? The demonstrations against Vice President Richard M. Nixon during his current tour of Latin America are prompting a new assessment here of United States relations with nations in that area . Official sources said they expected a review to begin after Mr. Nixon 's return to Washington May 15 . By that time , it is believed , the State Department will have completed its studies of the riots . The reassessment is expected to deal with the following major considerations : 9The long-held dissatisfaction in South America with the United States ' preoccupation with affairs iutside the Western Hemisphere while the LatinAmerican countries seem to be taken for granted . IIThe charges within Administration circles that the United States has failed to make its policies in South America convincing despite substantial efforts in the fields of trade and aid . Reappraisal Is Urged At the Capitol , statements were made calling for a reappraisal of Latin-American relations . Senator John Sherman Cooper , a former Ambassador to India , said he doubted that the hostile displays could be attributed simply to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ evidence of open and continuing animosity toward this country and Its policies , " the Kentucky Republican declared . " This is more than . just a I Communist show . I think it represents some deep-seated grievances . Perhaps the Latin-American countries feel that we have been too preoccupied with Europe and Asia and have forgotten our closest friends . " Senator Cooper said that the riots " certainly point up the imperative necessity of passage of the Reciprocal Trade Agreements Act without all of the restrictions that have been proposed to it . " Another Republican Senator , George D. Aiken of Vermont , took another tack . He thought Congress might express resentment over the treatment given Mr. Nixon by adopting an even more severe reciprocal trade law . Disparity on Red Strength Representative Thomas E. Morgan , Democrat of Pennsylvania , who is chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee , said the violence against Vice President Nixon in Lima , Peru , " naturally suggests a thorough review of our troubles in Latin America , the Communist situations , and so on . " " In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not seem to coincide with what Congress has been told about the Communist menace ' in Latin America , " he added . Senator Theodore F. Green , Democrat of Rhode Island , said he would wait until the Vice President returned before discussing action by the Senate Foreign Relations Committee , of which he is chairman . One United States source //  - -  - commented that the Government undoubtedly would review its relations with South America . particularly with respect to public information activities there . " There is a feeling that we are not getting our story across there and that we have got to do more field work with local organizations , " this source said . However , another official asserted that while the United States would reconsider its Latin-American relations , it probably would do nothing about them . " We have had shockers before . " he said , " but after the initial impact is gone we fall hack into our old habit of taking South America for granted . " The renewed discussion here of United States relations with South America coincided with an announcement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Monday with the military representatives of the twenty-one American republics on the InterAmerican Defense Board . Board a Permanent Body The board is a permanent body , established in March . 1942. and made a part of the 0 : - ganization of Arff. ' 11Call States . The President 's invitation to the military officials was sent a few days ago . but an official source emphasized that it had been planned for some time . Gen. Lemuel C. Shepherd Jr. , former Marine Corps commandant , arranged the meeting with President Eisenhower . An official source said tthe board " is currently engaged in planning and recommending measures relative to the defense of the Hemisphere against external aggression and , in particular , against the international Communist conspiracy . " Questions were raised here whether Vice President Nixon ought to go ahead with a European trip . Senator Mike Mansfield . Democrat of Montana , said the President would have to take into account whether European Communists might not seek to duplicate the anti-United States demonstrations of their Latin-American comrades . Most officials rejected the idea that Mr. Nixon should @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there .                     