@@719226

txt The Secretary of the Army anH pounced tonight that 500 of thei 1,000 Army paratroopers in ! Little Rock , Ark. , would be withdrawn , " starting immedi-1 ately . " Wilber M. Brucker also ordered the release from Federal service of 8,500 of the 10,300 Arkansas National Guardsmen federalized Sept. 24 . Mr. Brucker said he gave the orders " in recognition of the generally orderly situation which has prevailed in Little Rock " since the troops moved in . In Little Rock the order came as a surprise . The Army expects to start moving men out Wednesday . The Secretary left Maj. Gen. Edwin A. Walker in charge of the remaining forces and ordered him to use the Arkansas Guard as his " major operational force " in carrying out his mission of " enforcement of a Federal court order . " An Army spokesman said that up to now the paratroopers from the 101st Airborne Division and Arkansas Guardsmen had split up the duty of patrolling Central High School and making sure that the nine Negro students attending the school were not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ give the primary patrolling responsibility ! to the Guardsmen . Mr. Brucker 's order said that the 1,800 Guardsmen to be reined in Federal service would se " selected on an individual , basis from the entire Arkansas National Guard . " The paratroopers relieved of duty will be flown back to their base in Kentucky . The drastic reduction of the military garrison in Little Rock ' while it may help to reduce tension , does nothing in itself to solve the impasse still existing between the Federal Govern- ' ment and the Governor of Arkansas , Orval E. Faubus . President Eisenhower has made plain that the troops will stay to enforce the integration order of the Federal District Court until he receives satisfactory assurances from Governor Faubus that the Governor will use his powers to enforce the order and prevent violence . Governor Faubus has suggested that only a withdrawal of the ? Nsgro students would break the impasse . Surprise at Little Ruck By HOMER BIGART Special to The New York Times . LITTLE ROCK , Oct. 14 ? The decision to sharply reduce Federal forces here @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ released his announcement before notifying General Walker . Official orders from the Pentagon were not received by General Walker until shortly before 8 P. M. local time or nearly four and one-half hours after Mr. Brucker had released his statement . Then General Walker 's staff began planning the force reduction . An aide said no paratroopers would be shipped out tonight . He doubted if any would leave tomorrow . " We are not working on a crash deal , " he said . The paratroopers are trained to move on a few hours ' notice . Mr. Brucker said the reduction in force would commence immediately . But the decision was taken so abruptly that no arrangements had been made early tonight for aircraft to transport the paratroopers back to their home base at Fort Campbell , Ky . There was confusion also 9ver Mr. Brucker 's decision to release the bulk of the Arkansas National Guard from Federal control . Mr. Brucker said that only 1,800 guardsmen would be retained under General Walker 's ' command , and that " the , major operating force " would be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ This regiment , which has shared duty with paratroopers ' at Central High since Sept. 24 , has the strength of 1.500 . Mr.1 Brucker wants 1,800 men andl he said he wanted them " selected on an individual basis from the whole National Guard . " General Walker 's headquarters was awaiting clarification on how the extra men would be selected . Mr. Brucker 's decision caused mixed reactions here . Although no civic leaders would go on record as saying that the reduction was premature , some felt that no troops should be withdrawn until the leaders of the adult white mobs who rioted in front of the school on Sent . 23 Nv er o convicted . And while great numbers of Federal agents have been collecting evidence , there is still no indication that suspects will soon be brought to justice . Governor Faubus , who has denounced what he calls " Federal occupation " of Little Rock , refused to comment on the Brucker statement . Mrs. L. C. Bates , chairman of the Arkansas Chapter of the N. A. A. C. P. , said that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ because " tension has died down some . " Mrs. Bates is the chief adviser to the nine Negro students enrolled at Central High . Governor Faubus told a press conference this morning that he was expecting new peace overtures in the Central High School integration deadlock.1 But he remained adamant in his conviction that peaceful integration would never be achieved by the use of Federal troops . He said he was awaiting a " contact " from the committee of Southern Governors and that he also would meet this week with a group ? of local civic leaders who have urged peaceful acceptance of integration . Emerging from four days ' seclusion at the executive mansion where he was confined with influenza , the Governor suggested that integration at Central . High School might win community acceptance " in less than a year . " But he stuck to his statement of last week that a " temporary withdrawal " of the nine Negro students from the high school was necessary to restore calm . Undecided on Appeal He said he did not know whether he would issue a public @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them to withdraw voluntarily . A voluntary withdrawal , he said " would solve the whole thing . " " Everybody ? would go home , " he added . " The National Guard would be demobilized . Army troops would be withdrawn . It 's difficult to solve the present situation with Negro children in the school by force . " But he remarked that any attempt on his part to encourage the withdrawal of the Negro students might be interpreted as obstruction of the Federal court . Only seven of the nine Negro students returned to their classes at Central High this morning . The two missing students , Terrence Roberts and Melba Pattillo , were ill with influenza . Today half of the thirty soldiers stationed inside the school were Arkansas National Guardsmen . This was the largest number of Guardsmen to be entrusted to corridor guard duty since the failure two weeks ago of a trial attempt to let the Guardsmen have full control of school security . After twodays of increasing disorder , the Guardsmen were replaced by paratroopers on Oct. 3 . Governor Faubus told @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " to call a special meeting of the Arkansas Legislature to deal with racial integration problems . One solution it may consider is action similar ' to that of the Florida Legislature , which is setting up local machinery for the closing of any school that is integrated by force of Federal troops .                     