@@720749

txt Israel has placed the United Nations on notice that it " is not prepared to accept " what it considers " illegal discrimination " against its shipping in the Suez Canal . Exactly what steps the Israel Government plans to take to secure free passage if . as expected , the United Arab Republic continues to deny it . Mrs. Golda Meir , the Israeli Foreign Minister , has not explained . She appears to be seeking to avoid a threatening posture . Dr. Farid Zeineddine of the U.A.R. , replying to Mrs. Meir , has pointed out that Suez passage is one of the " aspects " of the Palestine problem . Others are refugees , borders , and trade . He implies that the Suez blockade is Arab bargaining power which will not be sacrificed without a quid pro quo . This exchange took place Sept. 24 in the 82-nation UN General Assembly . By contrast with most earlier Arab-Israeli verbal battles , it seemed mild to observers . Both Mrs. Meir and Dr. Zeineddine withheld their strongest invective . Significance Uncertain wnetner this relative @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ say . Except for the Suez problem , the Middle East has been quieter in the past year than it has been in a long time ; and behind-the-scenes diplomacy has kept Suez from breaking into flame . There are some who believe that in this atmosphere progress might be made toward a settlement of at least some " aspects " of the Arab-Israel quarrel . It is , however , much too early to say . Others believe the quiet will have to continue for a much longer period before peacemaking becomes feasible . Later in this session of the Assembly , the problem of the Palestine refugees will come up for urgent discussion . Unless extended , present UN aid to these 970,000-odd Arab expatriates will come to an end in mid-1960 . Secretary-General Dag Ham- marskjold has proposed that the assistance be made quasipermanent . Dr. Zeineddine stopped just short of directly linking the refugees with Suez passage . But observers drew the inference  --  and it seemed clear he wanted the inference to be drawn  --  that Israel would be permitted to use the canal if it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could be reached under which Israel would accept some of the refugees and compensate the others is a key question , It is very doubtful that Israel would accept all 970,000 , or indeed that they all would want to go , if given the alternative of genero ? s compensation for lost property . Israel argues that it should not have to purchase free Suez passage at a bargaining table ; that such passage should be available as a matter of right . The Arabs argue that an opportunity to return home should be available to the refugees as a matter of right . Mrs. Meir made her case at greater length than did Dr. Zeineddine and with a larger docket of law and precedent . She sought to persuade major users of the canal  --  notably the United States and Great Britain  --  that if free passage could be denied to one user , Israel , it could be denied to others if the United Arab Republic considered such action in its national interest . Success Doubted There is no sign that this bid for American and British diplomatic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as Israel would like it to be . Both Washington and London have put themselves on record anew as favoring free passage , but there has been no note of urgency visible . Mr. Hammarskjold made a thorough-going study of the Arab refugee problem this past year , and reported to the Assembly that massive economic assistance over at least a live-year period would be necessary before the Mideast could absorb the refugees . This report was widely interpreted as suggesting that the bait of large-scale aid should be dangled in front of the Arabs to tempt them to accept the refugees , instead of insisting that they all be repatriated to Israel . Mr. Hammarskjold denies that this was his intention . He explains that he thought of economic development as a precondition for , not the proposed price of , a settlement . In any event , the Arabs have shown little interest in a bargain . There may be a severe testing-time ahead when American reluctance to go on supporting the refugees runs head on into Arab insistence that they be supported indefinitely in their present camps . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Suez , may serve to align the West with Israel . It may be that because of this possibility . Israel is biding its time , abstaining from an all-out diplomatic drive in the pyrotechnic tradition .                     