@@713135

txt Letters to The Times HENRY MAYERKLEMENS VON KLEMPERERANTONIO QUEVEDO , STEPHEN B. VREELAND.JAMES F ... Letters to The Times Guarding Service Men 's Jobs Loopholes Said to Exist in Present Laws , Amendments Favored To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : I am prompted to write this ' letter by reason of the article which appeared in THE TIMES of Aug. 11 entitled " Law Protects Jobs of Men in Service . " Unfortunately , the law does not protect the jobs of all the men in service or those who are going into service : The Selective Service Acts , which were passed in 1940 , 1948 and 1950 for the purpose of assuring re-employment and seniority rights to those who enlist or are inducted , into the armed forces , contain some cruel jokers . With respect to those who enlist , the protective rights written into the law cover only those wlbo enlist for a period of not more than three years . The Navy and Air Forces adopted a rule some time ago that no one could enlist for less than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Navy or the Air Forces does not receive the protection of the law with respect to reemployment , seniority and other rights guaranteed to those who are inducted or enlist in other branches of the armed forces . The present laws also exclude from their protective application those who re-enlist . During the present international crisis many individuals are being persuaded to re-enlist or they are voluntarily doing so , but I am sure that few , if any , have an appreciation of the fact that such re-enlistment destroys their re-employment rights under the law . The present law contains no coverage regarding re-employment and other rights for those who are called upon to leave their jobs for training in the military services of the United States or in the National Guard . Action Asked The Bureau of Veterans Re-employment Rights has just proposed a series of amendments to Section 9 of the Selective - Service Act of 1948 , as amended , which will plug up all of these loopholes . These amendments are now before the Senate and House Military Affairs Committees and they should be acted upon without @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who on a voluntary basis enter the armed services . Another situation which might well be taken care of by amendments to the law arises from the desire on the part of many employers to dissuade workers from volunteering for military service unless they face the possibility of induction or call by a reserve component of the armed forces . These employers have refused to give voluntary enlistees those benefits outside the present law which such employers have been gracious enough to give by agreement to those who are inducted or who are called to duty as members of some reserves . The Bureau of Veterans Re-employment Rights , which is the agency required by law to take care of the interests of men and women who enlist or who are inducted into the armed forces , is doing a fine job . However , it is sadly undermanned , having only forty-three individuals taking care of the entire country and only two covering the states of New York , New Jersey and Connecticut . Adequate appropriations should be provided for the bureau , so that it would be in a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ MAYER . New York , Aug. 11 , 1950 . Our Desire for Peace To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Shall it remain the exclusive prerogative of the Communist party to cry for peace ? The bulk of the American people , who earnestly desire world-wide peace , are being drummed into silence by the current newspaper practice of placing the phrase " peace rally " between quotation marks and emphasizing that all such are suspect of being Communist-sponsored . Thus , patriotic Americans , assailed by the double fear of being falsely branded Communist and of giving aid and comfort to the Communists by seeming to swell their ranks , remain silent on this question . Who wishes for peace must speak up for peace . The fact that certain groups not to our taste are speaking out for the same thing  --  whether their remarks be sincere or not  --  must not serve as a , deterrent and must certainly not place us on the opposite side ; that of war . Millions the world over who were once sympathetic to the United States stand bewildered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to have the hounds of war again loosed on mankind . LEE ROSEN . New York , Aug. 3 , 1950. phrase , more compelling , more downto-earth , which is not concerned with the ambiguities of higher policy but with the basics of tactics . " If you want to defend your territory , build trenches . " ? In other words , trenches are strictly defensive installations and are useless for attack . KLErvIENS VON KLEMPERER . Northampton , Mass. , Aug. 5 , 1950 . Report on Hungary Underground Sources Quoted on Terror Under Communist Regime To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : All reports arriving at the Hungarian National Council from reliable underground sources agree as to one thing : the Communists are liquidating with feverish speed all groups and organizations considered dangerous . The building of concentration camps for the middle class is under progress . They are now called labor camps . Up to now there were only three big concentration camps in Hungary . These camps are generally built on a site of three-fourths square mile , and are surrounded by barbed-wire @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Auschwitz . These camps are instruments of terror . The recurring sentences in each report received are unanimous in stating that terror in Hungary is so strong today that with the exception of the fifteen to twenty top party functionaries even the members of the Communist party live in constant dread . The two armament factories in Budapest , as well as the Lampart and the Manfred Weiss factories , are producing weapons day and night , as do all establishments for war production . The Hoffherr-Schrantz factory in Kispest now produces tanks exclusively instead of tractors . The slogan is : " We must be ready by the end of 1950 . " There is a great shortage of metal , steel and all sorts of wooden materials . All material is used for military purposes . The army and the police forces enjoy all kinds of privileges , but are totally under Russian control . The Russians and the M. V. D. render all movements of protest impossible . All permits for keeping hunting rifles have been withdrawn from the peasant class . Only Communist party members leasing a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , desperation leads many a person to make an attempt on the life of hated political characters . The Communist party secretary was recently killed in Szeged . On Dec. 23 , 1949 , the party secretary of KaPosvar was shot while in his car . The party secretary of Abony was killed in February . The perpetrator , a peasant , was tried by court-martial . He was given no lawyer to defend him and was immediately hanged . Not a word of the occurrence appeared in the papers . Anti-Semitic tendencies are directed from higher places , probably by orders from Moscow . Minister Joseph Revai , former Communist Minister Istvan Kossa , and Joseph Gem , a member of the Hungarian Parliament , are the official instigators . The Jews are accused of sabotaging the Five Year Plan . BELA FABIA , N , Member of the Executive Committee of the Hungarian National Council . New York , Aug. 5 , 1950 . Ecuador 's Relations With Spain To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : THE NEW YORK TIMES of Aug. 8 contains an article entitled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Nations , " in which the present status of the diplomatic relations between Spain and the members of the United Nations is reviewed . This review includes Ecuador among the members who have at present Ministers in Spain , information which is inaccurate . Ecuador voted against the resolution of Dec. 12 , 1946 , of the General Assembly , by which the General Assembly recommended the withdrawal from Spain of the Ambassadors and Ministers Plenipotentiary of the member states . In the following sessions of the General Assembly , Ecuador has supported several intents to revoke this resolution . However , the Government of . Ecuador , in compliance with the above-mentioned resolution , has not appointed an Ecuadorean Minister in Madrid . The Legation of Ecuador in Madrid is headed by a Charge d'Affaires ad interim . ANTONIO QUEVEDO , Permanent Representative of Ecuador to the United Nations . New York , Aug. 9 , 1950 . To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK Taunt It is a pity that your editorial of Aug. 9 on " The Smoke Hearing " was so misleading . The hearing on Aug. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rules and ' regulations , and a great number of citizens exercised their right of criticism . The two Yorkville housewives who spoke were entirely correct . However , their criticism was taken care of in the first step for smoke abatement , which was the passing of the smoke-control ordinance . No one at the hearing disputed the necessity for smoke abatement . Both the citizens and industry want to make the city a better place in which to live and carry on business . Your editorial criticizes the representatives of industry for pointing out that smoke abatement will create higher prices and costs , and , as you put it , many speakers believed tough smoke control was fine --  -- for the other fellow . Doubt as to Effects You neglected to point out that the medical and scientific authorities who spoke at the hearing agreed that there was much doubt and lack of knowledgek regarding the effects of air pollution and methods or means of controlling the same . What industry was trying to point out was that when the cause and effect are unknown or uncertain drastic and experimental @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which can not be controlled in a few days or weeks . It is a long-range proposition . What is certain is that smoke abatement can be accomplished by control of what comes out of the chimney or stack . What the Smoke Control Bureau should be interested now is the elimination of the emission of noxious gases and ash from the stack and leave it up to industry to work out the elimination of the causes of such emission . I do not believe any of the speakers thought smoke control was fine  --  for the other fellow . They all thought smoke control was fine . The only things they criticized were the nature of the regulations , many of which they believed were in no way essential or helpful to the accomplishment of the purpose . Naturally , each representative viewed the regulations from the standpoint of his own industry . That the proposed regulations were a matter of guesswork in many respects is indicated by the news article in the same issue in wYkh you state that the bureau now proposes to eliminate the requirement regarding sulphur @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ societies were opposed to the proposed regulations in substantial re- , meets . Duplication of Work Your editorial neglects entirely to point out that many of the proposed regulations would have duplicated the work that is already being done by other city departments . For instance , before an oil burner installation can be put into operation it must be shown that the equipment will operate without producing smoke . Such determination is made after inspection by the Fire Department . In other words , approval by the Smoke Control Bureau would be mere surplusage . Such inspection establishes that the burner can operate without smoke . If it does emit smoke then the Smoke Control Bureau should step in and see that its operation is so corrected that smoke will be eliminated . Unfortunately , the representatives of industry can not make the dramatic presentation made by- the housewives . Facts and figures are not sensational . STEPHEN B. VREELAND . New York , Aug. 9 , 1950 . Restoring Vienna 's Cathedral To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Your editorial " Vienna 's Alte Steffel " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ St. Stephen 's was partly rebuilt ( in nave ) and put into use at Christmas of 1948 . The task of total restoration is difficult to comprehend , and one would wish , indeed , that this were carried out by some philanthropic-minded wealthy Americans , on a personal basis , rather than from the E. R. P. loan . After the First World War wealthy Americans offered to aid in the restoration of the cathedrals of Belgium and France , particularly in the case of the much-loved Rheims Cathedral , thereby commanding the admiration of the whole civilized world . Vienna is not less important than Rheims . Here is a golden opportunity for us to pay a debt to the fair city for the joy she has given the world . St. Stephen 's stands as the central object in Canaletto 's panoramic painting of the city , a canvas exhibited at our Metropolitan Museum in recent months . Schottenmeister in the fifteenth century used the city and cathedral as a background for his " Flight Into Egypt . " After the air attacks in the last war @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ walls . The high-flung roof of multicolored tiles , unique in Europe , was totally demolished . The great 440-foot south spire remained standing , but the fall of the nineteen-ton bell did much harm . The cathedral 's sculptured stonework ( outside and within ) , the most extensive in Europe , was badly damaged . Stained windows , paintings , grilles , marble altarpieces and ancient tombs have all been ruined . The reconstruction task borders on the impossible . But we all hope that Vienna will regain what you call " a timeless personal friend . " JAMES F. JOHNSON . Valley Stream , N , Y. , Aug. 7 , 1950 . Use of Trenches in Warfare To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : In the meeting of the U. N. Security Council on Aug. 3 Mr. Malik , accusing the United States of aggression in Korea , used as his main evidence the " eloquent photographs " showing John Foster Dulles in the trenches south of the Thirty-eighth Parallel . Though Sir Gladwyn Jebh has gallantly refuted this charge , I would like to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ might convince even Mr. Malik of the fallacy of his position . My argument comes in two variations to the theme of our defensive position in Korea . There is the Latin proverb " Si vis pacem , para bellum . " This paradox might not be beyond the comprehension of a statesman of the U. S. S. R. , which keeps near to two hundred divisions armed to protect itself against the " encirclement " by " capitalistic powers . " But I grant that the United States in its present state of preparedness can hardly claim to have followed the logic of the above maxim . In that case I suggest a pare.                     