@@717094

txt Herbert Hoover said tonight his commission on organization of the executive branch of the government has recommended steps to save 6 billion dollars for the taxpayers so far . 1 " Ann beyond that there could be retucn. ed to the treasury about 7 billion of money which could be provided otherwise , " the former President said . Hoover gave the savings estimated by the commission 's task forces In an address to the 39th annual meeting of the National Industrial conference I hoard . Cites Many Reasons " Our job , " Hoover said , " is to search out the systems of organization and administration Willa need repairs . " Some of these faulty systems arc due to obsolete legislation , Some are due to the sacrosanct character of buroerotic empires . Some are due to the pressure groups that profit from the present setup . Some of these systems are due to the primary emotion of resentment to being waled up . " Hoover cited the commission 's enabling legislation , which says in part its purpose is " eliminating nonessential services , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " Wails Spread Across U. S. Of this phase of the commission 's work , Hoover said : " In a few cases , having no hive of completely recovering our national philosophy of life , we recommended that the government competitor with private enterprise at lea . t be on a self-supporting basis so as to pay his own expenses " The wails of those agencies and the pressure groups have spread across the land w ! th an accompaniment of impolite remarks . " The loss is not wholly the taxpayers ' money . It is also a loss by injury to the vitality of the private enterprise system . It is a destruction of freedom . " Hoover said 70 per cent of the recommendations of a similar commission five years ago , which he also headed , have been adopted " and great consequences in more efficient and more economical government have flowed from them . " I am confident that the pressure of American common sense will secure 70 per cent of our present recommendations in the next five years . " We have received @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ analysis of a mass of editorials clipped from newspapers from over all parts of the country shows well over 90 per cent favorable as against under 10 per cent of brickbats . " Hoover said the commission has completed and published reports an nine " functional cross-sections of the executive branch . You 1W1 receive five more within the next three weeks and there are several more in the mill . " In a message to the conference hoard , President Eisenhower extended to Hoover " the official gratitude of this government for the great services he has been rendering thru the medium of the Hoover commission : '                     