@@713174

txt The rush is over . The buyers ' scramble in New England apparently has slowed down , just as it has in other areas , despite the fact that the Korean war situation has been somewhat intensified . Sales remain high . But , due partly to antihoarding campaigns , and in part to the fact that people have found that they can get all they need of most items , the rush to hoard has petered out . Weckly statistics on the dollar value of department store sales in New England , issued by the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston , tell the story in a nutshell . Back the first of June , the dollar value of such sales was 1.9 per cent below the level of the same period a year ago . Then came the reports from Korea  --  and buying was stepped up . Climb in June Department store sales climbed steadily during June . For the first week of July , it was difficult to exactly appraise the situation , due to the fact that the July 4 holiday entered the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ week , as compared with a five-day week a year ago , But , for the week ending July 15 , sales were up 10 per cent . And for the week ending July 22 , they had shot up to 36 per cent above the same period last year . However , by the end of the next week , July 29 , the rush has subsided a bit , although sales were still 28 per cent above those of the corresponding week in 1949 . The week ending Aug. 5 saw a still further decline to 16 per cent . Slowing Down Seen For the most part , the advances in sales were noted in the house-furnishings , appliances , and worn- ; en 's apparel departments  --  with ? sales of radio and television sets skyrocketing at a terrific rate . The month of June saw brisk sales in these categories . But , by the middle of July they had , in some cases , shot upward to more than 10 times those of June . But , the week ending Aug. 5 showed a definite and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ department stores was being repeated in grocery and hardware stores . Retailers piled their shelves and windows full of sugar , soap , canned goods , and shortening in an effort to prove to the public ? which only five years ago today had hailed the ending of the rationing of gasoline , fuel oil , and canned goods  --  that these commodities were in plentiful supply . " As of a week ago , panic buying in the hardware stores began tapering off , " said Russell R. Mueller , secretary-treasurer of the New England Hardware Dealers Association .                     