@@717985

txt Scientists today reported new evidence that a virus could cause human leukemia , a 100 per cent fatal form of cancer . If so , a great breakthrough could come against leukemia , a cancer of the blood . It might make a vaccine possible , or drugs to control the disease . The new evidence was presented in three separate reports to the third national conference sponsored by the American Cancer society and the National Cancer institute . " Within a few years " we will know whether a virus is. actually the criminal , said Dr. Joseph W. Beard of Duke university . Similar to Other Viruses Dr. Beard , Dr. D. Gordon Sharp , and Dorothy Beard have isolated  --  and taken pictures of ? t h r e e separate viruses causing f o r m s of leukemia in chickens . These cancer viruses are similar to other viruses , they said . It is an additional sign that human leukemia might be caused by a virus . A Chicago team in experiments succeeded often in producing leukemia rapidly in mice by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cells of humans who died of leukemia . This indicates the fluids contained some tiny agent , possibly a virus , that induced leukemia , or accelerated its development . Given Immunity by Vaccine In another step , mice were successfully vaccinated to become immune to leukemia from infections of brain fluid , said Dr. Steven 0 . Schwartz , 1Dr . Harold M. Schoolman , and inn Paul . B. Szinto of the Hektoen Institute for Medical Research , Cook county hospital , Chicago . The mice were a type that ordinarily comes down with leukemia spontaneously . The brain cell fluids speeded appearance of the disease . The extract can be given to mice which normally resist leukemia without producing the disease . But these mice apparently become carriers , even for generations , and when extracts from their brains are given to susceptible mice , the extracs again produce leukemia . Sonic Developed Tumors Dr. Ludwik Gross of the Bronx veterans administration hospital , New York , described a curious and perhaps highly significant discovery . He had earlier found evidence that a virus or viruslike agent causes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , when given injections of the material , developed tumors in the glands of their necks , or tumors under the skin , instead of leukemia . When extracts were made from these tumors , and injected into newborn mice , those mice would develop either the neck or skin tumors or generalized leukemia . This could mean that one agent can cause different kinds of tumors . Or it could mean that the leukemia tissue , from which the extract was taken , I contains several separate agents .                     