@@715774

txt Republic of South Korea Army sources have bared a plot to free 22,500 anti-Communist prisoners from Indian custody and the Communists warned that a mass escape would " blow up " the truce . The ROKs notified the Indians through the Eighth Army that Provost Marshal Lt. Gen. Won Yung Duk was planning to carry out the plot even if it led to an armed clash betWeen South Koreans and Indians . It was General Won who almost wrecked the Korean truce aast.June 18 by permitting 27 , - 000 anti-Communist North Korean prisoners to flee Allied compounds under unilateral orders from President Rhee . South Korean political leaders called upon civilians to attend mass meetings Oct. 6 and protest the ! barbarous " Indian handling of anti-Communist prisoners . Mr. Rhee 's government ordered school children to take a holiday and march to the demonstrationcenters . Government sources said the South Korean people would harbor escapees from Indian custody just as they had sheltered the fugitive North Koreans almost four months ago in an act that imperiled the truce . Prisoners Slain South Korea planned the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Indian guards from slaying more anti-Communist prisoners who do not want to go back to Communist rule . Thus far , the Indians have slain three ' prisoners and wounded 10 in putting down anti-Communist demonstrations . Nine North Koreans escaped the Indian camp Sept. 30 and an anti-Communist Chinese slipped out of the compound Sept. 28 . The North Koreans have given the South Koreans an elaborate map of the Indian custodial camp . The South Koreans have accused the Indians of being pro-Communist and challenged them to side with the Communists openly so-the ROK Army could deal with them in a military manner . Peking radio , voice of Communist China , blamed the United States for South Korea 's defiant attitude toward the Indians , who were assigned to guard-the prisoners for 90 days , while " explainers " of both sides attempt to change the captives ' minds about going home . . Uneasy Quiet The . Communist radio said the United States was attempting to force- the neutral nations re patriation commission to change its stand on repatriation by planning to release the prisoners . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out . their ? scheme of armed abduction of the prisoners of war , the ' Korean armistice would be completely blown ' to pieces , " Radio Peking said . The broadcast said the United States had constructed prisoner compounds in the neutral zone so that special agents could coerce prisoners into rioting or attempting to escape . The South Korean threat was relayed to Lt. Gen. K. S .. Thimayya , Indian chairman of the neutral nations - repatriation commission , and it was reported he took the warning calmly . General Thimayya was said to have expressed his opinion that the United Nations command would prevent any hostile act by South Korean forces . India Criticized There was an uneasy quiet in the prison compounds . Indian troops agahl delayed informing prisoners of the rules which will govern explanations . A spokesman said the explanations will not begin until Oct. 12 because the United Nations command needs that much time . to complete erecting tents for " explainers " to suit Communist ' demands . The rules set down by the Indians for the conduct of " ex @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Nations and the South Korean Government . Under the 23-point Indian plan , each of the 22,500 anti-Communist Chinese and North Koreans and 354 anti-Allied prisoners , including 23 Ameri-cans , must submit to counter-brainwashing as often as the " explainers " wish to ifiterview them . The UN command considered this a use of force and protested . General Thimayya , in turn , rejected the protest and informed the UN . It could not appeal his decision . As tensions mounted over , the start of " explanations , " Swiss and Swedish members of the neutral commission ' attempted to stem bitter UN and South Korean criticism of India 's role . The delegates , representing the UN , said the meeting on explanations had been ruined by bitter fights , with India voting against the Polish and Czech delegations . ' ' " We came over here as true neutrals , " one said . " We think we are being fair , but the Poles and Czechs , evidently came with A differenMea . They simply are not neutral . They are representing the Communists . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were trying to be fair . " " They may be a little weak , " a member said , " but remember this is the first time they have been exposed to the way Communists work in the outside world . " Why PWs riot : Page 6                     