@@717877

txt Britons , meanwhile , were treated to the strange spectacle of the Bulganin-Khrushchev team popping in and out of the famed 10 Downing Street doorway at frequent intervals . Busy Weekend Looms Through that door has passed many a historic figure  --  but perhaps no other member of the top Communist hierarchy except Yugoslavia 's President Tito , who at the time was heavily at odds with the Kremlin . In pale blue trilby hats and light gray gabardine overcoats , the Kremlin duo is becoming a familiar sight in London . One vivid newspaper description of Mr. Khrushchev reads : " The familiar bald head gleams like a peeled beetroot , the familiar grin stretches wide as a slice of melon . " A busy weekend faces the visitors . After an admiralty dinner the evening of April 20 , they visit Oxford and the Harwell atomic energy establishment on April 21 . That night and the following morning are to be spent at Chequers , the Prime Minister 's country residence . In the late afternoon they go to Windsor Castle for an audience with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the first time to visit Birmingham , the British Industries Fair , and the Royal Air Force base at Marham . An argument , meanwhile , has developed here as to whethec or not the Moscow guests are being given a cool reception by the British public . Many newspapers comment upon the notable lack of cheering and large crowds . The London Daily Worker and Moscow reports dispute this , citing the sizable and vocal gathering at the Victoria Station arrival and at Claridge 's Hotel , where the Soviet duo is quartered . In fairness to both viewpoints , it should be noted that the British public so far has had little opportunity to catch more than a glimpse of the visiting dignitaries . Not many are inclined to stand around waiting for a ? speeding motorcade  --  or to watch the few steps from car to doorway . But it probably is a good guess that , given a proper opportunity , Londoners are interested enough to show the Soviet pair a rousing welcome . And the farther outside London ( with its sophisticates and refugee pressure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ likely to be , according to past indications . Yet Sir Winston still can collect a bigger crowd and a bigger cheer ? any day . And the London Cockney is not overwhelmed by visitors who flash past in an eight-car convoy with 21 motorcycles for protection . Said one , spotting a truck loaded with bags of wastepaper and trash nearby as " B and K " sped off : " Blimey , that must be their luggage . "                     