@@718766

txt Connecticut 's 10-year experience under a retail sales tax provides solid basis for Massachusetts Governor Furcolo 's estimate that the Bay State could raise $112,500,000 a year under 3 per cent limited sales tax . Talks with tax experts in and outside Connecticut 's state government indicated that the Massachusetts Governor 's estimate may be conservative . Their experience serves as a strong counter to arguments by Massachusetts sales . tax oppo ' n ? nts that a sales tax would not produce revenue anywhere near the Furcolo expectations . John L. Sullivan , Connecticut . Tax Commissioner , reported that Connecticut , under a law similar to that proposed by GovernOr Furcolo , collected $69,981,000 for the fiscal year lending June 30 , 1956 . Collection Figures Although total sales tax collections for the period amounted to $75,293,270 , the tax rate was 31 per cent for half the fiscal year , with the extra half per cent going for flood-repair financing . Thus the $69,981,000 was the amount collected on the basis of the regular 3 per cent levy . Collections in the first six @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ believe that the sales tax yield from the 3 per cent portion will reach about $75,000,000 by June 30 . With the Connecticut population being less than half that of Massachusetts , Commissioner Sullivan estimated that : Massachusetts would collect about $180,000,000 , if it had the same sales tax law as the Connecticut : statute . However , the sales lax law proposed by Governor Furcolo differs from the Connecticut statute in several respects , although most of the exemptions would be the same . While the Connecticut statute applies to all meals costing $1 or more and consumed outside the home , the proposed Massachusetts law would exempt such meals . They already are subject to a 5 per cent meals tax which would be continued . Thus the yield from the sales tax would be cut to some extent . Nothing for Retailer In addition , Connecticut does not permit retailers to retain any portion of the sales tax collected to help offset the cost of bookkeeping and the like . The Furcolo bill would permit the retailers a 2 per cent deduction , which would amount to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tax officials , including Commissioner Sullivan , Harry A. Beckwith , director of the Sales and Use Tax Division , and Horace C. Burton , chief examiner in charge of the audit section , are firm against such retailer reimbursement . pey are strongly supported by , Carter W. Atkins , executive diector of the Connecticut Public Expenditures Council , whose organization includes many retailers . All these officials insist the revenue loss is too important . Furthermore , Mr. Atkins tells his retailer members that if an income tax or a corporation tax increase were substituted for the sales tax they , as taxpayers , would suffer a far greater tax burden than they do under the sales tax . Legislation Fails Although legislation has been filed in every legislative session to give the retailer a percentage of the tax to cover collection expenses , as is done in many other sales lax states , it has failed every year . A similar bill , for a 3 per cent deduction by retailers , is pending before the present session , but its passage is considered unlikely . Conversations with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the sales tax . But the situation not directly comparable with that in Massachusetts . Connecticut has no personal income tax . Massachusetts taxes personal income and is seeking to levy a sales lax as well to produce revenue for the state and its municipalities . Only 18 of the 32 sales tax states levy an income tax . Attempts by organized labor to gain substitution of a graduated state income tax for the sales tax in Connecticut has met with legislative rejection repeatedly , and with little public backing . Window Dressing " ? Although the state AFL-CIO has submitted an income tax measure this year , it was backed at , the hearing only by labor officials and farm group representatives . It has little chance of passage . Ip fact many observers close to organized labor feel the income tax proposal is merely political window dressing .                     