@@717902

txt Letters to The Times CHARLES COGEN.CARL HOLTY.NORMAN Y. ZELVIN.ZENON ROSSIDES.SAMI HADAWI , pg . 13 Letters to The Times To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : The letter of my good friend Gerald R. Coleman published May 8 , opposing the teachers ' boycott , contains some significant arguments . But it misses some of the main points involved in the controversy . Extracurricular activities are above and beyond regular work . The mere fact that some schools keep adding more and more of these activities does not ipso facto make them part of the required day 's work . They may be valuable , but so are many other things that could be added . Is there no end ? The general trend throughout the country is to consider extracurricular activities as overtime work , and to compensate accordingly . The New York Times has advocated this principle editorially . While it is true that the children may be harmed by the boycott of activities , they are harmed even more by having underpaid and discontented teachers . In the long run , even @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ insistence upon fair play . While Mr. Coleman 's union has recourse to a strike , the teachers do not . The Condon-Wadlin Law reduced public employes in New York State to second-class citizenship . Prohibition of a stoppage of voluntary activities would reduce them to peonage . Proposals Submitted Perhaps most important , when Mr. Coleman 's cap makers go back to work , they have had the satisfaction of negotiation with their employers . Such is not the case with the teachers . The New York Times has itself repeatedly editorialized on the high-handed and perverse man ' ner in which the city administration has handled the teacher salary problem . Far from negotiating in good faith , the Mayor and his aides have made promises of negotiation and then refused to listen . Last year they asked for proposals from teacher organizations , and when a unified plan was presented they ignored it and set up one of their own . Under these circumstances is it any wonder that teachers are bitter and determined to utilize the only important legal weapon at their disposal ? To pursue the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ him that history is replete with instances of workers , both organized and unorganized , " striking on the job . " The teachers ' boycott is far from as radical as many a device used by industrial workers when they have been frustrated by management 's refusal to bargain in good faith . This leads me to the constructive note in Mr. Coleman 's concluding paragraph . He recommends submission of the controversy to " an impartial third party . " The United Parents Association has recommended mediation of the salary dispute . The Teachers Guild has accepted this suggestion . We have also proposed a referendum of the teachers on the question of which of the various salary plans they favor . The Mayor and the Board of Education remain unresponsive . It is high time that responsible citizens aimed their complaints where they rightly belong  --  the city administration , which refuses to negotiate in good faith . CA I ARLES COGEN President , New York Teachers Guild , A. F. L.-C . I. 0 . New York . May 8. 1956 . Mr. Wright 's Work Discussed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I read with great interest your editorial of May 8 anent the Frank Lloyd Wright " hot cross bun "  --  the " archeseum " to house the Guggenheim Collection  --  and I came to the conclusion that the editorial was kind in the use of metaphor . The design for the projected museum bears more resemblance to an ice cube container or an upended Bendix washing machine ; however , I should not quarrel with the choice of imagery . What is puzzling is why the writer of the editorial feels that Frank Lloyd Wright is the logical choice to design the housing of such modern paintings as the Guggenheim Foundation owns and Mr. Wright has publicly disdained . The moment has come when it would be appropriate to challenge the supremacy and authority of the modern architect in his dubious relationship to modern abstract painting . Mr. Wright has indeed suffered much persecution in his day , none of it traceable to the artists of our period . He has , nevertheless , seen fit to condemn them and furthermore to claim that he and his associates had achieved @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ advance of the artists ' own feeble efforts . One must come to the conclusion that Mr. Wright 's design for the Guggenheim Museum is calculated to startle rather than to attract and is flippantly disregardful of the Paintings it will house . CARL HOLTY . New York , May 9 , 1956 . To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : The stand taken by the British Government as recently restated - in face of the Cyprus deadlock and the gravely deteriorating situation in the island is that no step could ? be taken toward solution of the problem until violence is suppressed . Yet a different attitude would in itself help to terminate violence , save further unnecessary loss of life and break the deadlock . The failure of the negotiations was due not to the existence of violence but to the intransigent position assumed by the Government in making no concessions toward compromise . Instead of ? moving forward from the proposals made at the tripartite conference ? as promised by Anthony Nutting at the General Assembly of the United Nations  --  the British Government , during @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ previous stand . It . substituted a negative statement on self-determination for a more positive one made earlier by Harold Macmillan on Dec. s in the , House of Commons and it refused to agree that elected representation in the proposed Constitution should be democratically based on the proportionate numbers of Greek and Turkish elements respectively , although a clear undertaking to that effect had been given by Mr. Macmillan at the tripartite conference . Denial of Self-Government , This attitude , ending in a negation of both self-determination and self-government , caused the deadlock and closed the door to an agreed solution , The door was then further sealed by the banishing of the only possible negotiator , Archbishop Makarios . Suppression of violence in itself can hardly be expected to break the deadlock or lead to any political ' solution . The methods of force and coercion employed , by engendering ? deeper and wider embitterment from grim collective punishments and other oppressive measures , can only . worsen the situation and gravely prejudice the prospects of agreed ' solution . What is required is a judicious and sincere @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ guarantees of the application of self-determination and of the realities of self-government during the , transition period . The cessation of , violence and the restoration of- the Archbishop would then follow as a ; natural consequence , opening the way to a fair and honorable solution in the best interests of all concerned . ZENON Rossims , Delegate of the Ethnarchy of Cyprus . - London . May 7. 1956 . Rights of Arab Refugees To THE EDITOR el ' THE NEW YORK Timis : ? The letter of Werner Cahnnlan ' published on May 5 is most . enlight.7 ening , but it , makes one gross error ... Arab claims to Palestine are not based on " historical rights " alone , but , on the accepted principles on ' ' which our world is founded that sovereignty to any territory stems front the natural rights of the individualsto their homes and the land of their ? birth , without distinction of race , ' . color or religion . If the citizenship of a people were to be governed by " historical rights " or by religious @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ individuals who were ? , born and live there , the world would be in utter chaos . The trouble in the Middle East today is not one of expansion of Arab state territories , arms , economic or other blockades , border incidents , financial aid , etc . Rather it . is a question of right and wrong . Give the one million Moslem and Christian inhabitants of Palestine who have been expelled from their . - homes because . of their religious hem , . liefs the same rights and prerogatives claimed and enjoyed by Amer ican-born citizens in the United , States , and you have no problem in : the Holy Land . SAsii HADAWI , Palestine Arab Refugee Office . . New York , May 7 , 1956 , Teachers ' Grievances Cited City Charged With Refusal to Negotiate Salary Question hardly up to the otherwise high standards of what is usually an urbane , intellectual and stimulating newspaper , Perhaps Mr. Wright , who is almost as old as The Times , is several years more advanced in originality and concept , but to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ demagogues does not seem to fit . A shameful episode for The Times , NORMAN Y. ZEMIN . Brooklyn , May 8 , 1956 . To End Cyprus Deadlock Positive Guarantees by British Are Considered Necessary Originality of Design To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YOP.K TIMES : The Times has slipped a bit in its editorial of May 8 when it describes Frank Lloyd Wright 's new Gugunheim Museum as resembling ' an oversized and indigestible hot cross bun . "                     