@@717712

txt Regardless of who wins next week 's Senate debate on price supports , the farmer- eventually will be the loser , Herschel D. Newsom , master of the National Grange , predicted today . The chief of the Grange , one of the nation 's three large farm organizations , said the Senate had been given a " very poor choice " in having to decide between a return to rigid supports at 90 per cent of parity and a continuation of the flexible price program now in effect . Mr. Newsom 's approach to the farm problem was in sharp contrast to that of James G. Patton , president of the National Farmers Union , and of Charles Shuman , president of the American Farm Bureau Federation , the two other large farm groups . They spoke before the National Farm Institute , Mr. Newsom and Mr. Patton today , Mr. Shuman yesterday . In his speech , Mr. Newsom said 90 per cent of parity support might add " some dollars " to farm income in 1956 ; but would cause another sharp decline in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , he continued , would mean lower income on basic crops in both 1956 and in 1957 , because " there is n't enough flexibility " to produce any beneficial results . Parity is the theoretical formula that attempts to give the farmer a fair return for his products . Mr. Newsome said it would be hard to blame Congress for failure to solve the farm problem when the farm organizations themselves could not decide what they wanted . " We not only ca n't agree , but we could n't even all meet together at the request of the chairman of the Senate Agriculture Committee , " he declared . The committee recently reported out a detailed farm bill that contained among other things provisions for returning to fixed price supports . at 90 per cent of parity on the basic crops of wheat , cotton , corn , rice , tobacco and peanuts . A system of flexible price supports , which vary as the total supply of each crop varies , has been the major part of the Eisenhower Administration 's farm program . The House of Representatives @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . When the Senate takes up the question , the debate is expected to be long and bitter . Some persons close to the Administration have indicated President Eisenhower might veto any farm bill containing a 90 per cent clause . " It is our honest opinion that this debate will be almost entirely fruitless in any beneficial results to your income and mine during 1956 and 1957 , " Mr. Newsom said today . A return to 90 per cent supports would force more of the basic crops off the market and into Government storage , ' Mr. Newsom said . Then farmers would be asked to put back their , production again as the sur- , pluses increased . " Sooner or later a lower level of production is just going to ' mean lower income , " he declared . ' The nation 's chief export crops , such as wheat , cotton , rice and pork products , were the ones in the greatest difficulty now , Mr. Newsom said . No single , all-inclusive farm plan could- correct these difficulties and the only answer was a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ our organization will vigorously attempt to get the so-called wheat certificate or domestic parity plan approved by the Senate next week , " Mr. Newsom declared . In general , these plans would allow a farmer to sell cgrain amounts of his crop at cor4etitive world prices and receive an " incentive payment " making up the difference between the market price and a domestic parity price . " We must be prepared to compete effectively on the basis of efficiency in the markets of the world , " Mr. Newsom asserted . Price supports should be designed to move farm products into world markets rather than serve solely as a means of propping up farm income , Mr. Newsom said . He made no mention of the proposed soil bank . This plan has the approval of the Depart- ment of Agriculture and is a major item in theure Senate culture Committee 's bill . In brief , it would grant payments , both in cash and in surplus crop certificates , to farmers who agreed to withhold a certain amount of their crop land and plant it in grass @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ soil bank , which he called a " conservation acreage reserve program . " He also advocated a combination of price supports , livestock payments , and Government purchase agreements to guarantee a farmer 100 per cent of parity . Mr. Schuman , in his speech yesterday , approved the soil ' bank idea , but said the worst , feature of the Senate commit tee bill was the proposal for fixed supports at 90 per cent of parity . The Farm Bureau for several years has been the leading advocate among farm organizations for flexible supports . The two-day National Farm Institute ended today . The meetings are sponsored each year by the Agriculture Department of the Des Mojnes Chamber of Commerce . This year more than 1,500 Midwest farmers and business men attended .                     