@@717218

txt The ( Senate issued today , in precisely the language that had been ' cleared by President Eisenhower , a declaration of interest in the ultimate liberation of captive peoples . The purpose was to reassure the Soviet satellites of the continued sympathy of the United States and to give to the President exactly the form of moral support on the issue that he had sought for the coming Big Four conference . The resolution declared it to be the sense of the Senate : q " That the peoples who have been subjected to . the captivity of alien despotisms shall again enjoy the right of self-determination within a framework which will sustain peace . " g " That they shall again have the right to choose the form of self-government under which they . will live , and that the sovereign rights , of self-government shall be restored to them all in accordance with the pledge of the Atlantic Charter . " This accomplished , the Senate then approved , 88 to 0 , another manifesto . This resolution had been passed 367 to 0 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the whole of Congress on record that the United States should " support other peoples " to obtain equality . In this case the Senate 's action was far more reluctant than its unanimous vote would indicate . Many privately regretted that the House had raised this second issue . Senator J. William Fulbright of Arkansas , one of the Democratic foreign policy leaders of the Senate , abstained in the rollcall because , he said , the House document was " subject to so many interpretations . " Where the House had called on the United States to back other peoples " in their efforts to achieve self-government or independence , " the Senate made " self-government " read " selfdetermination . " Senator Karl Mundt , Republican of South Dakota , insisted on this alteration . He suggested that the original House language could easily be read as a guarantee of United States support for revolutionaries in countries that were " not so democratic as we would like " but nevertheless were part of the alliance against the Soviet Union . He mentioned as examples Spain . Portugal and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lightheartedly " whooped through " some very important and complicated foreign policy pronouncements . Senator George D. Aiken , Republican of Vermont , expressed the irritation of many others in observing that altogether too much " resoluting " was going on . Of the House paper he com-plained : " If we vote against it our ac- tion is likely to be misunder-1 stood by the people of the United States ; if we vote for it then our action is likely to be misunderstood outside the United States . " On the Senate satellite resolution , which had been offered by Senator William F. Knowland of California for the Republicans and by the acting Democratic leader . Senator Earle C. Clements of Kentucky , no such hesitations were noted . Among its purposes was to neutralize the long campaign of Senator Joseph R. McCarthy , Republican of Wisconsin , to develop the widest possible accusation of the Russians over their enslavement policies and so to force the President to- take up the issue in the Big Four conference . Mr. McCarthy had ridiculed the Administration resolutionl yesterday for its " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " and " satellites . " Nevertheless , when the last test came today he voted for it .                     