@@713463

txt Mayor Impellitteri bluntly and realistically set forth the city 's traffic policy yesterday as he and Gov . Alfred E. Driscoll of New Jersey dedicated the giant $24 , - 000,000 Port Authority bus terminal here . An invited audience of 2,000 persons heard the Mayor warn that before any physical traffic improvements could be undertaken there must be " agreement as to just what the taxpayers want and how much they are willing to pay for these improvements in the way of traffic relief . " The pre-opening ceremony attracted virtually every important city , state , civic and business leader of the metropolitan area .. However , Governor Dewey , who was to have delivered the principal address , sent a message of regret . An aide explained that Mr. Dewey had been working on the major foreign policy address he delivered last night . Public Invades Building Soon after the dignitaries had left the impressive depot , largest of its kind in the world , the public was admitted . Although authority officials had expected to close the terminal for a short time before @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were so great that ' they decided to " throw the keys away . " By 8 P. M. , five hours after the doors were opened , an . estimated I 40,000 persons had swarmedl through the long , low building that ' covers the block bounded by Eighth ' and Ninth Avenues , from Fortieth to Forty-first Street . They marveled at the many remarkable features of the new building and tried out the thirtyone escalators . Many patronized the only concession in operation , a snack bar on the suburban concourse . The " public " included New Jersey commuters familiarizing themselves with the new depot that will cut their traveling time by six to twenty minutes ; sight-seers from as far away as Hawaii , and one of the 599 families that were relocated by the authority to make way for the improvement . " I used to live in this spot , " one of the women said excitedly to a port policeman , pointing to the circular information booth in the center of the main concourse . Then , she added : " It 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Cullman , chairman of the bi-state agency , presided at the dedication . His 14-year-old daughter , Marguerite Patricia , started the ceremony by throwing a switch that set the main bank of escalators in motion at 11:20 A. M. Down the moving stairs came color bearers of the armed forces , the national guards of New York and New Jersey and port and city police . Miss Jane Pickens sang " The Star-Spangled Banner " and then Msgr . Joseph A. McCaffrey blessed the terminal , calling it " a tribute to the ingenuity and industry of man . " In his first major discussion of traffic since his election , Mayor Impellitteri asserted that the completion of the terminal was " the greatest contribution yet made in the solution of our city 's everincreasing traffic congestion problem . " However , the Mayor termed it merely " another bite " into the problem ; pledged great progress by his Administration in the further alleviation of traffic headaches but warned that public ieducation was a necessary prerequisite to bring it about . " It is time , ' he said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who sometimes have their own axe to grind and are too willing to " blame traffic congestion on one another . " Everyone concerned must be willing to make some ? tacrifices if an over-all traffic relief program is to succeed . Public cooperation and agreement on what must be done is highly essential . " Governor Driscoll spoke at both the dedication and at a luncheon later at the Astor Hotel .. He hailed the terminal as another shining example of the good that can come from interstate cooperation . He called for an early meeting of all New York and New Jersey agencies concerned with railr air and highway transportation to develop a coordinated program of traffic interchange . The absence of Governor . Dewey was a major topic of small talk . Mr. Cullman went out of his way to emphasize that there was no quarrel between the Governor and the Authority commissioners . Last summer Mr. Dewey blocked plans of the agency to study the need for an additional ' crossing of the Hudson in possible opposition to the New York State Thruway . Mr. Dewey 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pride to me that the bus terminal has been achieved during my administration . " The Governor also praised the authority for the " brilliant engineering and planning that have made the terminal possible " ' and thanked the twelve port commissioners on behalf of the people . Joseph M. Byrne , vice chairman of the authority , presided at the luncheon . Traffic Commissioner Lloyd B , Reid , speaking as " an engineer , " noted that " we can design and build anything you are willing to pay for . " The first departing bus  --  bound for Raleigh , N. C. ? rolled out of the terminal at 12:01 A. M. today . Fourteen minutes later the first Incoming bus  --  from Los Angeles - arrived.                     