@@720193

txt Premier . Nikita S. Khrushchev said tonight that there was a possibil ity of a " thaw " in East-West relations . Gravely and in virtually pleading tones , the Soviet Premier called on the West to seize the chance for improving relations . He said his First Deputy , Anastas I. Mikoyan , had detected signs on his recent United States tour that such relaxation was possible . The Soviet leader said that from the report of Mr. Mikoyan " we get the idea that the possibility of a thaw in our relations is not excluded . " The Soviet Union , he declared , is " doing everything possible . " He said he agreed with a Western official 's comment " that Khrushchev is more frightened of war than anyone else . " Hushed Silence in Room Generally good-humored and even jolly at a hotel reception celebrating India 's national holiday , Mr. Khruchchev brought a roomful of more than 1,000 diplomats to hushed silence by lowering his voice to deliberate on the horrors of a new war . He had just asked the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by Moscow , the Premier said . ' ' And he says ' Yes , but on a reasonable basis , ' " Mr. Khrushchev reported . ? " What I think reasonable he thinks unreasonable and what he believes reasonable I think unreasonable , " Mr. Khrushchev added . He lowered his head and in almost a whisper added : " But the clock ticks on . Factories keep working , producing more and more arms . " " For what ? " he asked , in a loud voice this time and with a blank stare . New Keynote Indicated Mr. Khrushchev 's remarks indicated that the new drive for a " thaw " might even become the ' keynote of declarations at the ' Twenty-first Congress of the Soviet Communist party , which opens tomorrow . Virtually all the Communist leaders of the world have gathered here for the meeting . Premier Khrushchev accepted Secretary of State Dulles ' distinction between " talks " and " negotiations . " Mr. Mikoyan 's dealings with United States officials , he said , were " not negotiations but talks , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hope " even though they did not lead to anything concrete . " The Soviet leader did not budge from the Kremlin 's position on major issues . His appeal was emotional . The " extremely friendly " relations that the Soviet Union has with India , he declared , serve only to emphasize the lack of confidence in East-West affairs . But how can one talk of confidence , the Premier said , and went on : " They say , ' you stand there , ' but they have a big stick in their hand and a knife under their jacket . " He reached into his loosely draped navy blue coat , decorated as usual with a glistening peace dove and two Soviet medals . " Life inexorably summons us to use reason , " he added soberly . ' " To play at cold war now is al very dangerous business . Too many means have been invented that are dangerous to mankind . " The United States has created bases all around the Soviet Union . Their planes are flying all around with atomic bombs . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " We , too , have plenty of rockets in position . And the ' rockets , too , are in the custody of people . It does not require much effort and it would go off instantly . This is a time when , no one should lose his head . " Noting that Germany , had twice " marched against France , Britain and the Soviet Union " in this century , Mr. Khrushchev said he did not want it said that he was frightening people . A. British statesman whose name he remembers well , the Premier said , characterized him as more afraid of war than anyone . Not because he is a coward , Mr. Khrushchev explained . But the Premier remarked , " There is no heroism in playing with war . " Mr. Khrushchev was replying to a toast by ? K. P. S. Menon , the Indian Ambassador , who had noted that the climate was un-Russian in Moscow this winter . The thermometer this week has been between 30 and 40 degrees Fahrenheit , whereas it normally should be down around zero @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " We want a thaw , but if you want it colder we can add to it . " Before his ' brief speech , Mr. Khrushchev engaged Ambassador Hans Kroll of West Germany in twenty minutes of lively conversation . The Soviet Premier asked the German to sign a peace treaty , but Herr Kroll insisted that the Soviet draft be rewritten to incorporate Western views . The Premier then bitterly denounced Chancellor Konrad Adenauer of West Germany , but ended the chat on a friendly note . Throughout the exchange Ambassador Johannes Koenig of East Germany stood behind the Premier , straining to hear . 