@@712796

txt One hundred and sixty thousand New Yorkers have drawn all the state unemployment insurance checks they are eligible to receive in the present " benefit year . " Two million workers in various parts or the country exhausted their insurance rights last , year and 800,000 of these wound- up the year still out of work . Massachusetts and Rhode Island are looking to the Federal Government to bail out their depleted job insurance funds . One-fifth of Oregon 's labor force is on the insurance rolls . These are symptoms of a national unemployment situation that is giving increasing concern to Federal , state and municipal officials in all sections . The Census Bureau reported 4,684,000 idle workers in mid-February out of a total civilian work force of 61,637,000 . Thit meant that one worker in ever3 Fourteen was without work at a time when demand for steel , automobiles and many other products was at near-record levels . Officials do not expect any dramatic worsening in the unemployment picture . On the contrary , they expect a modest improvement in the next month or two @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ opportunities are not increasing fast enough to provide jobs for those at both ends of the age scale  --  the young and the old . They are afraid that the unemployment statistics will not show what is happening in sufficiently graphic form to produce any national will to do something about the problem . The March census report may show a slight rise in unemployment as a hangover from the coal strike , but most Govern . ment economists expect a considerable improvement in April and May . Schools to Add to Lists Jobless lists will go up again in June as schools and colleges throw hundreds of thousands of new recruits into the job market . But by the end of the year , the unemployment total will be no higher and perhaps somewhat lower than the February figure , according to Federal forecasts . Another factor likely to stir complacency about the volume of unemployment is that job insurance payments , which set a record high in January , will probably taper off as older workers use up their , benefit rights and disappear from the insurance rolls . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the rolls at all because they have built up no eligibility credits . When unemployment lasts long enough , relief rolls start to soar but there is usually a considerable time lag between exhaustion of insurance rights and application for relief on the basis of need . As a result , officials foresee a period in which most indicators will point to a downturn in joblessness without any real improvement in the basic situation . With a Congressional election coming up in November , the Administration is not disposed to put too much accent on the extent of idleness and the permanent character of the problem it presents . That is why economists in closest touch with the situation feel the economy is suffering a particularly " pernicious " form of unemployment . When business is on the skids and wholesale lay-offs are being made , every one is concerned . Demands for action come from all sides . When unemployment piles up slowly through the far ... ire of the economy to absorb the increased labor force that comes with a growing population and a longer life expectancy , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Economy Urged Leon H. Keyserling , acting chairman of President Truman 's Council of Economic Advisers , warned a Chicago audience earlier this month that the number of jobless workers might rise to 10,000,000 or 12,000,000 four years hence unless ways were found to expand our economy sufficiently to provide new jobs . All economists stress that they have little worry over the prospect of any abrupt collapse in our present employment situation . New applications for unemployment insurance , the most sensitive barometer the Government has of idleness due to lay-offs , dropped from a weekly average of 378,100 in January to 290,100 last month . In New York State the volume of new and continued claims for insurance reached a high level of 507,937 in the week ended Jan. 13 . In the week ended March 17 the figure was down to 418,451 . However , part of the decline was accounted for by the elimination of workers who had drawn all the benefits for which they were eligible . Nearly 7,000 workers a week fall into this category . Under the law a worker may receive not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from June of one year to June of the next . This means that none of the 160,000 New Yorkers who have exhausted their benefit rights for this year may apply for benefits again until June . Those who had some work in 1949 will be eligible for additional payments at that time if they are still out of work . Group Over 45 Hard Hit However , many of the workers who have been dropped this year will have no benefits to look forward to next year . A substantial percentage lost their jobs in the industrial slump of 1948 and have not worked since . Persons over the age of 45 make up a large part of the group that is using up its benefits without being able to find new jobs , according to samplings made by state officials . Older workers are finding it increasingly difficult to obtain placements . This applies not only to those 65 and over , for whom old-age assistance and industrial pension plans are available , but also to those twenty years younger . Two-thirds of the men who exhausted their benefit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ officials report that the situation for aging workers is the same in most parts of the country . When they have jobs , they usually are among the most valued workers . But when they lose their jobs , they are almost impossible to place . The spread of industrial ? pension systems and the attendant increase in premiums an employer must 4ssume when he hires an older worker have aggravated this problem in many industries , officials say . Consideration is being given in Washington to the formulation of special employment programs for the young and the old . Officials feel special attention is needed for those trying unsuccessfully to break into the job market for the first time and also for those trying to hold onto opportunities for useful employment after industry has labeled them too old . Administration thinking on programs has not advanced to a point that makes it appear anything will be sent to Congress this session . It is recognized that public works or construction programs would be of little value , especially in meeting the , needs of the aged . It is also @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out of Congress unless they met a clear-cut public need . All Government experts agree that the unemployment insurance program does not represent a basic answer to the kind of unemployment the country now has . The insurance program is calculated to meet the first impact of unemployment but not to carry a worker for a period of more than twentysix weeks . It helps bolster purchasing power in , periods of largescale lay-offs , but other devices are necessary to bring new jobs into . being .                     