@@717734

txt State Secretary Dulles told the senate today that Russia , menaced by internal weaknesses , apparently has discarded the Stalinist doctrines of violence and intolerance and is trying to imitate American foreign policy . " They could always beat us at the game of violence and subversion , " he told the foreign relations committee . " Now they are playing our game . If we ca n't beat them , we ought to be ashamed of ourselves . I think we can . " " Whole Creed Revamped " Dulle s was summoned to Capitol hill for questioning about administration policy in the middle east . He spent nearly four hours under prolonged questioning which verged on heckling by Democrats who acc u s e d the administration of permitting Russia to gain military superiority over the United States . This provoked him to the bold statement , termed " startling " by Sen. Fulbright D. , Ark. , that Russia has launched an extraordinary new policy under pressure of cracks in its economic structure . " For 30 years , the soviet union has based @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " At the present time they are having to revise the whole program . The fact is that they have failed . The system has not produced any results . The result is that they have had to revamp their whole creed from A to Z. Warns of Complacency " The soviet government is weak internally in certain vital aspects . All emphasis has been placed on heavy industry . Consumers and the agricultural system have been neglected and are in a very bad way . They are gravely lacking in essential food products . The failure has been openly admitted by Nikita Khruschchev , first communist secretary , and other Russian leaders at the current 20th congress of the Community party in Moscow , Dulles said . " The Communists have come to the realization , " he continued , " that they must bring their system and their habits closer to ours and that process is going on right now . It is trying to make itself more acceptable to the free world . It looks like they are going , for the first time , to throw @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Imitation is the sincerest form of flattery and they are trying to devise mutual security agreements such as ours . " May Sell to Both In a statement , read at the beginning of the hearing , Dulles asserted that the United States does not exclude the possibility of selling arms to both the Arab nations and Israel , but only " when it will preserve the peace . " Israel 's security , he said , could be better assured by other measures than br shipReproduced with permission of the copyright owner . Further reproduction prohibited without permission . ping arms to it . He asserted that Israel had procured more arms in a recent period than its neighboring Arab states . Dulles was called primarily ' for an explanation of the ship-1 ment of 18 light tanks to Saudi : Arabia which was suspended j on the eve of its scheduled sail-1 ing date . The suspension was withdrawn 48 hours later . Dulles had been on vacation when this incident occurred a week ago , and he yielded the witness chair to Undersecretary Herbert Hoover Jr . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the hearing . Says Ike Concurred Hoover said he suspended the tank shipment when he received press and radio reports that it was not in conformity with export ' licensing requirements . After investigation . he said , he found that the shipment had been approved and paid for last Nov. 26 , and was entirely legal under a 1951 agreement with Saudi Arabia . " All this was done after consultation with President Eisenhower who concurred fully , " he said . Dulles noted at this point that the tanks were being shipped to the east coast of Saudi Arabia and were barred from use in a frontier war with Israel by an impassable desert . " Why have you not acted on the application for arms to Israel ? " asked Sen. Smith R .. N. J.1 . NVe are holding it up because we do not believe it would be conducive to permanent peace between Israel and he Arab states , " Dulles replied . " The future of Israel in the long run must depend upon the development of peaceful relations with its Arab neighbors . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ States foreign policy but it is not our only goal . " Sen. Humphrey D. , Minn. asked about reports that an additional 1G tanks were going to Saudi Arabia . Dulles said an informal application had been made but had not been acted upon . Plans Already Made " In case of a blowup in the middle east , are the United States and its allies prepared to prevent the situation from getting out of hand ? " " Yes . " said Dulles. adding that any details about military plans should be reserved for an executive session . " Is there danger of war in the middle east right now " Asked Sen. Morse D. , Ore . . " I think there is some I danger , " said Dulles , slowly . " I hope we can be able to avoid It . I do not believe it would involve the United : States . " Dulles wound up his state- ' ment with pleas for a ban on the in ; ection of the situation into the Presidential election campaign . This latter . Dulles said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that American actions in the area are keyed to the domestic politicalsituation . " If Arab suspicions of American intentions are height- ! ened by campaign discussions , " he said . " then the interests of the United States and her allies in the middle east will be endangered . " " And , " he added , " it is my belief it would equally endanger the existence of Israel . "                     