@@715761

txt BROOKLYN PIER UNIT BOLTS RYAN 'S UNION AND WAGE PARLEYS 1,000-Member Local , the First - in Port , Votes to Join New A.F.L. Dock Organization SHIPPING GROUP IS WARNED Rival Factions Gird to Contest Waterfront  --  Police Ready to Prevent Violence The first New York local to bolt ' the discredited International Longshoremen 's Association notified the New York Shipping Association last night that any further negotiations with Joseph P. Ryan 's union would be " entirely illegal . " Seven hundred members of Brooklyn Local 1199-1 , ' whose members work on many South Brooklyn piers , met yesterday and unani- , mously voted to pull out of the Ryan longshoremen 's association ' rind to affiliate with the A. F. L. union of the same name . Imme.I diately after the meeting . Vincent ' Erato:business agent of the local , sent a telegram to the shipping , group saying : " We hereby notify you that you ' have no further authority to nego- I time for any area where our members work , which includes the majority of docks . Any contract @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of these longshoremen will be entirely illegal . The so-called committee that you are dealing with no longer represents New York longshoremen and further negotiations would be a violation of law and a denial of the rights of longshoremen guaranteed to them by law . " Despite the language of the telegram , Mr. Ryan has insisted , and a spokesman for the new A. F. L. union conceded last night , that the International Longshoremen 's Association is technically the legal collective bargaining agent for dock workers in this area under the rules of the National Labor Relations Board . Officers ' Move Is Ratified The membership meeting a ppi/wed the action of the local 's offihers who bad announced their into ... Lion to pull out their 1,000 members of the I. L. A. on Thursday , only two days after the American Federation of Labor had voted to oust the crime-infested pier union from its ranks and to set up a rival organization to drive it from the docks . The action was expected to be followed this week by the bolting of a dozen or more other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the move over the week-end . While it was the first withdrawal reported from the I. L. A. 's key New York City port two Puerto Ricci locals representing 5,000 dock workers on that island have notified the A. F. L. of their affiliation to the new union . Meanwhile , the two rival unions were girding themselves for a fight to the finish for control of the docks , as the Police Department established flying squads to prevent any outbreak of violence . The new A. F. L. longshoremen 's union announced from its temporary headquarters at 188 Twenty-first Street , in Brooklyn , that a charter covering the entire // Borough . of Manhattan and all its piers had been issued . Spokesmen for the group declined to specify to whom the charter had been issued , but they said the action followed meetings yesterday with " large committees representing all the longshoremen of Manhattan . " The federation group said the union had planned to wait a few days before issuing the charter but that the demand by the longshoremen of Manhattan had been so great the new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ opened as soon as possible , it was said . Meanwhile the old ? I. L. A. planned an important meeting of its Atlantic Coast District Council and officers of some eighty-five locals for 11 A. M. today at the Governor Clinton Hotel . The leaders will discuss negotiations fora new contract and assess the inroads made in the union by the sudden drive of its rival . Mr. Ryan , president of the ousted association , - has belittled efforts of the A ; F. L. group to lure substantial numbers of longshoremen from his union . But the sudden reduction of the I. L. A. wage demand from 50 cents an hour to 10 cents an hour , the day after the union's- ' expulsion from the parent , organization , indicated an apparent recognition that an agreement with the New York Shipping Association would be the best defense , against the raids of a rival . The precipitate reduction in the wage demand has apparently met with an adverse reaction among some longshoremen 's groups , however , with a consequent stiffening of the union 's ? bargaining @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ permanent arbitrator . Moreover , the rival A. F. - L. union had seized upon what it called the Ryan group 's apparent desire for a " cut-rate " contract and was attempting to use the 10-cent proposal , after weeks of insistence on 50 cents , to undermine the old union 's position . In addition , Dave Beck , president of the International Brotherhood of Teamsters , A. F. L. , and a key member of the five-man trusteeship committee that will supervise the new union , announced he would meet with Governor Dewey this week to urge him to help see to it that the New York Shipping Association did not close the door to the new union by signing a contract with the old . A spokesman for the Governor would not comment yesterday regarding Mr. Dewey 's possible intervention in the tense and confused bargaining situation . But he did say that the Governor would Took forward to seeing Mr. Beck . In St. Louis , George Meany , president of the federation , appealed to the shipping association not to sign what he referred to as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ A spokesman for the shipping association , obviously pained by Mr. Meany 's reference to collusion , hastened to assert that the employer group had no alternative but to bargain with the Ryan group whose present contract does not expire until midnight Wedifesday . If the employers did not bargain with the old I. L. A. , he said , they might be cited for an unfair labor practice under the TaftHartley Act . Negotiations between the shipping association and the old I. L. A. are expected to be resumed tomorrow , with John A. Burke of the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service in charge . An extended session that began Friday ended early yesterday morning without an agreement .                     