@@717239

txt Secretary of State Dulles said today that he did not exclude the possibility of negotiations between himself and Chou En-lai , Communist Chinese Premier and Foreign Minister . Mr. Dulles indicated that such talks could grow out of the meeting between United States and Communist Chinese Ambassadors , due to begin in Geneva Monday , if the Communists showed sufficient goodwill . But Mr. Dulles carefully qualified his remarks by adding he did not now expect a foreign ministers ' meeting as a likely possibility and believed that for the time being , at the present stage , the talks between Ambassadors would suffice . Meanwhile at the Capitol the strongest backers of President Eisenhower 's foreign policy were confident that a foreign ministers ' meeting was on the way . There was no doubt of this in the mind of Senator Walter F. George , Democrat of Georgia , chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee . Mr. George and his associates seemed sure also that the basic issue dividing the United States and the Communists would be discussed at such a ministers ' meeting . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by a request at his news conference for comment on Senator George 's proposal Sunday for direct talks between the United States and Communist China at theiforeign ministers ' level . In reply , Mr. Dulles said the United States proposal for talks between Ambassadors had been made before Senator George 's proposal and that it was all the situation called for at the moment . Other State Department officials said later that Senator George , in suggesting foreign ministers ' talks , was not in any way " carrying the ball " for the State Department . They maintained that the Senator 's think-1 ing simply ran ahead of what the State Department thought possible at present . Mr. Dulles made the point that the United States had decided tol propose the talks by Ambassadors because there were some ' signs that Communist China was acting less belligerently than in the past . He said that at the meeting of Ambassadors in Geneva , besides seeking release of imprisoned civilians and fliers , the next step would be to find out " whether the Chinese Communists accept the concept of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , on hearing of Mr. Chou 's bilateral-talks proposal at the Asian-African conference at Bandung , Indonesia , he had said he intended to find out whether this was merely a propaganda game " or a " sincere proposal . " Doubts about the sincerity of the Communist proposal were raised in Washington because the day after his suggestion for direct talks , Mr. Chou added that , of course , such talks could in no ? way interfere with Communist China 's right to liberate Formosa , seat of the Nationalist Chinese Government of President Chiang . Kai-Shek . The State Department still has not satisfied itself whether Mr. Chou meant the right to maintain a claim to Formosa , or the right to take it br force . But Mr. Dulles pointed todayto three developments in the ' attiude of Communist China that motivated the ' . department in proposing July 11 that talks proceeding in Geneva on the onsular. level " should be somewhat raised in level and enlarged in scope . " The three points were ( 1 ) the release of four of the fifteen United @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Chinese Communists , ( 2 ) the apparent cease-fire in the Formosa area and ( 3 ) the subduing of Peiping 's belligerent propaganda against the United States . U. S. July 11 Offer Explained The United States offer , July 11 , transmitted through British Intermediaries , was promptly accepted in Peiping , he said . It made clear that no diplomatic recognition was involved and that the United States would not do anything to " prejudice the rights of our ally , the Republic of China . " The " practical matters " to be discussed , Mr. Dulles continued , are the following : SiGetting back United States civilians and airmen detained in China . ? CSatisfying the Chinese Communists that all Chinese students in the United States are free to leave . CArranging precautions to prevent - such incidents , as the shooting down of the British Cathay airliner , in which a number of Americans lost their lives , on July 23 , 1954 , off Hainan . ( Most basically , whether the United States must prepare for war in the area or " whether @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                   