@@713278

txt ' District Attorney William J. Foley of Suffolk County contemplates no grand jury proceedings regarding findings of the Boston Finance Commission relative to its probe of street construction work during the Curley administration , he said today . Final report of the Finance Commission on alleged street contract violations in 1949 today was sent to Mayor Hynes . The investigation started in March of this year . In April , Mr. Foley promised that " when the investigation has been completed , if it discloses any criminality , the entire matter will be submitted to a grand jury . " Today , as the final report was submitted to Mayor Hynes , Mr. Foley said that he had no evidence of criminality , and that the Finance Commission has not sent him any copies of its reports . 90 Streets Covered . Today 's final report by the Finance Commission on street work done in the last year of former Mayor Curley 's administration covered 90 streets of the 148 constructed or reconstructed during 19491 More than $3,500,000 was spent last year on streets and sidewalks in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Fin Corn report contained a brief summary of the entire investigation plus detailed information on each of the 90 streets investigated . " In more than one-half of the streets constructed , the samples showed below-specification performance , " said the Finance Com-mission , Typical phraseology in the usually conservative Fin Corn reports was : " Shocking disregard for contract specifications by city officials and contractors . . a . Falsified records . . . Authorized payments on fictitious figures on actual performance .. ? Machinations by city officials to justify overpayments . ? ? The law with respect to municipal law was flouted by supervising officials . . a Agents of the city willfully allowed contractors to deviate materially from precise specifications of contracts and contractors were paid a substantial sum of money for work not done . " No Request Made Mr. Foley also admitted that he had made no request for such copies , nor did he intend to do so . " There are lawyers serving on the Finance Commission . If there is any criminality ihvolved , it certainly seems reasonable that they will let me @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a further explanation why no action was contemplated by his office for a grand jury investigation , Mr. Foley said ; " A grand jury sits to hear evidence , not opinions or wild statements made by city officials . If they have any evidence of criminality , they have n't sent it to me . " In the past , Finance Commission reports have been sent to the district attorney 's office , but they are not required by statute . No reason has been offered why these particular reports on street contracts were not sent to the district attorney . Mayor Hynes has said that he believed he was doing all within his power when he instigated civil court action against the contractors involved in an effort to recover some of the city 's money . Based on Samples Findings of the commission were based on samples of pavement which were taken by employees of the Public Works Department under the direction of the Fin Corn , Percentages cited in the final report on the 90 streets showed that 57.7 per cent of the samples of sheet asphalt surface @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cases , the stone base was below spec , : ifications . The tests taken on the depths of the artificial stone sidewalks laid under these contracts showed 45.7 per cent to be deficient , according to the report to Mayor Hynes.                     