@@716431

txt Disgruntled Guatemalan Army regulars rushed to the aid of brawling military cadets with mortars and tanks today and forced Lieut . Col. Carlos Castillo Armas , Provisional President , to disband his revolutionary " Liberation Army " in a day-long revolt . Twelve persons were killed and forty-two wounded in fighting around Roosevelt Hospital outside the capital , near the encampment of the anti-Communist irregulars , who helped Colonel Castillo oust the leftist regime of Jacobo Ar-I benz Guzman a month ago . Starting with a brawl at dawn between 120 military cadets and " Liberation " troops , the fighting was soon joined by Regular Army forces from the Aurora air base . The regulars brought up mortars and tanks and firing became heavy in the hospital zone . A cease-fire became ' effective at 6:35 P. M. and 700 " Liberalion Army " men surrendered their arms to Regular Army officers . U. S. Embassy 's View But a spokesman for the United States Embassy reported late tonight that " very great tension " continued in the capital and there was a possibility of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ supporters of Colonel Castillo resented the Regular Army 's action in forcing the president of the junta to disband the erstwhile rebel army . The spokesman added that the Communists apparently had nothing to do with the outbreak of fighting . The junta ordered a 9 P. M. curfew and said military patrols would take " drastic measures " against any violators . The disarmed " Liberation " troops are scheduled to be returned to their homes tomorrow . The cease-fire was arranged in hurried negotiations between leaders of the attacking Regular Army units and the junta . Roman Catholic Archbishop Mariano Rossell Arellano headed the negotiations , in which the United States Ambassador , John E.Peurifoy , participated . The Army ordered the fighting to end at 5 P. M. and announced the agreement to disband the " Liberation Army . " But some desultory shooting continued until the liberationists actually began surrendering their arms ninety-five minutes later . An Army communiqud announcing the settlement was the only statement issued immediately . No word came front Colonel Castillo himself . Planes controlled by the Gov- ernment were sent up early @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they could go into action . No further air action occurred until late afternoon , . when planes circled the capital on patrol . Guards of regular troops.:and policemen were redoubled- around nine . Latin-American embassies in which 800 officials and sympathizers of the deposed Arbenz regime had taken refuge . Senor Arbenz himself is one of 318 refugees in the Mexican Ethbassy . The Army announcement said the agreement ending the fighting had ' been signed by Maj. Enrique Oliva , a member of the ruling junta ; Cot Enrique , Close , Defense Minister , and Col. J. Paiz , Under Secretary of Defense . The communiqu ? concluded by hailing with " warmest felicitations , the glorious Polytechnic School ( the military academy ) and all its valiant sons . " Hundreds of Guatemalans , mostly women , gathered in front of the National Palace and held a demonstration in support of Colonel Castillo . Most of the speakers lauded the " Liberation Army " and criticized the cadets . The communiqu ? declared that the Army had not acted against the ruling junta itself . It said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ A Government guarantee that the rebel military cadets would not be subject to punishment or reprisals . 2 . Immediate disarming and disbanding of the " Liberation Army . " 3 . A guarantee : My the regular Army to place itself under complete jurisdiction of the junta . Meanwhile , a Foreign Office spokesman denied a report that the Government had charged that the disturbances were part of a plot hatched in the Mexican Embassy . That embassy is harboring as a political refugee Senor Arbenz and many of his leftist supporters . Fighting had mounted during the day between the cadets and irregulars , many of whom wear no uniforms but are well armed with machine guns , pistols andl rifles . There has been bitter rivalry between the Army and irregulars since Colonel Castillo marched in and took over . Colonel Castillo , who had been visiting in Chimaltenango , rushed back to the capital by plane .                     