@@713000

txt From this side of the Atlantic , at least , it often looks as though the American isolationists and the Soviet Communists were advocating the same foreign policy  --  for the United States . The Soviet Communists say that American military aid under the North ' Atlantic Treaty is a militaristic threat to the Soviet Union , and they also tell western Europe that it wo n't amount to anything , anyway . The American isolationists  --  and I quote one of their , principal senatorial spokesmen ? say that American military aid is " aggressive , " that it " stimulates war , " and they also say that it is " futile . " that it is no " deterrent " to Russian agg ressio This is exactl.y ; what Moscow wants to hear from America ; it puts better an munition in Russia 's propagarria guns than Russia can poss : ' oly produce itself . These are the views Moscow hopes Europe will accept . I do not suggest , at all , that these senatorial attacks on the North Atlantic Treaty are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ line so completely . They are honest views held by loyal and patriotic Americans . These critics of American military aid to Europe are some of Senator Joseph R. McCarthy 's closest friends in the Senate , and it only goes to show how unsound it is to brand any man a Communist sympathizer because on some particular issue at some parReproduced with permission of the By ROSCOE DRUMMOND titular time his views have paralleled those held by the Kremlin . The real issue is not who calls the North Atlantic defense pool aggressive or who says it wo n't mean anything to the defense of western Europe . The real issue is whether these statements are true . The American critics of American military aid to Europe contend that a strong America will be a sufficient " deterrent to Russian aggression " even if western Europe 's defense forces are weak . The American supporters of American military aid to Europe contend that unless the nations of western Europe have a sense of confidence in their own collective defense forces , a strong America will not , by itself , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ From evidence which seems to me trustworthy , the dominant European view , supported by the majority of the political and military leaders , is this : That the nations of western Europe are ready to resist by force any attack upon any one of them , and that this determination is even stronger than when the North Atlantic Treaty was signed . That a Russian attack on western Europe will involve the United States . That a united North Atlantic defense is the best possible means , of securing the peace from attack and the strongest possible assurance of winning a war if war comes . The recent meeting of the North Atlantic foreign ministers in London took two hiscopyright owner . torically significant decisions as a means of gathering new strength and new unity to the free world . They " resolved , by their united efforts , to build up a system of defense . . . capable of withstanding any external threat directed against any of them . " This means that the highest military leaders of the United States and Europe are now convinced that it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to rescue Europe after it is overrun . The foreign ministers agreed to the " creation of balanced collective forces " for the common defense . A r 1 This means one strong , unified defense for all , not a patchwork of disunified defense for each . This means that no single European nation will have a defense force adequately balanced for its own defense , but that each will specialize in what it can best contribute to the common defense so that together  --  with the aid of the United Statesthere will be an over-all defense of real power and real balance . This is an integrated defense that means something .                     