@@712795

txt A Communist campaign of " direct action and incitement to violence , " as it is described in one official report , is gathering momentum throughout Western Germany , according to authoritative sources . This campaign , already marRea by incidents from Hamburg in the north to Munich in the south , is not expected to produce any drastic shift in the political allegiances of voters of the center parties . The danger lies in its potential for drawing together the radical right and the Communist left as champions of " Germany 's national honor " and as exploiters of Germany 's partition and economic difficulties . For the first time since autumn of 1948 , when the Communist members of the governing board of the Ruhr miners ' union were voted out of office , both labor leaders and members of the managerial group are concerned with the inroads of communism among working people in that area . Farther east , in Lower Saxony , with its refugee problem , Communists are having some success among the refugees although , because most of the refugees loathe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ demagogues of the extreme right to push their policies . Linked With Drive in East The present campaign is closely connected with efforts being made by the party in Eastern Germany , at the bidding of its Russian masters , to win political control of Greater Berlin . Perhaps the most dangerous aspect of this Communist activity is the intensity with which the party , its front organizations and numerous committees for " peace " and " against remilitarization " seek to exploit nationalist sentiments throughout Western Germany . This is in marked contrast , one source said , to the immediate postwar line , which stressed the brotherhood of the proletariat in the Soviet Union and Germany and called for an end of " nationalist adventures . " Today , although the industrial workers remain among the principal objectives of this propaganda drive , there is evident a desire to capitalize on the nationalism of the small farmers , urban middle class and war veterans . A lack of political sophistication in these groups helps the Communists and their allies to sell the idea that they alone can contribute materially @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In addition to regular groups or party activists , the Communists are making their bid for West German favor through three other groups : the Free German Youth , the Association of Political Persecutees and the Social Democratic Action . Great stress also is being laid upon what the propagandists term " East-West visits for unity and peace . " Recently , for instance , the city council of Leutenberg in Thuringia , Soviet zone , recalling the " friendly relations that existed between the two towns in former years , " announced that it would visit the neighboring Bavarian town of Staffelstein , just across the border in the United States zone , and invited the city council of Staffelstein to repay the visit . These tactics are employed to advance in Western Germany the idea of the " national front " for reunification of the country . Such " visits " from the East usually take the form of a demonstration , with banners , bands and speakers who stress two central themes , German unity and the " perfidy " of the Western powers in preventing its achievement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Germany adopted a resolution calling for the establishment of effective Communist groups in all factories , with // " reorientation of the unions " and " unity of action " suggested as the objectives . Here again the emphasis is on nationalism . Non-Communist trade union leaders are accused of " collaboration " with Western occupation authorities , and workers are told that only the Communist policy can insure increased EastWest trade and the defeat of unemployment . Hans Boeckler ; first chairman of the Deutsche Gewerkschaft Bund , recently stressed . " increasing Communist subversive activities " within union ranks and other labor leaders . in Western Germany have given - the . same warnings .. The revival of Communist activity is arousing concern in Western Allied agencies because of its effect upon two factors in the German political situation . One of these is the continued resentment over dismantling in Western Germany . This applies mostly to the British , but the Communists extend it to cover " Wall Street warmongers " as well . Nationalism Thrives The second is the rise of nationalism within the right wing of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ This development , despite the frowns of the Western High Commissioners , continues to thrive and receives new impetus whenever something like the Saar agreement appears . Understanding these factors , 1Communist speakers , according to 1 one recent report , are " appealing to patriotic sentiments in a manner reminiscent of Goebbels ' wartime anti-Western propaganda . " This report pointed out that at a recent meeting of the Communist party and Free German Youth in 1 Frankfort , the black , red and gold flag of the West German Republic was displayed on the speakers ' stand side by side with the red flag as a symbol of " national resistance " ' to the Western powers . Speakers at this meeting referred to dismantling as a " scorched earth policy " and a " continuation of the atrocious air raids and bombing of German towns " by British and United States forces during the war .                     