@@712996

txt This week both East and West began to implement their longterm plans for winning what so tediously has been called the cold war  --  while square in the middle Trygve Lie peddled hopefully his 10-point , long-term proposals for peace . In the West 's developing effort to create what Dean Acheson , United States Secretary of State , calls " situations of strength in the free world , " the week 's biggest event was no sudden pronouncement or decision . It was the gradual percolation through western capitals of the rousing fact that western Europe could quite probably be defended against Soviet-massed might after all . That is , providing the West utilized its technological know-how to the uttermost and avoided trying to match the Soviet Union soldier for soldier and tank for tank . Meanwhile , in the East the Kremlin 's biggest cl6marche of the moment was obviously its presiding over the shotgun matrimonials between Poland and eastern Germany , whereby East Germans accepted the Oder-Neisse frontier line with Poland in return for substantial trade arrangements . The significant fact here is that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to a peace treaty with Poland  --  while similar treaties with other Soviet border states are foreshadowed  --  has been promoted to the status of a full-fledged satellite nation by Russia , in an attempt to match the western Allies ' successive elevations of the West German Federal Republic to independent status . Johnson Raises Hopes But it was the comment of Louis A. Johnson . United States Secretary of Defense , to the effect that Europe . could be successfully defended by " relatively small ground forces equipped with modern weapons and backed by a tactical air force " which stirred the greatest interest  --  and hope ? in western chancelleries . Mr. Johnson 's statement with its known implications has been hailed in Paris and London . What it means , of course , is that American defense planners now believe that through the use of ultramodern weapons such as recoilless artillery , the " baby " atom bomb , and properly coordinated tactical air strength , massed Soviet divisions could be halted at the borders of western Europe ? Europe could be saved from invasion instead of being @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ percolate through all strata of public opinion . It will take many more months before any of the new weapons reach Europe and before supertrained small cadres of soldiers will be ready to utilize them . But the very concept can give a new lift of confidence to western Europe . It is bound to dissipate to some extent the incipient French tendency toward neutrality in the cold war . It is certain to raise morale all along the line . surge in Europe was the new grooming and " house cleaning " observable in East Germany this week . Moscow quite evidently proposes to build there a regime largely in the image of the other satellite states of eastern Europe . No longer , apparently , is there to be any pretense of a broadly based East German republic . The proposed " one party " October elections are expected to bring to power only tried-and-trusted trained-in-Moscow officials . In short , while the East German Governnient will have a fa ? ade of independence and its own foreign office , and while the prospects of lucrative trade with eastern @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the East German Government will be so tightly trussed up and operating so directly under orders from Moscow as to make it a satellite state , strictly in the usual pattern . Unpopular Decision Obviously it was not easy to persuade the Germans , excepting some few imbued with the new " internationalism " of communism , to accept the Oder-Neisse line as Germany 's permanent border with Poland  --  even when the verdict was dressed up in the garb of greater " independence " for the East German state . But so thoroughly is the East German regime in Moscow 's pocket that there was no question but that this decision will be hailed dutifully by Herren Wilhelm Pieck and Otto Grotewohl , President and Minister President of the East German Republic , respectively . The Oder-Neisse line , - handing eastern territories to Poland , was understandably unpopular with Germans . That Russia has had to risk the effects of this unpopularity in order to allay apprehensions of the Poles and other satellite Slays , shows that even the Kremlin planners ' highly touted astuteness does not always keep @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Lie 's 10-point peace proposals have been aired in Washington and London  --  and probably too feebly grappled with in both western capitals . The average European man in the street still is not convinced that anything is to be gained by refusing to discuss basic issues with the Russians . If the West were wholly to reject the proposal for periodic Security Council meetings between the Big Four foreign ministers , as proposed by Mr , Lie , this unfortunately would serve to nourish suspicions already implanted by Soviet propaganda that the United States and its Allies are not interested in peace and are preparing to attack Russia ,                     