@@720218

txt Hundreds of persons were Injured in falls Monday as a treacherous glaze of ice , caused by a freezing drizzle , crippled the Chicago area for hours . Dense fog persisted thru the daylight hours , grounding air traffic , and to climax a day of miserable weather a pelting rain began falling at the start of the evening rush hour . The rain , coupled with above freezing temperatures washed away most of the glaze on streets and sidewalks during the day . However , puddles of water began icing up in streets of the western suburbs as the mercury fell below freezing late Monday . Freezing rain was coating trees with ice in Wheaton and other towns . Freezing on Wires Rain began freezing on trolley wires and elevated rails at Tidnight in Chicago as temperatures slid to the freezing point . Buses and elevated trains were delayed early Tuesday as a new freeze up threatened to cripple transportation in a repetition of events early Monday . Before it dissipated Monday the ice glaze caused a big increase in the accident rate . Many suburban @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Many Suffer Fractures Thruout the Chicago area emergency wards of hospitals were filled with victims of falls , many of whom suffered fractures " IT 'S MISERABLE " What do Chicagoans think of winter by now ? The Inquiring Camera girl gives a sampling of viewpoints on page 7 . Fog , ice , rain ? even a tornado ? deal wintry blows to most of nation from Colorado to Atlantic . Story on page 7. ported treating 27 fracture cases between 7 a. m. and 1 p. m . Most of the injured were hospitalized . Little Company of Mary hospital , Evergreen Park , treated 26 persons who fell on ice and suffered fractures . County hospital Monday morning treated 28 persons who fell . Among other hospitals , St. Francis in Evanston had 20 cases ; Chicago Wesley Memorial , 18 ; Evanston hospital , 12 ; West Suburban in Oak Park , 12 ; Memorial in Berwyn , 15 ; Oak Park hospital , seven ; Westlake in Melrose Park , six ; and six at Passavant in Chicago . Heavy Fog Lifts The d e @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about 5 p. m . O'Hare International airport was closed in from 4 a. m . Monday until about 7 p. m . A few flights took off and landed thereafter , but the air lines had canceled many operations by the time the fog lifted . Ceilings lifted to ? permit a resumption of normal operations at Midway airport at 8 p. m . Monday . No planes had been able to land there since early in the morning . Planes , tho , were able to take off . Thousands of persons were late for work Monday morning as a result of transportation difficulties . The CTA reported that most of its buses required about 50 per cent more time than usual Illinois Masonic hospital reduring the morning rush hour . Some CTA bus routes were virtually idle . Ice slowed " L " trains early Monday morning and threatened to halt them where they emerge from the subway to the elevated structure at Armitage avenue . The trains ran close to their normal schedules during the morning rush hour . The North Western railway reported that half of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the morning as a result of slow loading on icy platforms . Similar delays occurred on other suburban lines . Collision Stalls Motorists A collision involving eight autos halted 150 other cars and six school buses at an overpass in Deerfield road . near the Tri-State Illinois toll road , west of Deerfield . Two large trucks stalled in a big dip in ice glazed Illinois route 63 , north of Libeftyvine , and 200 autos were stalled for a half hour before . traffic got moving . Another bad traffic tie-up ' occurred in Ogden avenue , ; , three blocks east of Fairview avenue and north of Downers ; Grove , when a tractor-trailer ; jackknifed when the driver tried to avoid an auto which cut in front of him . Three ' traffic lanes were tied up for two hours . Suburb Power Failure A power failure in the northeast end of Chicago Heights left about 200 homes and businesses without electricity for nearly two hours . Ice clogged sewers were blamed for flooded basements in downtown Ham-i The weather forecaster did not have any good news for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ temperatures were predicted for Tuesday . A high of near 40 in the forenoon is expected , falling to around 10 above early Wednesday . An tteeora Set A weather bureau spokesman described this win t e r as " rather miserable , " but added it would have to get worse before any records are set . There have been 15 days when the temperature dropped to zero or below , so far this winter , The record for zero days was set in t h e winters of 1874-75 and 1935-36 when there were 25 . There have been 34.6 inches ; of snow thus far , compared j with a winter normal of 34.3 . The record snowfall for a winter in Chicago is 66.4 inches , set in 1951-52 . This January has been the coldest since 1948.                     