@@718216

txt LONDON , Sept. 10 ? British and French Government leaders met here tonight to coordinate their policies in the next phase of the dispute with Egypt over the Suez Canal . Meanwhile , a Foreign Office spokesman dismissed as " nothing new " the Egyptian offer to negotiate on the canal 's freedom , development and tolls . The prospects were that Britain and France would spar for time and position by referring the situation to the United Nations . A highly qualified French source said after the first session of the meeting at 10 Downing Street that Prime Minister Eden and Premier Guy Mollet had decided to send a letter to the president of the Security Council informing him of the " gravity " of the Suez situation following the breakdown yesterday of preliminary talks in Cairo . The French source also said Sir Anthony and M. Mollet had decided to send a personal letter to Secretary of State John Foster Dulles , but he did not disclose what the letter would be about . Neither Britain nor France believes that the United Nations can give @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ operation of the canal . Military Action Less Likely But the alternative of ordering direct intervention by the French and British military forces being built up in Cyprus is reported to be unattractive in the immediate future for the following reasons : C'Military measures , officially described as precautionary , are still in a preparatory stage . C.Egypt has not yet given justification for armed intervention , and has been able to maintain the operation of the canal since , the operating company was nationalized July 26. cPrecipitate action probably ! would strain relations with the United States , which has taken a much less militant stand and has hinted it might be willing to compromise on the issue of international control over the ' canal , Mr. Menzies arrived from Cairo in a chartered plane about 7 P. M. Three hours later he went to 10 Downing Street , where the British-French talks were in progress , to report to Sir Anthony . Mr. Menzies told reporters at the airport that the failure of his mission had become clear by Wednesday night . He said the internationalization proposal would have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ maintenance . After long and detailed arguments Mr. Menzies said " the answer Egypt // gave . us was that she will have nothing to do with our peaceful solution of the canal issue . " " I think it is a greit misfortune , not entirely unanticipated , " Mr. Menzies continued , " that as a result of this the world should be thrown back to almost precisely the same position as befoil the London conference . That may not be entirely true because at least we have been able by this errand to clarify the position in the eyes of the world . " Loy W. Henderson , United States Deputy Under Secretary State , who accompanied Mr. 1Menzies , flew directly to Washington . Oeston ' linden , Swedish Foreign Minister , also arrived with Mr. Menzies . CWarnings that the Soviet Union and Arab states would aid Egypt against Western military intervention indicate that war could not be confined . 9Prime Minister Eden 's militant policy has lost the support of the Opposition Labor party , which has demanded recourse to the United Nations . Public @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ position is weakening . Participants in Conference The chief participants in the policy conference were the Prime Minister , Foreign Secretary Selwyn , Lloyd , Premier Guy Mollet of France and his Foreign Minister , Christian Pineau . The French leaders arrived from Paris late today at the invitation of Sir Anthony . The need for new planning was dictated by the end of the first phase of the Suez situation last night . This was the failure of the five-nation mission to Cairo , headed by Prime Minister Robert Gordon Menzies of Australia , to persuade President Gamal Abdel Nasser to negotiate the proposed creation of an international authority to control the operation , finances and development of the canal . . A. major result of the Menzies mission was to emphasize that neither the West nor Egypt had budged from the positions they held at the outset of the twentytwo-nation Suez Canal conference here last month . Eighteen of the nations delegated to the Menzies group the task of presenting proposals for international operation of the waterway , Egypt , which refused to attend the conference , has rejected @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ offered to submit to international treaty guarantees on freedom of passage and to accept foreign advice and assistance on operating the canal . Tonics Reported Discussed The B : ' itish-French talks began at 10 Downing Street at 6:30 P. M. They continued late tonight after an interruption for a dinner attended by British and French diplomatic officials and British Cabinet Ministers dealing with the Suez situation . There was no formal agenda for the talks . Authoritative French and British sources said the topics discussed , in addition to the possible submission of the dispute to the Security Council , included : 9Non - Egyptian pilots employed by the Universal Suez Canal Company , which was nationalized . by Egypt . CMilitaly policy . Britain and France have reserved the right to use force as a last resort and both are basing forces on Cyprus . 9The prospects of coordinating the Big Three policy in the face of divergencies with Wash ? ington 's policy . A corollary topic was the problem of retaining the support of the eighteen nations at the Suez Canal conference that endorsed internationalization of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the canal tlThe Impact , both at home and upon Arab nationalists , of a possible recourse to the United Nations after having eschewed it as a probable source of damaging delays . A highly placed French official said there was no divergence in British and French views on broad lines of policy . New Cairo Bid Shrugged Off LONDON , Sept. 10 British leaders shrugged off a surprise Egyptian call for worldwide talks on Suez . Britain 's reaction was icy . The Foreign Office said : " The Egyptian statement does not appear to suggest any basis for negotiation . The last action of the Egyptian Government has been the unqualified refusal of the proposals put forward as a basis of negotiation by Mr. Menzies ' mission on behalf of the eighteen powers . "                     