@@720742

txt Los Angeles , Sept. 19 GPNikita S. Khrushchev Satur. day night invoked the biblical commandment " thou shalt not kill " in a plea for earnest consideration of his program for total disarmament . The Russian premier de . dared that his proposal , made to the United Nations Friday , were " in perfect good faith . " Ile said they represented " the greatest length to which a great power can go , especial . ly in the conditions of the present day international ten . sion . " Speaks at Banquet Khrushchev spoke at a civic banquet at Los Angeles ' Ambassador hotel . At one point , he compared the ' cold war " to the familiar Los Angeles smog . " The cold war produces more than enough soot , " he said . The Russian leader said : " 1 should like to trust that the exchange of visit s be . tween President Eisenhower and myself will help to finally relegate the cold war to the past and that a warmer cli. mate resembling that of Call . fornia , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Crimea , on which I recently spent my vacation , will be established in international relations . " Khrushchev said that the total disarmament plan he put forth was the only solu ? lion to the arms race . Sees No Benefit " The arms race does not benefit either the soviet or the American people , a n d whichever way you look at it , it becomes ever more sense . less and dangerous . The arm . ament curve has crept so far upward that today more than ever we must honestly and in earnest come to terms under disarmament , " he said in the prepared text of his remarks . Khrushchev said that with . out the weapons of war it would be extremely unlikely that " Americans and Rus. sians would start fighting , having armed themselves with forks and table knives for instruments . " " We have invariable faith in the good aspirations of hu . man beings , and human be ; ings are not born to kill each other but to live in peace , ' Khrushchev said , adding @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Chris . tian religion says : Thou shalt not Recalls Ike 's Statement The premier reminded his audience of President Eisenhower 's statement in Geneva during the 1955 summit conference that there were no " natural differences " between the peoples of the United States and the Soviet Union . " There Is much in common between the peoples of to_the ( U. S. S. It . and the U. S. , ' Khrushchev said . " The meet . ings I have had convinced me that the American people value and love peace . " He said that during all pre . vlous disarmament talks the question of control had belt the main stumbling block .                     