@@717126

txt The world is in the first stage of the most active diplomatic contest since World . War II . There has been nothing like it since the windup of hostilities . Everybody is in the act . That means that United States officials , from the President down . are in for the most arduous workout they have had in a decade . Just to enumerate the jostling and bustling that are going on makes one a little dizzy . And it is n't just the West 's statesmen who are darting hither and thither . The Soviets are beginning to get around  --  and outside the Iron Curtain , too  --  to Belgrade , Geneva , New York . San Francisco . Foreign . Minister Vyacheslav M. Molotov is now in Paris . The Indians are all over the place : Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru is in Moscow getting the most lavish welcome ever given any foreigner ; his alter ego , V. K. Krishna Mellott , India 's " Harry Hopkins , " is on his way to Washington from Peking to mediate the Formosa @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Parleys Overlap west uermany s unancenor is corning to Washington , and is expected later to go to Moscow . The Japanese are talking with the Soviets in London about a peace treaty , Talks are overlapping talks : conferences are bumping into conferences . This is the thaw the world has been waiting for six years . Those at the " working level " ? that is , the experts , the specialists ? of the Western Big Three are now hard at work here in the capital trying to plan and prepare for the summit meeting . Next week their superiors , the Big Three foreign ministers , meet in New York to coordinate positions in preparation for Big Four foreign ministers in San Francisco the following week . They get back for a couple of weeks more of round-the-clock planning for the summit meeting and then will take off for Geneva . The talk is that they will stop off at London for a-final coordination meeting before the summit talk  --  and that even the chiefs of state ( that is , President Eisenhower . Prime Minister @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hold a huddle in London before taking their seats on the summit , just to make sure they are n't opposing one another rather than the Soviets when they get to Geneva . One of the troubles during the wartime chiefs-of-state meeting , it is said , was lack of coordination between Washington and London . To Washington First It is evident that the Soviets wanted to get Dr. Adenauer to Moscow before the Geneva meeting . But that seems impossible now . He is coming here to reach some basic understanding with President Eisenhower on how to respond to the Kremlin 's blandishments . It would threaten to upset such agreements , were the Bonn Chancellor to go to Moscow before President Eisenhower went to the summit meeting . Also , the West Germans do not want to appear too anxious to examine the Kremlin 's proposals . The rule holds good in diplomacy as well as business , and particularly when dealing with the Soviets ? " Let the buyer beware . " But there seems no doubt here that in time Dr. Adenauer will visit Moscow , just @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Prime Minister Nehru is doing now  --  and that he will get the full caviar and vodka treatment . The expanding diplomatic struggle has as its prize Germany ? or rather two prizes  --  Germany and the satellite states . Moscow is out to win or neutralize West Germany . The United States is out to neutralize or win Eastern Europe . Goals Pinpointed Both sides have made their goals clear and both have opened preliminary skirmishes . Both have tried to solidify what they want to protect before they try to acquire what they want . The Soviets have tied their satellites to the Kremlin chariot with the Warsaw pact aligning them all militarily with Moscow . The West has approved the Paris pacts that associate West Germany with the North Atlantic Treaty Organization . With those things accomplished , both capitals have turned their attention to infiltrating the opposition . The Soviets ' trip to Belgrade , the approval of national Titoism , the propaganda for neutralism for Germany , and the call for a European East-West security pact all disclose the Kremlin 's diplomatic strategy . As for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has indicated that Washington will press for relaxation of Soviet ties to its satellites , fulfillment of Mos : cow 's wartilne pledges about Eastern Europe , acceptance of West German ties with NATO , neutralism for Eastern Europe if it wants it .                     