@@718013

txt Day Is Hottest June 14 in City in 86 Years- : - Little Relief Predicted ' for Today Yesterday 's heat pushed all other hot days this year into the shade . It reached 96.1 degrees at 1:30 P. M. The day was also the hottest June 14 in the Weather Bureau 's eighty-six-year memory . As records were baked away , the Weather Bureau had few words of cool consolation for New Yorkers . It looked for more of the same today , with perhaps somewhat lower temperatures and a few widely scattered thundershowers . The previous high temperature for the year had been recorded Wednesday at . 3:30 P. M. , when it was 89.2 degrees . Until yesterday June 14 , 1892 , held the heat record for the date , with a reading of 91 . At 1 P. M. yesterday the thermometer stood at 92 degrees . In thirty minutes the mercury rose four and one-tenth degrees , then fell back three-tenths of a degree to 95.8 at 2 P. M. At 3 P. M. the mercury had dropped to 95 . An @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ humidity declined to keep pace With the heat , staying between . 36 and 40 per cent al ' afternoon .. Because of this , the heat was of the furnace rather than the - steam- bath The city 's oasis , Central Park was a mecca for heat-bedevilec persons seeking green shade Barefooted children who wan ? dered from playground sprinklers whimpered when their feel touched the hot pavement . Nurses and mothers ran to scoot them up and carry them back to cooler ground . In Queens , steamy insult was piled on torrid injury . A Bayside vdman reported that the steam heat was on in a twentyseven-family apartment building and that it was 130 degrees in her . bedroom . There was no one available to remedy the situation . In White Plains , it was so hot that gasoline flowed down Main Street , The Fire Department was called nine times to hose down thoroughfares . The gasoline in full automobile tanks had expanded in the heat and overflowed . . Westchester 's temperature set a record ' for the year , with a reading of 94.6 at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Westchester County Airport in Purchase . Heat records were broken elsewhere . The United States Weather Station at Newark Airport . in New Jersey reported a peak reading for the date of 99 degrees at 3:45 P. X. The previous high was 96 in 1945 . All state offices in Newark without air-conditioning closed at 2 P. M. on orders from Gov . Robert B. Meyner . City and Federal ... offices and most business offices remained open . , Trenton reported 97 degrees at : 2 P. M. , a record fop June 14 . As in- Newark , all state offices were closed ' at 2 P. M. Many plants and businesses gave their employes the afternoon off . Two heat prostration cases were reported , one in Trenton and one in Elizabeth , where the mercury reached 95 . At the oceanside resort of Atlantic City , it was comparatively cool-89 degrees . On Wednesday the temperature had gone . to 95 , the highest reading for June 13 in the resort 's history . More than 12,000 persons took to the still there yesterday . The eastern @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Temperatures reached into the 90 's and 100 's in some midwest areas . However , cool air was moving down from the northern plains into the Great Lakes area . Tropical storms over the coastal Gulf states sent temperatures down into the 70 's . At Jackson Hole in northwestern Wyoming , heat melted mountain snow , which poured into the Snake River , causing a threat of flood .                     