@@719728

txt The Senate today blocked , for the fifth time , a Republican drive to write general labor legislation . In an extraordinary Saturday session , the Senators voted against the proposal of Senator William F. Knowland , the Republican leader , to hitch an amendment to control unions to a fairly noncontroversial bill on welfare and pension fund reports . The roll-call vote was 53-28 . The amendment would have required all unions to give equal rights to every worker they purported to represent . That would have abolished segregated locals and the work permit system under which some unions require the equivalent of dues without giving membership rights . The pending bill would require welfare and pension funds to make public reports and would penalize false reports and embezzlement with fines and imprisonment up to *10,000 and five years . With thirty-two more amendments still on the table , at least two more days of debate with similar results were in prospect for next week . It became increasingly evident , however , that the Republicans were building a campaign issue that was causing some anxiety @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ affirmative ballots were cast by Republicans . However , forty Democrats were joined in dissent by thirteen ? Republicans , tite largest party. , bloc so far to defeat Senator Knowland 's proposals . Senator . Lyndon B. Johnson of Texas , the Democratic leader , called the Republican offerings " pure political hogwash . " However , he gave the Senate the firmest assurances of the four-day debate that he would use all his influence to bring general labor legislation through normal committee channels to the floor in this session . " We are going to have legislation in this field if I have any effectiveness at all in this Body , " Senator Johnson told the Senate . A majority of the Senate is now in the position of having voted against legislation designed to curb some of the abuses by union leadership shown by the Senate rackets committee . Their reasons for so voting , they are aware , are not easily explained in'a political Campaign . Some of the Senators . including a few of the Republicans who voted against the Knowland bills , were reported to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ those votes before Congress adjourns . The Knowland amendments have not had a hearing . To pass them without such consideration , some Senators have argued , is unsound procedure . The welfare and pension fund bill , on the other hand , has been going through the corn mittees for more than four years . If it is burdened with controversial amendments , its proponents say , its chances of adoption in the House of Representatives will be dissipated . With his candidacy for Governor of California as a backdrop , Senator Knowland and his supporters have argued that a second opportunity to vote on such legislation was improbable at this session . Senator Norris Cotton , Republican of New Hampshire , reinforced this view while disclaiming any reflection on the good faith of opponents . " The Senate is paved with good intentions , " he said . The short-term factor in the Republican strategy was to prolong the debate in the hope that enough voters would write and wire in their views and swing the Senate . This point was articulated by Senator Karl E. Mundt , Republican @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there would be some merit in having the debate go on until next week so that people would have . time to make their views ' known . Senator Johnson said he wasp sure that Senators were not go-1 ing to ? " flip flop " because of week-end pressure . Late in the afternoon , an agreement was reached to ad journ until Monday after the vote on Senator Knowland 's fifth amendment and to limit debate on each amendment to one hour , and debate on final passage to three hours . It is not expected that all the pend- , ing amendments will be called up for action . However , Senator H. Alexander Smith , Republican of New Jersey , said that he expected to call up at least four of the eleven amendments he is sponsoring . Senator Knowland , winding up debate on his amendment , dealt with the broad issue of labor an dFederal controls . He attacked " the use of the union structure as a political machine at the same time as that structure enjoys the statutory powers , rights and privileges @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ certain labor leaders are doing and there is where trouble lies . No one has to prove the existence of a labor political machine cloaked in the guise of labor organization . " Union officials should stay within the intent of the law and use their power for industrial relations , or surrender their legal privileges if they want to act like a political party . They should not be permitted to mount a political movement piggy-back on a law-supported , legitimate labor movement . "                     