@@715937

txt President Eisenhower completed three days of conferences with congressional leaders tonight , predicting enactment of a legislative program that will carry out the Republican party 's promises in its 1952 platform . The President issued a statement at the close of the final session reporting " much progress " had been made and that the executive branch , congressional leaders , and chairmen of house and senate committees would cooperate in carrying out his legislative program . " The program , " the President said , " will be based , in principle and philosophy , on the 1952 Republican platform . . . If we are to continue to deserve public support , we must live up to these declared pledges and bring to our people a sound , constructive and comprehensive program which will : " 1 . Use as a measure . of every element of American foreign policy the one simple rule : Does it advance the interests of America ? In that vein it is clear we must continue to strengthen the unity of the free world to resist communist aggression . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that will give our people a guarantee that they can depend on this administration to protect the security , the welfare , and the economic stability of each individual citizen . " Vice President Nixon , who participated in the conferences , told reporters he was confident the sessions h a d developed " great support " for the President 's legislative program . The conferences covered such key topics as taxes , the budget , national defense , and farm and labor programs . Today 's sessions covered tightening controls on subversives and safeguarding American sovereignty . Consideration of more effective ways of dealing with ComVold ? Mit , McCarthy center , and Bricker. , munists and big time criminals brought President Eisenhower together dlivith Sen. McCarthy R. , Wis. , chairman of the senate 's permanent investigations subcommittee , and Rep. Velde R. , Ill. , chairman of the house committee on un-American activities . Sen. Jenner R. , Ind. , chairman of the senate 's internal security subicommittee , was ill and unable to be present . Impressed , Says Senator Velde said the talks on the subversive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " evidence of coeperation of the highest type . " Leaving the meeting , McCarthy said that he " was n't displeased at anything I heard . " Later he dictated the following statement to the White House press room : " This is the first time that I have had an opportunity to watch the President in action over a period of time . I was tremendously impressed with his handling of the conference and his detailed knowledge of every subject or proposed piece of legislation that was discussed . " The safeguarding of American sovereignty brought Sen. BrickReproduced with permission of the copyright owner . Further reproduction prohibited without permission . er R. , 0.1 , author of an amendment to limit constitutional treaty making power of the executive branch of the government , face to face with State Secretary Dulles , chief administration critic of the plan . There was no immediate report ? of the President 's reaction to the opposing views . Both Republicans and Democrats are expected to reach agreement on a version of the Bricker amendment to the Cont stitution . The proposal to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is expected to get overwhelming congressional support . Atty . Gen. Brownell opened the final conference sessions by outlining proposed legislation to legalize wire tapping in court cases involving national security . These cases would include espionage , sedition , sabotage , and treason . There also was sonic consideration of including wire tapping evidence in cases involving big time criminals . Offers Immunity Plan Another recommendation offered by Brownell was to grant immunity in federal cases to persons who would otherwise refuse to reveal vital information on the ground of possible self-incrimination . Velde said he would have to look at the law after a bill is peesented to Congress before he could comment . Chairman Reed R. , 111.1. of the house judiciary committee told reporters his committee will hold hearings early next year on bills to legalize wire tapping and granting immunity to witnesses under certain circumstances . Other subjects on the day 's agenda included government . reorganization , domestic and foreign commerce , home rule for the District of Columbia , postal rates , civil service , and veterans affairs . Rep. Hof f man R. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , who participated in the discussion of reorganization along with McCarthy in the latter 's role as chairman of the senate government operations committee , later told reporters that the President did not have any specific reorganization plans . It has been reported that Mr. Eisenhower is cool toward the idea of reorganization.                     