@@712848

txt Kansas City , which has a clean and progressive administration , should not bear the brunt of the blame for the current political crime scandals . according to experts in municipal affairs . They are apprehensive that this may be the result of disclosures following the recent gangland slayings of Charles Binaggio and Charles Gargotta , political leader and his henchman . The city has had one of the-most enlightened administrations in the nation ever since boss Torn Pendergast was overthrown in 1940 by an upsurge . of , public re- sentment at corruption and maladministration . Alfred Willoughby , executive secretary of the National Municipal League , points out that the Kansas City Police Department  --  which has turned up no leads in the double ' slaying  --  is under the jurisdiction of the state , not the city . Governor Names Two Mr. Willoughby stressed that Gov . Forrest E. Smith has appointed two of the four commissioners who control the city 's police . The governor is said to have named men recommended by Mr. Binaggio . The theory behind the Missouri law vesting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Wicked and that a governor , elected with the participation of rural people , would be wholesome and good , " the NML official said . " Actually the council-manager government of Kansas City has been among the finest in the land since 1940 , " he continued . " But it can do nothing about its police department . " Both Kansas City and St. Louis ought to take the present scandal as a reason for demanding full responsibility for managing their own business , including the police . " If Governor Smith had appointed other men to the police board . the current scandal could perhaps have been avoided . Mr. Willoughby charged . Local police are controlled by the state in Baltimore , Boston , Fall River , Mass. ; Lewiston , Maine ; Manchester , Nashua , and Portsmouth , N.H. , and elsewhere , Police boards are appointed by state authorities except in the case of Baltimore and Boston , where single heads are named by the governor . State control of police departments was very common 75 years ago . It was part of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , down the years , most states have returned police administration to  --  the cities . According to reports from Missouri , Governor Smith has instituted an investigation of the Kansas City Police Department . His action followed an appeal by Kansas City Mayor William E. Kemp for an investigation to furnish adequate protection against those who " feed on vice and rackets of every kind . " Paradoxes Not New In an oblique reference to charges that politicians with gangster connections have had some say in the appointment of members of the police board , the mayor 's statement added : " No situation must be permitted to exist that would allow any individual police officer to feel that any underworld character had any influence with any police board member or any superior officer in any echelon of the department . " Paradoxes are not new in Kansas City civic affairs . The city has had a good charter for 25 years . It adopted the council-manager form of government in the mid-1920 's . Nevertheless , Tom PendergaSt was able to control the city  --  lock , stock , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and made it one of the blackest spots in American municipal history . For a long time the city was the " black sheep " of the council-manager form of government , which has worked successfully in many other cities around the country . Advantage Cited However , Mr. Willoughby stresses that this modern form of government did make it easier for the citizens to get rid of the boss when they became aroused . 