@@715681

txt The forty-fourth annual Teachers Institute , sponsored by the Department of Education of the Archdiocese of Boston , will take place Aug. 25-28 . Representatives of the 4,000 religious and lay teachers in the 315 elementary and secondary schools of the archdiocese Will participate in the program . According to the Rev. Dr. Timothy F. O'Leary , superintendent , the institute will place emphasis on the development of the whole child . Discussions will take place on inter-group education , the role of the Catholic schools in a democracy , arid the development of a healthy personality in the child . WITTENBERG  --  Divinity School Wittenberg College ( Springfield , Ohio ) has adopted a long-term program for reorganizing , the Hamma Divinity School , the college 's theological seminary . The program will bring the divinity school into closer relationship with the college . All seminary administration except the academic will be transferred to the college . The seminary faculty will be expanded and the curriculum reorganized . LAFAYETTE  --  Early Entrance Students in the early admissions program at Lafayette College , those admitted under 163 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ work , will receive high school equivalent certificates from the Pennsylvania . State Department of Public Instruction after two years in college . The early ' admissions program is sponsored by the Ford Foundation 's Fund for the Advancement of Education . STEVENS  --  Engineering Increased interest in engineering shown by high school students in recent months has led to publication of a new booklet about the profession by Stevens Institute of Technology . Designed to answer questions about the work engineers do , the sixteen-page publication discusses the scholastic attainments and special aptitudes which indicate whether a student should seek admission to an engineering college . COLLEGES  --  Special Fund Nine of the non-tax-supported and . independent educational institutions of New Jersey have formed the New Jersey College Fund Association , designed to make a joint appeal to industry for financial support for higher education . Patterned after similar organizations in thirty other states , the plan calls for a joint approach to prospective donors for gifts to the association which will be distributed to member colleges according to a prescribed formula . ST . JOHN'S -- Teaching St. John 's College @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Foundation 's Fund for the Advancement of Education to institute a college teaching internship program . The project will help prepare young men and women already holding degrees for college teaching careers . COLUMBIA Medical Talks Columbia University this fall will offer a series of ten informal medical Psychologist . Takes Over From the Truant Officer At a recent conference of the New York State Attendance Association held at Cornell University , steps were taken to bring an end to the days of the domineering , unsympathetic truant officer and replace him with one trained in child psychology . State Senator Thomas C. Desmond of Newburgh told the conference that a school board that does not employ a psychologically trained attendance teacher " is not playing fair with our children and parents . " He promised to Meet the problem squarely by introducing a bill in the next session of the Legislature that would require professional training for attendance work . discussions designed to give the layman the facts about themselves and how they can live a healthier , happier life . The series will present seventeen distinguished authorities in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ A translation center , offering services to the community in at least seven foreign languages , has been established at the University of Bridgeport . The languages included are French , German , Spanish , Russian , Italian , Greek and Portuguese . SEMINARY  --  Social Sciences Union Theological Seminary in collaboration with Russell Sage Foundation will undertake a study of the bearing of the social sciences upon the work of the churches and the preparation of Christian ministers . The project will include an analysis of the present efforts of the seminary to use social sciences in instruction and training and also the development of a more complete program of instruction and fieldwork experience based on insights from the social sciences . BOOKMARKS  --  Freedom A book on " Fountains of Freedom , " containing selected readings on moral and spiritual value 's in American democracy , has been compiled by officials within the Nebraska Department of Public Instruction . The selections are designed for the English or social studies program on the secondary level . a is published by Pacific Press Publishing Association , Mountain View , Calif . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ teaching of biology , chemistry and physics are to be offered at DePaul University this fall . . . . Dining services in the new $1,400,000 Student Union and Freshman Center , part of the plan to de-emphasize fraternities at Williams College , will be ready for the 277 members of the class of ' 57 ' when they report for freshman orientation week on Sept. 23 .... A twelve-week evening course on the professional level to prepare prospective teachers and others to Meet speech requirements for licensing in their respective fields will be offered this fall by the Extension Division of City College . . . . A new international organization , the " International Council on Education for Teachers " has been formed at a meeting Ira C. , , ox-a.                     