@@715191

txt College football 's costly twoplatoon era , which introduced the gridiron specialist and bankrupted the football programs of many small colleges , came to a sudden end today After three days of vigorous discussions behind closed doors , the Football Rules Committee of the National Collegiate Athletic Association killed the free substitution rule by a unanimous vote . The new regulation , which brings back the era of the all-around " iron man " offensive and defensive performer , states that players removed from the game during the first and third periods may not return to action in those periods . Players withdrawn before the final four minutes of the second and fourth periods may go back into the game , in the last four minutes . The rules make no provision for the extra-point kicker , which means he is under the same restrictions as other players : In another change , the committee altered the defensive pass interference regulation to give the offensive team only enough yardage for a first down . Previously , the defensive team was penalized 15 yards from the point of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ committee indicated the player must have sig. - naffed far enough in advance to , prevent opposing players tacklingl him . The decision will be left ups to ' officials . " This is the end of the two-pla-1 toon system , " said Columbia 's ' coach , Lou Little . " It was a radical action , but when we thought it over thoroughly , we decided we could have as good a game as we had before , and this is going to help the colleges with financial problems . " Small Colleges Suffered Fifty small colleges have been forced to abandon football because of the huge squads and the big coaching staffs demanded by the two-platoon system with its many offensive and defensive experts . Little said the action was expected also to bring renewed interest in football to the colleges that have de-emphasized the sport in recent years . - " These schools wont have to keep up with their neighbors now by maintaining so many coaches and players , " he said . " They can come back now , within their means and restore @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's surprise action ignores a recommendation by the nation 's college coaches , who voted four to one in a receht survey for keeping the substitution rule the way it was or making it even more liberal . Ott the other side of the dispute were college presidents and administrators , who believed it was necessary to eliminate the fabulous costs of the two-platoon system . Many fans also have spoken Out against the system , declaring that the constant stream of players on and off the field was confusing and decreased the interest in the game . The system was legalized in 1941 , with the adoption of a rule permitting coaches to make unlimited substitutions any time the clock was stopped and to make single substitutions between players while the clock was running . Before 1941 , no player removed from a game could be sent back in the same quarter . Subject Discussed 3 Days The committee chairman , H. 0 . ( Fritz ) Crisler , the Michigan athletic director , said the subject was discussed for three days " without thinking of our teams and our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its future in mind . " Crisler said the committee was " gravely concerned " about the schools that had been forced to abandon football because of the two-platoon. system . " This is going to mean a great and sudden change in the , organization of football programs , " said K. L. ( Tug ) Wilson , Big Ten commissioner , who attended the committee meetings in an advisory capacity . Others at the meetings agreed that thousands of college coaches would have to discard their present programs . " They 're going to have to start considering now who their best eleven players are , " Crisler said . " Obviously , the boys now will have to play the game both ways . " Little - said that while the new rule would cut down on the size of varsity squads , just as many boys will be able to play football as before , because the rule will mean the rejuvenation of junior varsity teams . The new rule . which ends a colorful and controversial era of college football , reads : " A player withdrawn @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not return during the period from which he was withdrawn . " Players withdrawn from the game before the final four minutes of the second or fourth periods may return during ' the final four minutes of the period in which they were withdrawn , but if withdrawn during the final four minutes of either the second or fourth periods , they may not return during that four-minute period . " known a single topic to be discussed so thoroughly and to have so many angles involved as the two-platoon system . We had a free exchange of views from all sections of the country  --  from players , coache , s , college , administrators , spectators , officials and the press . More Than Technical Change " We recognized this as not just a technical change in a football rule but one that involves the ad ministration of college athletics and the whole philosophy behind it . In the end , we tried to recognize all the arguments pro and con . " The committee said it felt the present rule on " false starts " coy , ered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to draw the opposition offside in scoring ter . ritory , but ' re-worded the rule in t an effort to strengthen it . " It 's just a matter of the officials calling it , " Crider said . * The term " sucker shift " was introduced into football vocabulary during the past season after Notre Dame 's victories ? over Oklahoma and Southern California . The Irish were accused of using unethical tactics by employing a shift to draw the opposition offside and get .5. yard penalties near the goal line . The committee rejected a proposal to make T-quarterbacks- eligible to receive forward passes , after handling the ball from center . This action , may have been in response to a plea from Amos Alonzo Stagg not to make any changes in the rules " which will add ' strength to the offense. "                     