@@720863

txt Robert Moses , speaking in a bitter mood , defended his construction policies yesterday and depicted his critics as underminers of the city 's progress . In his role as the city 's Construction Coordinator , Mr. Moses spoke caustically and was warmly received by an audience of 1,300 persons at the Astor Hotel . He addressed a luncheon meeting of the New York Building Congress on the Subject , " The Critics Build Nothing . " Among his targets were " moribund civic societies with their excited , maggoty brains " ; newspapers and , by implication , the city administration . He refused to be pinned down when , asked what his specific targets were . Calls for Leadership At one point , Mr. Moses said : " Give us respected leadership that will breathe confidence , not dismay , into the people of New York and give loyal support and we will rebuild the city . " Asked later to clarify this remark , Mr. Moses said : " I wo n't clarify anything . It is clear enough . " At another point @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the staff of the Slum Clearance Committee , which Mr. Moses Leads , be composed only of full-time workers . The committee 's director , William Lebwohl , was also counsel to the Triborough , Bridge and Tunnel Authority I and was later relieved as an ! unpaid directOr . There was some question as to whether Mr. Moses had acted promptly on the Mayor 's request . Mr. Moses declared that " one of the favorite press gags " at City Hall was to needle a Mayor with the question : " Who is the chief executive anyway , you or your subordinate ? " He added : " Then the top man is expected to fly into a rage , beat his chest like Tarzan and say , " I am . ' " " Such questions never got a rise out of Abraham Lincoln , " Mr. Moses said . " He allowed he could get along with the eccentricities and even arrogance of his aides- if they contributed to his administration and the winning of the war , and he asked mildly where General Grant got his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the general 's critics . " " I have no illusions of grandeur , no thirst for martyrdom and have had too much fun to invite or beg for sympathy , " Mr. Moses remarked at another point . " They ostracized the leading citizens in Greece , " he went on . " They tired of hearing Aristides called The Great . They tossed out Baron Haussmann after seventeen years of service which saved Paris from rot and strangulation . " Defending his Title I housing program , Mr. Moses said its purpose had been lost sight of " because the air was full of old vegetables , rotten eggs and dead cats . " He said the city 's housing program led the entire nation in achievement , " and yet we have been vilified by snarling critics at home . " Minorities should not be allowed to dictate the chore of clearing up the slums , he asserted , and declared that " the left-wingers have no monopoly of hatred or injustice . " He would despair of democracy , he said , if he did not believe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ many of their present leaders . " Public servants , he said , must always be ready to quit when elected officials no longer want them or when there is no further opportunity to get results . " Those who have large objectives simply ca n't brood over their enemies , " he said . " It 's not nobility . Unlike some of the Tuscarora Indians , we forget where the hatchet is buried . Fame is not for little bureaucrats . The most I can possibly expect is to be remembered for a very short time as the Archie Moore of public works . " The ageless Archie Moore , light-heavyweight boxing champion of the world , has fought 206 bouts since he began his professional career in 1936 , and he has won 128 by knockouts . His exact age has caused considerable speculation . He has said that he was born Dec. 13 , 1916 , at Collinsville , Ill . His mother has been quoted as saying that he was born Dec. 13 , 1913 , in Benoit , Miss . Then , as he warmed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : " The professional vomiters and mud-throwers , jealous and unhappy chairmen and secretaries of moribund civic societies with their excited , maggoty brains , the rattlesnake element in the press , hot after sensational disclosures , the junior bloodhounds and unlicensed sleuths , in other words those who , under the guise of civic righteousness and news fit or unfit to print , habitually and constantly malign New York , p.re doing our city no good . " On the subject of newspapers , he added : " A word of b encoura. ' ement , real or fancied , at City Hall , and the critics shriek with delight . They think they have driven a wedge between the Mayor and a department head . " Out come the headlines ' Mayor appoints investigating committee . ' ' Mayor slaps down Zilch . ' ' Commissioner Blatz on ilway out . ' ' Scandal-ridden bureau to be abolished . " Racketeers denounced . ' ' Underworld link to be broken '  --  and so forth . " The- final pay-off , refutation , denouement , retraction or correction appears @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Tones stock averages , Brazilian Coffee Exchange news and death notices . You ca n't win , " Again defending , his accomplishments , Mr. Moses asked : " Can you imagine metropolitan New York choked , throttled , . cribbed , coffined and confined without the bridges , tunnels , parkways , expressways and thruways built to open it up by those who had to beat and hack down opposition ? " " If we are slipping , " he said , " it is because our home detractors , cynics and apologists are doing their damnedest to hurt us. "                     