@@720913

txt In the life of Poland , fundamental power belongs to the Soviet Union , but fundamental influence still belongs to the Roman Catholic Church . The existence of the Soviet Union ' and the existence of the Church are the two overriding realities in Poland . Everything else stems from them . These two realities shape the broad outlines of political moves , and political structure in Poland and determine their limits . And in an intimate day-today way these two realities influence the life of every Pole . It was because of the existence of the Soviet Union  --  more bluntly , because of the everpresent shadow of the Soviet ' Army  --  that communism was able to come to power in Poland and has been maintained in power . Poles Are Unswayed It is because of the existence of the Church  --  more precisely , because of the intense devotion of the huge majority of Poles to it  --  that communism has had virtually no impact on the emotions and loyalties of the Polish people . The two great realities  --  Catholicism and the Soviet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other constantly . It is largely because of the existence of the Church that the Polish Communists , who know that at best they only share authority with it , have had to strike out on some unexplored Socialist roads to maintain order and even the semblance of control . And the existence of the Soviet Union puts eonstant limits on the actions , decisions and pronouncements of the Church in Poland . Fear that the overthrow of Polish communism would bring the Soviet Army into the country has made the Church forego the use of its strength against Polish communism  --  and sometimes help it . Reds Fear All-Out Contest To turn the coin around , fear that an all-out contest between Polish communism and Polish Catholicism would result in chaos and the entry of Soviet troops has made Poland 's Communists decide , as no other Communist land has , to try to live with the reality of the Church ? to struggle against permitting its influence to grow , but not to risk the attempt to destroy it . For some foreigners the intensity of Polish devotion is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a step back from its unsophisticated quality . A Catholic from New York ' stood in the courtyard of a monastery and later a friend ) asked why she had stood while all about her knelt " At home I would have knelt of course , " she said . " But here Ii felt that to kneel would have been to pretend to Identify ' Myaelf with everything they were fireing and I knew I could not . So it seemed truer as a Catholic to stand at that moment " Catholicism for most Poles is not a matter of mass en Sundays , but as much a part of their lives as the earth they walk en . It is so much a part of A-1/2e colotional life of the count ' that sometimes foreigners , ing it for granted , forget its ervading importance . A Polish woman on a pilgrimage does not saunter into the fortress-like monastery at the Shrine of Czestochowa . She falls on her knees as she enters the stone courtyard . For most Poles Catholicism is not only a matter of piety ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Church and Poland are one . They sing " Mary , Queen of Poland . " It is not simply as a literary expression that they sing it , but as the statement of what they see as a clear relationship . The Catholic nature of the Poles and the Communist nature of their Government inevitably lead to conflict , although each side knows the sources of strength of the other . Officially , there is a truce between the Church and the state in Poland . Wladyslaw Gomulka , Poland 's Communist leader , agreed to it in 1957 soon after he ordered the release from imprisonment of the only other man who counts for anything in Poland , Stefan Cardinal Wyszynski . Both Realize Danger It is not a piece of paper that keeps the truce alive despite the incessant pressures on it .. It is the realization of the Catholic leader and the Communist leader that without it their nation would be in constant turmoil and in constant danger of occupation . This is the one thing in common between the commissar and the cardinal . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ undeclared ' tug of war , kept within bounds by that mutual fear . There are recurrent crises between Church and state in Poland and there will continue to be . These crises come from the belief that each side is endeavoring , under the protection of the truce , to reduce the influence and prestige of the other . In the summer of 1958 , for instance , the Communists became convinced that the priests in the parishes were becoming teo outspoken in their opposition to communism . The Government took the dramatic step of raiding the Cardinal 's offices in the monastery of Jasna Gore at Czestochowa , impounding Church presses , and launching a violent anti-Church campaign . The campaign died after a while , before it became too dangFrous . Now the state has start , ed on a series of administrative measures designed to restrict the Church  --  high taxation , callirg seminarians into the army , refusing to recognize the Bishop of Kielce . For its part , the Church is neither powerless nor inactive . It has no political party and its only real @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ voice of the parish priest is heeded more than the voice of Trybuna Ludu , the party newspaper . For example , a Warsaw priest was leading his congregation on a nine-day pilgrimage on foot to Czestochowa . Within sight of the great walls of the monastery he turned to a foreigner and said " Show me a Pole who would walk nine days for a copy of Trybuna . " With Church support the Communists could put across almost any social or economic program in Poland . Without Church support the Communists usually find their programs drowning in the indifference of the people . At the moment , state pressures against the Church are increasing . They are increasing to the point where the other day a Catholic member of the Polish Sejm ( Parliament ) got up to denounce them  --  a move not taken lightly by Catholic politicians , who fully understand the delicacy of the Church-state equilibrium and normally do nothing to upset it . It is likely that before long there will be talks between Church and state representatives . When the situatian becomes too tense @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ usually happens . But it is an important part of the story that while there , is constant pressure against ' the Church , there is no interference with church attendance . ie Warsaw police official once said that one of the big administrative problems of his force ; was making sure there were : enough policemen on duty on Sunday to direct traffic and control crowds coming to ' church . The state also allows religious instruction in state schools , one of the agreements of the , truce . In Poland a boy who , does not go to religious educa- , tion class risks the taunts and : blows of the schoolmate . The Church has its problems in Poland that are not the result of state pressure . The hideously crowded living conditions in the Polish cities have led many Catholics to ignore the injunctions against birth control and abortion . And it is a fact that many young Poles , particularly in the cities , have lost some of their admiration for priests  --  as men , not as priests . On the grounds of Warsaw @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ major , a youth about 19 years old . The talk got around to religion and the youth said he was a believer . But about his parish priest he said : " We have our faith in common but I can not think of anything else . He is a narrow man , I think . " Emotional Gap Exists There is an emotional gap between many educated Poles and the village priest . And the Church , for all its enormous power in Poland , is not monolithic in opinion . There are priests in the hierarchy whom Catholic intellectuals regard as backward-looking and out of step socially with the mid-twentieth century . Among Catholics there are leaders who believe in a policy of resistance to everything the state does . And there are leaders who believe in " positivism " ? working , as Poles and as Catholics , to create the best kind of Poland that history , geography and the reality of Communist power allow . These differences are important but infinitely more important still is the all-enveloping , intense quality of Catholilism among the mass @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ political policy are rather remote . Roman Catholicism is part of the feel , the tone and the atmosphere of life in Poland . And it is as fundamental in the political story of Poland as it is in her hour-by-hour life . Tomorrow : Poland 's 7-ore in world diplomacy wanes.                     