@@716217

txt Japan is planning to open unofficial negotiations with the Soviet Union for the restoration of some fishing rights in northern waters . The Japan Fisheries Association announced that its chairman , Tsunejiro Hiratsuka , would be sent to Moscow early next month to discuss with Soviet authorities the question of fishing rights off the Kuriles and Sakhalin and in the Bering Sea and Sea of Okhotsk , which have been barred to Japanese craft since World War II . The association , the largest organization of its type here , represents important private fisheries companies as well as fishermen 's cooperatives formed under post-occupation laws . The decision to send a representative to Moscow was taken at a special directors ' meeting yesterday , apparently with the blessing of the Japanese Foreign Office . The action represents a new step in the campaign here to step up meager trade with the Soviet . This would offset the decline in Japanese income resulting from the reduction of the United States ' special purchases because of the ending of the Korean war . Tokyo Will Admit Trade Agents The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be admitted to Japan under special conditions , and Moscow apparently is in'creasingly willing to make barter arrangements hem , particularly for ship construction and repair . The newspaper Asahi said today it was understood that no objection would be made by the Foreign Office to Mr. Hiratsuka 's planned visit to the Soviet , as had been to previous unofficial Japanese " trade delegations " that , visited the Soviet Union and Communist China without benefit of official papers but brought back glowing accounts of commercial possibilities if relations could be restored . The northern fishing fields ' importance to the Japanese scarcely can be exaggerated . Before the war , under a series of leases and provisional arrangements with the Soviet , Japan sent more than 20,000 fishermen annually into the waters of Soviet Siberia to man fishing ships and large floating canneries . The Japanese exported then about $6,000 ; 000 worth of canned crabmeat and ' salmon a year and also provided a considerable quantity of muchneeded food for the over-populated ? home islands . Boats that enter the proscribed waters frequently are seized  --  a : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ come ; right up to the Japanese coast- line oil Hokltaido to grab ships ! and crews . According to today 's announce- ; ment , ? Mr. Hiratsulta 's principals task will be to negotiate with ' the Russians on " safety procedures " for Japanese fishing in the north . It is understood the Fisheries Association chairman has been instructed not to raise the . question of territorial waters , ' which the Japanese believe should extend only three miles offshore but to which the Soviet has set no specific limit . The safety guarantee sought , it was said , will include only the Japanese right to remain unmolested on the high seas and the establishment of some firm . definition of boundaries . Special arrangements also are expected to be discussed regarding Nemuro Strait , between Hokkaido and the Habomai Islands , the southernmost group of the Kuriles . The Japanese have contended , though without much legal or historic precedent , that the Habomai group is not part of the Kuriles and should not have been ceded to the Soviet Union under the Potsdam declaration . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whole strait up to the Japanese shoreline as Soviet water . This has been the area where most Japa nese fishing boats have been , seized . A " special understanding " regarding this area is one of the principal objects of the unofficial Japanese mission ? it is believed . 19. 1934 Japan seeks an accord with Soviet Union on the area north of Hokkaido ( cross ) . Mr. Hiratsuka is believed to be authorized to propose an exchange of fishing information between Japan and the Soviet Union and to negotiate a way for the sale of Japanese marine products to Soviet east Asia ? trade that was fairly extensive before the war . Thus far there has been no indication that the Fisheries Association 's move was taken at Moscow 's prompting or that Soiviet consent will be given to the ' mission . However , the Russians recently have Seemed to be wooing the Japanese for barter trade opportunities and have made no difficulties in admitting Japanese missions behind the Iron Curtain when it seemed assured that either commercial arrangements or favorable propaganda would result .  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @          