@@719634

txt Strong " natural forces " are pressing for an upturn in the nation 's economy , perhaps this spring , said the head of the country 's biggest bank . S. Clark Seise , president of the Bank of America , urged that these forces be given a chance to become evident before artificial means are used to stimulate business : " We must be careful we do n't overmedicate the patient , " he warned . " The side effects might be worse than the illness . " Speaking of these side effects , Mr. I3eise noted , " inflationary forces are still bugs in our system , although latent at the moment . " Mr. Heise did not rule out the possibility that artificial stimulation of the economy by the Government might be necessary . But he recommended a " wait and see " attitude for at least the next 30 days . If it then appears that the decline is getting worse rather than leveling oft , he suggested " serious consideration of some revision in tax practices which would tend to stimulate business @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which would encourage capital expansion for the improvement of production and boost research and development investment , he noted . One of the factors in the current recession is the decline in business spending for plant and equipment . The Bank of America has seen no signs of a turnup in this type of spending so far , Mr. Beise said . Conceding that there are " political considerations , " Mr. Beise said he did not feel there were economic reasons for cutting individual taxes now . " We do n't need to worry about stimulating consumer purchasing power , " be said . " Consumer purchasing power is already there : People are willing to buy if they can be sold . " Mr. Seise said he did not see a need for long-term economic stimulants such as big public works projects . Such a program would do little to help current problems and , in fact , could turn into a headache later on , he ex " There is practically unanimous opinion that the long-term outlook is up , " he noted . " L " ooking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ business activity is expected , because of our population burst . " ? Therefore , big public works projects could add , artificial stimulation to the economy at a time when it was already at a high level because of natural forces , he said . " If.we need ' artificial stimulation at all , we should look for only the most necessary moves which can be expedited , " he said . " Then- ; when business activity picks up , we can stop the stimulation and avoid excess medication . "                     