@@712787

txt Efforts are under way to makei sea foods more palatable and popular  --  from precooked filletS : for the home menu to titillating ' fish with fancy flavors . A Boston firm soon will sell . wrapped and quick-frozen fish completely cooked and ready for the table , sans the final warm At Gloucester , they have been ' making tuna fish hot dogs for ' sometime , and in New Bedford : packers have been having a lot : of success with canned scallops . In fact , the fish is undergoing such a metamorphosis , palate -- wise , that the time may yet come when you 'll be telling the goodi wife , " Pass the peppermint pogies , please . " Perch a : la Peppermint Pogy is a specie of fish , and anyone who ever sniffed a pogy or taken a bite of one knows they 're not sweet-flavored by any means . But one of these days when you 're lounging by your television set you might be reaching out for a candied pogy , a slice of scented scrod , or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it looks . There are efforts underway to spice the lowly , fish with aristocratic smells and flavors . An ingenious entrepreneur well-known in the New England fish business is thinking of making fish more piquant with orange , lemon , and other flavors , so that . folks who do n't like the regular taste of fish can get it disguised in a number of camouflaging spices . His ideas are still in the experimental stage , and he wo n't talk much about it . but he 's confident that they 'll work  --  that folks eventually will be saying , " Pass me a fish instead of a sweet . " Of course , there are individuals who think sea food has enough character just the way it is and that no spices or flavors can tempt the palate better than a fine textured haddock or halibut simmering under a slow burner . Orange Flavored For such as these , orange flavored fillets would be worse than gilding the lily . Flavored fish ? they ask . The flavor it brings from the sea  --  the salt and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . A recent move to give an old fish a new relish has been tried by a Florida firm in the form of chocolate-covered sardines . The idea recently was tested at . the United States Fish and Wildlife Service laboratory here . Said the biologists , " No comment . " It you want . to try it yourself tonight just boil some chocolate the way you 'd make sauce for ice cream , open a can of your favorite sardines , dip them in chocolate and put in the refrigerator to harden . Piscatorial candy bars !                     