@@713845

txt Legislative faces bore more than a Mighty red hue on Beacon Hill today . The embarrassment - caused " sunburn " is due to two issues proposed repeal of the muchcriticized personal property tax on household effects and a constitutional amendment to permit levying of a graduated state income tax . . Suddenly the legislators awoke to the fact that more than a week ' earlier they had killed the per  --  H sonal property tax repealer through an error . Almost at the same moment , 1 Democratic administration leaders and organized labor forces discovered too late that yesterday was the last day for calling a joint session of the House and Senate this year to act on the graduated income-tax amendment , long one of their pet projects , Personal Property Tax The writer had a part in both disclosures . Here is how the situ- , ation developed : First , the personal property tax repealer . Repeal had been recommended unanimously by the Special Commission on Taxation in a special report . Its recommendation came after wide protests against the spottily administered personal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Taxation are members of the special commission , Yet out of the committee came a " no legislation necessary " report . This report was accepted on a voice vote , no debate , in both branches . . The Senate vote on May I completed the job of putting the issue in mothballs . Measure Revived Two days ago , the writer 's attention was called to the situation . The information was relayed to Senator Ralph C. Mahar ( R ) of Orange , chairman of the taxation committee , who discovered that a committee error had been made in reporting on the wrong bill . Immediately he set in motion plans to revive the ? measure . Quidtly he gained unanimous Senate consent to have the Senate action reconsidered . The measure now is on its way back to the taxation committee . When it does emerge again , it is certain to engender debate in both branches . On the income tax issue , both Democratic and organized labor leaders had lost sight of a constitutional amendment voted by the people in November , 1950 , changing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in May the final day for holding of a joint House-Senate session to act on constitutional amendment proposals . Democrats Snooze Not until the writer informed Kenneth J. Kelley , **30;447;TOOLONG agent of the Massachusetts Federation of Labor , did Mr. Kelley find out about the change . Meanwhile , Democratic leaders also were asleep on the issue . No order was submitted for a joint convention and the Republican-controlled Senate adjourned before the awakening came . The only measure pending was a , House-approved order to remove the graduated income tax amendment from the legislative files , but the Senate quietly sat on that measure until after the deadline had passed .                     