@@713729

txt There was a fiery glint in the collective eye of the Fulbright committee as it decided to continue indefinitely the investigation of the Reconstruction Finance Corporation . Dredging operations were supposed to end just as soon as two or three more persons cited in the report on " favoritism and improper influence " in the RFC had told their side of the story in public . Chairman J. William Fulbright ( Dl of Arkansas said he vas satisfied the committee had refuted . President Truman 's remark that the report was asinine . ' He seemed anxious to wind up the thing and hand over any loose ends for other Senate committees to unravel , particularly the committee headed by Senator - Clyde R. Hoey ( D ) of North Carolina , which still is studying the fivepercenters racket that seems to feed on the government contracting business like a swarm of locusts . But the Fulbright group has heeded a majority recommendation to keep going under its own steam . Republicans seeking to discredit a Democratic administration which they charge has grown tat and lethargic under the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they do not have to look farther than the RFC  --  only deeper . Even the majority side of the Fulbright committee is peculiarly well cast to do a disinfecting job rather than a whitewashing job on the RFC situation . For one thing , the majority is weighted somewhat on the conservative Democratic side . Rowe Contradicts Dunham This group has been making some Democratic politicians who were mixed up with the RFC stew on the stand . Possibly RFC Director C. Edward Rowe 's testimony had a great deal to do with the agreement to extend the inquiry indefinitely . Mr. Rowe took a leave of absence from his job as a Massachusetts district court judge when Mr. Truman appointed him an RFC director last year . Mr. Rowe 's testimony so completely contradicted that of Director Walter Dunham regarding the latter 's letter of resignation which Mr. Rowe drafted that the committee sent all the conflicting testimony to the Justice Department for consideration by a federal grand jury . Later , Senator Burnet R. May-bank ( D ) of South Carolina said " there 's been plenty of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who has been lying " should be sent to prison . Senator Maybank said he was not singling out Judge . Rowe or Mr. Dunham " or anybody else " and was not " accusing any specific person of lying . " He said the attorney general " should put anybody in jail " who perjured himself before the subcommittee . It is considered significant that Senator Maybank 's remarks about perjury came at a closed session immediately following Judge Rowe 's testimony answering Mr. Dunham 's earlier testimony . Mr. Dunham charged that Judge Rowe had urged him to resign and be the goat so as to draw the Fulbright committee 's lightning away from other RFC directors . Fuel Added to Flames The committee was breathing fire by the time it dismissed Judge Rowe and agreed behind closed doors to continue the investigation . The committee later called both RFC directors together in a closed session where , it is understood , both stuck to their conflicting versions about the letter of resignation that Judge Rowe admitted writing for Mr. Dunham . Judge Rowe testified that the only reason @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ because he was concerned about Mr. Dun-ham 's health and was just doing a good deed for a friend . The letter was designed to make Mr. Dunham the " fall guy . " This explanation made the spectators laugh . But not the committee . A number of persons cited in the Fulbright report have now appeared before the committee as " injured parties " to clear their names . The list includes former Representative Joseph E. Casey ( D ) of Massachusetts and Judge Rowe . Both of these witnesses have seen their testimony backfire in a way that may have repercussions .                     