@@718166

txt Republicans were primed today after a year of preparation to open their centennial party convention at the Cow Palace on Monday . Tae phrase " free and open " assembly was the byword of almost every prominent Republican on the scene , from the national chairman , Leonard W. Hall , and Vice President Richard M. Nixon down the line . A call by Mr. Nixon for a " free choice " of a running mate for President Eisenhower set the tone for the day 's activities . Harold E. Stassen , architect of a " dump Nixon " movement , promptly produced results of a new poll . It showed , he said , that ' 8 pet cent of the Eisenhower vote would be lost if Mr. Nixon were second man on the ticket . Senator Styles Bridges of New Hampshire almost immediately countered with a poll taken four days after the Stassen sampling In contrast to the results announced by the President 's disarmament aid on leave , Senator Bridges said a ticket with Gov Christian A. Herter of Massachirsetts as the Eisenhower running @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the voter ; interv ( ewed . But an EisenhowerNixon ticket , he declared , wa ; supported by 54.3 per cent , witl. the remaining 20 per cent giving no preference . Hertt-r There With Letter Governor Herter arrived it San Francisco with a letter to Representative Joseph W. Mar. tin Jr . of Massachusetts , the convention chairman , withdrawing his name should he be placed in nomination . Gov , Goodwin J. Knight ol California already had said he would ask supporters not to offer his own name . But predictions were made that , in the wake of the Democratic Na. ? tional Convention action in Chicago and of the calls for an open convention here , other names than Mr. Nixon 's might be placed in nomination . Senator Bridges at a Ares : conference was asked if he expected Gov . Arthur B. Langlie , of Washington , the convention keynoter , to be boomed for Vice President . " That is a possibility , " he replied . " He is a candidate for the Senate , however , and I under- // stand @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Bridges said he had heard rumors that former Gov . Dan Thornton of Colorado and Senator Margaret Chase Smith of Maine might be proposed for the job . He himself , he declared , was " for Nixon . " He said he assumed Representative Martin would honor the request of Governor Herter but that would not stop anybody from voting for Mr. Herter . " When balloting , " he added , " delegates can vote for anyone who has been nominated or for anyone else . " Would the Republican convention be as open as the Democrats ' sessions just concluded in Chicago ? " It will be as open in theory , " he added , although as a practical matter the prospective nomination of President Eisenhower without a show of dissent gives this convention a somewhat different aspect . The last hours of the Democratic convention last night brought new repercussions today from Republican leaders . Chairman Hall called for an apology " to the American people " for former President Truman 's reference to the Eisenhower Administration as " a bunch of racketeers . " He @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the new Democratic National ticket , Adlai E. Stevenson and Senator Estes Kefauver of Tennessee . They and others had endorsed the Truman words by staying silent last night , he charged . Mr. Hall declared he was not surprised at the former President 's remarks since the Missourian got his training " under the old Pendergast machine . " Governor Langlie suggested his keynote speech would be " higher in tone " than that of Gov . Frank G. Clement of Tennessee , who gave the Democratic meeting its send-off . Mr. Langlie doubted , however , ' that the Democrats would give him any " rave notices " about his efforts . He said he would abstain from any vitriolic attacks on personalities . Party leaders continued to make claims of taking control of Congress at the November election . To yesterday 's prediction by Senator Andrew F. Schoeppel of Kansas that Republicans would make a net gain of four or five seats to capture the Senate , this one was added by Representative Richard M. Simpson of Pennsylvania : The Republicans would reverse the situation in the last @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 203 Republicans . The Senate had fortynine Democrats and forty-seven Republicans . Senator Schoeppel is chairman of the Senate Republican Campaign Committee and Mr. Simpson heads the committee in the House . Attorney General Jacob K. Javits of New York spoke to a California State Young Republican rally in Union Square . " Youth , " he said , " can find its greatest opportunity for expression and endeavor in public affairs through Eisenhower Republicanism . I am proud to say that- in the Republican party in New York State we have made major progress toward making our party truly an Eisenhower Republican party . " Mr. Javits asserted that a White House Commission on Civil Rights should be created by the President , " a Democratic Congress having failed to act on the President 's middle-of-theroad civil rights program . " The Democratic party 's platform , " he added , " is a spineless , almost incoherent statement on this subject . It must leave an aching void in the hearts of millions of Americans . We must fill that void . " Miss Bertha S. Adkins , assistant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ alternates on the roll at San Francisco was an increase of 166 over the 1952 record . Montana , she said , led the parade with the largest percentage of women . Half of its delegates and half ' of its alternates were women . " Florida follows with 50 per cent women delegates and 23 per cent alternates , " Miss Adkins went on . " Minnesota is next with 42.5 percentages of both women delegates and alternates ; Wyoming , which has had the vote for women since 1869 , was next , with 41.6 per cent women delegates . " Republican women have rea ? son to be gratified that the delegate in our convention has a full vote , in contrast to the half vote in the Democrat convention . Therefore , our large number of women delegates has great significance . " 