@@715127

txt Recall to mind what General Eisenhower and a host of Congress members on both sides of the party line have been saying about the ruling necessity of early budget balancing . Add to that the report of Commerce Secretary Sawyer and his six associates on their monthlong tour of observation in western Europe . Plainly the conclusion seems to be that the incoming Congress will rapidly taper off our " economic " foreign aid and perhaps end it ' altogether , Probably such a conclusion can he only tentative at the moment . There is plenty of evidence that soon after the new Washington regime is installed aonclry European statesmen will intensify their standing appeal for donated dollars as the only machinery with which they can possibly pull their respective countries out of the economic quicksands in which the war has left them . They will insist , as they have before , that security for the free world is indivisible : that as lone as any part of the free world is in peril the United States is also . We believe that all these rept @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It is not by chance alone that the penetrating discussion of western Eui one 's economic and military status by Pi ofescor Morgenstern of Princeton University . published on this page of The Wall Street Journal of Decembar 17 , is in substantial agreement with much of Secretary Saw yer 's report as summarized in our issue of yesterday . The gist of both surveys is that the member countries of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization , according to their own statistical testimony . have now ide such a measure of economic recovery  --  progress beyond pre-war conditions in many of them  --  as sharply cont i adicts env phs for their continued dollar assistance . Foreign railitary aid in the interest of a common security is a different /ratter . Unless the whole project of N A.T 0 . is to be discarded , we shall have to continue that sort of foreignassistance for some indefinite time to come . Yet even here the new Congress and the new Director of Mutual Security , Mr. Stassen , will need to keep their eyes open . Secretary Sawyer 's report , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that we have " too many people and too many agencies in western Europe , " with the result of " confusion and wasted effort " in the aid we are extending . These agencies were sent abroad to direct , as well as they might , the application of our foreign assistance dollars . The Sawyer report says in effect that they have failed to accomplish that purpose . One reason , doubtless the main reason why they have failed is that neither they nor our government has any power to prevent a foreign government from shifting its own funds from one purpose to another and thus indirectly achieve a like shifting of external aid funds . Some of the Sawyer group recommendations for the future are good ; a few are doubtful . Foreign nations are advised to rely less on " free dollars " and more on such sources of financial assistance as the World Bank , our own Es.port-Import Bank , the International Monetary Fund and expansion of their own exports . The Fund has been able to do little for them so far and is unlikely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in better order through their own efforts . We think it is extremely questionable whether the Export-Import Bank should be in the business of lending our taxpayers ' money abroad . The World Bank . which depends upon private investors for its additional lending capacity , is in a different class . What free Europe can do to imprm. e its international trade position will be all to the good . All things considered , the muddle of our foreign aid policies appears more than likely to be cleared up soon , to the athantace of the whole of the free world . For this brighter prospect Secretary Sawyer deserves no small share of the credit .                     