@@717631

txt Gov . Robert B. Meyner placed New Jersey 's highway needs over the next decade at $200,000,000 a year , or a total of $2,000,000,000 . Unless Congress soonadopts a program that would underwrite , a sizable part of these needs , he suggested today that they be met through a state bond issue . The Governor , a Democrat , urged the Republican-controlled Legislature to match at least $14,000,000 in additional Federal road aid that will be available in the coming year . Thus , he explained , some relief can be afforded " our traffic-choked system . " Mr. Meyner 's remarks were contained in his second annual message to the Legislature . He delivered the address at a joint session of the 180th Senate and Assembly . The 1956 session of the houses had convened just two hours earlier . The Governor explained in Governor Meyner before his speech yesterday . detail the need for state assistance in school construction and for housing for low and middleincome groups . He recommended a mandatory training program for all local and county police and a compulsory @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Meanwhile , the first act of the new Senate was to order a " fullscale " investigation into last November 's election in . Camden County . It took the action after seating the newly elected Democratic Senator from that county , Joseph W. Cowgill . At a Republican caucus earlier in the day an effort to deny Mr. Cowgill a seat failed when the Senate majority could not muster the necessary votes . The resolution ordering the inquiry was introduced by Senator Albert of Burlington County . Mr. Cowgill , who won election by 290 votes , immediately leaped to his feet and declared : " We welcome the investigation . We in Camden County have nothing to fear . Bring it on . " He then asked his Democratic colleagues to support the resolution . This they did and it was adopted unanimously . The investigating committee will consist of four Republicans and one Democrat . Senator Harold W. Hannold , Republican of Gloucester County , who two years ago headed the legislative group that investigated the dismissal of Nelson F. Stamler , was named chairman . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cooperation between his Administration and the Legislature . He coupled it with a request that the Senate cease pigeonholing appointments instead of confirming or rejecting them . He then proceeded to call the lawmakers to task for passing bills requiring the expenditure lof public funds without providing the revenue to meet them . In this category , the Governor explained , he had vetoed measures that would have cost the state " millions of dollars " and would have been of " no value to the state as a whole . " Redistricting Pressed Mr. Meyner accused the Legislature of neglecting its duty in failing thus far to reapportion Assembly seats on the basis of the 1950 Census . He said it is " incumbent " on the incoming Senate and Assembly to remedy the situation this year and also to " redistrict the state for Congressional purposes . " The latter , he emphasized , has not been done since 1931 despite wide population shifts . The Seventh District , said Mr. Meyner , is a " graphic example of the gerrymander , that type of districting designed to keep @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the basic needs of the constituents . " The Governor urged the adoption of a state labor relations act and a state-wide minimum wage law . He coupled this with a request that unemployment , temporarly disability and workmen 's compensation benefits be increased . lie called on the Federal Government to set up a flood insurance program if private insurance concerns can not work out such a plan . Mr. Meyner stressed the need for new state office buildings to consolidate state operations and to eliminate the more than $1,000,000 now being paid out annually for office rentals in the Trenton area . The Governor made a strong plea for adoption by the Legislature of a group of bills that would authorize the Port of New York Authority to proceed with the proposed Narrows Bridge and the Bergen Expressway . and to double-deck the George Washington Bridge .                     