@@718776

txt The Security Council accepted the recommendation of the United States today and took no action on Egypt 's declaration on her operation of the Suez Canal . Henry Cabot Lodge of the United States criticized the declaration but said that it should ' be " given a trial . " 1 A majority of the eleven memlbers either supported Egypt or acquiesced in Mr. Lodge 's suggestion . After an all-day debate the Council adjourned at 6 P. M. without fixing a date for another meeting . The responsibility for arranging another meeting was left to Mr. Lodge , who will take over Wednesday as president for May . ' Preliminary ' Remarks Sir Pierson Dixon , the British representative , who is president for April , and several other delegates said that they were making only " preliminary " remarks and would speak again . Also , France and Australia recommended further negotiations with Egypt , under the auspices of the Security Council , to remedy the serious defects they saw in the Egyptian declaration . But they did not offer a resolution to the effect @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ suggested . It was the general impression tonight that the Council would not resume the debate on the Suez question unless another crisis should arise from Israel 's announced intention of sending a ship through the canal . Egypt nationalized the canal company nine months ago today , and it was obvious that Egyptian control had now been confirmed . Arkady A. Sobolev , the Soviet delegate , in tact told the Council that the issue had been settled . Israeli Right Upheld France and Australia both upheld the right of Israeli ships to use the canal . However , theirs were the only delegates who mentioned the problem . Mr. Lodge , along with delegates of Cuba and Sweden , emphasized the importance of the use of the canal by the shipping of all nations , without discrimination . Using a phrase remindful of the President 's statement last ' March that it should not be ' assumed that Israeli ships would be denied the use of the canal or the Gulf of Aqaba , which leads to the Israeli port of Elath , Mr. Lodge declared : - . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ users would both be served if the arrangements for the canal and its operation are such that governments and private concerns can base their economic and business plans on the assumption that there will in fact be , as there should be , free and nondiscriminatory use of the canal at all times by the ships of all nations . But that depends largely on Egypt . " Abba Eban , the Israeli Ambassador to Washington , did not ask for permission to make a statement to the Council . However , an Israeli spokesman told reporters that " American officials this morning drew the attention of the Israeli Embassy ' and of the United Nations delegation to this assumption . " " In these circumstances , " he added , " Israel 's obvious course is ' to exercise its rights under that assumption in due time and course . " No further information was available . However , Israel , pending the outcome of the secret negotiations between the United States and Egypt , has refratned until now from sending an Israeli ship through either the Suez Canal or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Israeli ships from both on the ground that she has no peace treaty with Israel , only an armistice . Mr. Lodge told the Council that the Egyptian declaration , which was registered with the United Nations Wednesday as " an engagement of an international character , " did not " fully meet the six requirements of the Security Council . " He referred to the six principles , including the insulation of the canal from the national politics of any country , and the use of the canal by all nations , which were accepted by Egypt , France and Britain last October . On Oct. 13 the Security Council decided that these were " requirements " for a Suez settlement . Mr. Lodge said , in fact , that in view of the " lack of provision for organized and systematic cooperation between Egypt and the users , , there is no assurance that the six requipments will in fact be implemented . " However , the United States representative said no final judgment could be rendered until the arrangements proposed by Egypt had been tried . He @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ States must be provisional " and that ' ' the salient practical fact is that the question of whether confidence among the users of the canal can be established will depend on the manner in which the Egyptian declaration is carried out in practice . " Omar Loutfi , the Egyptian representative , who followed Mr. Lodge , said that the " aggression " against Egypt last October had not altered Egypt 's position . " We continue to be in favor of fxeedom of navigation of the canal , " he said . " We continue to respect the provisions of the Constantinople Convention of 1888 . We will carry out faithfully the terms of the declaration we have just proclaimed . " However , Mr. Loutfi read to the Council the objections expressed by Egypt last Oct. 13 to the key principle on insulation of the canal . ' At that time Dr. Mahneoud Fawzi , the Foreign Minister , said that this was " rather unfortunate as well as misleading , " and advocated instead the reaffirmation or the renewal of the 1888 Convention . 4 was assumed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Cairo View In contrast with the mild objections voiced by Britain , the Egyptian declaration was sharply condemned by . France and Australia . They emphasized that the unilateral declaration could be revoked by Egypt unilaterally any time . Guillaume Georges-Picot of France commented that Egypt had arrogated to herself the right to make her own interpretation of the 1888 Convention . He declared that the only one of the six principles that Egypt was willing to carry out was the one providing for the respect of Egyptian sovereignty . Dr. E. Ronald Walker of Australia accused Egypt of " sabotage of the canal " by sinking ships to block it , and warned Egypt that international capital would go into " pipelines , large tankers , and alternative sources of power to replace oil " if uncertainty about the canal continued . Dr. Walker 's charge that Egypt had committed " sabotage " by sinking ships to block the canal was answered by Mr. Loutfi . The Egyptian representative said that if this was true it was justified by the BritishFrench aggression . Mr. Lodge said nothing about Egypt 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Colombia and Nationalist China , together with France , Australia and Britain , ' all said that a treaty , which could not be revoked or changed without the consent of all the signatories , should be negotiated to supplement the negotiation .                     