@@715844

txt There may be disappointment but there can be no particular surprise in the Soviet Union 's reply on the question of the proposed Four-Power meeting . If the Soviet Union really wanted any early solution of problems such as those of Germany , Austria and even Korea , action would have been taken long before this . But Soviet words have not been accompanied by any concrete steps or deeds . An added element in the most recent note , however , is the strong emphasis that the Kremlin places upon the necessity of including Red China in any high-level talks designed to " ease world tensions . " The reply gives Red China and the North Korean puppets the credit for having brought about " the termination of bloodshed in Korea . " and therefore insists that their contribution to a larger peace would be only " natural . " One can not help wondering if the Soviet Union has in mind the " easing of tension " by a repetition of the performance that the Red Chinese and the North Koreans put on for more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ further than this , moreover . It insists that there can be no peace on a broad scale until the " legitimate " rights of the ' Peiping regime are fully recognized . The question of Red China 's status can not , therefore , be limited to participation in the Korean peace talks , it is argued , since even a Korean settlement must be linked with the recognition of Red China 's ' ' rights . " In this connection appears the amazing statement that it is impermissible , internationally , to allow the continuation of a situation in which acts of aggression against Red China have been " provoked by certain Powers . " The picture of the impermissibility of excluding Red China because Peiping is the victim of aggression reaches a new high in Communist double talk . It is only natural to assume , first of all , that the Soviet Union knew that arguments such as this would be totally unacceptable to the free world . Moscow is hardly so naive as to believe that the United States , Britain and France will swallow such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be quite willing to discuss with the Red Chinese the cessation of their assistance to the Communists in Indo-China , just as we are prepared to discuss the need for an end to the Red Chinese aggression in Korea . Britain may be willing to talk with Peiping about the abuses that have been endured in China by British citizens and British trade . But these are quite different from inviting the Chinese Communist aggressors into a top-level parley to " ease world tensions . " Moscow certainly knows this and it is therefore logical to hold that this proposal was intended to slam the door on parley possibilities . On the other hand , this gesture represents still another effort by the Soviet Union to manage some sort of de facto recognition for its Chinese Communist satellite . It is , therefore , part of a long-range propaganda game to raise the stock of Peiping , to give as much unease as possible to the Chinese Nationalists , to confuse and delude the " neutrals " and , if possible , find an opening into which to drive the wedge @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have been determined by the prospect of some sort of political conference on Korea ? if the Chinese Communists actually want one . Events and changing attitudes , however , give it even less prospect of any welcome reception than it might have had earlier . The behavior of the Communists in matter of the prisoner exchange " va brought a better understanding of the nature of the adversary , Vastly more reluctant " neutrals " have been convinced than have reluctant prisoners , and convinced in the opposite direction . The present Communist obduracy on the preliminaries to the projected conference will also have its impact . Further than this , there is still the atrocious behavior of the Chinese Communists , not only as it has been revealed in respect-to their United Nations captives but also in their own homeland . The British are increasingly disillusioned over the prospect of any business at all , let alone business as usual , and the expected diplomatic interchange has been a complete fiasco , as it has been also in the case of the Dutch . We are concerned over the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who are still held in . Red China . France is concerned over Red China 's steady aid to her Communist foe . Under such conditions the Moscow proposal is sheer mockery .                     