@@717730

txt Grace Kelly admitted today many people will be angry not being invited to her wedding . But , she sighed , " What can I do ? " For the first time , the future Princess of Monaco gave a rundown on the events of what is shaping up as one of the most notable weddings of the century . One of her principal problems , she said in an interview , is the guest list . " I know a lot of people are going to be offended , " she remarked in her studio dressing room , " and I 'm very sorry . But there simply is n't room . " The cathedral in which the prince and I will be married holds only 400 . Already we have had requests from over 500 journalists who would like to attend . Obviously we ca n't accommodate everyone . " Some Friends Understand ' ' " Some of my friends understand . When I asked Carolyn Reybold to be a bridesmaid she said she had thought she might not be invited . Some friends from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Except for a handful of intimates she will invite , the invitation list will be handled by the Monaco authorities . She sails with her family aboard the Constitution on April 4 , arriving at Monaco April 12 . " The Constitution is making a special stop there , " Grace explained . " It will remain outside the harbor and the prince will come out . to get us in his yacht . " New Ballet Created The next few days , she said , would be taken up with receptions and final arrangements for the wedding . " The civil ceremony will take place in the palace on the morning of the 18th , " she reported . " It will be attended only by members of our families . " Afterwards , there will be a luncheon at the palace for ' , foreign representatives . Invitations have been sent to all the countries with whom Monaco has diplomatic relations . " In the afternoon there will ! be a garden party at which GRACE KELLY every Monegasque will be invited for a glass of champagne . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ night there will be a " gala " at the opera house . she added , at which the London Festival Ballet will perform . A new ballet is being created for the . event . Attendance will be limited , Grace said , because the theater holds , only 600 . " The wedding will be at 10:30 in the morning on the 19th , " she continued . There will be a reception at the palace afterwards , then we will leave on the yacht for the honeymoon . We 'll spend most of the time aboard the yacht , but we expect to visit Spain . "                     