@@713487

txt The Christian message of good will and peace to a war threatened world rang again tonight from this village where Christ was born . Hundreds of pilgrims wound their way to Bethlehem across barren , rocky hills from Jerusalem , guided by a shining star atop the Church of the Nativity here , just as the three wise men were guided to Christ 's manger centuries ago . The trek , under a clear moonlit sky , took them three hours . Many were Americans . Later , as pealing bells rang out clearly across the valleys below Jerusalem , the pilgrims knelt in the church to echo the words of Christ , " Blessed are the peacemakers . " Arab Troops on Guard In the grotto of the church a procession wound its way to a dim corner where a wax image of Christ was laid in a marble manger . Bethlehem has been incorporated into the enlarged Hashemite Jordan kingdom . King Abdullah 's Arab legionnaires mounted guard outside the most ancient church in Cluistendom . Only a few score members of the diplomatic and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ route from Jewish Jerusalem . The road , used by the three wise Acme Photo ' Silver star at Bethlehem 's famous Grotto of the Nativity marks the spot where Christ was born . men , lies partly in Israel territory and partly in Jordan . Barbed wire and mines still mark the boundary . Leads Main Procession The new Roman Catholic patriarch df Jerusalem , Msgr . Alberto Gori , led the main procession of pilgrims over an alternative road . Hundreds of colored oil and electric lamps hung from the timbered ceiling of the Church of Nativity , built by the first Christian emperor , Constantine , to commemorate the birth of Christ . The pews were filled early . There was a sudden silence as Msgr . Gori , in a gold miter and robed in ermine , ' antered to say the midnight mass . Carries Wax Image Khaki uniformed officers and men of the United States , Belgian , and French armies , attached to the United Nations staff in Palestine , mingled with white robed monks , smartly dressed diplomats , and shabbily dressed refugees @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , soon to be echoed in every Christian land in the world , the procession to the grotto began . In his arms , Msgr . Gori held a wax image of Christ . The scene , with bearers of crucifixes in the background , recalled Christ born and Christ dying . The candles flickered in the chill air . Slowly , with the pilgrims watching just as a few villagers watched the Virgin Mary 1,950 years ago , Msgr . Gori placed the imaa in the marble manger.                     