@@716898

txt The deep and growing disquiet felt by many Americans about the operations of the Federal Government 's employe security program has finally impelled the Eisenhower Administration to order some badly needed improvements . The latest changes represent a forward step which can be welcomed against the background of all too many public examples in which the security program has worked manifest injustices against loyal and competent federal workers . This public record of injustices has tended to make government employment unattractive to able people with alternative opportunities , with the result that rel " times our security has probably been reduced rather than enhanced . How serious have been the defects in the security program until now may be realized by taking account of what the situation ' must have been before the new safeguards now introduced . Federal employes have been suspended without being told of the charges against them , and sometimes the charges have not been " specific enough to be meaningful to the employe . " " Meticulous care " has not always been employed in suspending employes , and there has not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to suspension . " The top legal officers of departments concerned have not always been consulted nor their opinions " secured as to the sufficiency of the information justifying suspension . " There has not always been a legal officer present at security hearings . Security boards have not always been composed of " persons possessing the highest degree of integrity , ability and good judgment . " Heads of different agencies have not always consulted with each other when one agency proposed to make an adverse judgment on a person previously cleared by another . The quotations given above are from Attorney General Brownell 's statement on the substance of the latest changes . This is a late date indeed to introduce such elementary reforms , and it is chilling to reflect on what the situation may have been in individual cases up to now . Does the latest set of changes go far enough and protect both the national security and the rights of the individual federal worker ? The answer would seem to be rather clearly in the negative . Federal employes still may not confront and cross-examine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ production of a particular witness may jeopardize the national security . But by what criteria are such determinations made ? , Are there other inisinformers like Harvey Matusow being - protected from exposure under the guise of serving national security ? This question must , inevitably arise against recent history as background . Is our Government not sufficiently ingenious to protect the identity of particular informants while subjecting their testimony to outside check ? The problem is not easy , but it would not seem to be insoluble . There are other serious problems too . What safeguards-now exist to prevent such flagrant miscarriage ) of justice . as was suffered by Prof.1 Val Lorwin ? Professor Lorwin was indicted ? by an officer of the Eisenhower Administration in De ; cembdr , 1953 , on the ground that he had lied in denying that he had ever been a Communist party member and on two related matters . Six months later an Assistant Attorney General had to go into court and ask that-the indict:Aleut be .. quashed-be. cause the Department of Justice attorney who secured the indict- , meat had made @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Such an outrage was possible , even though Professor Lorwin had earlier been suspended and cleared by the State . Department . The problem of fairness and justice in security procedures has long since became a major national question . Millions of Americans must have security clearances to work for the Government directly , or on Governinent production orders , or on Government-subsidized projects . To be labeled a. security risk today is perhaps the most terrible of brands on a person who has been convicted of no Crime and tried in no court of law . There are those who deserve such . stigma and such punishment . But none of us can rest easy in our minds or hearts when we know that innocent men and women may be placed in this most terrible of Coventrys because of the spiteful words of a vengeful neighbor or to satisfy the ambition of an unscrupulous security officer or Government attorney . The soundness of the foundations of our national tradition of freedom and justice are at stake . And if these are not sound , we have ' ' no security @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                