@@718854

txt Letters to The Times NICHOLAS MARK KTSBURG , CARLETON BEALS , A.F.L.-CJ.O.Washington , June 5 , 1957. pg . 33 Letters to The Times The writer of the following letter , former correspondent in Moscow and author of many books on Soviet Russia and world communism , is at present a senior editor of the Reader 's Digest . To THE EDITOR OF THE New York TimEs : Your good editorial of June 10 on " The War of Ideas " rightly underlines " the lack of imagination in many quarters " on our side of that decisive war . No one questions the right of a broadcasting chain to present any foreign leader , includi ; ig one of the Soviet bosses . But every right implies duties , responsibilities to the audience  --  especially when those rights are exercised by a public channel of communications that is clearly a public trust . In providing Nikita , Khrushchev with a dramatic hour-long forum to defend his bloodstained dictatorship and to attack American motives , it seems . to me the broadcasters showed a singular lack of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the immense impact the interview would make . It should therefore have made a reciprocal broadcast to the Soviet people by some authoritative American an advance condition . At the very least it should have arranged for immediate and adequate refutation of the more outrageous Khrushchev statements to the audience that heard him . The round-table analysis a week later was , as your editorial charitably put it , " an anticlimax . " Khrushchev posed as a benign and reasonable ruler deeply concerned for the welfare of the people in whose name he professed to speak . It was evidence of a lack of imagination that he was allowed to get away with this pose . It is late  --  but not too late  --  to straighten out the record ? by reminding the American people of the true character and biography of Khrushchev . He has risen to power on the corpses of millions of his countrymen . He is one of the toughest of the strong-arm crew around Stalin , a key criminal in the obscene blood purges , leader in the forced collectivization of the Ukraine , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this seemingly benevolent despot should be reminded that it was he who ordered the blood bath in Hungary , the kidnapping of thousands of freedom fighters and the Radar regime terror now under way . Unhappily , the mischief done by the interview is , now being endlessly compounded by the fact that a kinescope of , the program is being offered to other TV stations not only in our country but , according to press reports , all over the world . This means that for weeks and months to come additional millions in the free world will be subjected to Khrushchev 's propaganda , with the near certainty that there will be no one around prepared or able to refute his statements . Ill-Informed Exposed Imagine millions of Latin Americans , for example , viewing the Khrushchev performance . They will hear him assert , as if it were a fact , that the United States is preparing to unleash a nuclear war ; that there are no " contradictions " between the Kremlin gang and its subjects ; that the Kadar regime was set up by the Hungarian @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " analysis and refutation to balance the score . ' Politically ill-informed masses in many places , some of them predisposed to believe the worst about our country , will thus be exposed to hard-hitting Soviet indoctrination . President Eisenhower 's remark about " a commercial firm * * * trying to improve its own commercial standing " applies with particular force to this raw and unimaginative enterprise of peddling the Khrushchev show so indiscriminately . It 's bad enough to provide the Kremlin with a superb sounding board . It 's infinitely worse to multiply its effectiveness by means of secondary showings the world over . Is it too much to hope that the broadcasting chain will recognize the danger and stop selling the Package ? EUGENE LYONS . Pleasantville , N. Y. , June 10 , 1957 . Executive vs . Judicial Power To THE EDITOR OF TH E NEW YORK TIMES : Your editorial of June 7 on " Jury Trial " and the Administration civil rights bill gave an imperfect view of the situation . Summary punishment for contempt of a court injunction intended to guarantee the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only in the light of the background of the ancient fear of the people of judicial tyranny under the guise of contempt proceedings , contending with the need to safeguard the administration of justice and avoid " anarchy . " The result has been that for 125 years the legislative ' branch of the Federal Government has exercised the undoubted power . Many states have statutes to circumscribe the courts in defending their authority . Generally , courts may summarily punish criminal contempts committed in or about their presence only ; otherwise jury trials are mandatory . A strong Federal Executive has in more recent years demanded and Congress has granted an exemption from jury trials where the United States is plaintiff . The Administration proposes to broaden the exemption to include a new type of proceeding in which the United - States as plaintiff seeks by injunc ? tion to protect the citizen 's vote . Northerners as well as white and black Southerners should be " astute " to see the Federal Executive sets a foot no further in the crack of the door from which the judiciary has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cost of destruction of the rights of others ? There must be a better solution to the problem . TnomAs L. ANDERSON . Washington , Pa. , June 8 , 1957 . Waterfront Issues Queried Disagreement Voiced on Changes in ? Commission 's Program To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : The drastic reorientation of the program and perspectives of the Waterfront Commission  --  from war . ring against organized crime and corruption to warring against waterfront pilferage , larcenies and other misdemeanors  --  raises constitutional issues which have not been sufficiently discussed . The commission 's creation was based on the assumption  --  not completely substantiated  --  that the criminal alliance of union , employers and some elements in govern ? ment constituted a clear and present danger to the security of the state . It was believed that the malignant growth exposed by the New York State Crime Commission could be rooted out only by the energetic and forceful use of extraordinary police powers and the consequent regrettable , but unavoidable , curtailment of due process , personal liberty and property rights . It followed , to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a regulation reading : " The hearing officer shall not be bound by any common law or statutory rules of evidence or by technical or formal rules of procedure in the conduct of a hearing , " In practice this has meant that the commission has meted out punishment , for alleged infractions of the law without the protection given defendants in court proceedings  --  even in cases where a Magistrate 's Court has ordered a peremptory dismissal of the charge as being utterly without basis , It is doubtful that public opinion would support , or the courts sustain , District Attorney Hogan or Police Commissioner Kennedy if they adopted a similar course of action . The Waterfront Commission has now been given still more extraordinary powers to cope not with a condition threatening the basic security of tile state but with much less serious categories of wrongdoing , such as waterfront pilferage , gambling and the like , thus duplicating the activities of the Police Department 's Riverfront Squad . Entirely aside from the question of whether two systems of police protection are needed on the docks , there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ should continue to exercise those extraordinary powers mandated to it by the Bi-state Compact now that the original emergency is no longer with us . Certainly the task of curbing misdemeanors on the docks is necessary and meritorious , Its seriousness , however , does not warrant the slightest departure from our traditional methods of apprehending and punishing criminals . NICHOLAS MARK Kissuric , International Longshoremen 's Association . New York , June 8 , 1957 . Nuclear Tests Protested To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Let 's quit picking on teen-age delinquents . They represent a more rational segment of the great American public . The true juvenile delinquents are the brass hats , politicos and time-serving scientists who explode more hydrogen bombs in the Southwest . Is it not ludicrous to keep on firing off weapons that endanger the well-being of mankind and pile up the hate of the world against us ? Each blast means that many more cases of blood cancer and so many more deformed babies where the concentrated effects of the fall-out may happen to hit the earth 's surface . As @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ three fingers of forehead are going to high-tail it out and let it become once more the great American desert . CARLETON SEALS . Guilford , Conn. , May 30 , 1957 . Tax Revenue Reduction Opposed TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : I would like to take exception to the . story which appeared in the June 4 New York Times regarding a six-member panel of economists , including myself , who testified before the Joint Economic Committee . The story reported that each of the panelists was opposed at the present time to any " tax cuts . " All members of the panel , including myself , stated they were opposed to any reduction in tax revenue at the present time . At the hearing , however , I quickly interjected the fact that so far as I was concerned many needed reforms in the tax structure are overdue . I particw laxly had in mind tax relief for low and moderate income families . The loss in revenue which might be sustained by this tax relief could in turn be made up by other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in tax revenue . PETER HENLE , Assistant Director of Research . A. F. L.-C . I. 0 . Washington , June 5 , 1957 . Further reproduction prohibited without permission . TelevisinglarushehevTalk Criticism Expressed of Methods of Presenting Interview                     