@@716268

txt ' Boston : New Station Would Serve West End Construction of a new Science Park station of the Metropolitan Transit Authority at Leverett Street Circle , servicing the West End , the museum , Massachusetts General Hospital , and the Public Works and Registry Building , has been approved by the MTA Advisory Board . National : Army Raises Draft Call by 5,000 The Army has raised its draft call by 5,000 , calling for the induction of 23,000 men in July . Pentagon officials said this had nothing to do with the crisis in Indochina . They had forecast the rise to get replacements for a large number finishing their two-year service . The St. Louis Post-Dispatch became the sponsor of the afternoon part of the televised McCarthy-Army hearing over the DuMont Network . Some 100 out of 110 member unions of the AFL have endorsed a plan for settling internal fights between member unions , and raiding each other 's membership . The plan , approved at a Chicago meeting of the AFL Executive Council , Is slowly moving toward adoption by a process of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ drove 60 miles to Camp David in Maryland 's Catoctin Mountains for the week end . April saw the building of more privately-owned houses and apartments started than in any month for 31/2 years , Far East : French Planes Hammer Red Positions French planes heavily bombed Communist fortifications south of Hanoi today to forestall an expected new enemy attack against Phu Ly , anchor city in the Red River Delta defense system . U.S. Defense Secretary Charles E. Wilson conferred with Emperor Hirohito in Tokyo , his first official call on a high Japanese official during his " look and listen " tour of the Far East . A Philippine congressional move to amend the constitution and relegate the presidency to virtual figurehead status was thwarted by President Magsaysay in a major political victory for his government , Europe : President of Turkey Is Reelected Celal Boyar was reelected Turkish President for another four-year term following the sweeping victory of his Democrat Party in the general elections May 2.                     