@@720105

txt Baying vainly sought to gain an effective fire code for Boston nearly a dozen times in the past decade , the City Council this Friday is going to make one more try on the basis of recent disclosures of school fire hazards , Boston is the only major city in the country without a comprehensive /ire code . Talk of such a code has resounded occasionally in the council chamber since the early 1920 's . But even the Cocoanut Grove disaster in 1942 ? though it brought about some fire-prevention statutes  --  chid not force the adoption of a model code . School Safety Sought So now the council 's execu ' live committee , backed by an , other calamity generated surge of public opinion , is at bat once more despite the dispiriting number of past strike-outs . Councilor Joseph C. White . who called this latest executive committee meeting for consideration of a code , indicated that general recommendations on the subject would be made with an eye to the school safety situation , To that extent it may benefit from the results @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ scheduled for tomorrow . But the long campaign for a comprehensive code involves more than schools , It would seek to provide a tough legal weapon which would act as a preventive against tenement and obsolete commercial building fires as well . Yin Cont Backs Plan A look at some past reports on Boston 's fire-law situation indicates that lack of a code is considered by groups such as the National Fire Protection Association and the National Board of Fire Underwriters to be as great a fire hazard as any pile of oily rags in a tenement attic . A 1951 special report of the fire underwriters group said of Boston : " Authority for the control of some hazards is divided . . . and not under the direct control of the fire prevention bureau or under the supervision of qualified inspectors , . . . State laws and regulations ... contain some good requirements but are not sufficiently complete . Municipal regulations are wholly inadequate . . ? " A 1952 report of the Boston Finance Commission strongly backed adoption of a cr. , . , e modeled on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It listed many glaring deficiencies in the current system . Among other things the Fin Corn report pointed out that the city had an adequate staff of firemen in the fire prevention division , that it was paying them 8200,000 a year in salaries , but that . it was " impossible for this staff to render effective service without a fire code . " Since that report fell on fallow ground , Councilor Gabriel F. Piemonte has made no less than eight attempts , in the years from 1953 to the present , to get the city 's law department to prepare an ordinance adopting the recommended effective code . Question Again Raised During part of that period the matter lay in a peculiar impasse . Some legalists maintained that state legislative action would be needed before Boston could adopt a code . At the same time opinion on Beacon Bill was that no such legislation would be needed ; that the city now has all the authority it needs , Meanwhile the matter has languished in the city law department on several different occasions . In April of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ once more and the city 's corporation counsel was asked for an opinion on necessary legal procedure . Friday 's meeting is an outgrowth of this 1958 version of the yearly council battle for city action ,                     