@@718737

txt The question whether advertising billboards shall indiscriminately decorate the 41,000-mile network of federally financed superhighways to be built within the next 13 years needs to be carefully considered by all Americans . A " battle of the billboards " has been shaping up quietly , with first congressional hearings already held . And with conservationists , garden clubs , the American Automobile Association , planning experts , and a lot of average citizens lined up on one side favoring a strict ban on billboards . And with the outdoor advertising industry and the painters and decorators union wanting a free hand , or at least a hand only mildly restrained , to post their bills . A A A All sorts of arguments , good , bad , and fantastic , have been advanced as to why the billboards shOuld or should not be banned . On one side that they deface the scenic beauty of America , contribute to highway accidents , are part and parcel of what Robert Moses calls the " indiscriminate mushroom growth of ugly tilling stations , hot-dog stands , and all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a highway . On the contrary side it is argued that billboards are really more beautiful than unkempt fields , that they keep drivers awake along the monotonous miles , and that  --  well , how else are tourists going to know what 's ahead in the way of gas stations , motels , restaurants , and holiday resorts ? How shall the argument be resolved ? Getting down to basic points , it seems to nie that the outdoor advertising industry has no justification in suggesting that it is against states ' rights or somehow anti - American to protest against the planting of billboards along the great new highways of the nation . The free-enterprise system , for all the vast benefits and strengths it has conferred on America , still has no inalienable right to hawk its wares before the public gaze morning . noon . and night . It is in places like Egypt , a very imperfect democracy , that native peddlers are permitted to tour the streets shouting " Mangoes for sale ! " before most anybody is awake in the morning . It is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the government , unheeding any public sensibilities , can without qualms locate a state-enterprise billboard at a scenic spot along the road . In a more developed democracy , the people are free to band together to pro- ' We Are Passing Through Beautiful Desert Country ' test and protect themselves against a situation where a normal right has been misused or so overused as to become a public nuisance . The right of industry to advertise is essential . But advertisers can be prevented from locating billboards along the scenic rim of the Grand Canyon . The intent of the Eisenhower administration is to penalize states , by withholding 5 per cent of the federal highway aid allotments , if they do not conform to a suggested national billboard control policy . A bill proposed by Senator Richard L. Neuberger ( D ) of Oregon would have the government assist states financially in the pur chase of advertising rights within 500 feet of the highway right of way . But the outdoor advertising lobby is sometimes pretty powerful and the final outcome is uncertain . The chance to build billboards @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , dual-highway arteries which will link 42 state capitals and 90 per cent of all cities with populations over 50.000 ? constitutes something worth lobbying for . Not all of these highways will wind through scenic wonderlands . But most of them will traverse the rural countryside ? the vanishing ( in the East ) vistas which give peace of mind and relax tensions merely by existing for the contemplation of men . What is decided about the billboards will , to a degree , help determine how much of unspoiled America is preserved for the future . * Some advertising inlormaI ion , in controlled spots , may well be necessary along the highways . In limited , supervised regions close to the cities , areas could be allocated tor the location of billboards , motels , and even hot-dog stands . There the motorist could slow down , and read . and stop . Filling stations and estaurants should be available at regular intervals , as they are now on the best turnpikes . Billboards and the usual unsightly " ribbon developments " probably will continue along many older @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an inability to cut in on a big new bonanza . If it 's as good as it should be at reading the handwriting on walls , it should note the public trend today : no billboards along the New York State Thruway , or the New Jersey Turnpike , or Connecticut Merritt Parkway . That is the trend . Is it now , at a time of great national roadbuilding , to reversed ?                     