@@713539

txt In their first public statement on Governor Dewey 's civil defense bill , Senator Elmer F. Quinn and Assemblyman Irwin Steingut , Democratic minority leaders of the Legislature , today described some of its provisions as dangerous , unduly alarming , arbitrary and unnecessary . The statement specifically left the door open to Democratic support of the measure if certain criticism and suggestions they planned to offer before the bill was put to the Legislature for action were met in the final draft , " We earnestly hope that our proposals and our criticism will be accepted in the good faith in which they are offered , " the statement added . " Before the session we informed Governor Dewey of our eagerness to cooperate with him on the all-important matter of civil defense . Partisan Approach Decried " We still believe that a civil defense program can not be decided on partisan lines , We renew our offer of cooperation and we pledge to do all in our power to give New York State the finest system of civil defense in the world . " The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ James C. Hagerty , secretary to the Governor . He implied that the minority leaders ' statement was prompted primarily by political considerations . " If the Democrats sincerely want to help on civil defense they should offer their suggestions and criticisms of the civil defense bill now instead of making purely political statements , " Mr. Hagerty said . " The Joint Legislative Committee on Military , Law and the Lieutenant Governor of the state are eager to receive any and all suggestions . Let the Democrats make them to the official legislative authorities . " At the Governor 's direction , copies of the bill have been sent to mayors of all the cities of the state , to boards of supervisors and to bar associations and their opinions have been sought before any legislative action will be taken on the measure . " Points of Criticism Outlined In their criticism of the measure , the Democratic legislative leaders emphasized the burden that the measure would place on local governments and on the drastic nature of the powers it would confer on the Governor and the new State Defense @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The two Democratic leaders said that submission of the measure had met with an " almost unanimous protest . " " The people generally , the mayors of our cities and the press were rightfully alarmed at the arrogation of dictatorial powers to the Governor and at the extreme financial burden his bill would place on localities , " their statement read . " We believe much of this alarm could have been avoided had the Governor availed himself of the offers of the Democratic party and its leadership to cooperate in presenting a workable civil defense plan on which all could unite . But the Dewey bill , as originally drafted , was prepared in the Governor 's own office , without consultation or discussion with the minority or with the local authorities . flict with his ideas of civil defense . " Our first reading of the bill convinced us , also , that the unlimited powers which it would bestow upon the Governor and the , arbitrary burdens which it would place upon the municipalities made it both dangerous and unenforcible . " Unfortunately , the uproar created @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ask for a thirty-day waiting period before acting upon his bill . " The minority has now been asked to study a slightly revised bill , copies of which became available a few days ago . During this thirty-day period the Democratic party will develop its objections to this legislation and when the bill comes up for consideration we will have constructive proposals of our own to submit . " Such proposals must provide that there be no conflict of regulatory powers with those of the Federal Government and that municipalities do not have undue bur- , dens placed upon them . " With municipalities complaining that civil defense and other pending measures would place an undue financial burden on them , J. Raymond , State Controller , announced yesterday continuation , of the Controller 's committee on nonproperty taxes to consider ' other sources of revenue the cities Specific Parts of Bill Scored " Many of the provisions of this bill have been termed ill-considered and unworkable by the State Conference of Mayors . One such provision , for example , permits the Governor to remove duly elected officials @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ con- might use .                     