@@719788

txt The Executive Committee of the Algerian National Liberation Front , which directs the revolt against French rule in Algeria , has intensified its call for armed resistance to Premier Charles de Gaulle 's outlined solution for the Algerian problem . The committee , currently meeting in Cairo , has already issued a statement rejecting General de Gaulle 's proposals . It now has followed this up with a message to Algerian nationalists in Algeria telling them it is their " sacred duty " to attack , " the enemy wherever he may be and to seize his arms and ammunition . " The message declared , " We Algerians are determined to achieve independence at any cost . " One of the Algerian nationalist leaders , Ferhat Abbas , is quoted by the Cairo newspaper Al-Missaa as saying , " The national liberation army will continue the armed struggle against French colonialist forces until Algeria gets its freedom and independencb . " We Are Not French ' Mr. Abbas flew into Cairo from Geneva specially for the executive committee meeting . " We are not French and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " The National Liberation Front rejects any solution for Algeria which does not recognize Algerian independence . " The executive committee of the front is no less determined in its rejection of General de Gaulle 's proposal for integration of Algeria with France . " Today we hear a voice evoking honor and grandeur and promising us integration with the French , " it declares in its statement . " This voice forgets that s impossible to establish brotherhood with a decaying empire . There is an unbridgeable gap between us and imperialists . " The committee encourages fighters in Algeria by telling them that the French , despite their superior equipment , are " on the brink of catastrophe " because of blows they have received from the nationalists . Violence Breaks Out When the revolt started in November , 1954 , the committee says , there were 3,000 Algerians in bands which rebelled against the French . Now their ranks have swollen to 120,000 " in well-organized units . " Against the background of these declarations come reports from Algiers that French authorities have announced a renewal of violence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ also stated that nearly 600 nationalists had been killed in Algeria last week . The National Liberation Front Executive Committee 's Cairo meetings are in secret . But there is speculation here that one of its topics of discussion is whether this is the right moment to set up an Algerian nationalist government in exile . Such a step was recommended at a recent meeting of the North African nationalist parties Tangier . In Tunis , the weekly L'Action said that representatives of the Algerian National Liberation Front will be meeting in the Tunisian capital later this month with Tunisian and Moroccan leaders . Purpose of the conference , L'Action said , would be to set up an anti-French independent Algerian government . Related stories : Page 4                     