@@718022

txt President Eisenhower conferred for fifteen minutes today with Vice President Richard M. Nixon . The Vice President said politics and the President 's po ? litical future had not been dis ? cussed . John Foster Dulles , the Secretary of State , saw the President for five minutes with Mr. Nixon and then for ten minutes alone , Mr. Nixon refused to speculate whether the President would stand by his decision to run again . As for his own future , Mr. Nixon said he did not think that " any of the rest of us " who had made plans based on the President 's decision to run should even discuss what would happen in the event of a change . Later the President , who worked for well more than an hour today , used a visit by a staff assistant to issue a further plea for some key items in his program before Congress . James C. Hagerty , the White House press secretary , said the President had urged particularly that the : , Senate restore the " major portion " of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Representatives . Today the Senate Foreign Relations Committee did just that , but the bill still faces floor opposition . ' Superficial ' Stitches Removed The other legislative items taken up . with Maj. Gen. Wilton B. Persons , the President 's chief assistant for Congressional mat ters , were the school construe ? tion bill and the defense budget . The President 's recovery continued to progress " satisfactotly " again today , according to his physicians . The main item of health news was that the " superficial " stitches resulting from his operation had been removed . Mr. Hagerty said the " deep through-and-through wire sutures " had not been removed but that they probably would be before the President left the hospital . The President went on a regular diet of soft food today . He ate his first meal sitting in a chair . At luncheon he had three courses and at dinner two . Mr. Nixon and the President discussed several items of busi. ness , although the subject matter of all the important ones could not be , announced today . Mr. Nixon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ discussion ' of the President 's Conference on the Physical Fitness of American Youth , which opened today in Annapolis , Md . Mr. Nixon went from Walter Reed Army Hospital to Annapolis to preside over the conference . Mr. Nixon said he had found the President looking " surprisingly well " but added : " Of course I think we should realize that , as you all do , that undergoing such an operation for a man of any age is certainly not a pleasant experience and you would n't be expected to look quite so hale and hearty as you would before you went into the operating room . " The Vice President noted , as had Mr. Hagerty , that the President had lost seven pounds , from 169 on the morning he entered the hospital to ? 162 this morning . His physicians hope that his weight will return to about where it was , Mr. Hagerty said . Confers With Adams Besides the half hour with Mr. Nixon and Mr. Dulles and fifteen minutes . with General Persons , the President alEo worked for a half @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and other members of the staff . He signed ten bills and vetoed one , signed nominations and military promotions , approved a small supplemental appropriations request , signed atomic energy agreements with Canada and Australia and accepted one resignation . The resignation was that of Walter W. as chairman of the Home Loan Bank Board . The vetoed bill would have granted compensation to a couple in Virginia who suffered loss of business - and property value because of the relocation of a highway . Medical Bulletins Special to The New York Times . T7 ASHINGTQA T , June 18 ? Following are the bulletins issued today on . President Eisenhower 's condition : 8:05 A. M. The President had a good night 's rest . He . slept almost continuously for almost seven and a half hours . His temperature is 98 , pulse 68 , blood pressure 120 over 76 , and respiration 20 ? all of which are normal . The President weighed 162 pounds this morning , seven - pounds less than he did the ' morning of the day he was admitted to the hospital @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , supplemented by liquids to be taken during the day . . - For. breakfast he had two soft-boiled eggs , one slice of whole-wheat toast with honey , a half glass of skim milk and a cup of- tea - Ilia condition continues to . progress satisfactorily . He is in good spirits . 12:32 P. M. The President 's condition continues to progress very satisfactorily . His temperature , pulse , blood pressure and respiration are normal .. The President took his usual walking exercises early . this morning and sat in an easy Chair for about -a half hour . Later he conferred with the Vice . President of the United ' States and the ? Secretary of State and also-conducted White House business with the Assistant to the President . Still later in the morning the superficial ' skin ? sutures were removed . . For lunch the - President had a small - cup of beef broth , a broiled beef patty , a baked potato pureed carrots , a glass of skim milk and a - gelatin dessert . He also continued.to have liquids whenever he requested . Trade @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It would be the first military atomic information- to be , received from the United . States under a bilateral agreement with Canada . Mr. Howe said United States : ' lad . proposed- that the agreement : with Canada be amended to .. include an exchange of information on ' the package power plants ' similar ' to that covered , in. . a new agreement between the United States and Britain last week . the 5 P. M. The President 's condition continues to progress satisfactorily . He has had a restful day . His temperature , pulse , blood pressure and respiration all continue normal . The President spent a quiet afternoon . He napped , listened to music , read at intervals and sat up in an easy chair for about a half hour at dinner time . For dinner he had a broiled beef patty , mashed potato , pur  --  ed peas , a slice of wholewheat toast , apple sauce and a cup of decaffeinized coffee . Mrs. Eisenhower left the hospital for the first time today , going to the White House to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ come from the Eisenhower farm at Gettysburg , Pa . Once again today reporters ' brought up with Mr. Hagerty the increasing series of medical reports and stories on the likelihood of recurrence of ileitis , the intestinal ailment from which the President suffered . Mr. Hagerty said he did not know whether the President 's physicians would see the reporters again , but promised to take them a question ' on recurrence.                     