@@719180

txt Letters to The Times Arab-Western Conflict Is Considered to Be Fundamentally a Human Problem To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : , Having read your editorial of Oct. 8 " Syria Plays With Fire " I am constrained to wonder whether you have not added fuel to the fire . We may pass over the fact that your comparison between the speeches of Mr. Sitar and Mrs. Meir delivered on Oct. 7 at the United Nations General Assembly stems from the biased attitude that has become current , to find all good in Israel and all evil in the Arab countries . Nevertheless , some basic points need to be corrected . Your contention that the " great mass of Arab refugees could not and should not return " to their homeland contributes nothing to a constructive or an adequate solution of the Arab refugee problem , which has become the most inflammatory issue In the Middle East and the major cause of tension in that area . Furthermore , it is not in harmony with United Nations resolutions , which have time and again @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to return to their country of origin . Why is nothing said about the unlimited influx of Jewish immigration into Israel ? Right of Self-Defense You state that in three years the Arab countries have spent " close to two billion dollars " on arms . This figure may be contested from an objective study of Arab budgets . Meanwhile , you neglect the fact that Israel can mobilize within forty-eight hours an army of a quarter of a million . This exceeds the number of all the Arab armies put together . The Arabs are entitled to their legitimate right of self-defense , especially so in the light of the repeated acts of aggression by Israel on their frontiers , established beyond question in United Nations records , and notably the tripartite aggression upon Egypt of just one year ago , which was condemned by the U. N. As to your quotations from Mr. Bitar 's speech , I regret to note that they are all taken out of context . I therefore hope you May give us the chance to refer briefly to that context . The Syrian problem @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ problem , is not , and should not be regarded as , a part of the cold war . To consider it so is detrimental to the Arabs and to . the West alike . Arab grievances against the West existed long before there took place any rapprochement between an Arab country and the East , a development incidental to and resultant from humiliations imposed upon the Arabs by Western policies . Arms Purchases If we are blamed for buying arms from the Soviet bloc , we naturally remind you that Syria and Egypt turned to the United States five years ago , to Great Britaine France , Belgium and other Western countries to purchase arms for internal security and self-defense against Israel , but without success . All this happened at a time when Israel was getting from the West all the arms she needed and continually boasting , as she still does , of her power to meet all the Arab armies together . Moreover , whatever arms Syria is getting are fully paid for . As to Arab solidarity , it has been proved more than once in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Egypt . Whatever discord many exist among Arabs is predominantly due to foreign interference . Ultimately the Arab-Western conflict is neither political nor economic solely . In its profoundest depths it is a human one ? " human " in all the dimensions that that word implies . If it is true that nature abhors a vacuum , it is equally true that nature abhors error , revolts against error . And the present Arab stand is a human revolt against Western injustice imposed upon us during the last half century and more . GEORGE J. TOMEI ! , Consul General of Syria , United Nations Delegate . New York , Oct. 9 , 1957 . Kremlin-Instigated Coup To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : As one who has studied the Communist movement for a quarter of a century , I welcome your enlightened editorial of Oct. 8 " Syria Plays With Fire . " It is a clear , factual statement in the face of world-wide confusion , fostered by those masters of deception  --  the Communists . That the coup in Syria was Kremlin-instigated and managed became @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ For despite the heavy mask of " nationalism " donned by the Syrian victors , the voice was so stridently Moscow 's that only its dupes and ' its stooges pretended to remain deaf . e Following the fait accompli , Russia 's Stalinist practices : " Always accuse the enemy ( meaning the democracies ) of acts we ourselves intend to , or have already accomplished " are faithfully followed by its puppets . Mouthing Moscow 's propaganda they achieve two objectives : That of diverting attention to us ( put us on the defensive ) and throwing a smoke screen over a once sovereign Syria so that the new master may consolidate his position and thus more easily create a new satellite . Communist imperialism will settle for nothing less than the globe ; be it through fronts , infiltration or open warfare . Meanwhile while the Soviet empire leaves no stone unturned , diverting billions for its Big Lies , how much is our freedom worth to us , to our children , to posterity ? Will it continue to be economy  --  or will we wake up @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ A. BLACKMAN . New York , Oct. 9 , 1957 . SchoolPopulationAnalyzed Data on Manhattan Said to Reveal White Pupils in Minority TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Integration of the public schools in the Borough of Manhattan faces obstacles not so apparent in the other boroughs . Fifteen per cent has been set by some integration leaders as an acceptable proportion of Negro children in individual schools . But figures released recently by the Board of Education and publishes by The New York Times on Sept. 30 show that only one-third ( 33.5 per cent ) of the children in the elementary and junior high publics schools of Manhattan are white . Some one-third ( 34.5 per cent ) are Negro and roughly another third ( 32.0 per cent ) ' are Puerto Rican . Since Negro and Puerto Rican children already form about twothirds of the elementary and junior high public school population in Manhattan  --  and these percentages should increase rather than decrease if population forecasts are realized ? something of a problem for integration is posed here . Obviously the Manhattan schools must be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the " minority group . " Unrealistic Goals The goals for racial mixture therefore become unrealistic for the schools of Manhattan . Integration becomes a matter of sprinkling the white minority judiciously among the numerous schools in Manhattan . Another important question is raised by the presence of a white minority group in the elementary and junior high schools of Manhattan . The over-all white population of Manhattan is a good deal larger than its public school population . But where are the white children ? Large numbers of families with children have of course moved to the suburbs and beyond . Another much smaller segment of white children attends private schools in Manhattan . How many children in suburban public schools or in Manhattan private schools in protected residential situations belong to those leaders who from pulpit and platform . have been most outspoken against segregation ? If the proposed bill to outlaw discrimination in housing in New York City is passed , how will this bring about schools which are well balanced racially in Manhattan when its elementary antis junior high schools are already two-thirds nonwhite ? The other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ children in the elementary and junior high schools , ranging from 65.4 per cent in the Bronx to 93.0 per cent in Richmond . However , the presence of a white minority group in Manhattan schools raises some very complex questions as to how integration can be accomplished along the " classic " lines laid down by its leaders , HELEN G. HAMMONS . New York , Oct. 3 , 1957 , Allocation of Flu Vaccine To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES ; As is well known to the public , it is almost impossible for many people to get a prophylactic injection of virus vaccine by their private physicians . This is due to the fact that the suppliers of physicians , surgical supply houses and drug stores are unable to get the vaccine in any significant quantity . Where does the vaccine go ? It goes , justifiably , to hospitals for their staff and personnel and to essential industries , but also to many nonessential enterprises , in order to keep business going , We private physicians receive many telephone calls daily from patients wanting the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ n't got the material . We would like to give it to those patients who are suffering from heart disease , diabetes and other chronic ailments and for whom the contraction of influenza may be of serious consequences . They should have first priority in receiving the benefit of prevention of a disease which is harmless for the majority of the younger and healthy population . It is more important to preserve life than to protect business . FELIX COIIN , M. D. New York , Oct. 8 , 1957.                     