@@720462

txt The gulf between East and West over the future of Germany remained as deep as ever tonight after the United States and the Soviet Union had rejected each other 's proposals for a settlement . Secretary of State Christian A. Herter told the foreign ministers ' conference that the Soviet Union 's proposal that the four powers sign a peace treaty with East and West Germany contained the " seeds of future discord and conflict . " Mr. Herter presented closely reasoned argument why the.Soviet proposal was unacceptable to the West legally and politiI cony . Gromyko Rejects Plan Andrei A. Gromyko rejected as " clearly unacceptable " the Western peace plan for Europe . However , the Soviet Foreign Minister expressed his Government 's willingness to discuss individual issues , including establishment of a zone of limited armaments in Europe . In a fifty-five-minute speech described by British diplomats as the " toughest " the Soviet Foreign Minister has made here , Mr. Gromyko accused the West of delaying a German settlement by including extraneous issues in its package plan . Although he rejected the package @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the package that the Soviet Union would like to discuss with the West . Mixed Group Acceptable These included : oxf The mixed committee of East and West Germans ? Mr. Gromyko called it " an all-German committee " ? which the Soviet Government considers " useful and even necessary . " But in the Soviet view , the two German Governments should define the committee 's tasks and composition . CA four-power declaration on a settlement by peaceful means of all international disputes and a refusal of assistance to an aggressor . 9 " Some questions " of disarmament and " establishment of a limited arms zone . " The last item was discussed by Prime Minister Harold Macmillan and Premier Nikita S. Khrushchev of the Soviet Union during the former 's visit to Moscow last winter . In its original form , the proposal envisaged the creation by international negotiation of a zone in Central Europe in which arms and troops would be controlled by inspection to remove the danger of surprise attack . Ultimately a ceiling would placed upon both weapons and forces in the zone by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ powers of East and West dominated today 's seventh session of the conference in the Council Hall of the Palais des Nations . The only other speech was made by Dr. Lothar Holz , Foreign Minister of East Germany . Western diplomats found that speech more notable for the virulence of its attacks on the West German Government and its " militarist " tendencie , than for any constructive contribution to the problems before the conference . The conference is nearing an end of the " period of confrontation . " Selwyn Lloyd , ' Foreign Secretary of Britain , and Maurice Couve de Murville , Foreign Minister of France , are expected to give their Governments ' views on the Soviet proposals tomorrow . When they have been heard and Dr. Wilhelm Grewe of West Germany has spoken for his Government , the first round of the conference will have been concluded . Until today it was thought that the West would then seek restricted sessions , in which each of the Big Four would be represented by a foreign minister and one official . These sessions were expected to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and West through bargaining . Move Up To Gromyko The Western powers apparently have accepted M. Couve de Murville 's suggestion that they sit tight and let the Soviet Union propose restricted sessions .. The French reasoning is that the Soviet Union , wants a Summit conference based on progress here and that consequently it is up to Mr. Gromyko to make the first move toward negotiation . Neither Mr. Gromyko nor Mr. Herter disclosed much room for bargaining in their speeches . The Secretary of State 's speech was devoted to explaining why the Western powers could not accept the Soviet pro4 ) osal that the Big Four sign a peace treaty with East Germany and West Germany . Mr. Herter reminded the conference that American efforts to reach a peace settlement with ' Germany had been frustrated inl the past by the " intransigent at-i titude of the Soviet Union . " The Secretary of State pointed out that the Soviet Union had refused to fulfill , its " solemn , obligation " to join the West M reuniting Germany and establishing a freely chosen all-German government . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Herter , is that the international entity " known as Germany remains inl existence and that the United ' States Government can not concede that Germany is " perma-1 nently divided " into new and ' separate states . Any final peace settlement consequently must be deferred until a government has been established that can act for Germany as a whole . Mr , Herter continued that West Germany and East Germany could not constitute separately or in combination an all-German government authorized to act for Germany . The Germany of the Soviet proposal is a " nonentity , " he declared . From " the practical point of view , " Mr. Herter insisted , the Soviet treaty proposal would create a host of new problems without settling any old ones . Mr. Herter 's short , incisive speech , with its tight , legal phrasing , was , not the sort of address often heard at a foreign ministers ' conference . Mr. Lloyd , a lawyer , sat savoring it , a British diplomat said , like a man enjoying a rare vintage port . Mr. Gromyko 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It was long and discursive , but the British , spokesman thought that it probably was the most important Soviet statement of policy this conference would hear , Mr. Gromyko said the conference must concentrate on two " pressing " problems : conclusion of a peace treaty with the two Germanys and establishment of West Berlin as free city . The Western peace plan proposed that East and West Berlin be reunited in free elections . Mr. Gromyko found this , too , " utterly unacceptable . " It would deprive West Germany of its capital of East Berlin , he asserted . ' But he disclosed one Soviet worry that some Western diplomats believe could be exploited when and if an interim arrangement for West Berlin is negotiated here . West Berlin Assailed The principal cause of the " abnormal situation " in West Berlin , Mr. Gromyko said , is that this was a center of " subversive activities " and " provocations " against East Germany , the Soviet Union and other states . As long ago as March , the Western powers discussed offering the Soviet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in return for a ' guarantee of access to the city . eMr . Gromyko 's main objection to the Western proposals was that the United States , Britain and France had booby-trapped the path to a settlement by the introduction of issues that had hitherto proved insoluble . He said the peace treaty would be dependent upon the solution of " such international questions as the establishment of the European security system , reduction of the armed forces of the great powers , agreement on measures to prevent surprise attack , establishment of an inspection zone in Europe . "                     