@@713009

txt Two British exchange teachers who have spent a year in the Chicago public schools told the board of education yesterday they had found a low standard of morals among many pupils and too great an emphasis on material things in the schools . The teachers , Miss Amy Imlach , who has taught physical education in Von Steuben High school , and Miss Alice Gilgallon , who has taught in Stockton and Portage Park schools , were invited by , Supt. Herold C. Hunt to tell the board what they thought . Miss Imlach 's Miss Imlach left ) and Bliss Gilgallon. home is in London and Miss Gilgallon is from Scunthorpe , Lincolnshire . Disappointed by Morals " I have beers disappointed chiefly because of the low standard of morals among so many students , " said Miss Imlach . " Coming from a perfectly ordinary school in London with a poorer economic background than the one where I have been teaching , I am not used to taking roll call more than once a day . " At home , the students do n't cut @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ locked up because there is a teeling of respect for other people 's possessions , and students do n't have to have passes wherever they go for they are trusted arid they respond to that trust . " Says Inspiration Lacking She said physical education instruction in Chicago schools has become inbred and " lacks the- inspiration of outside contacts . " " The profession has potentially great qualities but these are being stifled by a lack of contact with new materials so that much of the work is stagnant and unsatisfying , " she s. - Jid . Many physical education teachers are so dissatisfied they strive for jobs in another branch of teaching , site found . She reported finding a ' difference between schools of Chicago and those outside the citY , where the tempo of life is slower and schools are smaller . A shortage of facilities often means teachers are attempting to teach 80 or 90 pupils in the same room , she found . " None of these conditions helps either a teacher or student to enjoy school , " Miss Imlach said . " One @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on a Hit . I 'm not a person . ' " Praises Work with Handicapped Miss Gilgallon said Chicago schools have the edge on London schools in material equipment " but I feel sometimes too great stress is laid on material values and equipment instead of the spirit in a school " However , she said no city in the world has done as much for handicapped children as Chicago . English and American grade schools are not greatly different , but more stress is placed on human relations here while England devotes more time on fundamentals such as . the three Rs , Miss Gilgallon said .                     