@@715468

txt The report that Congress is unlikely to do anything at all at this session about either the customs simplification bill or the repealer of the " Buy American " Act should not be taken lying down by the Administration . If there is a disposition to exercise leadership in the vitally important field of foreign trade  --  and President Eisenhower already has proved his readiness to do so in. the related fields of taxation and finance  --  now is the time to show it . There are three major items that Congress should act upon if there is really . any serious intention to help our allies overseas make progress toward paying their own way in defense of the free world . The first , and most important , for its symbolic if not for its economic significance , is renewal of the Reciprocal Trade Agreements Act , which expires next month . We can not pretend that mere extension of this law will make a great . deal of difference in the volume of foreign trade during . the next year . One reason is that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be negotiated during that period . However , either the failure of Congress to continue the law or  --  and this is the real and present danger  --  action of Congress to weaken it materially would be an unmistakable sign to Europe that the United States would rather keep the rest of the world on the dole than encourage a healthy condition of competitive international commerce . The ' members of Congress who are working hard for passage of the Simpson bill , which would have the psychological and to some degree the practical ? effect of setting this country 's tariff policies back by twenty years , are recklessly playing with the political and economic stability of the democratic alliance in order to satisfy a handful of special-interest groups at home . It is up to the Administration to exercise every possible effort to get through , as an absolutely minimum goal , an extension of the Reciprocal Trade Agreements Act , as is . The second piece of critical legislation in this sphere is the customs simplification bill . The intent of this measure is to bring some order @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ foreign goods to this country have to operate . One of the great obstacles to trade with the United States , aside from tariffs and quotas , has long been the red tape and complex system of regulations which to some extent were doubtless designed for the very purpose of making importation more difficult . A bill to simplify . customs procedures was actually passed by the House last year but died in the Senate . A new bill , modified but still far better than nothing , was recently introduced , and hearings have now been scheduled for next week . It deserves the closest and most favorable attention .. The third measure in this group is the bill to repeal the " Buy American " Act , This law was first adopted as a rider to an appropriation bill twenty years ago , and has remained to plague American trade relations with friendly countries . Broadly speaking , it requires the Government to purchase only American-made products except when their cost is ' " unreasonable . " Latest example of the mischief wrought by this law was our rejection @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Joseph Dam in the . State of Washington . It looks as though Congress is n't going to hold hearings on the repealer at this session , even though the " Buy American " Act is both inflationary and protectionist . In addition to the argument that a liberal trade policy is to our economic and . political self-interest , we ought to reflect that we are in a. poor position to insist that our allies cut off all their commerce with the countries beyond the Iron Curtain if we show ourselves persistently unwilling to open our own trading door even a crack wider .                     