@@717874

txt The house appropriations committee in a completely unexpected move today approved a bill for an appropriation of 1 billion 200 million dollars to put the administration 's soil bank program into effect at once . It said the secretary of agriculture can do this under existing law . The committee action caught both the administration and members of Congress " by surprise . It was conceived by the Democrats end voted 38 to 7 in ? a hurriedly called secret committee session . House Democratic Leader McCormack D. , Mass. announced the soil bank appro. priation would be brought to the house floor for a vote next week , possibly as early as Wednesday . Benson Says He Ca n't In the senate , meanwhile , Agriculture Secretary Benson was telling its agriculture committee that the Eisenhower administration could not put its soil bank program into effect without new legislation . The program proposes that the government pay farmers a little more than the profits they would normally erpect , from crops on land they take out of production and put into a fertility-building reserve . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " acreage reserve " section for the temporary retirement of cultivated lands , and a " conservation easerve " section for the permanent retirement of lands best suited for timber or grass ranler than crops . Asks New Legislation Chairman Ellender D. , La. of the senate apiculture committee told Benson that " if you came to Congress and asked for the funds for the conservation acreage of the soil bank , you could get it and have a soil bank program in effect next week , " Bens : : replied that " we can not put into effect a soil bank peogram as we envision it without . sdditional legislation " When Ellender asked if he meant the administration could not put into effect the acreage reserve section of the soil bank , " the allotted acres , the contracts . . . ? " Benson replied : ' " The very heart of the soil bank . " Has Power , Cannon Says ' But Rep. Cannon D. , Mo. ; chairman of the house appropriations committee , said Benson could put into effect under existing laws exactly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the farm bill vetoed by President Eisenhower . Rep. Whitten D. , Miss : , chairman of the appropriations agriculture department safie maniacs which drafted the soil bank monei bill , said there was one exception to this . Whitten said that so far as he knows Benson will not be able to make advance payments to farmers this var , as eon- templated by the President , against contracts to put land into the soil bank in 1957 . Democrats have been assailing this proposal advanced by the President in his farm veto speech to the public , as an effort of Republicans to buy the votes of farmers in the November election . Cites Conservation Law The appropriations committee said in a report that it doubts that the soil bank will de all for the farmers that President Eisenhower and Secretary Benson have predicted , but added it-may " be of some help . " The committee cited provisions of the existing agriculture soil conservation law as authority for the administration to start a soil bank program , it said it was surprised to find President Eisenhower asked Congress @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to create one under laws first put on the books in 1935 . " Notwithstanding the failure of the President and the secretary of agriculture to use such existing authority , and despite th8 fact that they have not seen fit to request the necessary funds , the committee feels that the appropriation proposed in the accompanying bill should be given immediate consideration by Congress , " the report said . All Available This Year The committee bill would make the 1 billion 200 million dollar appropriation available for use from the date of its approval by Congress thru Dec. 31 , this year .. The bill provides the money " for necessary expenses to assist farmers to divert a portion of their cropland from the production of excessive supplies of agricultural commodities and to carry out a program of soil , water , forest , and wildlife conservation , as . authorized by the soil conservation and domestic allotment act . " Cannon told reporters one Democrat , Rep. Gary Va. , and six Republicans voted against the soil bank appropriation . Rep. Taber R. , N. Y. had charged @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with political language . " Cannon said the cordmittee voted the money to " take the farm question out of politics . " Benson Defends Aid Boost The committee report reiterated most of the charges the Democrats have been making against the President in connection with his veto of the farm bill . Benson spent more than 31/2 hours before the senate agriculture committee defending the administration against Democratic criticism ' for raising farm price supports , as outlined in the President 's veto message . Benson said the administration felt it necessary to raise farm supports above previously announced levels because farmers . " should not be penalized by the failure to get soil bank legislation for this year 's crops . " Acted to Bridge Gap " We do not have the weepons we had counted on to pull down the surplus and strengthen farm prices , " Benson told the committee . " Price protection is needful , to bridge the gap until a sound soil bank can become operative . During this interim period , we feel that discretion clearly provided in the law should be used @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Benson 's testimony concerned price supports on corn which would be in effect under a soil bank program . He had told the committee the " full meaning " of the corn price support announcement made by the President " has not yet been grasped by many people . " Benson said he referred to the administration 's plan to give price supports to all corn belt farmers whether they comply with government corn acreage allotments or not . He said corn will be supported at S1.50 a bushel in the corn belt for farmers who comply with their acreage allotments . Benson said the price support for noncomplying farmers has not been determined . Sen. Thye R. , Minn. said his Republican state committeeman had told him the support price will be between $1.25                     