@@714531

txt courtroom , and the two opponents frequently grew angrily red-faced . Toward the end , after nearly six hours of testifying , Finnegan appeared drawn and shaken . He had repudiated several of his own witnesses and terms of a contract he signed with American Lithofold Corporation . He had denied the accuracy of a letter he had written to Internal Revenue Bureau agents about his payments from Lithofold . He had contradicted testimony of tax experts from his own former office who still hold top jobs in the local Revenue Bureau . He termed as " erroneous , . . . as far as my recollection was concerned , " a detailed office diary of a Reconstruction Finance Corporation official who still heads the local RFC office . He insisted that vouchers , financial statements , board minutes , and other records of companies that hired him were inaccurate . Confronted with delicate prosecution questions , Finnegan frequently emitted a strained smile of embarrassment . Repeatedly , his own counsel scolded Finnegan and once admonished the ex-collector : " Speak up , Mr. Finnegan , so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ n't know that , " Finnegan said at one point . " In fact , I knew very little about the loan . " . . I Ca n't Remember ' it ... I ca n't remember , " he said when asked about other testimony . " That was not the conversation . " " The records are wrong , " he testified at another point . " I do n't recall that meeting at all , " he testified later . Asked about testimony of a former assistant of Finnegan 's in the collector 's office to the effect that Finnegan soft pedaled a strategic tax claim and heatedly told his protesting employees " I ant still the boss , " Finnegan said : " No , that 's not like me , I do n't throw my weight around . " Finnegan admitted receiving at least $9,000 for expenses from the American Lithofold Corporation . Asked what he did for the St. Louis printing firm , Finnegan said he and R. J. Blauner , Litho-fold president , called on persons to get business , that he inspected a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ several cities , he persuaded Mr. Blauner 's son , R. A. Blauner , to rejoin the firm . The younger Mr. Blauner , Finnegan explained , had left Litho-fold to establish a rival company . He had been responsible for 50 per cent of Lithofold 's business , but in his new venture he incurred considerable debts . Finnegan said that he , at the request of the elder Mr. Blauner , arranged to borrow money from a bank to pay those debts . Refutes Loan Charge The government contended that Finnegan had been paid $3,000 by Lithofold to help obtain $565,000 in loans from the RFC . Finnegan admitted receiving $36,900 from the Warwick Hotel Company , but he contradicted testimony by other witnesses that he had asked $35,000 for his legal services to the hotel . He said the payment was for an option he held on the hotel , but under persistent questioning he admitted that the option was not in writing .                     