@@718810

txt With the resignation of Russell G. Oswald as Commissioner of Correction , penology in Massachusetts finds itself at a new decision point . Will the reforms initiated ill 1954 be continued and added to ? Or is the state about to return to the practices that prevailed before the revolt of inmates at Charlestown State Prison ? ' Governor Furcolo has chosen a successor to Mr. Oswald , whom he says he will name " later , " and in that name may rest part of the answer . Only One Remains Mr. Oswald is the third " out ! sider " to resign from the administration of the penal system this year . When he came at Governor Herter 's invitation from Wisconsin to administer the penology embodied in Chapter 770 of the General Laws , he brought with him Walter D. Achuff of California and made him principal officer of the new prison at Walpole . He also brought Dr. , , Asher . Pacht and Raymond C. Davidson from Wisconsin ? one to serve as deputy commissioner for classification and treatment , the other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 14 . Dr. Pacht resigned April 24 . Mr. Davidson is still with the Department of Correction and he was being mentioned today as a possible commissioner , as was Edwin Powers . deputy commissioner for personnel and training . Both men satisfy the legal requirements : five years of experience in the administrative end of correction work . ? Association Comments The United Prison Association issued an official comment on the resignation today , through its executive director , Henry J. Mascarello . Mr. Mascarello said , " Commissioner Russell Oswald 's decision to leave the Massachusetts correctional system is a reminder that the question as to whether this commonwealth shall have a modern or archaic prison system remains unresolved , . " Phrased another way , there are still people in key positions , both within and without Corrections , who remain confused as to whether we shall be satisfied with the short-range public safety that mere stone walls and steel bars provide , or the longterm security that a rehabilitation program can produce . " Among those familiar with Massachusetts prisons , few will deny that Commissioner Oswald @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 18 months than had been achieved in the preceding 18 years . He was able to gain these accomplishments because he had the strong majority support of his staff , the Legislature , the press , and the general pub- ' lie . Unfortunately , it was not unanimous support . IDie-flard Minority " The die-hard minority , however small , was persistently active in criticizing and obstructing modern correctional planning and procedures , despite the fact that these developments , far from being radical , were merely in line with standards long since tested elsewhere in the country . " Commissioner Oswald has now been given the opportunity to apply his modern standards and his tremendous personal caliber elsewhere , and it is understandable that he called the turn as he did . However , it is now important for all concerned to make certain that Massachusetts will not lose or reverse its recent excellent progress toward leadership in this difficult area of human welfare . " First , the Governor will be called upon to exercise unusual discretion in selecting a successor of professional competence regardless of political considerations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , will have to be clearly aware of the continuing existence of that small , persistent , and unhappy minority , both within and without the correctional system , that seems unable to accept the will of the majority . "                     