@@715335

txt Hundreds of onlookers yesterday saw three boys in a rowboat swept over the Kankakee river darn in Kankakee . One of the boys was rescued by firemen but the other two perished . John Ericksen , 11 , of 868 S. Schuyler ay. , Kankakee , was rescued . The boys drowned were believed to have been Michael Belluso , 923 S. Schuyler ay. , and Glen Rosendahl , 842 S. 4th ay. , both of Kankakee . Each was 11 . All three attended St. Rose parochial school . They were on holiday from their 6th grade classes because of the Feast of St. Joseph . The death struggle of the two was seen by the hundreds of persons who lined the river 's banks and the Washington ay . bridge when firemen were called to the Illinois Central railroad bridge , a short distance upstream from the darn , on the report there was a body in the water . See Boys in Boat The fireman found a floating log , but no body . As they peered down from the railroad bridge , they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , over which water from the rain swollen river poured in torrents . The firemen and onlookers called to the boys , but the three were unable to stop the boat as it surged toward the dam . The fireJohn ErIcksen left , Glen Rosendahl center , and Michael Bellneo. men sped to the Washington ay . bridge , a block below the dam , and obtained a life preserver there . Fireman Francis said the boys leaped out of the boat a moment before it went over the dam . They were swept over the edge and dropped into the swirling water more than five feet below . They floated toward the Washington ay . bridge , unable to regain the overturned boat . At Washington ay . firemen dangled the preserver from a rope as the boys floated toward it . Two Lose Grip Some witnesses said that all three boys grasped the life preserver , but that two lost their grips and sank into the water . Lindo Corso of Ottawa , La Salle county , who was driving by , volunteered to be lowered on another @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ boy above the water until Firt Lt. Roger R'egnier and Fireman Glenn Johnson launched a motor boat and rescued Ericksen and Corso . Ericksen was removed to St. Mary 's hospital suffering from shack and exposure . Firemen dragged the river for bodies of the other boys until darkness ended the search . Corso , 44 , father of six children , and nicknamed " Joe , " is a state highway engineer now working on a bridge project at Kankakee . The river is more than 600 feet wide at the point where the boys drowned . Part of an old rowboat was found later half a mile downstream , and firemen said the boat used by the boys apparently had disintegrated after going over the darn .                     