@@718188

txt The Soviet Union exploded a nuclear weapon Friday in Soviet Central Asia . The test was disclosed today in a White House statement contrasting the secrecy of Soviet bomb experiments with the " responsible " advance warning and information policy of the United States Government . The site of the Soviet proving ground , the statement said , is in southwestern Siberia north of the Indian subcontinent and west of the border of China . ( The area referred to is properly called Soviet Central Asia . ) James C. Hagerty , White House press secretary , said he believed this to be the first official confirmation , of the Soviet nuclear proving ground . Most of the past tests have been held there , the statement said . Some , however , have been in the Barents Sea area , Mr. Hagerty added . The New York Times Aug. 27 , 1956 Moscow is testing nuclear weapons in Central Asia ( 1 ) . Thee Barents Sea area ( 2 ) has , also been used , the White House disclosed . The announcement was the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . On April 2 the Atomic Energy Commission made its sixth report of a Soviet nuclear-weapons explotion , described as one in a series that had extended over the previous eight months . Since then all had been quiet till Friday . Today 's announcement suggested that the Government believed the Friday explosion was only the first of a series . The size of the weapon was relatively small . The announcement said it had a yield of less than one megaton , or something less than the equivalent power of 1,000,000 tons e TNT . Last December the Russians said they had achieved a hydrogen bomb with the deadliness of " many million tons of usual explosives , " and they said its force could be " substantially increased . " The White House ? today was unclear as to whether the test weapon had been of the atomic or the hydrogen bomb variety . When Mr. Hagerty was first asked , he replied ; " I would say it was higher than atomic . " After a later check . with the Atomic Energy Commission , however , he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nuclear weapon . " The way today 's announcement was made strongly suggested that this Government had decided to take the opportunity to counteract anti - American propaganda circulated by the Soviet Union about the determination of the United States to continue test explosions . Officially , the statement was signed by Lewis L. Strauss , chairman of the Atomic Energy Commission , who is in Washington . The White House dramatized it , however , by releasing the Strauss statement here from President Eisenhower 's golf retreat , with an accompanying statement by the President . Mr. Hagerty called attention to two paragraphs of the statement contrasting Russian and United States handling of nuclear tests : " The Soviet Union has never given the world any assurances with respect to the way in which it conducts nuclear weapons tests and has , in fact , never made an advance announcement of any of its detonations or test series . " Only three times has the Sol/ viet made any statements about its weapons tests , and then has but briefly acknowledged that a test has taken place . Two of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " The secrecy of the Soviet test program has been " most actively pursued for the past seven years , " the statement continued . In contrast , the United States program had been accompanied by a " responsible public information policy , " it asserted . U. S. Warnings Cited This Government , it noted , announced its tests well in advance , permitted press , radio and television coverage and allowed foreign newsmen to . witness some " shots . " In addition , it said , warning boundaries had been clearly outlined in advance and full protective measures had been taken to preserve human " safety and public health . " A short statement by the President urged the " necessity for effective international control of atomic energy and such measures of adequately safeguarded disarmament as are now feasible . " The circumstances of the announcement suggested that the Soviet explosion was detected within hours after its occurrence . Mr. Hagerty said that Mr. Strauss notified him of the test by telephone late Friday night . There was no explanation of how the test was detected or the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seismograph records and analysis of air samples are used . When Mr. Strauss called here to report the blast , he talked with Mr. Hagerty rather than the President . who got the news from his press secretary . , The Atomic Energy Commission has never estimated in any precise way the power developed by its nuclear test explosions nor has it given such estimates about the Soviet tests . However , talking about the 1954 Eniwetok tests a member of the Joint Congressional Commiittee on Atomic Energy said an explosive power of twelve to fourteen megatons was attained . In November of 1955 , in reporting on a Soviet test , the Atomic Energy Commission described it as the largest thus far detected in the Soviet Union and said it ranged in the megatons . This explosion was later described by Nikita S. Khrushchev , the ' Soviet Communist party leader , as having the power of " many millions of tons " of con*Antional explosive .                     