@@713409

txt Francisco Franco , dictator of Fascist Spain , owes the dollar loans which shortly will begin trickling into his country to drought in Communist Yugoslavia . This strange turn of events came about in the following manner . The last Congress , with an eye an districts with a heavy Roman Catholic population , voted $62,500,000 for loans to ' Spain . The action of the Congress embarrassed the administration . It has several reasons for going slow with economic aid to Spain . One is the record of Franco comfort to Hitler and Mussolini during World War II . Another is Protestant feeling in the United States over anti-Protestant laws and practices in Spain . Another is popular feeling against the Franco regime here , in Britain , and in France , left over from the prewar period . The result is that aid to General Franco reopens old wounds , antagonizes Protestant communities , disturbs relations with America 's closest and most important Allies . When Congress passed the Spanish loan appropriation , there was an inclination in the administration to seek ways and means @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ loans . An easy way lay at hand . It seemed doubtful that Spain ever would be able to qualify under the rules and practices governing the lending of United States funds to countries under the Marshall Plan . All that would be necessary to block the dollars to Spain would be to insist that Spain meet the same standards and qualifications which we impose upon Britain , France , Holland , Belgium , Luxembourg , Italy , and other allied nations . But , then , during the past summer and autumn drought swept the farms of Yugoslavia . The corn withered and the wheat burned on the stalk . Weather began to do to the Tito ' regime what the massed forces of Cominform propaganda and subversion had failed to do . A danger developed that the only Moscow satellite to escape from the bondage of the Kremlin would be reentered by the agents of Stalin through empty food bins . By October it became plain that either the United States would feed Yugoslavia or ' Russia would reclaim its lost satellite . A A A The military and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by Moscow would be so great that Washington decided to do its utmost to keep Yugoslavia on the western side of the power divide . The Yugoslays themselves helped by voting more and more with us and the British in the United Nations . They ceased to be neutral . They became a supporter of the western position over Korea and over many other issues . More than that , Marshal Tito even opened peace parleys with the Vatican . But would Congress be willing when the time came to vote money to feed Yugoslavia if the money it had voted for Spain the year before had been unused ? That was a question worth considering . It was . It was decided that the path of wisdom would be to clear the way for food for Yugoslavia by loaning money in Spain . So dollars will do to Spain . But they will be supervised . For the most part , they will be loaned to private individuals . In all cases they will be loaned for particular projects . The first loan probably will be of $700,000 for ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ probably will go for expanding mining operations which could contribute to the United States stockpiles of strategic raw materials . If possible , General Franco will get none of the dollars into his own hands for political purposes . If he does , it will be the political price of clearing the way for funds to keep Yugoslavia from falling back into Stalin 's clutches .                     