@@713070

txt President Truman at his news conference yesterday defined clearly his attitude toward the strike of 4,000 rail ' way switchmen against five Midwest roads , then approaching the end of its second week . Although he-hoped that drastic action would not be required , the President said , he was prepared to resort to it if the walkout persisted . He described the latter as an " unjustified " strike by a small minority of workers who have declined to abide by the recommendations of a " very able Presidential fact-finding board . " A few hours after his statement the strike against four of the roads was called off , but is continuing against the Rock Island system . The President is to be commended , not only for taking a firm stand on this walkout , but for the reasoning which prompted it . He might have dodged the real issue here , had he chosen to do so , and used the Korean emergency as the basis for an appeal to the workers . He has rightly rejected that course . He has let @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the press , that like most of the general public he is losing patience with the growing habit on the part of the unions of ignoring the recommendations of the capable and disinterested fact-finding hoards provided for under the Railway Labor Act . In an editorial on Tuesday we expressed disagreement with Senator Morse of Oregon , who had proposed that the President intervene in this strike " because we are at war . " The issue , we argued , had nothing to do with war ; the issue was whether the unions were to be allowed " to abide by the decisions of Presidential factfinding boards only when such recommendations meet with their approval , reserving to themselves the unilateral privilege of resorting to the strike on those occasions when they disapprove . " Commenting on this editorial in the Senate on Wednesday , Senator Morse criticized it because , in his words , it " implied that the parties were legally obligated to accept the board 's findings . " With all due respect to Senator Morse , we submit that this criticism simply misses the point . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , it is obvious that the unions would have no choice as to whether they would abide by them or not . Discussing the then pending strike , on June 24 , we said : It is true , the recommendations have behind them only the compulsion of public opinion . Unfortunately , it is equally true that the unions have been trading on this very fact now for a decade . They have recognized and exploited the fact that the railroads , being a public utility , can not use the economic weapon of the lockout against them , and that by resorting to force they are dealing , therefore , with an antagonist who is unarmed . This may be " smart " tactics , but obviously it outrages the whole spirit of the Railway Labor Act , the basic purpose of which was to insure the uninterrupted maintenance of national tRansportation . We do ' not favor compulsory arbitration of railroad disputes , and hope that it will never become necessary . We are opposed to it because it would foreclose on the freedom of railroad workers to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would entail the transfer to the Government of a function that we regard as properly that of management . It may one day be necessary , in the interest of the general public , to choose between compulsory arbitration , on the one hand , and , on the other , a permanent state of affairs under which the operation of the nation 's transportation system is subject to the caprice of the railroad unions and their leaders . We hope this does not come to peas For , faced with such a choice , we woulc find ourselves . compelled , however re . luctantly , to embrace ' the first of the two alternatives .                     