@@716464

txt Shyness and love of books and music emerged yesterday as a behavior pattern for the four adolescents accused of having brutally beaten defenseless persons in Brooklyn . Long after three of the four had been , charged with homicide and the fourth with felonious asdetectives admitted they did not understand the case . There had been no robbery and ( none of the defendants had a criminal record . They were not neighborhood bullies or pool hall loiterers . Repeatedly , as detectives dug into the background of each of the youths , they returned with a picture of respectable , clean homes ; decent parents rearing their boys with kindness . One boy devoted his spare time to playing piano accompaniment to his father 's violin . Another enjoyed studying medieval history . A. third attended the synagogue regularly . They were neat , wellmannered and , with one exception , liked by neighbors who had seen them grow up in the Williamsburg section of Brooklyn . Returning yesterday afternoon to police stations and District Attorney 's offices , investigators , recalling the tears and bewilderment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had assembled . The only one of the four adolescents of whom they had heard anything unfavorable was , // ironically , the one woo was i charged with felonious assault , ) not homicide . He was Jack Koslow , 18 years old , of 967 cast Tenth Street , the Flatbush section of Brooklyn . Koslow , about 6 feet tall , seemed frail because he weighed about 150 pounds . He had lived in the Williamsburg area until about a year ago . To the police he seemed well-read , thoughtful , restrained in speech and behavior . Hated Bums and Vagrants Yet it was Koslow who had said , according to the police , that he had helped beat up elderly , homeless men in parks because he had " an abstract hatred and distaste for bums and ' vagrants . " student of medieval history , who had attended New York University for a semester in the hope of becoming a teacher , Koslow elaborated on his theory to the police . Without emotion , he explained that " park bums are no use to society @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ convinced of his right to determine who should live , Koslow suggested a modem ) Raskolnikov in a Brooklyn version of Dostoyevsky 's " Crime and Punishment , " justifying murder of an old woman . " He was very docile , " said a detective who had questioned Koslow . " He did not give you the impression of going around beating up people . " Yet people who had known Koslow when he lived at 110 Wilson Street , in Williamsburg , had long sensed something about him that they described as " bad . " They could not explain their feelings . Much more suggestive of the role of sadist , the police said , was Koslow 's friend , Melvin Mittman , 17 , of 98 Ross Street , Williamsburg . Burly and proud of his punching power , Mittman was nevertheless considered a " good boy " in the neighborhood . A senior at Eastern District High School , he walon the handball team , played sveral instruments and was in the school orchestra . Despite his size he was not known to have picked on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , he had an I. Q. better than average . Apparently , though , Mittman 's attitude toward school had begun to change last term . For though he had not missed a day at school during 1953 , he was absent twentyfour days last term . A school investigator had discussed these absences with hi ; mother , but no report was ' made public yester-I day . The police believed that Koslow and Mittman had dominated the other two youths . But Mittman 's father , Sam , a clothes cutter , refused to believe the police . " The way they treat these boys , " he said , " you'd-think they was gangsters . My son'is a good kid . " Completely bewildering to the police were Jerome Lieberman. 17 , of 335 Grand Street an ( Robert Trachtenberg , 15 , of 674 Driggs Avenue . Gentle , bookloving , they were charged with homicide . Lieberman was fond of playing piano accompaniment to his father 's violin in their well-furnished , six-room apartment . Often he would help in the radio-television store his father , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ family had lived in the neighborhood for twenty-eight years and had an excellent reputation . The youth , his father explained , had access to the cash register at the store but never abused this privilege . Earlier this summer , the boy had been a junior counselor at a camp near Hopewell Junction , N. Y. The youth , at times , seemed to his father to be too engrossed in music and studies , particularly science . Once , when his father suggested he ought to spend more time with girls , he replied he was too young for girls . Of the four , Lieberman was most remorseful yesterday . He said to his father : " If I had only listened to you I would n't be in this trouble . I saw everything . But I could n't help myself for fear of what the others would do to me ' for not taking part . " Later his father said : " I suppose we 'll have to sell everything and move out of the neighborhood . " The baby of the group was Robert @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Avenue , a junior at Brooklyn Technical High School . His favorite occupation , when he was not discussing books and music with the Lieberman youth , was reading . To the neighbors , who had known the boy since his birth in the three-room apartment in which he lived , it seemed incredible that he had kicked someone to death . His constant trips to and from the public library were as established in the neighborhood as his regular visits to the synagogue . His father , Morris Trachtenberg , who peddled clothes to seamen , had not done well this year ; otherwise the boy and his mother , Rose , would probably have gone to a resort for the summer . Trachtenberg 's mother was as mystified as the police about the behavior of her son and the Lieberman youth . " I ca n't understand , " she said , " how two nice boys got into such trouble . "                     