@@718192

txt Letters to The Times Our Suez Policy Criticized Short-Term Political Expediency Is Seen in Moves Made TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : The Suez dispute demonstrates above all else that our present foreign policy is married to short-term political expediency , not to principle or justice . It also underscores the inept and shortsighted manner in which United States foreign policy is being dictated by Secretary of State Dulles . In 1946 the U. S. S. R. demanded a revision of the Montreaux Convention under which Turkey was authorized by international agreement to administer and defend the Black Sea Straits , a waterway lying wholly within the confines of Turkey . The Soviet view was that Turkey , a hostile power , was not to be trusted to keep the Straits open to Soviet shipping even in times of peace . ( Under the convention , Turkey may close the Straits in time of war to enemy vessels . ) We resisted the Soviet effort to bring a greater share of direct international control to the Straits by saying that any change in that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ even risked a show of naval strength in Istanbul to back up our resistance to any Soviet-sponsored change in the status of the Straits . Case Reversed The Suez business is the exact reversal of the Straits case . Now it is the West  --  including the United States  --  which demands the internationalization of a waterway lying wholly within a sovereign state , Egypt . The difference is that the Suez Canal is of much greater importance to us than the Black Sea Straits , less important to the Soviet Union . It would seem that the only " principle " demonstrated here is that we distrust a waterway-owning state when that waterway is important to us ( or our allies ) and when there is uncertainty about the friendship of the sovereign state involved . If Egypt wishes to close the canal against Israeli shipping in time of active hostilities between the two countries , this is certainly a matter for Egyptian decision , just as Turkey could  --  and would  --  close the Black Sea Straits to the Soviet Union in event of hostilities with her northern neighbor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Soviet Union as it is now doing indirectly on behalf of Israel ? It is exceedingly doubtful . Granted , the 1888 convention on free navigation in the Suez declares that the canal shall always he free , whether in time of peace or war , for ships and merchant vessels without distinction of flag . But did the Allied powers live up to that rule during World Wars I and II when they were in control of the canal ? It seems clear that we set aside international agreements when it suits our interests but become agitated when others do the same . Jeopardizing Relations ? As a matter of fact , it so happens that the 1888 convention was drawn up between the European powers on the one hand and the Ottoman Empire on the other , not by any independent Egyptian Government . Is the Government of contemporary Egypt bound by an agreement signed by an unwelcome foreign master -- -namely , the Ottoman Empire ? It is exceedingly doubtful . Another point : Is it good diplomacy to present a country with a proposal that is foredoomed to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ our wish and intent to further good relations with the country involved ? This is precisely what we have done in the case of Egypt . President Nasser could not possibly accept the Western proposal , so why make it ? We have said time and again that we can not condone the use of force in effecting international changes , yet we allow ourselves to be identified with the naked threat of force against Egypt by Britain and France . We thereby help place President Nasser in the position of negotiating almost directly under French and British guns . If a Communist state pulled this sort of maneuver , we would scream bloody murder and perhaps raise a U. N. police force to protect the threatened state . Sovereignty Affirmed And , in so far as the act of nationalizing the canal is concerned , the United States has repeatedly affirmed the principle that a sovereign government has the right to expropriate foreign-owned property within its jurisdiction so long as just , rapid and effective compensation is paid . There seems to be no question that Egypt is quite willing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the United States Congress that foreign peoples should conclude that our economic assistance is available only when there exists a real and pressing Communist threat against them ? If this be so , one can predict that the Communist threat will become very much greater than it is . Yet our offer and withdrawal of assistance for construction of the Aswan Dam in Egypt certainly leads one to that conclusion . The unchallenged record is that we withdrew the offer only when we found that the Russians were not and would not make a similar offer . What a negative and unappealing motive for economic assistance . The United States , as great and as powerful as it is , can not forever fight against the rising tide in Asia and Africa . If we have to desert our European allies so as not to be swept out to sea in a mighty undertow , desert them we must . The interests of the United States and of justice demand that we do so . RICHARD D. ROBINSON . Weston , Mass. , Sept. 8 , 1956 . Benefiting by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Thomas P. Ronan of your service in the United Kingdom reports what Emil Rieve , chairman of the executive council of the Textile Workers Union and a vice president of the new labor merger in the United States , told the eighty-eighth annual conference of the British Trades Union Congress . Mr. Rieve accused employers in the United States of trying to keep for themselves , in the form of higher profits , all the benefits of automation . While of course there are variations wherever human nature is concerned , it is not true that most employers are trying to keep for themselves the benefits of automation . The vast majority of business men on this continent try constantly to cut costs and so to lower prices , but the main obstacle is that wage advances far exceed increased productivity , Hence prices are up by the difference . Mr. Rieve would do well to read Russell Davenport 's " The Dignity of Man , " in which is described the economic revolution that has been taking place in North America @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the traditional capitalist system into " consumer-capitalism . " Claims on Business In the old capitalism capital was an end in itself ; the system existed and was operated for the owners , the capitalists . The revolution has changed things so that the capitalist becomes one of a group of five  --  the owner , the management , the worker , the general public and the consumer . Each has different but rightful claims upon any business , especially the big ones . The result is a dispersal of economic power on a truly democratic scale and a redefinition of the capitalist system in such a way as to admit the economic rights of the average citizen , who is increasingly a stockholder . Among the five parties concerned the balance is held by the consumer , who has the final word . The capitalist has not been replaced by the worker , as in a Communist proletarian society , or by a political bureaucracy , as in a Socialist society , or by management . The capitalist is controlled by the consumer . Each individual consumer stands at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ primarily to serve him . It is he who defines the purpose of the new capitalism . The danger to the new structure of balanced capitalism today is not from ownership or management or workers ; the danger is from syndicalist trade-union leaders attempting to dominate not only industry but also the whole of society by deliberately misrepresenting the attitude and wishes of workers . It is increasingly urgent to secure real freedom for individual workers releasing them from the elaborate structure of compulsion that now holds them in abject servitude to trade-union bosses . GLADSTONE MURRAY . Toronto , Sept. 6 , 1956 . Nixon Favored To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Frankly , I am surprised The Times has agreed with the idea that , being controversial , Richard Nixon is not the better candidate for Vice President . You suggest awaiting his conduct in the course of the campaign before it can be finally decided whether he is worthy of re-election . Whatever controversy there is about Nixon is the result of a neverending attempt to smear and blacken his character . Nothing has been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has anyone been able to pinpoint or corroborate with factual data any single one of the charges thrown at him . Do we need any further evidence of Nixon 's ability and qualifications than his clear and open record as Vice President these three and a half years ? He has raised the level of that office to a height never before attained . Wherever he has traveled land he has covered innumerable foreign countries ) he has left behind an indelible mark of efficiency and proficiency . Such conduct in office deserves retention . Why substitute for success ? MICHAEL 1 . VALriN . New York , Sept. 1 , 1956 . Use of Taxes Questioned To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMEs : It interested me to read the other day General 's remarks on taxation . He recalled Chief Justice Marshall 's statement that " the power to tax involves the power to destroy . " When we think of the huge taxes paid by corporations and individuals to be sent to foreign countries and poured down the drain , " it is time for a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . H. WALLACE , M. D. New York , Sept. 5 , 1956 . Political Tactic Discussed Employment of Mental Susceptibility by Both Parties Cited To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIM Es : The proposal recently made by Republican political strategist that his party 's speakers should make it a practice to refer to the rival party always as the " Democrat " party constitutes a novel and striking application of one of the chief techniques employed in every " struggle for men 's minds . " This surgical proposal plainly ? albeit implicitly  --  recognizes the basic psychological fact that a person 's attitude toward something can 4 be molded into having a particular character by his being brought to associate this thing mentally with something else which lie knows to have that character . This seemingly automatic mental process was sought to be made use of in this instance negatively to dissociate the Democratic party in the minds of people from the estimable and amicable qualities which the word " dem .. ' ocratic " connotes to all Americana . Equally Serviceable The exploitation of this marked @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in political combat immemorially , and it has been equally serviceable to both parties . Thus the Democrats inveterately have characterized the Republican party as the party of " Wall Street " and of " Big Business , " thereby connecting that party in the minds of people with the idea of powerful , unfeeling , impersonal forces , devoted wholly to moneymaking and oblivious to the welfare of the masses . In the same way , not long ago , the Republicans sought to antagonize the nation 's voters toward the Democratic party by speaking of " the mess in Washington , " thereby associating ' the rival party with an idea which , in everyone 's mind from earliest childhood , carries the strongest connotation of inferiority and contemptibility ? namely , dirtiness . Longer ago Republican spokesmen were given to referring to Franklin D. Roosevelt as " that Man , " thereby associating the thought of Roosevelt with the thought of things unfit to be named , things unmentionable . Selling Ideas That the verbal vote-getting efforts of both political parties will be aimed mainly at hitting this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is assured by the reported fact that both parties will extensively enlist and will heavily rely on the services of public relations experts  --  persons whose professional skill includes an ability to coin words and phrases which serve to " sell " persons and ideas to the public in the same way that articles of merchandise are " sold . " Perhaps , then , it might be useful for us in the coming weeks to realize how much the political speaker , in his use of word-magic , resemble ! ' Shakespeare 's poet who * * in a fine frenzy * * * Doth glance from heaven to earth , from earth to heaven ; And as imagination bodies forth The forms of things unknown , * * ? Turns them to shapes , and gives to*. airy nothing A. local habitation and a name . " WALTER J. Biima . Newark , N. J. , Sept. 5 , 1956 . Conditions in Ceylon TO THE EDITOR OF ' THE NEW YORK TIMES : During the last Ceylonese general election political leaders of the new majority party were skeptical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it with a barge pole , but once they got to business the aid was grasped cheerfully . It shows that if aid is aid , little can prevail against it and the proof of the pudding is in the eating of it . Anyone who studies the Ceylonese economy will also realize that this country can not do without aid because new development schemes like the damming of the Walawe development of ports , pipe-borne water supply and increased electrical energy will mean large capital investment . Until benefits from them begin to accrue it will be difficult not to accept aid . The population is growing and education makes them yearn for higher standards . Democracy is also getting firmly rooted here and it is not possible for one party to bluff the people without delivering the goods and get away with it . EUSTICE GIINAWARDENA , Colombo , Ceylon , Sept. 3 , 1956.                     