@@719986

txt President Eisenhower decided today to do something to remove the " apathy and complacency " from the Republican Congressional campaign . He told his news conference yes- ' terday that this feeling of some party workers and candidates was " incomprehensible " to him . Today the President scheduled a party strategy meeting for the White House on Menday . Attending will be ' Congres= sional leaders , the Republican national chairman , Meade Alcorn , and some members of the President 's immediate staff . The White House press office said the luncheon meeting would have these purposes : Ino discuss the question of apathy and complacency in the Republican organization . ( ITo talk over the President 's own campaign plans . CT ? go over the Republican Congressional campaign in general . Special Session Not on Agenda In announcing the Monday meeting James C. Hagerty , press secretary , said that it would have nothing to do with the possibility of calling a special ' session of Congress . He said it had been arranged after a recent talk between the President and Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ travel schedule . The annual corn picking contest at Cedar Rapids , Iowa , with an expected attendance of 100,000 , was the chief addition to his previously announced trip to the West Coast , Senator John F , Kennedy , Democrat of Massachusetts , will speak at the corn picking contest on the day of President Eisenhower 's visit , sponsors of the contest announced . Mr. Kennedy has been mentioned as a Democratic Presidential candidate . Although the President 's oneday visit to Cedar Rapids on Oct. 17 will come at the height of the election campaign , Mr. Hagerty said the visit was ' not to be considered political . But he said that General Eisenhower " may say a few words . " ? From Cedar Rapids the President and Mrs. Eisenhower will fly that night to Abilene , Kan , They will remain there overnight after visiting the Eisen , hower Museum . The next morn ' ing they will go on to Denver to visit Mrs , Eisenhower 's mother , Mrs. Jon S. Doud . General Eisenhower 's trip to the Pacific Coast , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on Oct. 20 and to San Francisco the following day . On his return trip he will spend the day and night of Oct. 22 in Chicago . At each of the California stops , as well as in Chicago , the President will make what the White House described as " regional talks " on radio and television . At his meeting with newsmen today Mr. Hagerty suggested " the possibility of some political engagements " by the President in New York on Oct. 12 , Columbus Day . The New York trip , as originally announced , was described as nonpolitical . It was to have been confined to the laying of a wreath at Columbus Circle and the laying of . the cornerstone of the Inter-Faith Building at 120th Street and Riverside Drive . Among those invited to attend the Monday meeting at the Aliite House were Vice President Richard N. Nixon and Senators William F. Knowland of California , ' Everett M. Dirksen of Illinois , Styles Bridges of New Hampshire , Leverett Saltonstall Of Massachusetts and Andrew F. Schoeppel of Kansas . Mr , Knowland , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for-the Governorship of California , Those invited from the House of Representatives included the minority leader , Joseph W. Martin Jr . of Massachusetts , Charles A ; Halleck of Indiana , Leslie C. Arends of Illinois , Leo E , Allen of Illinois and Richard M. Simpson of Pennsylvania . The tenor of the Monday strategy meeting was set by President Eisenhower in his news conference yesterday when he remarked that the Republicans would surely lose the November elections unless they contributed of their brains , time and money . Messages approving the President 's criticism of apathy in the party organization were received at the White House today . They came from Representative Martin and from Senator H. Alexander Smith of New Jersey , whose appointment as a foreign policy consultant to the Secretary of State , John Foster Dulles , was announced today . Senator Smith described the President's. remarks as " a call to action , " which " will give new confidence and inspiration to all Republicans and all Americans who are dedicated to the preservation of sound and constructive government . " The annoucement of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hagerty in answer to inquiries whether the Senator , as reported in some news dispatches , was to be a special consultant on foreign policy to President Eisenhower . Mr. Hagerty said that Senator Smith already had been appointed a sepical constultant to Mr. Dulles . Senator Smith , who is 78 years old , has long been an important member Of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee . Mr. Martin said that he " could not agree more than I do about complacency on the . part of some in connection with the current campaign . Meanwhile , Mr. Nixon 's office announced that he would carry his campaigning into several major labor areas in the East . His plans include attending a testimonial dinner on Oct. 8 at Philadelphia for Senator Edward Martin , who is retiring . The following morning the Vice President plans to attend a breakfast meeting in Philadelphia of the Citizens for Scott and , Representative Hugh Scott is the Republican candidate for the Senate and Arthur T. is the candidate for Governor . Mr. Nixon then plans to go to Columbus , Ohio @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to Pittsburgh the following morning and to Huntington , W. Va. , that evening .                     