@@713433

txt Letters to The Times SIDNEY HOOK.J . GORTCAR.H . CHARLES ERITH.BRICE P. DISQUE , Letters to The Times U. N. Stand on Korea Significance Stressed as Affirmation of Will to Resist Communism To THE EDITOR OF THE NE* YORE TIMES : I find it difficult to understand why , in his recent letter in THE NEW YORK TIMES , Professor , Ralph . Barton Perry ' remains silent about the steady stream of invective , denunciation and downright lies pouring from the lips of Messrs . Vishinsky , Malik and Wu , whereas he rebukes Mr. Austin for his occasional tone of " annoyance and anger . " If anything , Mr. Austin has been , a model of judicious restraint , Indeed , evidence seems to show that forthright replies of the character delivered by General Romulo at Lake Success have the best effect in clarifying the basic issues . A great Harvard philosopher of an earlier day , George Santayana , once remarked that those who can not remember the past are doomed to repeat it . When Professor Perry tells us that now is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nations " tut only of the ter  --  rors of war he brings to mind those who a decade ago used to assert that the issue was not one of freedom versus tyranny but merely , to use Professor Perry 's phrase , of " peace versus war . " But the reasons which induced him a decade ago to recognize that the issue was indeed one of the survival of " free nations " are today even more weighty , for our enemy is much stronger than Hitler . By all means , let us emphasize , as Mr. Austin actually has done , the disastrous consequences of war , but unless this is coupled with a reaffirmation of our ideals and principles it may be a preface to capitulation . Professor Perry would have us continue our military preparations presumably in Europe , if not in Asia . But if the issue is not one of " free nations " why should we do so ? Why should we arm at all ? If peace is to be maintained at any price all we need do is to apply @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the satellite states . Like many others who warned against Hitler 's moves toward world domination but who until yesterday were stubbornly blind about Stalin 's , Professor Perry fails to appreciate the significance of the U. N. stand on Korea even if its forces are compelled to evacuate as a result of Chinese Communist intervention . I was in Europe when the North Koreans invaded and spoke to nationals of many different countries . All of them were convinced that if the United States had not given evidence of a will to resist in Korea , most of Europe would have been lost in a rush to make terms with the Kremlin . Together with Professor Perry , I deplore Senator McCarthy 's tirades against the State Department . But in ? the last analysis Senator McCarthy derives all of his strength and influence from precisely the kind of foreign policy Professor Perry advocated in the past , the failure to recognize the errors of that policy , and its continuation in a new form . Happily , the State Department at present disagrees with both Senator McCarthy and Professor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , 1950 . Slavic Origin of the Wends To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : May I call your attention to an error in your recent editorial entitled " Long Live the King , " and in which you wrote that King Gustaf Adolf is " by the Grace of God King of the Swedes , the Goths and the Wends , " and then described the Wends as being " now a tiny Germanic enclave in Saxony and Prussia , " instead of writing " a Slavic enclave in Saxony and Prussia . " In the twilight of history numerous Slavonic tribes lived east of the Laba ( Elbe ) River , in what is today OstDeutschland . In the 2,000-year-old struggle of Teuton versus Slav they were either exterminated or Germanized . Many German cities , in their names of Slavic origin , still bear witness to this , like Berlin , Leipzig and Dresden . Today , of the once-powerful Wendish tribe , only some 120,000 people have survived and are now living in the territory stretching from Berlin southeast on some 1,200 square miles in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Polish . It was the religious and military Order of the Teutonic Knights , wearing a white mantle with a black cross , which for centuries formed the spearhead of the German drive to the east , until at the height of their glory irretrievable ruin descended . upon them when King Ladislav of Poland defeated them at Tannenberg in 1410 . Nevertheless , their order survived under the protection and in the service of Poland , fighting its way ever farther east along the Baltic . In Soviet Latvia we find the town of Wenden , with the ruins of a castle of the Brethren of the Sword , where the Grand Master of the Teutonic Knights had his residence until in 1577 the garrison blew it up to prevent its falling into the hands of Ivan the Terrible . Although Scandinavians in larger numbers established their first settlements in the lands of the Slays along the Baltic already in the ninth century , it was only after the Teutonic Knights of East Prussia , Estonia and Livonia ceased to be that the Swedish kings established their sovereignty over the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Y .. Dec. 1 . 1950 . Coal Consumers Protective Association , Inc . New York , Dec. 13 , 1950 . Futility of Atom Bombs To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Having served as an air-raid warden from March , 1938 , to July , 1945 , and being a mechanical engineer who furnished plant for drying nitrates for explosives to the chemical industry , and having visited America often , I am amazed at the enormous sums spent in the United States for stockpiles of atom bombs . Both atom bombs and hydrogen bombs are futile weapons , for the same reason that made poison gas futile in World War I , when we British wasted millions on gas masks which were never used . No war was ever won by poison-bombs whi6i diffuse poison wherever the winds blow or the waters flow ; so ? why waste any more money on futile missiles ? H. CHARLES FRITH . Hove , England , Dec. 2 , 1950 . ' Elimination of Smoke Incorrect Use of Fuels and Equipment Said to Be at Root of Trouble To @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Fuel Dealers and Smoke " is a splendid contribution to the welfare of the community . Representing a very substantial portion of the fuel merchants of this city , I can say , without reservation , that from the beginning of this renewed effort to reduce the air pollution of our city our membership has been constantly participating in the Smoke Bureau 's effortS and will continue to do so . Every member of our organization is actually endeavoring to guide his customers in the use of fuel to the end that coal and oil shall be burned without unnecessary smoke . Admiral Maxwell , of course , is correct in his statement that smoke , in most instances , is a sign of waste and inefficiency . We have made some rough estimates , which are confirmed by those most experienced in combustion technique , which indicate that the loss in New York City due to defective adjustment of equipment or use of improper fuel exceeds $10,000,000 annually . That loss might well run to more than $20,000,000 if we had an absolute measure of it . Then there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ suffered by everybody who owns property ; that probably exceeds $150,000 , - 000 annually . Wrong Fuel All of our members maintain service organizations and constantly endeavor to indicate the adjustments and repairs needed so that their customers may get the most out of their fuel . However , there still remain an enormous number of consumers who use the wrong fuel for the equipment they have installed or for the flues that are available to provide the proper mixture of air in the firebox . ? This city has thousands of buildings with small flues ( built originally for the burning of hard coal ) that are utterly impractical for the burning of highly volatile bituminous coal or heavy oils . Nevertheless , operators of a vast number of those buildings , seeking to lower their cost of operation , search the market for the cheapest fuels , apparently indifferent to their own ultimate costs and the indirect damage that they are doing to the property of other people . There always will be merchants who sell cheap fuel , which , in the long run , is the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , after earnestly offering advice , is faced with the choice of losing a customer or selling a fuel which he knows should not be used . That is a tough situation . It is at that point that the fuel merchants of good intentions and the surrounding property owners , who are constantly suffering damage from smoke , are dependent upon the effective performance of the Smoke Bureau . Although a vast number of private installations continue to emit unnecessary smoke , which is entirely inexcusable and should be stopped forthwith , the greatest offenders , probably to the extent of 60 per cent , are the utility companies and the city owned and operated power plants for the servicing of the transit lines . Up to this moment there is no visible indication that the latter are making any serious effort to help clean up the atmosphere of this city . Cheaper Oils I can assure you that the reputable fuel merchants are not only willing but eager to cooperate and are going to do their best , but they can not prevent the operators of buildings from changing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which produce the dirtiest smoke that plagues our community . Hundreds of those installations are operating today without proper equipment , and as long as that is allowed to continue , little improvement can be expected . The time is here when no one should be allowed to save a few dollars on cheap fuel and thereby inflict thousands of dollars of damage on the community . Damage to health is a greater menace but is another subject . Our membership regards the present Bureau of Smoke Control personnel very highly ; we feel that the city is fortunate in having Mr. Christy and Admiral Maxwell on that job , but we know that they will fail unless other segments of the city government support them and cooperate ceaselessly . BRICE P. DISQUE ,                     