@@720495

txt On some 1,800 campuses across the nation this month an estimated 421,000 seniors are graduating from college . The men number 282,000 and the women 139,000 , altogether 56,000 more than last year . They comprise the nation 's largest group of college graduates , except for the veteran-swollen 1950 class of 432,000 . Each year , for the foreseeable future , the June graduating class will grow in numbers , reflecting a rising population and an increasing need for- college-trained citizens . But there are no vital statistics on this class as a group . The estimate of its size is an Office of Education guess that will not be confirmed or modified until next year . No agency has tallied their fields of study in college nor their plans for the future . Several studies have sampled them in the last three years to try to learn what manner of men and women they are . Thes , - investigations have , variously found that today 's student is more mature and serious than his predecessor of a generation ago . that he is a conformist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by their own failures , are not challenging or changing him enough . Four Influences Most college deans and presidents , a sampling of colleges indicated last week , agree that this year 's senior , if not very different from last year 's , is part of an undergraduate population whose attitudes toward study and toward life are being steadily changed by four influences . These ' are : ( 1 ) domestic prosperity , ( 2 ) cold-war tensions , ( 3 ) growing selectivity of the colleges and ( 4 ) the economic advantages of graduate degrees . Prosperity has made jobs plentiful . At both the noted and less wellknown schools , deans said , all seniors with presentable records , specialists and " even " the liberal arts students had job offers or knew where they were going . No one reported a shortage of opportunities at good prices . Prosperity 's attendant lack of social crisis , some deans contend , has produced a generation without any idealistic readiness to be involved in any great causes . Because these students have never been shaken by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ even to be affected by the Korean war , and went through high school in a wellfed era , they are as secure and complacent as students of the Nineteen Twenties . Each is interested in personal questions : Who am I ? Where am I headed ? This is a view expressed particularly by Dr. Edward D. Eddy Jr. , vice president and provost of the University of . ? Zew Hampshire . He spent the school year before this one interviewing hundreds of students on twenty campuses in seventeen states for a major study analyzing today 's college student and the college 's influence on him . More Concern Elsewhere , there were feelings that there is more student concern than appears on the surface . At the Long Island commuter college of Hofstra , Dean Randall W. Hoffmann described the 1959 senior as " critical with a sense of values that probably is sounder , if more quietly expressed , than our generation 's . " Students generally are given to less extreme behavior , he said . This year 's class , said deans in several sections @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of panty-raids and other disciplinary problems than any other ii years . In the South , where the segregation issue has been raw , Dean John M. Webb at Sewanee said there was concern but no excitement ; the discussion had run its course and each one knew where every one else stood , so why talk about it ? Cold-war tensions : The Russians ' launching of Sputnik two years ago apparently has had little or no influence on this year 's senior , although the freshmen have indicated what the deans believe is an unnaturally large and transitory enthusiasm for majoring in science . But international problems , Dean Jeremiah Finch of Princeton believes , have proved a good antidote for the complacency and materialism of prosperity . He thinks the times , and the prospect of military service , have made students sort out values more carefully and respect the intellectual powers of men who ! flight keep the world from getting worse . Political Forums At Bucknell University , Lewisburg , Pa. , Dean Karl D. Hartzell said students for the first time have by themselves organized @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a program of visiting speakers . At Notre Dame , selforganized groups of seniors pick the brains of faculty members , from President Theodore Hesburgh down , on similar topics in dinner discussion sessions that sometimes go on for five hours . World problems , said Dean Finch , have created an awareness that students " wo n't solve the problems of middle life by feats of memory ? that the really important thing is to come to life intellectually . " Selectivity of the colleges : Deans in the schools that have more applicants than places tended to feel that the fact of selection not only produced an increasingly able student body , but helped make them more appreciative of things intellectual . Dr. Henry Miller at Queehs College , which is also selective , believes the veterans of the late Forties changed the college climate permanently to a pattern of serious study . Graduate schools : Several deans believe a growing tendency to plan on graduate study is the principal influence at work on today 's senior . In some state universities as high as 35 per cent of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at the University of New Hampshire , typical of the smaller state institutions , virtually the entire top quarter of the class has fellowships which will pay their way . In some of the private colleges deans estimate that half or more will go to graduate or professional schools . Advanced Degrees Students realize that more and more of the good career opportunities will be open only to those with advanced degrees , officials said . The resulting competition for records that will get them fellowships and into graduate schools is often serving to lift the performance level of the entire college . It is also giving new prestige to as football players , are campus heroes , and fierce pride is taken in the fact that the Fighting Irish licked half the Ivy League scholastically  --  its students won twenty-two of the Foundation 's 1,000 awards , to rank fifth in the nation-wide competition .                     