@@717298

txt The French gambled with the lives of their own people and of the native people in Morocco last weekend and they lost  --  heavily and terribly .. Counting the obviously synchronized attacks in Algeria , at least 1,000 and perhaps as many as 1,300 people were killed , some of them horribly . There will be no disposition to excuse the savage attacks of the Moroccan and Algerian nationalists , but if the French had moved more quickly to meet the obvious nationalist threat and had reached a settlement in Morocco as they wisely did in Tunisia , this slaughter and all the grief and bitterness it entails might well have been avoided . A majority in the French Government , including Premier Faure , had recognized the writing on the wall but they evidently felt impelled to yield to Right-Wing pressure . The diehards  --  Marshal Juin , the Gaullists , the Peasant party and other spokesmen for the intransigent French colonists , the aged Sultan Sidi Mohammed ben Manley Araf a and his supporters  --  were able to prevent a timely acceptance of the hopeful @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . This would have replaced the present Sultan by a Regency Council and started the necessary reforms to give Morocco more autonomy . When it is considered that the Sultan is weak and unpopular and that the Pasha of Marrakesh , El Glaoui , has clearly been repudiated by his own Berber people , it is strange , indeed , to see the French holding back in their names . The disaffection of the Berbers  --  a steady trend over the past two years as they moved more and more into the nationalist camp  --  makes it impossible for the French to claim , as they used to , that the Morocepne are divided among themselves . Having said these harsh things one must in fairness add that responsible opinion in France is asserting itself . A meeting is going on all this week in Aix-les-Bains between the French Government leaders and Moroccan leaders , and there is now little doubt that the French will finally offer the conces-1 sions they could have offered long ago . The only doubt is whether the inflamed Moroccans will accept a compromise and whether @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inevitable . The heart of the problem remaincl dynastic . Two years ago last Saturday the French deposed the reigning Sultan , Mohammed ben Youssef . The terrible uprisings of the week-end were keyed to this anniversary . If anything is clear about the Moroccan problem it is that no Regent or head of a Regency Council would now be acceptable to the Moroccan nationalists unless he had the blessing of ben Youssef . Readers may well havessondered why and how an uprising costingl many hundreds of lives should have taken place simultaneously in eastern Algeria , On the purely technical side the answer is probably the evil machinations of the North African Liberation Committee , whose headquarters are in Cairo . The Egyptians have not only harbored these revolutionary nationalists but have permitted them to broadcast inflammatory propaganda to Tunisia , Algeria and Morocco . The committee promotes agitation against the French , certainly with money and advice and perhaps with arms . The attacks in the region of Constantine , Algeria , were well or- ganized and carefully- timed , and one must suppose that the Liberation Committee was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Moroccan . Algeria is an administrative part of Metropolitan France , but it is true that the Moslem people , who are in a vast- majority , do not have equal political , economic and social rights with the French residents . To raise the level of the Algerian to the French standard is obviously a long-range problem and it is hard to see what the French can do ZiOW except to make it clear to the Moslems that this is the goal . Meanwhile , the first requisite is to restore order , which the French are doing . After the blopdletting of the week-end both Morocco , and Algeria should be reconciled to a period of relative peace . This will give France a chance ? it may be a last chance  --  to find some acceptable solutions .                     