@@720681

txt Ths United States hurled a " roundtrip " Discoverer satellite into orbit Wednesday . Discoverer VI roared aloft in a seven story , two stage rocket at 2:25 p. m . Chicago time . It was the latest attempt to learn the technique of returning instruments , animals and , eventually , men from a speeding moon . A half hour after the launching the air force announced the second stage had fired successfully . Carries 300 Lb . Capsule ? The announcement that the Discoverer satellite achieved orbit was made at 5:08 p. m . Chicago time . The air force said Discoverer VI was circling the ' earth every 95.3 minutes in a north  --  south polar orbit . The closest approach of the satellite to the earth is 138 miles , while at its farthest point , it swings out 537 miles from the earth . The satellite is expected to stay in orbit about 30 days . Tracking stations in Alaska picked up " loud and clear " . lignals as it completed its first circuit of the earth . Carries No Life @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a return trip to earth Thursday if everything works properly . The capsule had the basic equipment designed to bring back the first United States manned moon . The rocket carried no life , but a monkey was scheduled to be blasted into space as a round trip satellite ride soon if Wednesday 's shot proves enough of the bugs have been worked out of the system . Two previous recovery attempts have failed , and two of the 19 foot , 1,700 pound moons did n't make it into orbit . There was no recovery effort on Discoverer I , which did enter orbit briefly . Hope to Snag It In Air If all goes well , the egg shaped capsule will be automatically popped loose from its " mother " satellite 200 to 500 miles above the earth 26 to 27 hours after launching . As it parachutes down over the ocean recovery area oft ; Hawaii , air force C ? 119 cargo planes will attempt to catch " the world 's longest flyball " with trapeze  --  like harnesses they will trail behind them . If the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to find the capsule in the sea . Slight Weather Delay The air force expressed high hopes in the latest effort because of a measure of success obtained with Discoverer V last week . For the first time on that shot scientists were able to get the 27 by 33 inch capsule to eject from the satellite at just the right point over the earth , The rocket fired Wednesday , spouting a tail of flame , climbed nearly straight up . The shot was delayed briefly for weather conditions , but only a slight breeze and the few cloud /lam noticeable when the launching took place . It disappeared from sight , two minutes after launching . ' ' e capsul't travels 3001 miles a minute and will miss the 200 mile long recovery area unless popped from the satellite at the right instant , the air force said . The Discoverer II package was ejected too soon and was lost in the north polar region . 3 Causes for Failure The air force blamed failure to recover the Discoverer V package on one of three possibilities : The capsule @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its parachLte may not have opened , or its radio signal may have failed . The air force said it was 90 per cent certain that the payload ejected properly . But the recovery planes and ships waiting 700 miles off Hawaii never heard or saw it . So far in the series , the planes and ships have had not a single crack at recovery . A recovered capsule would be worth its weight in pure gold in the race for space . Both the United States and Russia have brought animals back from space , but ' not from a satellite whizzing around the globe at 18,000 miles an hour .                     