@@720045

txt Governor-elect Nelson A. Rockefeller named Dr. T. Norman Hurd of Cornell University as Budget Director yesterday . This is a post he held during Thomas E. Dewey 's last four years as Governor . Three other appdintments to posts in the incoming Republican administration also were announced : Or . William J. Ronan of New York University was ap- , pointed Secretary to the Governor , ' Francis A , Jamieson ; long chic : public relations adviser to the Rockefeller brothers , was brought into the administration as special assistant to the Governor . ' Richard L , Amper , former New York Times political reporter , was named press secretary . Announcement Made Here The announcement was made from Mr , Rockefeller 's New York office on the fifty-sixth floor of 30 Rockefeller Plaza . The Governor-elect and his wife are taking a post-election vacation at a farm Mr. Rockefeller owns . in Venezuela . Dr , Hurd , , Professor of Agricultural Economics , is 48 years old . He ' will head the incoming Administration 's team of observers at budget hearings that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be Dr. Ronan and Mrs , Edgar W , Martin of Colonie , N. Y. , research associate in the office of Oswald D. Heck , Speaker of the Assembly . The state budget for the next fiscal year , essentially will be the handiwork of the outgoing administration . But Dr. Hurd and his team may , after Jan , 1 , propose revisions through the Republican Governor to the Republican-controlled Legislature , which could reshape it in important detail , The budget will not be submitted until February , Ronan Served in City Post Dr , Ronan , 46 years old , has been teaching at N. Y , U , since 1938 and has been dean of its Graduate School of Public Administration and Social Services since 1953 , He is an author as well as a teacher and has been often called into government as a consultant , He was director of the Temporary State Commission on Revision of the Constitution , From 1955 to 1957 he was a Deputy City Administrator here under Mayor Wagner , Dr. Ronan , a native of Buffalo , is married @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Manhattan and has other homes in Manhasset and East Hampton on Long Island , ' As Secretary to the Governor , he will sit in at the top level in formulation of the new Administration 's policies , During the election , he headed the Rockefeller research staff at campaign headquarters . Mr. Jamieson , who is 54 , unquestionably will play a big part in major policy decisions , too , but his precise duties as special assistant were not outlined in the announcement . Mr , Jamieson , a noted newspaper reporter before going into public relations , probably assist the new Governor in ' making appointments at the top echelon . It is also likely that he will be the new Administration 's " ear to the ground " on policy . Mr. Jamieson 's politics through the years have been more closely associated with the Democrats than with the Republicans . He Is a brother of former State Senator Crawford Jamieson of Mercer County in New Jersey and an uncle of Representative Frank Thompson Jr , of New Jersey 's Fourth District . Both are Democrats . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ campaign for Governor in New Jersey , In 1933 , while New Jersey State House reporter for The , Associated Press , he won a Pulitzer Prize for his coverage of the Lindbergh baby kidnapping . During World War II , he served in the Office of the Coordinator of Inter-American Affairs , where he worked closely with Mr. Rockefeller . A. native of New Jersey , he now lives in Manhattan . He is married and the father of three daughters . Press Aide Was with U. P. Mr. Amper , who is ? 2 , worked for The United Press ( now United Press International ) from 1944 to 1953 , when he joined The New York Times . He lives in Great Neck , L. I. , is married and has four children ? two boys and two girls . He is a native of Pennsylvania . He has had no previous experience in government , Dr. Hurd has had the most experience in government . He is a member of the State Board of Regents and has been a teacher at Cornell ince 1936 . , He @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Farm Manpower , by Governor Dewey in 1943 , and served in ' that post two years . He was born in Michigan and has lived in New York since his graduate days at Cornell in the early Thirties : He is marRockefeller Appoints Four Aides Associated Press Dr. T. Norman Hurd Director of the Budget Martin Pain Francis A. Jamieson Special Assistant ried , is the father of three children , and lives in Ithaca . After his first years as budget director , Dr. Hurd spent six months as special fiscal consultant to the Legislature in 1954 when the Democratic administration of Governor Harriman took over . Thereafter , he returned to his Cornell post . A spokesman at the Rockefeller office said it was unlikely that any further appointments would be announced here until Mr. Rockefeller returned from his ten-day vacation .                     