@@713094

txt Soviet natural scientists have invaded a world meeting here . They were discussing nuclear power at the Fourth World Power Conference when the Soviet invasion was launched . The Soviets interrupted to stress " Soviet reliance on peace " and to launch a fiontal attack on the United States . One of the few technical points of their blast was to declare that nuclear power might be used " not only through steam power but by other more effective means . " It was Prof. V. A. Golubstov , leader of the three-man Soviet delegation , who made the intervention during a technical discussion of authoritative papers previously presented by the United States , Canada , Britain , France , and Sweden , to an audience of nearly 50 nationalities . The attack on the United States misfired , and Professor Golubstov firmly and decisively was and swered by a French physicist . 1Leninist to Beard Mr. Golubstov is a pleasantly professorial - looking man who carries his Leninism to the cut of his silver beard . He had picked on a phrase in the paper by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of using atomic energy otherwise wasted in connection with making of bombs . " Davidson says atomic energy only can be reasonable in the case where it is a waste product ofthe atom bomb , " Professor Golubstov declared , speaking loudly in Russian . " We Soviet scientists deny that peaceful use is impossible without making bombs . Davidson 's assertion directs scientists deliberately along wrong roads . The task of the conference is to direct the efforts of scientists not along the line of war but along the line of overcoming difficulties . " Davidson Not Present Professor Golubstov said the Soviet , only used atom power for peace " as you all are aware . " He proposed energy  --  presumably explosives ? be used for blasting mountains , constructing huge irrigation systems , and turning deserts into " blooming gardens . " Mr. Davidson was not present at this meeting . Ernest Mercier of France , chairman of the conference , rose in his defense pointing out that Mr. Davidson had not said what the Russians pretended but simply had remarked if such waste products happened to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that particular circumstance . " I tell the Soviet delegation that not one of us here is prepared to think of peace as a byproduct or subsidiary of war  --  not one of us . We are pleased you brought us this information that the same sentiments exist in Russia . " The conference hall echoed with applause . Professor Golubstov smiled . The conference then got on with its business .                     