@@718626

txt Israel 's promise to withdraw her troops from the Gaza Strip and the Gulf of Aqaba area was put in abeyance today . Following an emergency Ca binet meeting that lasted several hours , the Israeli Ambassador to Washington , Abba Ehan , was instructed to start new talks with ' the United States . The object was to obtain further " clarifications " of the United States ' position on Gaza 's future . It was not clear as yet how serious the new difficulties were . Israeli officials were reluctant to discuss the matter until they had received word from Mr. Ehan . The trouble centered on the speech made yesterday by Henry Cabot Lodge of the United States ' at the United Nations . It followed the announcement of Israel 's promise to withdraw that was made by Foreign Minister Golda Moir . " It was not so much the things Ile said , hut the things he left ' unsaid , " a . Foreign Ministry spokesman here said in regard to Mr. Lodge , Expected Firmer S. Stand Israel feels that Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ States considers Gaza to he international territory . Israeli officials had expected the United States delegate to say that t he Egyptians should not , be allmvcrl to return in any way . There is no serious disagree ment over the withdrawal froe Sharm el Sheikh , in the Gulf o Aqaba region , the spokesma said . Technical details for th replacement . of Israeli forces 13 units of the United Nation4 Emergency Force will have to worked out at another meeting between the Israeli Chief of Staff , Maj. Gen. Moshe Dayan , and Maj. Gen. E. L. M. Burns , the United Nations commander . General Burns requested tha ' such a meeting he held as sot : as possible . The date was ex peeled to be set for it afte the Israeli Cabinet meets to morrow morning . How soon the plan for withdrawal can he worked out will depend on the answers Mr. Eban receives to his questions , the Foreign Ministry official said . Earlier today the Israeli Army abruptly canceled all visits by reporters to the Gaza Strip ? Permission had been granted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ clearance came before the Israeli agreement to withdraw troops was made public late yesterday . No reason was given for the cancellation order . News of Israel 's agreement to comply with the United Nations resolution was causing no victory celebrations here . The crowds that jammed the streets as the Sabbath ended were somber . Many persons said Israel had surrendered to pressure from the United States and other Western nations . Several Israeli political parties will meet tomorrow to discuss the withdrawal promises . On Monday the Knesset ( Parliament ) will meet to consider the matter . People Aye Dissatisfied JERUSALEM , March 2 ( 1P ) ? An emergency meeting of the Israeli Cabinet was held today at the home of Premier David Ben-Gurion . A communiqu ? issued afterward said : " The Government convened today for an extraordinary session to discuss developments in the United Nations General Assembly and will continue this debate at its ordinary session tomorrow . " The Israeli hesitation reflected the mood of the general populace , which was one of his -- may and dissatisfaction . Many Israelis felt that they were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Egypt with nothing to show for it . Along with some political leaders , they took the view that the Government had surrendered on the withdrawal issue without obtaining the iron-clad guarantees it had sought on free shipping through the Gulf of Aqaba and a ban on the return of the Egyptians to the Gaza Strip . The dissatisfaction of some left-wing Socialist ministers raised the threat of a crisis that could bring down the Government that Mr. Ben-Gurion has headed for the last sixteen months . A showdown was expected when Parliament reconvenes Monday . The Herut party , chief opposition in Parliament of Mr. BenGurion 's coalition Government , called for protest parades in Tel Aviv , Jerusalem and Haifa . A demand that the Government resign , dissolve Parliament and call new elections was issued before a Tel Aviv rally by another Herut spokesman , Jacob Meridor . He said any deputies in Parliament who voted approval of the withdrawal would be blacklisted . He charged that Mr. Ben-Gurion had agreed to " a policy of withdrawal and total surrender " without guarantees from either the United Nations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Two small parties of Mr. BenGurion 's five-party Government also seemed skeptical . Leaders of the Labor Unity arid . United Workers parties talked of quitting because of dissatisfaction over Gaza-Aqaba policy . Israel 's Efforts Continue Special to The New York Times , TEL AVIV , Israel , March 2 ? Premier Ben-Gurion said tonight that Israel 's struggle for freedom of navigation and her attempt to keep Egypt out of the Gaza Strip would continue . He made the statement in a message to delegates from twentyfour countries attending a convention of the Women 's International Zionist Organization . The Bgn Gurion message said Israel was in a struggle , not only with enemies , but also with friends for " our fundamental rights and sovereign equality . " He added : " I can not say how the struggle will end : If we shall succeed in guaranteeing freedom of navigation in the Gulf of Aqaba and the Red Sea and if we shall create free passage to the lands of Asia and East Africa and convert Elath into a port of international importance and if we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Strip and guarantee security of life and property for our settlements in the south and in the Negev . " ' Concrete Guarantees ' Sought Special to The New York Times . LONDON , Sunday , March 2 Premier David Ben-Gurion said in a message published today that he wanted " concrete guarantees " before withdrawing Israeli troops from the Gaza Strip or the Gulf of Aqaba area . One of the guarantees sought was " that on no account will the Egyptians be allowed to return to the Gaza Strip , " the Israeli leader told Charles Eade , editor of The Sunday Dispatch . The Premier was replying to a ( message from Mr. Eade expressing British sympathy for Israel . The editor had requested that the Premier , in replying , should take account of the latest developments in the United Nations and Washington . Mr. Ben-Gurion 's reply was received by cable on Friday . It said : " The distressing element in our current situation is that our struggle is not against an enemy but against a friend  --  the GoVernment of the United States . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and sense of fair play of the American people will prevail over considerations of mistaken political expediency , " the Israeli Premier said . Mr. Ben Gurion said Israel 's " primary objective " remained " fredom of shipping and freedom from Egyptian attack on Israel citizens . " He added : " Before withdrawing our troops from either the Gulf of Aqaba or the Gaza Strip we require concrete guarantees that the vessels of all nations will be free to move through the Straits of Tiran and the Gulf of Aqaba and serve the Israel port of Elath . " Israeli Patrols Kill 6 Arabs TEL AVIV , Israel , March 2 ( Reuters ) ? Six Arab infiltrators were killed in clashes between Israeli patrols and Arab bands on the way from Jordan to the Gaza Strip , an Israeli Army spokesman said tonight .                     