@@714403

txt Chicago 's Golden Gloves champions , perennially the most widely known group of amateur boxers in the world , will fight in four European cities next spring . The International Amateur Boxing association has invited the winners of Chicago 's 1952 tournament to match their strength and skill against the best talent of four European nations . The first appearance of the American team will be in Dublin on April 25 . Their opponents will be the champions of Ireland . The second match will be in Paris on April 30 against the strongest talent in France . From there the team will move to Hamburg for a match with the champions of West Germany . The final contest will be against Italy 's best in Rome on May 10 . Will Sail on April 15 The Chicago team , which will be made up of eight champions and two alternates , will sail from New York City aboard the new Mauretania on April 15 . The return voyage will be on the Queen Elizabeth from Cherbourg , France , on May 16 . Championship teams from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this will be the first time Chicago has sent its representatives to Europe . The eight winners in the finals of the tournament in Chicago Stadium March 7 automatically will qualify for the team . In the event a champion Is unable to make the trip , the opening will go to the defeated finalist . The alternates will be chosen by the coaching ' staff , beaded by Johnny Behr , athletic director of the Illinois Athletic club , who has trained the ChicagG squad in intercity and international competition for 20 years . Carroll Arranges Itinerary The itinerary for the American team has been arranged by Pat . rick J. Carroll , president of the Irish Amateur Boxing association . The trip has been sanctioned by the Foreign Relations committee of the Amateur . Athletic ? Union and by the National A. A. U. boxing committee . Boxing fans in the capitals of Europe - long have awaited a chance to see Chicago 's Golden Glovers . Sports writers and boxing officials overseas say Chicarts champions are almost as widely known on the continent and in the British Isles as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ greatest professional boxers -- Joe Louis , Tony Zale , Barney Ross , Ezzard Charles , and Joe Maxim  --  got their start in Chicago 's Golden Gloves . Four Ties in Series Chicago has won 10 times in the series with Europe . The Europeans won once and there have been four ties . The first three international matches were held in Soldiers ' field , where crowds ranging from 42,000 to 43,000 were in attendance . In 1934 the show was moved to Chicago Stadium , where capacity crowds have cheered the contestants year after year . The first three bouts in Europe will be indoors , but the match with Italy will be held in an outdoor stadium in Rome .                     