@@713462

txt The government announced it will bring contempt proceedings in Chicago , and probably in Cleveland , against railroad yardsmen striking in defiance of court orders . Attorney General told reporters of the decision after leaving a cabinet meeting at the White House . Page 10 . The House Appropriations Committee urged Congress to grant the entire $16,845,181,000 asked by President Truman to speed up national defense . It did not ' cut a single penny from any of the extra funds requested for defense after Chinese Communists forces launched their successful offensive in North Korea . Bay State : Boston Bows to Washington in Census Boston has dropped into 10th place population-wise among the nation 's largest cities , as Washington with 797,670 population nosed out Boston with a census of 790,863 , the Census Bureau reports . Adequate supplies of both solid fuels and heating oils were assured New England householders for the coming winter , with qualification that a worsening of international situation might change the situation . Page 9 . A vigorous nine-point program of prompt government action in facing " the most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the New England Council . Page 2 . Europe : Britain Calls fo-r Bomb Shelter Survey The British Government has asked for a survey of the number of air raid shelters Britain would need in an emergency . More than 80 ships have been chartered to bring American coal to Britain this winter . Britain is facing a coal shortage because of greater consumption and a slump in output . Bertha Hertogh has arrived in The Hague with her mother after fleeing anti-European rioting in Singapore . A court case between Bertha 's mother and her Malayan nurse over custody of the child set off the worst riots in Singapore 's history . National : Government Seeks to Revoke Hiss Bail The government asked an appeals court to revoke the $10,000 bail of Alger Hiss , former high State Department official convicted of perjury . The prosecution also asked that Hiss be denied a stay of a mandate ordering him to prison to begin his five-year term .                     