@@713611

txt Last year President , Truman nominated five directors for the . Reconstruc-. tion Finance Corporation and the Senate declined to confirm the appointments . Thereafter they served under recess appoinments . Last week a Senate subcommittee charged that three of these five directors had been unduly influenced in the granting ; of R.F.C. loans by their relationship with certain other individuals close to President Truman . Although the investigation has not been completed , Mr. Truman labeled the charges as asinine . This week the President again nominated the five , including the three charged with improper action , to be directors of the R.F.C. This action was interpreted both in the press and in the Senate itself as a defiance of Congress . Now for the moment we are not concerned with the truth or falsity of the grave charges against the three nominees . The Congressional investigating committee , we feel confident , will decide that matter . Certainly we would not prejudge the case before testimony is complete . What concerns ' us is the " defiance " of Congress . It can hardly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ definitely the way the Senators interpreted it . How else could they interpret it ? We suppose the President justifies his action on the grounds of loyalty to the individuals , as he ? has in=dsefense of other indrv1duals . But it ' to us that there are oth &; virtues more important than loyalty when one moves from the field of personal relationship into That of public welfare . It is no virtue to attempt to force the appointment of public officials even where the force is leveled out of a sense of personal loyalty . Men who are to serve in positions of.public trust should not only be blameless but above suspicion . It is no virtue either , it seems to us , for the President to defy Congress solely for the sake of defiance . Yet there has been lately a good bit of defying . The President defied Congress to cut a dollar off his budget . He defied it to put any limits on his right to decide by himself how many American troops should be sent where . Not only is there no virtue @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ There are many grave decisions to be made in which we need the fullest rapport between the President and the Congress . To jeopardize that unnecessarily by defiance for the sake of defiance over relatively small matters is unwise statesmanship and poor politics . It is not the five gentlemen , on or off the R.F.C. that is disturbing . It is the defiance .                     