@@715259

txt Considerable difference of opinion has developed within President Eisenhower 's . Administration regarding his proposed new loyalty program , it is understood . The program , which the President suggested hi broad outline Feb. 2 in his State of the Union message , was formulated by the Department of Justice . It would facilitate procedures for dropping employes classed as security risks and would prevent applicants who might menace national security from getting Federal jobs . Details of the plan were disclosed later at the Justice Department , Two Areas of Disagreement Three meetings between department and agency representatives and members of the National Security Council representing the , White House were held this week in the Department of Justice preparatory to drafting an Executive order for the President 's signature . Another meeting will be held Tuesday . It was understood the two principal areas of disagreement over the new plan were these : I. The provision fdr persons outside an agency to sit in as judges on the loyalty of the agency 's personnel . It was understood the Central Intelligence Agency and the Department @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the matters brought up would be too classified . 2 .. The absence of a Loyalty Re- view Board or its equivalent . The argument had been advanced that without such a central reviewing body the procedures would lack uniformity . It was also indicated that the Loyalty Review Board under the former Administration had reversed sixty-nine cases in which employes had been found guilty of disloyalty by the initial loyalty boards . A spokesman for the Department of Justice , while conceding the broad program as originally drawn up was undergoing some revision , discounted reports of any serious dissension . In the new program the Loyalty Review Board , which had been the " court of appeals " for all cases under the Truman Administration , has been abolished . The head of each department or agency , acting on the findings of the initial investigatory body , now will make the final decision on whether an employe should be dismissed or an applicant refused employment . The person affected , however , has the right to appeal his case to the courts for legal adjudication . Review boards @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ plan . Seth W. Richardson , a Republican and the first chairman of the Loyalty Review Board in the Truman Administration , was strongly critical today of the new program . " It leaves me gasping for breath , " ' he said . In enumerating what he termed the weak points of the new system , Mr. Richardson placed particular emphasis on the provision allowing appeal to the courts . " Mils great discovery , " he declared , " this appeal to the courts is the most inexplicable of all , and contradicts all the other cases . " If the exclusive duty is in the Executive , no court can stick its nose into the mess . To allow any court to ' revise , change or overrule the action of the Executive , makes the court , and not the Executive Department , the real power in dismissal cases . " The new program makers , Mr. Richardson commented , apparently " do not appreciate the constitutional impracticability of letting a judge overrule a President in an executive matter . " Other Points Discussed In discussing other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the alleged new system . " He said the provision that the Executive Department should screen all its employes had always been in effect , as had the provision that department heads were to be ultimate arbiters . " All the decisions under the program , " Mr. Richardson said , " were only recommendative , leaving the departmental head supreme in final action . " He explained that under the old plan the department head might follow the board 's decision but that he had not been required to do so . While there was no provision in the new system for a review board , there was a possibility a liaison committee would be formed to review the entire program , a Department of Justice spokesman said , This committee , however , would be merely a consultative body and would not review individual actions .                     