@@717602

txt CONGRESS IS BACK IN SESSION TODAY ; WARY ON POLITICS Election-Year Session Finds the Rival Leaders Cautious Rather Than Belligerent EISENHOWER IS THE KEY His Decision on Race Could Affect Democratic Moves and Hold on Own Aides By WILLIAM S. WHITE Special to The New York Times . WASHINGTON . Jan. 2 ? The Democratic Eighty-fourth Congress returns tomorrow for an election-year sitting that poses the most subtle political problems in many years . Traditionally such a session in a Presidential election year is the occasion of violent partisan efforts on both sides to influence the Presidential eyction result of November . By tradition the current Democratic Congressional majority would be at the throat of the Republican Administration and the Congressional Republicans at the throat of the Democrats before two months had passed . This time , though there is no shortage of issues , the leaders of both parties are approaching the test with caution and in a spirit more tentative and exploratory than belligerent . Each side faces a problem . The following is the essential difficulty of the Democrats : They have only narrow @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by 230 to 203 in the House of Representatives , where two normally Democratic seats are yacant. cThey must confront not only a concededly popular President , but also a President who , because of his heart ailment , is not open to the ordinary kind of partisan attack . CFinally , the Democratic leaders in both chambers and especially in the Senate , adopted in the last session of Congress and carry forward into this one a slogan of " moderation . " Tone Due to Sharpen This has meant that the record of the first half of this Congress , which ended last August , was predominantly moderate in tone and largely followed the philosophy of President Eisenhower himself . No political faction doubts that this tone will sharpen in the seven or eight months that the new session will take . The substantial question is to what degree this sharpening will occur . As to the Republicans , this is the basic situation : gThe President 's illness and the fact that he has not yet disclosed whether he will seek reelection have put unusual problems before his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ slow growth in the power of the al-lout " Eisenhower Republicans " in both the Senate and House . The approach of 1956 , with the prospect that the President would again be the nominee , had slowly but materially increased the power of these Republicans . CNow , however , the possibility that the President might not run has weakened , to some extent , his hold upon Congressional Republicans in general . The formidable orthodox section of the party , which holds // CONGRESSIS BACK stouprpeotruzisn ttho tahte hthigeh , Rf iexpehdhpreieche Eighty-third Congress abandoned IN SESSION TODAY in favor of the lower and sliding supports proposed by the PresiContinued From Page 1 practically all the places of Republican power in the Senate , still is prepared to follow the President . However , it would not be nearly so prepared if February brought a decision that he would not run again . The principal internal Democratic question is whether the " moderate " and basically Southern leadership will be able to persuade the rank and file to continue to operate in a framework of limited , rather than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the degree to which the Eisenhower Republicans are able to maintain infraparty power in Congress and the degreeo which the Republican conservative and right wings may ; reach out for that power . President 's Message Thursday Structurally , all will be the same when both houses convene at noon tomorrow for a routine session that will be adjourned shortly until Thursday to receive the President 's general legislative recommendations in his State of the Union message . ? The leadership of both parties in both chambers will be the same . Sam Rayburn , Democrat of Texas , is Speaker of the House of Representatives and Representative Joseph W. Martin Jr . of Massachusetts the Republican floor leader . Lyndon B. Johnson of Texas and William F. Knowland of California are , respectively , the Democratic and Republican Senate leaders . By all present signs the complex of issues ; too , will be substantially unchanged from those of last year , though some new ones have been added and some old ones have taken new turns . Domestically , the Democratic leaders are preparing to make their hardest fight @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ A atruggle over proposed tax cutting is regarded as inevitable on this issue but there is no such relatively strong union among the Democrats as there is on the farm problem . b Democratic plans to attempt to force a. tax reduction for small-income groups are not as yet firm . The Administration is resisting any cut as of now and there is much Republican and some significant Democratic support for this position . For example , the most important Democratic fiscal spokesman in the Senate , Senator Harry F. Byrd of Virginia , is against a tax reduction while the budget remains out of bal. ance . Mr. Byrd 's colleague and friend , Senator Walter F. George of Georgia , the senior Democratic member of the Finance Committee headed by Senator Byrd , is out for tax cuts now . This split among the leading Democrats on the tax question parallels a Republican split on the farm question . While the Republican leaders generally are standing with the President against a return to the higher subsidies , some of ? the farm state Republicans already are aligned with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ general party division among the Democrats is in sight over a proposed bill to exempt natural gas producers from Federal price controls . This measure has the support of both Senator Johnson and Speaker Rayburn and of many- Republicans as well . In the past the President has looked on the principle of the proposal with favor . The bill has passed the House , and the fight will be centered in the Senate . The bill probably will be brought to the test by the Democratic leaders early this session , both to avert the possibility of its being lost in a late session jam and to avoid underlining Democratic disagreement at about the time the national party conventions of next August are . approaching . Other domestic issues include Federal aid for school construction , enlarged . Federal health and pension programs , and an expanded program of Federal highway construction . In the field of foreign affairs the greatest controversy is likely to surround the Administration 's forthcoming request for an authorization of about $4,900,000 , - 000 for the foreign-aid program for the fiscal year opening next @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this money in any event in that fiscal year , but to use some of it to replenish depleted reserves in foreign-aid funds . Much bipartisan perturbation has been stirred in Congress , however , because the leaders had understood until recently that the new request would be for only about $2,700,000,000.                     