@@717526

txt Dr. Hobart H. Todd , 43 , a Skokie physician , yesterday admitted administering two hypodermic injections of a sedative type drug to his wife , Hazel , 45 , beating her unconscious , and then summoning firemen to their Skokie home Saturday night after rigor mortis had set in the body . The admission was made . to . Detective Martin Conroy after several hours of questioning by ' Skokie police , Deputy Coronet Charles Richards , and Charles Russ and James Platt , assistant state 's attorneys . Todd was charged with Murder and taken before Justice of the Peace Harry Sullivan who read the complaint to the doctor and set no date for the hearing . Lt. Edward Caulfield , who signed the complain t , charged Mrs. Todd came to her death " thru a beating by her husband . Body Found in Bedroom Firemen , who were sum ? moned to the home at 3710 Foster st. , Skokie , at 8:20 p. m. found Mrs. Todd 's body , clad in a nightgown , on the floor of her bedroom and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bed . Chief of Police William Grif. fin said Todd was incoherent TRIBUNE Photo Dr. Todd left - with Policeman Mar. tin Conroy standing and Chief D'il. lam Griffin in Skokie police station yesterday . and later lapsed into a coma . He was taken under police guar d to Evanston hospital . After regaining consciousness yesterday , he was taken to the Skokie police station . When the questioning began , the doctor said he gave his wife at her request an injection of morphine early in the afternoon and later gave himself one . He said both were in a " highly nervous condition . " Police said his accounts of what transpired later were conflicting . Quarrel Over Money Finally , he said he and his ' wife had been quarreling over money . He said the quarrel began at about 2 p. m . Saturday when she slapped him and he slapped her . He said he gave his wife two injections of the drug at 3 p. m . ? Approximately a half hour later , he quarreled with her again and struck her in the face @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ twin beds in the bedroom . Then , he continued , lie gave of the same drug and left the himself a hypodermic injection room . He said he returned at 4 p. m. and saw that her body " appeared to be turning blue . " He said he administered a stimulant . to her with a hypodermic needle and applied artificial respiration a n d then left her in the bedroom . He said he did not return to the room until 8 p. m. when he noticed her " body was cold " and decided to summon firemen . Plan Examination Meanwhile , Dr. Jerry Kearns , coroner 's pathologist , said an autopsy failed to reveal the cause of death and that a microscopic examination of organs of the body would be required . This examination ordinarily requires two weeks . Coroner McCarron scheduled an inquest for 2 p. m. today in the county morgue . ? Chief Griffin said the Todds moved to Skokie a year ago and the doctor had maintained an office at 9125 Niles Center rd. , Skokie , but closed it a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on Mrs. Todd 's dressing table . He said two of them : were empty , one having contained a liquid barbiturate and the other a barbiturate in tablet form . He said a third bottle contained 20 tablets of a barbiturate . Mother of Two Girls ? The police chief said Mrs. Todd 's two children , Diane , 16 , and Judith , 8 , who also were found in the house and said they last saw their mother at .9 a. m . Saturday , were children of a previous marriage to Arthur Dinsmore , 45 , a New York City insurance broker , who arrived yesterday to care for the children . Diane Dinsmore told police she and her sister were in the television room of the home all afternoon . " The first time we knew something w a s wrong , " she sobbed , " was when firemen arrived . " The home is a $40,000 two story brick Georgian style building , Griffin said . Griffin said numerous puncture marks were found on Dr. Todd 's legs and the physician rtfused to answer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was a graduate of Loyola medical school and prior to moving to Skokie practiced medicine in New York City . Served in Second War Todd told the police chief he is a native of Oak Park , was graduated from the medical school in 1939 , and was a lieutenant colonel in the army medical corps during World War II . He said he was licensed to practice medicine in New York in 1945 and had maintained an office at 140 E. 54th st. in New York City . He said he was an attending physician at the New York university Bellevue Medical center in 1952 and 1953 . Dinsmore said the victim divorced him and married Todd in Las Vegas , Nev. , 18 months ago . 