@@718513

txt At a press conference today , Governor Furcolo said that as an illustration of what the convention should consider he favored action on the question of whether or not the State Constitution should be amended to give authority for tax concessions to industries , if the state wants to make such concessions to encourage industries . Lower Voting Age ? He also said the convention should consider an 18-year-old voting age and an amendment to permit levying of a graduated income tax . However , he stressed that the list he suggested was not all inclusive , that many more suggestions would and should come from the people , as well as himself . Although some persons feel that holding a constitutional convention would open up a Pandora 's box of troubles , with scores of outlandish issues being brought in , Norman , executive secretary of the MasSachusetts Federation of Tax-. payers Associations , hailed the constitutional convention idea . While emphasizing that the federation itself is taking no position on the proposal , it being out of the federation 's scope , Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Conte ( R ) of Pittsfield , but he insisted that before the Legislature votes on the subject the Governor should outline clearly his proposals for convention consideration . In his message . Governor Furcolo only urged calling of a convention . He went no further , although he did favor an amendment to reduce the voting age to 18 years . Senator William E. Hays ( R ) of Waltham , chairman of the Legislative Committee on Constitutional Law , said he would reserve his position on the convention proposal until the Governor presents specific recommendations for convention consideration . Senator Hays ' committee will hold hearings on the Governor 's proposal . If such a convention is called , it will be the fourth in the state 's history . Conventions were held in 1820-21 , 1853 and in 1917-18-19. 1960 Vote Possible Such conventions are called through an act passed by the Legislature placing before the people the question of whether a convention should be held . If the voters should approve a convention call , an election of delegates would be held . The original legislation would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which the delegates would be elected . Inasmuch as Governor Furcolo has recommended that a convention be held in 1959 , a special election would be required to ascertain the will of the people . If the people should vote for a convention , delegates could be elected at the regular state election in November , 1958 . Any amendments adopted by the convention could be placed before the people at a special election or the next state election in 1960 . The usual procedure has been to submit the adopted amendments to the                     