@@714384

txt A powerful nucleus of voting strength in the coming Republican national convention was organized yesterday in Chicago . There were strong indications that the bloc  --  representing 19 midwest and Rocky mountain states with nearly half the convention voting strength  --  will be plumping for Sen. Taft R. , 0.1 . This strength , together with the support of southern delegates , might be sufficient to give Taft the Presidential nomination on the first ballot . Bloc Charts Strategy The Republican leaders who joined to form the blec for the convention are members of the Midwest and Rocky Mountain Reptiblican State Chairmen 's association . They met in the Conrad Hilton hotel to discuss convention strategy . Two significant resolutions were adopted . One declared that the association would set up separate headquarters in the Conrad Hilton when the convention opens July 7 in the International Amphitheater . This would provide an effective rallying point so that the strength of the bloc could be used strategically in the convention maneuvering . The other resolution described the candidate the state chairmen wished to nominate . Tho it did @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ him and obviously did , not fit the other avowed or potential candidates ? Harold Stassen , Gov . Warren of California , and Gen. Eisenhower . Against Truman Policies It emphasized that the state chairmen did not want a candidate who ever had condoned the Truman administration foreign policy which Gen. Eisenhower is attempting to execute and Warren and Stassen have approved in varying degrees from time to time . " We earnestly call , " resolved the association , " for a Republican candidate for President who will oppose without compromise the impulsive , irrational , incoherent , and futile Truman foreign policy : . . we advocate a situation which will make it possible for the voters to support a candidate whose hands are not tied and who has no strings attached , who will w a g e war without wavering against the gigantic pyramid of unholy power which has been erected on the banks of the Potomac . " Kansas and Minnesota Join Owen Cleary of Ypsilanti , Mich. , is chairman of the association , and Cale J. Holder of Indianapolis is the secretary . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the officers without comment . It was considered significant that Gen. Eisenhower 's home state , Kansas , and Stassen 's , Minnesota , are among the members of the association . It was reported the resolu tions were adopter with overwhelming majorities . Other states in the group are Arizcna Iowa , Colorado , Wyoming , Illinois , Wisconsin , New Mexico , Michigan , Indiana , Missouri , Montana . Nebraska , North Dakota , Mourn Dakota , Utah , Oklahoma , and Ohio . Under a tentative allocation of delegates these states would send 468 of the total 1,198 delegates to the convention . The final allocation has not been determined . The association also adopted a resolution petitioning for a reorganization of the Republican national committee . It will be presented at the meeting of the committee in San Francisco Jan. 16 , 17 , 18 . There are presently two members of the committee for each state . The state chairmen 's association asked that extra memberships be awarded to states which return a majority of Republican candidates to congress and to states electing Republican governors @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ members on the national committee , while a Democratic state would have only two . Wayne Hood of La Crosse , Wis. , has been delegated to present this resolution to the committee . The midwest and Rocky mountain group also will send a delegation to the meeting of the western state chairmen 's association in San Francisco Jan. 16 . Would Link Two Groups He will be Harry Robins of Albuquerque , N.M . He will work for coordinated convention strategy between the group that met in Chicago yesterday and its far western counterpart . Sen. Dirksen R. , chairman of the Republican senatorial campaign committee , addressed the meeting or the state chairmen and urged that an all-out effort be made to elect a Republican congress as well as a Republican President . Rep. Reece of Tennessee also was lin Chicago yesterday to attend a meeting of the executive committee of the G. 0 . P. convention arrangements committee . Reece Predicts Taft Victory He said that he believed Sen , Taft would get the votes of virtually all the southern delegates to the convention . He asserted that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and he predicted Sen. Taft would have a majority of the delegates , in other words the nomination , on the first ballot . Members of the executive committee , here for a two day meeting , went out to the International Amphitheater in the afternoon to inspect the convention site . They also will discuss the award of television broadcast rights for the convention to commercial sponsors .                     