@@713069

txt With American troops battling in Korea to halt a new aggressor  --  condemned as such by more than twothirds of the United Nations  --  the Security Council meets at Lake Success today to perform an urgent duty . This duty is to carry out in letter and in spirit the Charter provisions regarding the use of armed force against aggression and to create a real United Nations army which either literally or figuratively will fight under the United Nations banner . Such an army is essential not only to back up the land , sea and air forces already engaged but also to impress upon all the world , and especially upoit the Asiatic peoples , the fact that the forces mobilized under a United Nations mandate are not waging an ordinary war in which honorable men may stay neutral , nor , as Soviet propaganda charges , an " imperialistic " war of conquest , but are embarked instead upon a crusade in defense of the freedom and independence of all nations , and especially of the weaker nations only recently freed from a foreign yoke @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ last suspicions surviving from an era that is passed , and to guarantee that the high principles of the Charter will be honored not only during the war but also in victory and in peace . The first consideration in such ail undertaking must be , of course , that whatever is done must not endanger the lives and safety of the forces in the field , or interfere with the effectiveness of the military operations already under way . Inasmuch as the United States is bearing the brunt of the fighting at the moment under the command of General , this means that there can be no interference with either the American effort or its chain of command . Taking account of this necessity , the majority of the Security Council is ready to authorize the United States to direct the employment of all the armed forces provided by the United Nations and to designate their commander in chief , who , of course , will be . Other nations which have offered armed units thus far , including Britain , Australia , Canada , New Zealand and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ disposal of the United States and under General 's command , and a Security Council resolution approving this procedure is expected to be adopted today . But this action alone is not enough . The Charter authorizes the Security Council to call either upon some or upon all members of the United Nations to carry out its decisions by making available whatever support is necessary for the purpose , including armed forces , material assistance and other facilities , and in the present case clearly it should make this call upon all the forty-three members which have thus far supported its Korean action . Even tle smallest of these nations can provide at least a token force , either of regular troops or of volunteers , to form a United Nations army which would comprise many nations , races and creeds , and which would contain a substantial contingent of Asiatic troops whose mere presence would refute any charge of " white imperialism . " In the true meaning of the words , this army would be able to fight for " Asia for the Asiatics , " and against @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be raised , of course , is a matter for the Security Council to determine , and how and when it is to be employed must be left to the determination of General on the basis of the actual war situation and the logistics involved . But the mere call for such an army would be in itself a stirring event , certain to have a profound effect upon world opinion , The United Nations thus has a brilliant and challenging ( portunity to demonstrate that the sc darity of its law-abiding members not only a solidarity of words and re ! lutions , but also a solidarity in deeds that the cause of freedom ni demands .                     