@@714613

txt Britain 's courageous ' but uphill battle against communism in the jungles of Malaya is of - great significance to the entire free world . The following is. the first of a series of on-the-spot progress reports . ' By Henry S. Hayward Chief Far Eastern Correspondent of - The Christian Science monitor Singapore For four years , 50,000 ' British troops , 20,000 regular police , 55 , - 000 special police , and 245,000 home-guard forces have pursued with very little success between 3,500 and 5,000 Chinese Communist guerrillas operating in Malaya 's jungles . = In that time , about - 2,900 guerrillas  --  labeled simply " terrorists " or " bandits " by the British , have been killed . But they have accounted for a slightly greater number of police and military personnel , in addition to which they have slain nearly 3 ; 500 civilians . Guerrilla strength , moreover , remains undiminished , with the guerrillas ' silent recruitment system bringing in a new fighter for each one lost . Added to this factor of fluid numbers is uncertainty over how far @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; whether Peking will provide them with Material support at this time as well as the over-all strategic and tactical direction . Uphill Struggle It is a bitter , dangerous , discouraging fight that for the British-seems harder to bear because the rest of the world does not seem to care . Since Tune , 1948 , this grim half war has raged over the 400-mile peninsula boasting some of the world 's richest rubber estates and tin-mining areas . It also has echoed over the nine states of the ? Malayan Federation , puffing up the sides of 7,000-foot mountains or chopping and sloshing its way through steamy lowland jungles where a day 's journey is calculated in feet rather than miles . At the peninsula 's foot , meanwhile , practically on the equator , sits Singapore , mighty port and fortress outpost of empire and processing center for much of Malaya 's raw materials . Outwardly peeceful and - prosperous , - Singapore 's atmosphere nevertheless crackles underneath with alarip at the continued failure to restore Order to the ziorthward . Across the causeway connecting SinOpore with the mainland lies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ terrorist activities . Over that causeway the Japanege once marched , to the consternation of British military prophets . And because that ' happened once , there are those who never will rest easy in Singapore lest the Communists or someone else repeat that performance . As High Commissioner for Southeast Asia , Malcolm explains that the Malayan problem would be simple if it were confined to a mere 4,000 " bandits " in jungles . If they were all who had to be contended with , they could be brought to bay eventually despite difficult terrain . Even so skilled a group could not hold out indefinitely against such odds . Likewise , the problem would be simple if only the 4,000 plus numerous sympathizers ? perhaps 15,000 to 35,000 Chinese banded together in an organization known as Min Yuen  --  had to be contended with . If they were known , they could be rounded up and supplies for the jungle fighters cut off . Difficult to Track But the great basic problem making it impossible or nearly so to catch the 4,000 or the Min Yuen supporters @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a tremendous complication . And it stems from reasons almost totally unknown to the average American , who , when he - thinks of Malaya at all , wonders . why the British have been unable to put down what appears to be a native insurrection . What is not widely understood outside ? this area is that the Malayan problems are not just tin and rubber , or communism ver-sus colonialism , or the tide of : Asiatic nationalism and independence . - It stems also from racial differences . Malaya is not just a land of Malays . There are almost as many Chinese as Malays in Malaya , and Indians form a third population segment . The three races to a large extent have retained their native characteristics and differences despite long residence in Malaya . That contributes to the lack of information . It is largely the British and Malays on the one hand fighting guerrillas and supporters who are all Chinese . The lack of contact between the two groups is as impenetrable a barrier as the jungle itself . Whenever there Is a successful attack on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ received " almost always leads the communiqu ? . Four-fifths of Malaya is jungle covered and troops can patrol the tangled wastes for days without even seeing guerrillas a few yards away . Practically all successful actions are the result of tips on the guerrillas ' whereabouts inspired by liberal rewards . . Those who might inform the troops or police of guerrilla hideouts are held in check by terrorism , In Malaya today , people are brutally murdered even when there is only flimsy evidence or suspicion that they are giving information to the authorities . Another complication is that the police are mostly Malay , while the quarry Is Chinese . The Malays are at a disadvantage contacting Chinese or obtaining intelligence about their action . Smashed by Japanese Improved information is at least one key to the Malayan problem , British officials in Singapore and Kuala Lumpur stress . Only that way can the secret , flexible enemy organization , which may include one 's next-door neighbor , be exposed . But the police must be improved , according to unanimous opinion , and the British are doing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Before World War II , a good police machine existed here , but the Japanese smashed it . Since the war , it has not been fully rebuilt with trained meh . The guerrilla emergency necessitated police short cuts , but now training is received new emphasis and high priority . In the early postwar days , the situation was so bad that police inspectors had to be imported from Palestine . While they knew nothing of Malayan problems ? at least they knew how to investigate . Attempts now are being made to include Chinese on the police force so that more contact with Chinese can be obtained , and more important , so that what is obtained can be understood and evaluated properly . Men such as Mr. , however , say that Malaya 's own Chinese , Malay , and Indian leaders are the best hope for solving the long-term problem . They - are the best persons to mend the rift between the races . As long as these population groups remain at loggerheads , the British can not obtain the information they need to defeat @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @             