@@714890

txt Speetal to Tom NEW Yaps Totrs . VIENNA , Sept. ** Soviet attack last week on Austria as a reactionary country is bqing viewed as a ground plan of the Soviet case against Austria when the Vienna Government takes its plea for a state treaty to the , United Nations . This Soviet attack was contained in the charges , made by Lieut . ( Gen. Vadim P. Sviridov before the , Allied Council , that Austria had failed , in the seven years since her liberation , to carry out the council 's instructions to democratize herself . The charges came at a time when Austrian relations with the , American representatives here are strained as never before . It has seemed to some of these Ameri- ' cans lately almost as if the Austrian Government were.determined to prove that the Russians ' were right in maintaining that Austria has not been denazified . Actually , General Sviridov 's statement contained a hodgepodge of accusations , most of which boiled down , au the Western High Commissioners were quick to note , to a complaint that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the accusations were true and the conditions to which they referred are no better liked by the Western powers than ' by the Soviet , although the " noninterference policy " of the West inhibits their doing anything about them . The West is disposed to agree with the Soviet that it is high time the Government of Austria rescinded many of the laws of the Hitler regime that are retained on the statute books despite repeated invitations by the Allied Council to drop them . Position of the Allies The council does not like this year 's amendments to the Austrian press law , whose tendency was to increase the difficulty of printing the truth . It would be ready to agree largely with General Sviridov 's statement that the Austrian administrative apparatus is reactionary and bureaucratic and to add that it is also inefficient and a burden on the productive process . That this apparatus is still infested by " former Nazi criminals , officers of the German Wehrmacht and active members of the Heimwehr " the West would consider largely an exaggeration and partly unavoidable . Recent actions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as proof of the Russian claim that Austria has not been denazified , although this would be a strained interpretation . In the last three months the Government introduced and Parliament passed a series of laws which would not only have amnestied certain types of implicated Nazis , but forced some of those whose property had been " Aryanized " and then restored to sell it back to the " Aryanizers " at prices fixed by the Austrian courts . When the then American High Commissioner , Walter J. Donnelly , objected that Nazis were being compensated at the expense of their victims , he received a letter from the Austrian Cabinet insinuating that his action must have been based on the advice of " emigrants " on his staff . A meeting in Salzburg of supporters of the Nazi-tinged League of Independents , which has sixteen seats in the Austrian Parliament , cabled President Truman requesting the Ambassador 's withdrawal . When the proposed laws came before the executive committee of the Allied Council , the three Western occupation powers aligned themselves with the Soviets in a common stand against @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fiercer in the proNazi and People 's party press . Nazism Not Feared That nazism would grow to alarming proportions in a freed Austria is not feared by the Western powers and probably not by the Russians . Since history has made it obvious that only some sort of uneasy coalition between the Left and Right can preserve Austrian freedom , it is unlikely that Austria would engage in further authoritarian experiments . But , meanwhile , many Austrian leaders , including Foreign Minister Karl Gruber , seem determined that Austria should put her worst foot forward at this critical time . When it comes to electing a Government , an Austrian can choose his party but not his man , since he must vote for the party , list . In economic matters the Government for which he votes is not the real Government of the country , for Austria admittedly is aj " chamber state , " where economic ' decisions are made in secret council . It is also true that Austria has , never been a democratic country in the Western sense . Under all regimes she @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is the present Government a Nazi Government , since the Chancellor and several of his ministers spent long years in National Socialist concentration camps . However , next year will be an election year and every Austrian party , after the cynical habit of politicians , is ready to sacrifice principle for Nazi votes .                     