@@715072

txt The resignation of William I O'Dwyer , the controversial former Mayor of New York , as Am-I bassador to Mexico was announced today in an exchange of expressions of mutual high ' esteem with President Truman . Exchange of letters between Truman and O'Dwyer , Page 4 . J The resignationwill become effective at midnight on Dec. 6. - Therefore both Ambassador O'Dwyer and Senator Richard M. Nixon of California , the Vice Presidentelect , between whom no love is lost , will be among those who will represent the United States Mon. day at the inauguration of Adolfo Ruiz Cortines , the new President of Mexico . Mr. Nixon has said that he will have " what contact with O'Dwyer his official position will require . " This evening the State Department announced that Mr. Truman had named a delegation for the inauguration in Mexico City that will be headed by Charles F. Brannan , the Secretary of Agriculture , with rank of Special Ambassador . Senator Nixon is named . along with Senator Dennis Chavez , Democrat of New Mexico . Mr. Truman also named among @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ David H. Stowe . More Than Two Years in Post Mr. O'Dwyer resigned as Mayor in August , 1950 , to accept the Ambassadorship from Mr. Truman . Nothing in his letter today hinted at his plans . In Mexico City , Mr. O'Dwyer said he intended to take a rest and would announce his plans by the end of December . It is generally expected there that he will stay in the country , probably as a legal consultant and perhaps to engage in some business ven1 tures . Some officials and private orIganizations would like to see the former Mayor return to New York to face questioning in crime in- ' vestigations there . Mr. O'Dwyer , who figures in a current New York City grand jury inquiry , has been reported in recent months to favor indefinite residence in Mexico . He and his wife have expressed a great fondness for the country . In July , Mr. O'Dwyer denied a report that he would seek Mexican citizenship and practice law below the Rio Grande . / The New York grand jury is investigating the Fire Department and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that larger inquiry it has renewed its interest in reports of a $10,000 payment alleged to have been made to Mr. O'Dwyer by John P. Crane , former president of the Uniformed Firemen 's Association. * Mr. Crane ' testified before the Kefauver Senate Crime Investigating Committee on March 21 , 1951 , that he handed the money to the Mayor on the porch of the official mansion on Oct. 12 , 1949 , with the understanding that it was to be used . in Mr. O'Dwyer 's reelection campaign . Mr .. O'Dwyer denied under oath before the grand jury in January , 1951 , that he had received the money . The Senate Crime Investigating Committee , which produced evi- dence of widespread graft and other corruption in the Police Department in New York , asserted in one of its reports that Mr. O'Dwyer had contributed to the growth of crime . On May 1 , 1951 , the committee in a summation of results asserted that Mr. O'Dwyer had contributed directly and indirectly " to the growth of organized crime , racketeering and gangsterism in New York City @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a departmental police trial on Oct. 14 that Mr. O'Dwyer had attended a meeting with " seven or eight " leading bookmakers in 1949 , the year that he was elected to his second term as Mayor . Gross testified that he was invited to the meeting by James J. Moran , former First Deputy Fire Commissioner , soon after he had contributed $15,000 to Mr. O'Dwyer 's election campaign , but that he had been unable to attend because he was sick . Moran , an intimate friend of Mr. O'Dwyer , is now in jail with a fifteen-year sentence , convicted of extorting money from fuel-oil installers . Denying the accusations of wrongdoing , Mr. O'Dwyer said : " My public life is a matter of record and a careful examination of that record will refute any attempt to associate it with anything that was not for the benefit of the people . " Mr. Truman has refused demands from several quarters for the dismissal of Mr. O'Dwyer as ! Ambassador . His acceptance of the resignation today was with " reluctance . " Mr. Truman said : " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ our nation will lose the services of one of the most effective representatives it has ever sent to the great neighboring country of Mexico . " The President expressed gratification with the economic and social gains that Mr. O'Dwyer said Mexico had made . Halley Demands Envoy Return Rudolph Halley , President of the City Council and former chief counsel to the Senate Crime Investigating Committee , demanded in a television broadcast last night ! that Ambassador William O'Dwyer either return voluntarily or be brought back to New York to testify on these subjects : Alleged campaign contributions from gamblers , the widespread corruption in Mr. O'Dwyer 's administration as Mayor and the sworn statement by John P. Crane , former president of the Uniformed Firemen 's Association , that he gave the Mayor $10,000 in a red manila envelope on the porch of Gracie Mansion in October , 1949 . Mr. O'Dwyer has denied receiving the money .                     