@@716928

txt An attempt to assassinate one of Premier Ngo Dinh Diem 's most important officials failed today . Two hand grenades were tossed into the car of Tran Van Lam , Chief Administrator for South Vietnam . He and his chauffeur leaped from the car before the grenades exploded . Guards fired on two men who hurled the grenades , but they escaped . The car was wrecked , but no one was injured . The attackers are believed to have been agents of one of the factions opposed to the Ngo Dinh Diem Government . Leaders of the Cao Dai and Hoe . Hao religious sects and the Binh Xuyen , an armed Saigon gang , recently issued a declaration of unity , demand- ing a new coalition goveimment The three factions and several allied political figures did not say specifically that they wanted to oust the Premier , but they expressed opposition to a " dictatorship " and " sectarian " politics , implying criticism of the Premier 's Roman Catholicism . They denounced a " policy of division " and asserted they wanted merely to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ oppose communism and improve social and economic conditions . - Previous Attempt Recalled Leaders of the Cao Dai and Hoa Hao are already in the Government , although lately their representatives have been intriguing against the Premier . The new " front " made no specific demands regarding posts in a reorganized Cabinet . Participants in the fight on the Premier comprise the group that with the Army Chief of Staff , Gen. Nguyen Van Ninh , last fall joined in an attempt to oust the Premier . The Hoa Hao army chief , Gen. Tran Van Soai , and the Cao Dai army commander , Gen. Nguyen Thanh Phuong , at that time agreed to join the Government as Ministers of State without portfolio along with several of their followers in I other posts . French and United States pressure resulted in Chief of State Bao Dai 's calling General Nguyen Van Hinh to France , where he remains . The Binh Xuyen chief , Gen , Le Van Vien , declined to join the Government , but continued to head the national security police . Settlement of the Premier @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ consolidating his regime and start on limited reform . Because of opposition and the weakness of his Government , however , the regime still has a long way to go before the country is completely unified and effective administration is fully established . End IA Armies Sought One reason for the latest opposition to the Premier is the fact that he has been planning to eliminate the private armies of the two religious sects and the Binh Xuyen . These forces ceased last month to be auxiliaries of the French Army , paid by the French , and now must look to the Vietnam treasury . The Premier was reported planning to demobilize part of the forces of the three groups and take the rest into the national army . Lately the Premier has won over chiefs of some of their factions and has merged the troops involved into the army . The Cao Dai armed forces are put at 15,000 , those of the Hoa Hao at 20,000 and Binh Xuyen 4,000 . In their declaration recently the united front leaders said if a Government of national union was established @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their armed forces at its disposal and cease collection of all " feudal exactions . " At present the main Cao Dai Hoa Hao and Binh Xuyen forces refuse to give up their . autonomy . Bacut , one of the leaders of the Hoa Hao sect , with its half-million adherents , is in open revolt with 5,000 troops against Government forces in the southwest . General Tran Van Soai , although a Minister in the Government , is absent from Saigon and is believed supporting Bacut . The front group has asked Chief of State Bao Dai to return as a move to weaken the Premier , but Bao Dai has indicated he does not ' plan to come back from the French Riviera at present , General Le Van Vien , the Binh Xuyen leader , is said to be ready to fight the Premier rather than give up the hold of his troops in Saigon                     