@@714208

txt He has been named ambassador at large at the forthcoming United Nations meeting in Paris , but Senator Joseph McCarthy ( R ) of Wisconsin has denounced him as having " an affinity for Communist causes . " This has started a chain reaction , which ; like a pack of firecrackers , is bursting separately or together all over town . Numerous Complications Harold E. Stassen , chancellor of the University of Pennsylvania , has come forward with additional charges involving Dr. Jessup . Simultaneously , the Senate Committee on Internal Security under Senator Pat McCarran ( D ) of Nevada , is investigating the Institute of Pacific Relations , of which Dr. Jessup has long been a , leading figure . Complications in the matter are numerous . For example , one of the senators investigating the institute  --  Senator Homer Ferguson ( R ) of Michigan  --  is shown in " Who 's Who " as being a member of the same institute . Senator Ferguson expresses shock at the association . It appears to be the same order of shock exhibited by Dr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dug up . Senator McCarthy , himself . has gone on from being an investigator to being investigated . Appearing as prosecutor against Dr. Jessup , he is now defendant before a five-man Senate Elections Subcommittee . This has just unanimously voted to investigate charges by Senator William Benton ( D ) of Connecticut-that Senator McCarthy committed perjury in his earlier charges of alleged State Department Communist infiltration . The subcommittee consists of three Democrats and two Republicans . Acheson Enters Fray At his press conference here Secretary of State Dean Acheson entered the fray . He denied the charge that he proposed cutting off military aid to Nationalist China at the Feb. 5. 1949 , meeting " as a dramatic peace move . " He agreed , however , that two days before tie joined in a top government decision to suspend military shipments " pending a clarification of the situation . ' ' He said Dr. Jessup " was not involved in any way in this matter . " Retracing the events , Mr. Acheson said that on Jan. 26 , Maj. Gen. David B. Barr , Eenior United @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ aid be shipped " pending clarification of the situation in China . " The general said " there was danger of these munitions falling into the hands of the Chinese Communists . " McCarthy Under Fire Turning now to Senator McCarran , the latter was the only Democrat who voted against confirmation of Mr. Bowles . Five Republican " liberals " voted to confirm him : Senator George 0 . Aiken of Vermont , William Langer of North Dakota , Henry Cabot Lodge , Jr. , of Massachusetts , Wayne Morse of Oregon , Margaret Chase Smith of Maine , It was otherwise a straight-party vote , with Senator Robert A. Taft ( R ) of Ohio leading the opposition . Senator McCarran is also investigating the Institute of Pacific Relations . The " firecrackers " here were popping in all directions . Gerard Swope , retired industrial tycoon and chairman of the institute , issued a blast against the McCarran subcommittee 's methods , alleging them to be selectively biased and asserting that the institute is not , and never has been , Communist-dominated . Senator McCarran 'S committee went @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the institute on the stand . Wallace Testifies Henry A. Wallace , meanwhile , had an inconclusive brush with Senator McCarran . Senator McCarran has heard former-Communist Louis Budenz twice in open hearings . Mr. Budenz has attacked Mr. Wallace . Mr. Wallace asked for open hear. , ings in which to make reply and came down with a statement . After some give and take in which Mr. Wallace was heard in closed sessions , he released his statement , saying that he had been unable to get it put into the committee record and had been unable to get any formal assurance that he would be given a chance to make public reply to Mr. Budenz . It is against this background that Messrs . Bowles and Jessup may have decided that trying to be an ambassador has its complications . Dr. Jessup 's latest batch of attacks come primarily from Mr. Stassen . The five-man Senate subcommittee appears to have rejected the frontal attack by Senator McCarthy against Dr. Jessup 's loyalty . Senator Alexander Smith ( R ) of New Jersey , one of the five @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of " mistakes in judgment " from Mr. Stassen have raised new issues , Broad front develops against McCarthylsm ; Swope defends Pacific Institute : Page 6.                     