@@713134

txt Letters to The Times To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : I read with complete agreement the statement in your editorial published in THE NEW YORK TIMES July 26 entitled " After I. R. 0 . , What ? " in which you declare that the refugee problem " can not simply be ignored . " Recent reports indicate that both the United States and United Kingdom Governments now favor the continuation of I. R. 0 . beyond the March 31 , 1951 , deadline , and it is submitted that the reasons for such extension deserve most serious consideration . In view of the impending cessation of I. R. 0 . activities , the United Nations Assembly adopted a resolution last December for the establishment of a High Commissioner 's Office for Refugees . Unless the General Assembly subsequently decides otherwise , this office will have no funds allocated for actual assistance to refugees , but merely a budget for administrative purposes only . According to the explicit wording of the document , the High Commissioner will not even be permitted to appeal to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of creating a High Commissioner 's office without adequate funds to permit it to function effectively can best be confirmed from the experience of the League of Nations , which , in October 1933 , established a similar office for the purpose of aiding in the resettlement of the growing number of Hitler 's victims . The dismal failure of the Evian and Bermuda conferences is indicative of the little that was " accomplished " during that period as concerns the material assistance given to the refugees from Nazi oppression . It was only when U. N. R. R. A. and later the I. R. 0 . stepped into the picture that substantial help was forthcoming for the unfortunate victims of totalitarian persecution . Assistance Requirements It is unnecessary to point out that the tremendous human problem involved in solving the refugee question can not be dealt with adequately through the contemplated arrangement , especially when we recall that the I. R. 0 . has spent 130 million dollars a year for its resettlement , care and mainte ! once program . Michael Hoffman in his series of very enlightening articles @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ actual number of those requiring assistance is greater than the official I. R. 0 . figures . ( This would seem to contradict the erroneous opinion of some sources that only a negligible number of refugees and displaced persons will require help after March 31 , 1951 . ) At present there are 262,000 who receive care and maintenance from the I. R. 0. , with an additional 290,000 who benefit from general I. R. 0 . services . It should be emphasized in this connection that the number of those receiving care and maintenance has been restricted because of a freezing order of April , 1947 , which made large groups of refugees and D. P. 's ineligible for that phase of its program , especially the steady influx from Eastern European countries , estimated at about 50,000 a year . The number requiring care and maintenance after the March 31 , 1951 , deadline will therefore total between 400,000 and 500,000 . It would be most unfortunate , therefore , to permit the liquidation of the I. R. 0 . and its experienced and effective machinery , and thus @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ depends upon the fulfillment of its humanitarian task . Revised Concept There is one final point I should like to make concerning the entire problem of I. R. 0 . It appears to me that we must revise our concept of tile nature and scope of that agency or any other which will endeavor to carry on its work . We have looked upon the I. R. 0 . as a temporary instrument which would help liquidate the aftermath of the last war . However , the growing number of homeless people who have been uprooted as a result of political and other factors on the international scene indicates the error of this view . We must begin to think in terms of a permanent instrument under United Nations auspices which will deal not only with material assistance to meet the daily needs of refugees and displaced persons but which would be part of a broader international organization assisting in the redistribution of populations on an international scale and their integration into the economic and social life of the countries of immigration . The United Nations would thus contribute still further @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ additional evidence of its dedication to the cause of humanity and world peace . ISRAEL GOLDSTEIN . New York , Aug. 9 , 1950 . Our Role in Korea To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Apropos the Soviet contention that the Korean war of North against South is legally " civil war " and our role one of illegal intervention in an internal conflict : Even if , for argument 's sake , we admit the civil war character of the struggle , outside intervention is by no means always illegal according to standards of international law . It depends on whether you intervene for the legitimate government , with its consent , or against the recognized government at To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : It seems to me that the immediate repercussions on our economy of events in Korea do not , in themselves , give a clear-cut answer to the question of over-all war controls . One must consider the question in the broader setting of principles and perspectives of the democratic way of life . Under normal conditions of international peace public @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be limited to the role of creating and upholding certain general conditions of individual and social welfare . In abnormal times , however , such as we now seem to be approaching , the normal pattern of social ends and needs tends to undergo a radical change The needs of national defense take over the primacy that normally be ? longs to the ends and needs of individuals and their voluntary groups The extent to which the needs of national security may displace other social and individual needs depends of course , upon the magnitude and urgency of the effort required to overcome the danger that threatens . Demands on Economy This goal and the needs resulting from it are of a dimension and urgency that will require large-scale conversion of the economy to a war footing . Now , such a development into a war economy will , as the experience of the Second World War shows , sooner or later absorb 50 per cent or more of all major economic resources , including manpower . It is this outlook for a real wet economy in the offing , with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ consumers , that makes an early imposition of creditprice-wage-profit control and ration ? ing of civilian goods necessary . Comprehensive controls will be needed soon in order to prevent a start into runaway inflation and grave distributive injustices resulting from it . An even more compelling reason for an early application of over-all controls is the need to secure a sufficiently stabilized cost-price structure and supply conditions that are required for an efficient planning of war production . The basic single fact of the present economic dilemma is that when a war economy is in the making the natural self-interest of individuals and groups becomes a disrupting force . In view of this danger a comprehensive control plan along the lines suggested by Bernard Baruch becomes a necessity . And if we keep our eyes on the future the financial consequences of the last war clearly advise also a maximum of effort toward financing this new war economy , as much as humanly possible , on a pay-as-you-go basis . Certain economists and others have endorsed the idea of " planned economy " ? that is , of a disguised sort @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ peacetime proposition . This , of course , is a fundamental mistake . Limits of Government In a democracy people are not wards of the state . It therefore can not be a normal function of a democratic government to substitute the arbitrariness of its " experts " for the free choice of individuals and for the autonomy of voluntary social institutions . In a democracy only those matters belong to the sphere of governmental action that are evidently necessary for the common good but clearly can not be done by individual or voluntary cooperative action or by them alone . This basic rule of democratic government obviously excludes " planned economy " as a peacetime proposition . This same rule , however , imposes central economic planning as a necessary evil of war economy when the government , as the agent of the imperiled nation , is forced to drain a rapidly increasing proportion of national resources and efforts for the exceptional . needs of national security . Paradoxically , we now need a planned war economy in order to save the future of the nation and the free world @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ planned economy " of slaves . CYRIL A. ZERO ? , Pittsburgh . Pa. , Aug .. 9 , 1950 . To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : 1 In the present world crisis the eyes , of America are focused on Asia . But we must not overlook the probability that the struggle between the United States and Russia will be conclusively decided in Europe . The European continent , though small in area , still holds ' the balance between world powers . Within Europe the most critical and . decisive region is Germany . To the , same extent to which Europe is likely , to carry the fate of the world , Germany will determine the future course . of Europe . One may find this statement distasteful , but geographic , demographic , economic and historical factors bear it out . Grave errors on our part would result if we failed to recognize the pivotal position of Germany . The American public is losing interest in the German problem . Unless we check this attitude in time we may ' be caught at serious @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ need is a fresh approach and a determination on our part to make the German people our partners in the world-wide struggle in which we are involved . Growing Threat There is one factor of overwhelming importance : the emergence of Russia as an ever-increasing threat to the free world . In the face of this peril the revolutionary concept of partnership takes on new color . It now becomes possible because it is imperative . Many Americans still consider Germany " the enemy , " since the sufferings inflicted by the Nazis are still fresh in their minds . But the question is not whether or not we like Germany and are ready to forgive her . The question is whether we are able to approach with realism a radically changed historical situation . The threat to the democratic world emanates no longer from Berlin but from Moscow , and our own position in the fight for a free Europe and a free world would be immeasurably strengthened if we could find similarly motivated partners in the German people . The basis of understanding between the two nations has sadly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the rise of nationalism in Germany and tend to blame the " incorrigible " German character for it . Too few of us are willing to concede that nationalism is bound to appear in any country under foreign occupation . The rise of neo-nazism aggravates American distrust . But again we fail to do justice if we ascribe this trend solely to the unreformed German spirit instead of admitting that our unsuccessful denazification policy combined witl unfortunate social conditions are chiefly to blame . On the other side of the fence German understanding of America is equally marred . Occupation personnel is only too often blamed by the Germans for the hitter consequences of the natiop 's defeat . At the same time they do not want Western forces to leave for fear of a Russian move . The aim should be for the occupiers tr. ) act and consequently to he accepted not as a force to hold Germans down but to protect them from outside aggression . A great possibility for improved understanding lies in cultural relations . So far the occupation has not succeeded in giving the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ German Aims The primary Western German aims are security from aggression ; industrial capacity sufficient to absorb unemployment , to increase exports , to provide a fair standard of living ; sovereignty in handling German affairs ; unification of the country and restoration of lost Eastern territories to permit the resettlement of expellees . Security , industrial capacity and sovereignty are issues than can be solved through the cooperation of the Western powers . Fortunately , with the European Council and the North Atlantic pact a supranational framework has been created which , through German participation and with American support , can solve many problems . The other German aims , unification and restoration of lost territory , can not be satisfied by the Western powers alone but would require the consent of the Soviet Union . It is unlikely that this consent will he given unless Russia expects that through it the Kremlin 's hold can he extended over the whole of Germany . The Western powers are equally determined to resist a unification which does not guarantee free and secret elections in Eastern Germany . The prospects for meeting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ If we fail to act along these lines it may in the long run cost us dearly , We must understand , and that quickly , before our time runs out , that the point is not to heap benefits upon Germany for which she does not even show grati ? tude . No one-sided bonanza is advocated . The point is rather that we are undermining our own position and defeating our own purposes in the world if we fail to make partners of the German people and restore a country which irrevocably and by conviction lines up on the side of the democracies , E. W. SCHNITZER . New York , Aug. 9 , 1950 . . COMMERCIAL TRAVELER The wood sent out its representative , The wind , bearing leaf samples for the trade ; Some were not interested ; but It found Boy , poet . dreamer  --  and three sales were made , EDWARD D. GARNER . Aiding Refugees Permanent Agency Under United Nations Auspices Proposed The writer of the following letter is chairman of the Western Hemisphere Executive Committee of the World Jewish Congress . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the civil war between the Austrian Government and Kossuth , at the former both cases in accordance with international law . Since the South Korean Government is the government we ( and the large majority of the members of the United Nations ) recognize , our assistance is ent#ely legal . The Soviet argument concerning " British aggression " during the American Civil War is , of course , a horrid example . Britain never intervened on the side of the South , although she was at one time tempted to do so , and if she had , it would have been " aggression " only because she would then have assisted the insurgents against the government recognized by her . Why do our representatives at Lake Success not speak out against such legal absurdities ? Is it below our dignity to honor them with rectification ? But totalitarian regimes have a way of making effective propaganda out of the most spurious arguments . We should not allow them to get away with phony international law . JOHN H. HERZ , Professor of Political Science , Howard University . Washington @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ National Security Said to Demand Regulations The writer of the following letter is Professor of Economics at Duquesne University . Germany as Ally . Recognition of Decisive Position Asked in Europe 's Defense The writer of the following letter served with the Office of Military Government in Witerttemberg-Baden chief of the publications branch , of the Information Services Division .                     