@@713263

txt In a crucial vote of confidence in the Hotie of Commons , Prime Minister Clement R. Attlee has scraped through with a majority . of six-306 against 300 ? in support of his decision to take over at an early date the iron and steel industry . But following this vote , the political outlook of this country is more unsettled than ever . So is the outlook for the steel industry , which is so vital to British rearmament against communism . The war in Korea and the growing dangers in the world situation until very recently had had a unifying effect on Britain . Only the other day , the Commons passed by overwhelming majorities measures to meet the Communist threat . The Trades Union Congress also had backed the stand against Russia . But on Sept. 19 , this national unity split right up the seams over the government decision to go ahead with steel nationalization by appointing on Oct. 2 a national steel board to run the industry and announcing that 250 major steel firms would be taken over from their private owners @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , 1 , 1951 . Vote 306 to 300 This led Conservative Party leader Winston Churchill and Liberal Party leaders to table a motion regretting that Mr. Attlee was " dividing the nation on party political issues during this period of tension and danger . " Had this motion been carried , Mr. Attlee would have resigned and there would have been an immediate general election . Mr. Attlee won by six votes . He had to call on seven of his followers who were reported sick to come to the Commons nonetheless . The conservative and liberal vote of 300 against the government was the highest opposition vote recorded against any government since 1924 . Parliament now has resumed its recess until Oct. 17 , which will give opportunity to calm the political tension . But meanwhile it must be reported that the debate ? on steel roused the bitterest feeling yet experienced between representatives of the two almost precisely equal halves of this nation . Mr. Churchill opened the debate for Conservatives with a thunderous broadside . It had passages of pure politics . As party leader , Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But on the whole , Mr. Churchill sought to base his appeal to Mr. Attlee on the broad interests of national security in these perilous times . If only the government would postpone the iron and steel take-over and work out some alternative system of operating the industry by a national board of employers , employees , and representatives of the government . As Mr. Churchill saw it , the Trades Union Congress had indicated its readiness to try this course . Shaking his finger at Mr. Attlee , Mr. Churchill declared that the nation ? and history would judge the Labor Party prime minister in this action . He had a chance to render memorable service to the nation as a whole , Mr. Churchill said , but instead , he preferred to aggravate party political strife . Mr. Churchill then lashed out at " the maneuvers of a fanatical intelligentsia obsessed by economic fallacies " who , he claimed , had forced Mr. Attlee to this decision on steel against his better judgment . Herbert Morrison , Lord President of the Council , followed Mr. Churchill . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had . He reminded the Commons that an act nationalizing steel already was on the statute books . It had been confirmed at two elections . What else should the government do but go ahead with the steel take-over ? But Mr. Morrison gave little time to any attempt to elaborate his contention that nationalizing the steel industry was essential to British rearmament . Instead , he launched a withering attack on Mr. Churchill and the Conservatives and Liberals . He called them " Molotovs " who wanted to veto everything . Shaking a finger at Mr. Churchill , he called him " the biggest expert in upsetting national unity . "                     