@@720767

txt Vice-President Richard M. Nixon has jumped away to a comfortable early lead in his unofficial but nonetheless intense New Hampshire contest with New York 's Gov . Nelson A. Rockefeller for the state 's support for the 1960 Republican presidential nomination . Still operating with political coyness about officially becoming candidates , both leaders have completed their first 1959 visits to New Hampshire five months ahead of the state 's March 8 , 1960 , presidential primaries . Support Picked Up The visits spaced one week apart have already split the official GOP ranks between the two men , even though they came to the state on occasions labeled as nonpolitical . New Hampshire 's two United States senators , Styles Bridges and Norris Cotton , gave strong indications of ' their backing for Vice-President Nixon on his Oct. 3 trip to break ground for a gigantic flood control dam at West Hopkinton . Also in the Nixon camp obviously is Gov . Wesley Powell . A week earlier , when Governor Rockefeller invaded New Hampshire for the advertised purpose of attending a Dartmouth football game , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the United States House of Representatives , Chester E. Merrow and Perkins Bass , are strongly backing the New York Governor for the GOP nomination . Also in the Rockefeller camp are several members of the New Hampshire Legislature . But Mr. Nixon also has power- ful backing from other areas of the New Hampshire Republicanism . New Hampshire could be an important testing ground for both men in 1960 . Mr. Nixon needs to come out of New Hampshire s March primaries with a big lead over his prospective opponent , Governor Rockefeller . A Rockefeller win or a close run by the New York Governor would seriously damage the Vice-President 's political prestige , even though the state 's electoral vote will be very small . New Hampshire has long been regarded as particularly warm toward Vice-President Nixon . The state gave him 22,000 unsolicited write-in votes for Vice-President in the 1956 primaries and helped to smash a " dump-Nixon " campaign headed by Harold E. Stassen . Importance of the New Hampshire primaries test arises from the fact that it will be the first in the nation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ test of the political popularity of the prospective candidates . Under New Hampshire law . 100 voters can place a presidential aspirant 's name on the ballot , where it will remain unless the candidate takes specific action to remove himself from the voting test . It is anticipated that backers of both Vice-President Nixon and Governor Rockefeller will place their names in the political " beauty contest . " The filing period opens in January , 1960 . Liberal-Conservative ? In some ways the New Hampshire contest already is shaping up as a conservative versus liberal contest , with the Nixon forces generally being regarded as conservative and the Rockefeller organization considered more liberal politically . This stems from the fact that Governor Powell and Senator Bridges , both conservative , are in the Nixon camp and Representatives Merrow and Perkins , considered GOP liberals , are prO-Rockefeller . However , the situation is not that cut and dried . Senator Cotton , as a Nixon backer , is looked upon as a GOP liberal , as are many others in the Nixon camp . The Nixon New Hampshire visit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the crest of the Gallup Poll of GOP presidential possibilities . The poll published on Oct. 4 showed the Vice-President with 68 per cent of the vote , up 3 per cent from August , among Republicans , and Governor Rockefeller with 18 per cent , down 1 per cent from the August poll .                     