@@719107

txt Says Soviet Premier H as ' but to Say the Word and Real Progress Is Assured ' ZORIN STAND CRITICIZED British Prime Minister Also Chides Moscow on Moves in the Middle East Text of Macmillan 's letter is printed on . Page 10 . By LEONARD INGALLS Special to The New York Times . LONDON , Sept. 2 ? Prime Minister Harold Macmillan has told Marshal Nikolai A. Bulganin , Soviet Premier , that " real progress " on world disarmament is up to the Soviet Union , Mr. Macmillan 's statement was in a 1,200-word reply to a letter he received July 20 from the Soviet Premier , The British reply was delivered Friday in Moscow and made public here today . Mr. Macmillan also said that recent Soviet actions in the Middle East appeared to make doubtful Moscow 's expressed desire for peace in that area . Disarmament is ' ' the most urgent " of the many questions the two . leaders have discussed in. their correspondence , whin began with a Soviet letter in April , Mr. Macmillan wrote . Western Proposal Praised @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and imaginative , toward agreement between us " the Western disarmament proposals presented at meetings of the United Nations Disarmament Subcommittee in London . " I earnestly trust that they will have your favorable consideration , " Mr. Macmillan wrote . He added pointedly : " You have but to say the word and real progress is assured . " However , the British Prime Minister declared that " we are not encouraged by the tone and substance " of the remarks on some Western proposals made Tuesday by Valerian A. Zorin , chief Soviet delegate to the London talks . On that day Mr. Zorin accused the West of preparing for a new war and denounced the proposals for aerial and ground inspection made by the United States , Britain , France and Canada in scathing language . Plan Decried by Zorin When the four Western powers presented Thursday an eleven-point disarmament program Mr. Zorin said it contained nothing of value . The discouragement expressed to Marshal Bulganin by Mr. Macmillan is shared by most of the Western delegates to the disarmament talks . The subcommittee is scheduled to resume @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ discussions will be called off by the end of the week unless the Soviet delegates take a more cooperative attitude . Mr. Macmillan opened his letter to Marshal Bulganin with the discussion of disarmament , but this was confined to a paragraph . He also replied to points raised in the Soviet Premier 's letter of July 20 on the reunification of Germany , European security , and economic and cultural relations between Britain and the Soviet Union . Berlin Declaration Cited The British Government 's views on European security and German reunification were clearly set forth July 29 in the fourpower Berlin Declaration Mr. Macmillan wrote . That declaration , signed by Britain , the United States , France and West Germany , insisted on free all-German elections on unification and the right of the new government to determine its own domestic and foreign policies . Replying to a suggestion by Marshal Bulganin that European states and the United States should jointly pledge not to aid any state violating the peace of Europe , Mr , Macmillan told Marshal Bulganin that was done voluntarily by the Atlantic pact nations Oct @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he favored strengthening economic links with the Soviet Union by expanding trade , but that restrictions on certain exports were a separate matter . " I must ask you to accept the fact that , until there has been a considerable easing in international tension , there can be no question of withdrawing these restrictions , which the British Government and their allies feel compelled to impose in the interests of their own security , " he said . Expanding Trade Is Noted Mr. Macmillan noted that trade between Britain and the Soviet Union was increasing ) and that there was a large range of goods that could be freely exported from Britian to the , Soviet Union if Moscow desired . ' , An improvement of cultural contacts between the two coun-I tries will be affected by British ) public opinion , the Prime Minister went on . He said the British had been " deeply shocked by the intervention of Soviet forces in the Hungarian uprising . " " A decision by the British Government to renew their sponsorship of certain largescale cultural projects , which were under discussion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the present circumstances , " Mr. Macmillan remarked . The Prime Minister also urged an end of the jamming of British radio broadcasts to the Soviet Union . He said this would remove " one of the major serious obstacles to the free exchange of ideas . " " Soviet listeners would be under no obligation to listen to broadcasts they found objectionable , " Mr. Macmillan wrote . " Like British listeners in similar circumstances , they could switch off their sets . " The British Prime Minister assured the Soviet Premier that Britain was as eager as the So- , viet Union to improve relations . " You know that for the British people actions mean more than words , " he said and ended with an appeal for sincerity and tolerance .                     