@@714345

txt Labor union lawyers have increased in number until they now hold approximately 500 , a growth which has accompanied the huge expansion of the American labor movement during the past 20 years . This is one of the findings of the first survey ever undertaken of labor union attorneys in the United States . The inquiry was made for the Survey of the Legal Profession now in process in cooperation with the American Bar Association . The labor report was written by Robert M. Segal ; counsel for the Massachusetts Federation of Labor and chairman of a committee of leading labor attorneys , including J. Albert ? oll , general counsel of the American Federation of Labor , and Arthur J. Goldberg , general counsel of the Congress of Industrial Organizations . Survey Findings Mr. Segal 's findings include the following : The real basis of labor law today consists primarily of 100,000 collective bargaining . agreements between companies and unions . These contracts make the " law of the plant " for nearly 16,000 , - 000 workers and their employers by establishing wages , hours @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the employment relationship . In addition , a labor union attorney must deal with the tremendous amount of federal and state laws which have been enacted in the last 20 years . While labor lawyers have multiplied , they comprise but a small fraction of all the lawyers in the counutry , who total around 200 , - 000 . The committee sent an eight-page detailed questionnaire to all the labor lawyers , and had replies from 212 , or 43 per cent . 44 P.C. Work of AFL These included 16 house counsel or attorneys employed full-time by labor organizations , 40 attorneys for state bodies of the AFL and CIO , 58 lawyers representing AFL city federations of labor and CIO city councils , 48 general counsels for international uinons , and 172 lawyers representing local unions . Of the total of 213 , 141 or 66 per cent said they devoted 50 per cent or more of their time ex- elusively to labor law work . The remainder gave some 25 per cent of their time to labor . The largest part of this legal work . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 44 per cent of the lawyers . The CIO drew 25 per cent , and independent unions 10 per cent . The balance of the attorneys split their services among the different labor organizations . Approximately a quarter of all the labor lawyers said they represented both labor and management . Average Income The average income of $12.500 for labor lawyers was higher than the average income for all lawyers in the United States , but was less than the average for other specialized fields . The typical labor attorney is about 43 years old , has been in labor relations for about 13 years , and was in other law practice for around years previously . He probably had some earlier employment in the government , though it may not have been in labor work . Contrary to the previous period when judges were generally hostile to labor , the labor union lawyer today feels the courts treat him fairly , except in sonic rural communities . Old-Time Stigma The old-time stigma attaching to a labor lawyer has not entirely disappeared . More than 40 per cent of the attorneys @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Some suffered loss of business because of this . The traditional hostility of unions to lawyers founded on the injunction has been carried over to labor union lawyers , it was also reported . Prior to the present labor era , the labor attorney ' was principally concerned with injunctions , antitrust laws , criminal cases , and damage suits against unions . But today his new major interests include collective bargaining , interpretation of the new federal and state laws , the internal affairs of labor unions , appearances before administrative boards , arbitration cases , public relations , and advice to labor unions relative to their new rights , duties , and obligations ,                     