@@714774

txt The Communist armistice negotiators at Panmunjom made a new proposal today on the vexed question of exchange of prisoners in the Korean war and asked that the truce conferences go into secret session for its discussion . The Reds ' proposal , following the most recent compromise suggestion of the chief of the United Nations delegation , Maj. Gen. William K : : Harris-on Jr- , was - presented at a seventeen-minute session this morning in the roadside con. ference tent . The United Nations group immediately asked a recess until tomorrow to study the enemy plan and to decide if executive Sessions were warranted . According to early reports from Panmunjom , the Communist proposal demanded the exchange , immediately after an armistice , of all " foreign " prisoners of war  --  a trade of non-Korean United Nations soldiers for the captured Chinese " volunteers . " This presumably would involve the repatriation even of the Chinese , some of them former Nationalist soldiers , who have told Allied interrogators they would resist by force return to the Communist command . The Communist delegation proposed that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nationality and area . Thus , South Koreans impressed into the North Korean Red Army and later captured by the United Nations would be permitted to return to their homes  --  a concession that the enemy had already offered in exchange for repatriation of all other prisoners . Presumably , under the Red plan , North Koreans , whether or not they had abandoned the Communist creed , would be turned back to their former command , regardless of the United Nations principle of no forced repatriation . Dispatches from Korea indicated the Communist proposal was a complex one and was , at first glance , found " baffling " by the United Nations delegation . The plan called for a " re-check " of the prisoner lists and various other ( technicalities . It Was doubtful from preliminary study whether the Communists had gone far beyond their proposal of more than a month ago , waving claim to I South Korean Communist captives , or whether a step had been taken along the lines of the facesaving reinterpretation of the draft armistice agreement , suggested by General Harrison earlier this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as he returned to the United Nations base camp with the new Communist proposal was that it " may be important and may not . " The Allies ' army spokesman , ' Brig . Gen. William P. Nuckols , said the plan seemed to contain " a lot of gimmicks and potential gimmicks . ? The significance is not immediately plain to the United Nations command , " General Nuckols added . One thing apparently clear from the enemy move was that the Communists had decided not immediately and categorically to reject the new approach by the United Nations to the question of prisoner exchange  --  the last major issue blocking an armistice . Early yesterday the Communists had asked for a twenty-four-hour recess to consider General Harrison 's suggested reinterpretation of the draft agreement . Today their answer , apparently , was the proposal of the counter plan  --  a somewhat hopeful development in view of the Reds ' previously unyielding attitude . The question seemed to be whether the two plans could be reconciled and some issue thus reached from the deadlock of more than two months . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an exchange of captives based on lists to be compiled by both sides before an armistice , and to use the already formulated terms of the draft agreement as a basis for debate . This , in effect , apparently would permit the Reds to contend that " all " of their prisoners had been returned , as they have consistently demanded . The draft text states : " All prisoners of war held in the custody of each side at the time this armistice becomes effective shall be released and repatriated as soon as possible . " The release and repatriation of such prisoners shall be effected in conformity with lists which have been exchanged and been checked by the respective sides prior to the signing of this armistice . " One thing that the Communists apparently had to consider under the United Nations proposal was the number of men that they might receive in return for about 12,000 Allied prisoners . After their original poll of prisoners in South Korea , United Nations delegates announced that only about 70,000 of a total of 170,000 had chosen to return to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @             