@@720106

txt The revolution that swept the Iraqi Government away , and for all practical purposes ended the country 's participation in the Baghdad Pact , preceded by a few hours Anglo-American intervention in Lebanon and Jordan . One direct result of this double crisis has been the revival of the Arab League and the admission to it , on Iraqi initiative , of Tunisia and Morocco . But once within the league . Tunisia openly challenged President Nasser and broke off diplomatic relations with the United Arab Republic . Tunisia is not the only Arab government which has indicated that it wants to preserve its independence and resist unification under Cairo 's aegis . Indeed , this show of independence has been exhibited by countries that Mr. Nasser was especially interested in influencing : Iraq and the countries surrounding both Egypt and Israel . Despite proclamations of Arabism and friendly feelings toward- Cairo , - Iraqi Premier Abdel Karim Kassem has made it quite clear that he Proposes to preserve his country 's separate entity . Libya has close ties with the West , having entered into military agreements @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ after a military coup , appears inclined to follow Iraq 's example : to be friendly with Mr. Nasser but to leave no room for misunderstanding as to its determination to maintain its independence , Israel Stance Watched A similar situation has developed around Israel . The Lebanese Government appears well aware that any move toward union with the U.A.R. could mean a resumption of civil strife and possibly invite new foreign intervention . Jordan has managed to maintain a precarious stability thanks , in part , to the widespread anxiety of an Israeli intervention in case of changes in the status quo . It is widely felt that Mr. Nasser must folldw a dynamic policy if he wishes to preserve his regime . Thus there are those who hope that President Nasser now may turn his attention more fully to domestic problems . According to some experts , Mr. Nasser now may he readier to concentrate his attention on national , rather than on international , affairs . This might open the way to substantial Western aid . The Arab delegations here understand that Mr. Rountree will consider carefully this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's influence appears to have brought about a reappraisal of Soviet policies . The Kremlin had hoped that the Egyptian leader might prove , albeit unwittingly , the instrument for the penetration of Soviet influence in the Middle East . To achieve this purpose , Moscow was apparently ready to abandon the Communist parties , outlawed by President Nasser in all the areas under his control , to their fate . Vranted : Allies The new situation , however , seems to dictate the need for new tactics . The Kremlin now is reported trying to develop a basis of influence in each Arab country separately . Locally , the Communists are a gainstM Nasser for the simple reason that he is against them . They oppose , therefore , any move toward the union of the various Arab countries with the U.A R. Willy-nilly they find themselves on the same side as the Western powers , be it even for the radically opposite reason that the West wishes to see the Arab world develop its destiny in freedom . Obviously , governments menaced by forces favorable to union with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ And this has given rise to reports , perhaps exaggerated but nevertheless alarming , of collusions between the present Iraqi regime and the Communists . This new shift in Soviet policies is extremely dangerous since the Kremlin now is in a position not only to pursue its penetration of the area but also to consolidate the strength of communism . Once again , Moscow has knoWn how to take advantage of the emergence of a new situation , while the West has shown itself so far unable to formulate a new approach . But the need is urgent , and if Mr. Rountree 's trip will lead to it . it clearly could not have taken place too soon .                     