@@716285

txt In Europe : Irish Voters Support Costello Eamon de Valera , Irish Republic Prime Minister for 19 of the past 22 years , was defeated by a coalition of parties headed by John A. Costello , according to still-Incomplete election returns . With 138 of the 147 Parliament seats now filled , the opposition coalition held a lead of 16 seats over Mr. de Valera 's Fianna Fail Party . Representatives of the major atomic powers  --  the United States , the Soviet Union , Britain , France , and Canada  --  conferred secretly in London on world disarmament and atomic control . They are meeting as a United Nations subcommittee . The Soviet armed forces newspaper Red Star announced the conviction and execution of a Ukranian exile who was allegedly parachuted into the Soviet Union by the United States Air Force to spy for American intelligence forces . Far East : Indian UN Delegate to Visit Geneva v. K. Krishna Menon , leader of India 's delegation to the United Nations Trusteeship Council , said before leaving Bombay by plane that he would visit the British @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ way to New York . However , he denied rumors that he was carrying specific proposals from Prime Minister Nehru for settlements in Korea or Indochina . Polling booths closed after the quietest election day in the history of the six-year-old Republic of Korea . Voting was heavy but orderly as South Koreans balloted for the country 's third National Assembly  --  and passed judgment on the record of President Rhee 's Liberal Party regime . Americas : Nicaragua Breaks With Guatemala Nicaraguan Ambassador Guillermo Sevilla Sacaaa sai4 today his government broke relations with Guatemala yesterday , charging that Guatemala had violated an agreement by spreading Communist propaganda in Nicaragua . Washington : Soviet Charges Due for Airing Secretary of State Dulles today ordered the American representative to bring up in the Allied Council for Austria tie charges of anti-Soviet moves which Russia has made against the Austrian government . This appeared to be a maneuver to throw the support of the United States , Britain , and France formally behind the Austrian Government in its difficulties with the Soviets . New England : Connecticut Employment High The Connecticut Development Commistdon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ level during the first quarter , with total employment Lk March near the all-time peak level .                     