@@718582

txt The Israeli Embassy received early today what Embassy officials described as a generally " affirmative " reply to the United States Government 's proposals for a compromise settlement of the Arab-Israeli deadlock in the Middle East . It came in too late for transmittal to the Department of State , but will be given to Secretary of State Dulles later this morning . It is understood that the Israeli Government , after an emergency meeting of the Cabinet , asked for " clarification " on a " number of points . " Appreciation for Efforts However , the reply did express the Israeli Government 's appreciation for Mr. Dulles ' efforts in trying to give some assurances that would enable Israel to withdraw her troops , as the United Nations General Assembly had recommended , from the Sharm el Sheikh area and from the Gaza Strip . In Cairo United States Ambassador Raymond A. Hare conferred at length with President Gamal Abdel Nasser . Mr. Hare was understood to have sought to clarify Mr. Dulles ' proposal for the Egyptian Government . It is understood that Israel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attempt to establish freedom of navigation in the Strait of Tiran and the Gulf of Aqaba , but raised a number of questions both about this and the future status of the Gaza Strip . Ambassador Abba Eban of Israel was expected to see Secretary Dulles during the day , although no appointment had been set . Army Withdrawal Expected The Israeli authorities were believed willing to withdraw the Israeli Army from the Gaza Strip on the basis ? of United States promises to work for the stationing of United Nations forces and observers along the borders of the Strip . But they were expected to object to withdrawing administrative officials on the ground that it was in the interest of the Arab inhabitants that administrative links with Israel be maintained . The significant fact about Egyptian reaction to Mr. Dulles ' proposals , as United States officials saw it , was that Egyptian officials had not rejected the principle of freedom of navigation in the Gulf of Aqaba . It appeared that in substance Egyption officials were merely complaining that the United States had taken this initiative in spite of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ remained unsolved . In explaining Mr. Dulles ' pro . posals , State Department officials have been emphasizing Mr. Dulles ' insistence that the Israelis withdraw to the armistice lines before the United States makes any move . They feel this point has not been sufficiently emphasized in press reports . Challenge Held Unlikely The United States ' view that the Gulf of Aqaba and its approaches form an international waterway , the officials say , is a view and no more than that . It does not expect any country to make a serious challenge to that view . What the United States would do in the event of a challenge would depend on circumstances at the time , the officials contended . Perhaps an appeal to the International Court of Jus7 tice at The Hague would be in order . But certainly the United States would not under any circumstances use force to back up its view , it was said . The officials also explain that the United States does not impose that the United Nations force establish itself permanently in the Gaza Strip . It is merely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its influ. ence to get the United Nations troops stationed along the armistice lines to prevent more fight . ing . As United States officials see it , Mr. Dulles ' points on the Gulf of Aqaba and the Gaza Strip should help clarify for the Israelis the vague aspects , to which the Israelis had objected , of the resolutions voted by the United Nations and sponsored by the United States on Feb. 2 . Some diplomats suggested yesterday that the impression Mr. Dulles gave Mr. Eban Monday might have been more forceful than the impression officials have been giving to other callers since then . Among diplomats who have sought clarification of the United States proposal was the Saudi Arabian Deputy Foreign Minister , Sheikh Yusuf Yassin . Accompanied by Ambassador Ab-1 dullah , al Khayyal , he called on Assistant Secretary of State William M. Rountree Wednesday . The Pakistani Ambassador , Mohammed Ali , saw Mr. Rountree yesterday . Rabbi Meyer Cohen , executive secretary of the Union of Orthodox Rabbis of the United States and Canada called on Mr. Rountree yesterday at the head of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ proposed on behalf of the union , that President Eisenhower call the Arab leaders and Premier David Ben-Gurion of Israel to Washington for a round-table conference . The rabbi asserted that United Nations policy appeared t. ( 1 be based on the assumption that Israel was guilty of aggression . On the contrary , he said , Israel had merely exercised her right of self-defense and self-preservation.                     