@@720368

txt Lawyers , judges and the President paid tribute to Judge Learned Hand yesterday at ceremonies celebrating his fiftieth year on the Federal bench . A letter from President Eisenhower was read by the Attorney General , William P. Rogers . The President said : " For half a century as a Federal judge you have stood for that excellence and tern- ' perament essential to the achievement of equal justice under law . The integrity which you bring to your work , your learning and your dediRemarks by Chief Justice and Frankfurter , Page 12. cation to our system of jurisprudence are an inspiration to your colleagues in the law and in. the community at large . " Judge Hand began his service as a Federal judge in 1909 , on the District Court for the Southern District of New York . He was promoted to the Second Circuit Court of Appeals in 1924 and was chief judge of that court from 1939 to 195.1 , when he retired . He has continued to sit often since then . Service Sets Record His continued activity after fifty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of services for a Federal judge . William Cranch was chief justice of the District of Columbia Circuit Court from 1805 to 1855 . Yesterday 's ceremonies drew a standing-room crowd in the Second Circuit courtroom in Foley Square . In the audience were leaders of the bar , Government officials , lawyers and judges from all over the country . Despite the formidable audience and list of speakers , the occasion was threaded with humor and personal warmth . Judge Hand was praised for his mastery of profanity as well as his eminence in the law . It was Associate Justice Felix Frankfurter of the Supreme Court who seemed to touch both Judge Hand and the audience most deeply . He spoke extemporaneously , not even looking at notes . He quoted Judge Hand as saying his life had been " uneventful , unadventurous , easy , safe and pleasant . " Justice Frankfurter termed the five adjectives " inadequate and inaccurate . " Instead of those , Justice Frankfurter proposed " daring , romantic , antediluvian , sophisticated and lucky . " He explained each , concluding that Judge @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thing in life that makes all the rest bearable  --  a happy marriage , " and because he had never been named to the Supreme Court . Luckier Have We Been ' " Luckier have we been that he was endowed with these gifts and has put them to the use to which he has put them , " Justice Frankfurter continued . " Long after every one of us in this room will no longer be here , long after that , Learned Hand will still be serving society so long as law will continue to exercise its indispensable role in helping to unravel the tangled skein of the human situation . " Chief Justice Earl Warren and Associate Justice John Marshall Harlan of the Supreme Court each paid tribute to Judge Hand 's long-maintained reputation as the greatest of American judges . The Second Circuit 's present chief judge , Charles E. Clark , presided at the ceremonies . Carroll C. Hincks , another member of the Second Circuit , also spoke . Harrison Tweed , a leader of the New York bar and president of the American Law @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ institute 's council . He has been a member since it was founded in 1923 . " At our meetings , " Mr. Tweed said , " contributions from him of philosophy and poetry are probabilities , and of wisdom and profanity , certainties . " Humility Praised Another old friend , John Lord O'Brian of Washington , praised Judge Hand , as did others , for his humility , his skepticism and his breadth . He said the judge 's style invoked illustrations ranging from Br'er Rabbit to Plato and Whitehead . And there was a letter from the man who originally proposed Judge Hand 's nomination to President Taft in 1909 , C. C. Burlingham of New York . Mr. Burlingham , now 100 years old , had hoped to get to the ceremony , but told Judge Clark on the telephone : " Charlie , you 're not going to tease me into getting out on a day like this . " At the end , Judge Hand responded to the tributes . He said they reminded him of the widow who listened to all the eulogies at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ coffin . Asked why , she said : " After all they said , I did n't know it could be Mike who was there . " Judge Ha ad joked about himself and his court some more and then spoke seriously about the qualifications to be a judge . He mentioned detachment first and then imagination ? for after all , he said , the work of a judge , like a poet 's or a sculptor 's , is an art . ? He ended by reading Shakespeare 's 123d sonnet , which is addressed to Time . The poem ends with this couplet : This I do vow , and this shall ever be , I will be true despite thy scythe and thee .                     