@@716537

txt Nine Vietnamese cabinet ministers handed their resignations to Premier Ngo Dinh Diem when his struggle for power against Gen. Nguyen Van Hinh , Army chief of staff , was resumed after a brief respite . Another minister has been reported missing si- - . Saturday . Page 7 . Withdraw al of Communist Chinese and United States troops from Korea continued as U.S. Eighth Army headquarters announced the Third U.S. Marine Division will go home in October . while Peking Radio said 14,976 Chinese troops had been withdrawn to Manchuria in one week . ' Washington : Grand Jury to Probe Housing Attorney General Brownell ordered a special grand jury convened here to investigate " possible bribery and other criminal conduct " in the Federal Housing Program . He specifically directed that United States Attorney Leo A. Rover " present evidence of the activities of Clyde L. Powell , " who resigned as assistant commissioner of the Federal Housing Administration last April during congressional investigations . He also announced U.S. attorneys across the country are being directed to present to grand juries " full testimony " of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : Steelworkers ' President Sets Course David 3. , president of the United Steelworkers of America , promised in his speech to the Steelworkers ' biennial convention to bring up later in the week " our relations in the organized labor movement , " thus postponing discussion of the union 's chilly relationship with the parent CIO . Page 3 . Americas : State of Siege Ordered in Chile The government of President Ibanez today decreed a state of siege over much of Chile , gripped by a bitter labor dispute . The move was taken to circumvent delays in parliamentary approval of a government request for emergency Anti-Communist powers following a wave of strikes mainly among copper workers . Europe : Socialists Win in Swedish Elections Nationwide local elections In Sweden resulted in a Socialist victory , but with slightly reduced proportions , since the Socialists pollen only 47.8 per cent of the votes as compared to 48.6 per cent in 1950 . Africa : 101 Man Mau-Freed Convicts Retaken A Mau Mau terrorist gang freed 214 convicts from a Kenya prison near Nairobi . Police recaptured 101 of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @             