@@712876

txt Joseph Polowsky is a taxi . driver in Chicago . He earns a living , but not exactly a nrincelv one . Few taxi drivers do . He is like thousands of other young taxi drivers around the country in most respects , but he differs from most others in one respect . He takes what little money he can spare and does a curious thing with it . He pays for having an idea of his printed on paper , and he pays for mailing these sheets , on which his idea is printed , around the country to newspaper offices . and finally he comes down to Washington and spends his last penny trying to get newspapermen and congressmen to do something about his idea on this day , April 25 . He wants Congress and the United Nations to pass resolutions that on April 25 " appropriate ceremonies " be held to commemorate the fact that on this day five years ago two things happened . One was the opening of the San Francisco Conference of the United Nations . The other was the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . When Mr. Polowsky comes into your office trying to persuade you to do something to help him get this day commemorated , you feel a bit embarrassed . He is so earnest . Yet , of course , he is unrealistic . Why bother to commemorate a day which so soon has become tarnished and almost forgotten ? Who wants to try to remember that five years ago Russian and American soldiers Reproduced with idealists with illusions in every war . There was a League of Nations after 1918 . Great hopes were placed in the League of Nations . They came to nothing , and then there was another war . After it . illusions did not run quite so high . The memory of the old disillusionment was still strong . And this time the hopes have dwindled even faster than they did after 1918 . A Joe Polowsky is one person . trying to walk up a hill while everyone else is going down it . He talks about commemorating the oath at the Elbe . The Russians are n't thinking of anything as forgotten and out @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ trying to digest China , and planning ways of breaking Tito . and pinning medals on their fighter pilots who shot down* an unarmed American plane over the Baltic Sea . The French are spending as much as we give them Marshall aid trying to hold their colony in Indo-China . The British are striving with us to keep the military power of the West abreast of the military power of Russia . Nothing could be more incongruous than to ask people to commemorate a few soldiers meeting at a river five years ago . I myself should be writing about matters of timely and serious import . I never should have let Joe Polowsky take up my time with his probably highly romanticized memories of the day he met the Russians on the Elbe . Or should I ? -                     