@@713180

txt Plans for a civilian defense organization to function in the event of an atomic bombing were pushed yesterday with the following de-velopments : 1 Maj. Lenox R. Lohr , sometimes described as a genius at organization , was appointed Illinois director of civilian defense by Governor Stevenson and met at once with state officials . 2Fire Marshal Anthony J. Mul ? 1aney , Chicago director of civilian defense , told a meeting in the city hall that military aid will be required to supplement Chicago 's defense plans in the event of an emergency . Plan Emergency Housing / Trailer coach manufacturers  --  and dealers in the Chicago area disclosed they are ready to speed from 3,000 to 4,000 mobile homes Into designated relief areas as housing forievacueees if an atomic bomb attack hits Chicago . Even before Lohr 's appointment yesterday , he conferred in the governor 's mansion with Maj. Gen. Richard Smykal , commanding general of the Illinois National Guard , and other officials . Stevenson said Lohr impressed on them the " imperative importance " of civilian defense . " If war comes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ front , ' Lohr told the gathering . " Every city can become a battle ground . Every man , woman , and child will be a participant . Seeks Unified Program " It is the state 's task to coordinate all local civilian defense plans so that all of our resources can be quickly mobilized in an emergency because mutual aid and protection in case of attack is no longer a local matter . " He listed three basic problems : educating the public , training large numbers of volunteer specialists , and stockpiling equipment and supplies in dispersed areas . Maj. Lohr , who lives at 1401 Ridge ay. , Evanston , celebrates his 59th birthda , today . He was an army engineer 13 years before he headed the successful Chicago World 's Fair of 1933 and 1934 . Mullaney Tells Plans Mullaney told the city hall meeting , at which the fire department 's plan to meet a simulated A-bomb attack was unveiled , that the plans call for military posts to provide such manpower as they can spare . Upon receipt of warning of an impending @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 14 dispersal stations on the periphery of the city . Plans , for providing mobile emergency housing for bomb evacuees were drafted by officials of the Trailer Coach Manufacturers association at the request of Alvin E. Rose , Chicago welfare commissioner . H. L. Bartholomew , a Chicago trailer manufacturer who has been appointed emergency civilian housing director for the coach association , said that outlying golf courses and race tracks where water is available would be the most logical evacuation centers.                     