@@715971

txt Thomas E. Dewey enters upon his twelfth year of duty as Governor of New York with an annual message thoughtful in its discussion of the problems of public mid party office , prudent in its fiscal policy and constructively forward-looking , in new program . This is a year of political decisions the question is on everybody 's mind whether Mr. Dewey will stand for reelection ; other statewide officers will be chosen in November , all seats in the Legislature are to be filled and , of course , there is an election ' of all members of the House of Representatives in . Washington . So the New York Legislature convened yesterday with its eye on the polls , but Mr. Dewey declined to set the scene for a do-nothing session that would only refuse to raise taxes . He moved in with a program sure to cause controversy , even among his fellow Republicans . He , plunged immediately into one area in which he himself has set an irreproachable example  --  integrity in public office . He proposes establishment of a special legislative @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that are improper for government and political party officers ; to legislate on the question of private practice before state agencies by public officers , and to promulgate a code of ethics with respect to conflicts of interest for public and party officers between their business or professional interests and their public duties . " The people ? * * are entitled to know that no selfish motive is permissible which interferes with the high-minded and honorable conduct of public affairs . " The Governor hopes for action on the code at this session . It remains to be seen how courageously the members of the Legislature will follow his leadership . The state faces a " most difficult " year on finances , and the " greatest restraint " is necessary . " Urgent " capital needs exist to a degree that the Governor reluctantly admits at long last that pay-as-we-go must go . A 5250,000,000 bond issue for mental hospitals is proposed , and a new bond issue for low-rent slum-clearance public housing , while the financing of tremendous , new highway needs is left for later discussion . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bad news is confirmed that further borrowing ( presumably to be financed by special toll arrangenients and outside the state budget , of course ) will be needed to build ancillary sections . We regret that Mr. Dewey did not go all the way for Permanent Personal Registration of voters , but we will settle for local option if he will put that through . We welcome other election reforms , such as on nominating petition technicalities and the provision for at-home registration and voting by sick and disabled . T'nere is a full calendar-of business ahead : curbs on the charity rackets , a .. uniform jury law upstate , " much more legislation " to clean up harnessracing , a code of fair procedure on investigations , a new study to be initiated on state aid to education with the eternally vexatious problem of localability to pay involved , compulsory automobile insurance , some challenging proposals as to preliminary local treatment of mental illness and help for juvenile delinquents , 2motionally disturbed children and the hard-of-hearing , new health measures , especially cancer research . Once again , as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , its habits of doing business . Better , earlier congaittee. work , - with public hearings , some method of recording legislative proceedings so that full transcript is freely available to the public , more business completed steadily as the session pro- , . ceeds instead of waiting for that ghastly , disorderly jam of lawmaking in the final week or day  --  these are some changes needed . Some omissions and transgressions of past sessions might ? well be corrected . Among these are failure to progress television for education , compulsory periodic inspection of automobiles for mechanical defects , a commission to study desirability of revision of divorce law . The authori , zation for a payroll tax in New York City ought to be rescinded . We congratulate Governor Dewey on a generally excellent message . He has charted a sound progressive course . Now let the Legislature get under way on it promptly .                     