@@719092

txt In one more and possibly a final move to break the deadlock in the current London disarmament talks President Eisenhower has made another major concession to Soviet demands . Acting on his personal responsibility and the recommendations of Mr. Stassen , but over the misgivings of his defense advisers and with only the reluctant consent of our allies , he has offered to agree ' Without prior controls to a conditional suspension of nuclear weapons tests for two years . This is the period on which the Soviets insisted as a minimum , instead of the ten months previously proposed by the West . This suspension , which the Soviets have been propagandizing with substantial effect on world opinion , is offered as part of a package deal for an experimental first-stage disarmament effort , and the emphasis is still on the conditions . But this offer , added to the many other concessions already made , is a far cry from the original Western stand for disarmament under a fool-proof control system , as illustrated in the Baruch plan , and tied to a peaceful settlement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ directive . The offer is , however , in keeping with the unilateral and one-sided reduction in manpower and armaments already under way in both the United States and among our allies , to which must be added the crippling Congressional cuts in our mutual security program . Taken together , these various moves , which affect both conventional and nuclear armaments , raise a serious question as to how long and how far this process can continue without impairing freeworld security . The irony of the situation is that despite the Western concessions , or perhaps because of them , the Soviets refuse to be appeased and continue to insist on their own program for the unconditional and in practice one-sided disarmament of the West . In line with this program , which offers the West only paper promises of armament reductions and controls , they now seek to evade acceptance of the President 's offer by objecting to the conditions attached to it . These conditions are that an agreement on suspension of nuclear weapons tests must be accompanied by further agreements providing for : ( 1 ) a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ favor of atoms for peace ; ( 2 ) at least an initial monitoring system to detect violations of the test ban ; ( 3 ) aerial and ground inspection zones to prevent surprise attack ; ( 4 ) an initial cut-back in manpower and conventional ? arms ; and ( 5 ) control of outer-space missile development . All further disarmament steps would then depend on solution of the most pressing world problems , in particular the reunification of Germany . Even the two-year suspension period is subject to the condition that satisfactory progress be math during the first twelve months toward installing the monitoring system and cutting off production of fissionable material for military purposes . If that progress is unsatisfactory to the West , due to Soviet bad faith , the tests could be resumed . And only if both the monitoring system and the production cut-off are in full operation would the test ban become permanent . One objection to this proposal is that it calls only for a Soviet agreement " in principle " to make the test ban effective , and that all the details @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ still be worked out . This would give the Soviets unlimited opportunities for stalling the West while rushing their own nuclear-weapons production behind their Iron Curtain . The British and French , who are only beginning to develop their own nuclear weapons , look especially askance at this possibility . There is , however , one thing - that can be said for the President 's offer . It should convince the world that the West is willing to go to the utmost limit of safety to reach a disarmament agreement and in particular to banish the atomic mushroom cloud that threatens the world with annihilation . It is now up to the Soviets to " put up or shut up , " and no propaganda can disguise the choice confronting them .                     