@@716190

txt The American public now has been told that its own government has been doing a " magnificent job " in rooting out Communists over the past few years ? not just " Fifth Amendment Communists , " but Communist Party/ leaders . The public now knows for the first time something of the counterespionage of the Federal Bureau of Investigation ? a counterespionage which Attorney General Herbert Brownell , Jr. , said brought Washington word of Stalin 's illness a month before his passing and also gave the tip-off on his successor . - And it now has been told that its government knows pretty much where the nation 's top Communist leaders are and what they are doing right up to the current week . They have been told now that just as soon as underground Communist leaders heard President Eisenhower announce that the Attorney General would report on what is being done about communism in this country , they scattered and tried to hide Counterbalance Cited That is how closely , Mr. Brownell indicates , the FBI is keeping tabs on Communist activities in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ radio and television public these things , on behalf of the administration , in an at- tempt to correct an impression which has been gaining headway that Communists are boring in all over the country and being " coddled " while nothing much is being done about it . " This successful program of law enforcement is a counterbalance to the fear of Communist infiltration , " the Attorney General declared . His message was an obvious follow-up of the President 's attempt to allay some of the current fears which are besetting the nation . But It was a message which could be interpreted to go even further It seemed to say , in effect , that what is needed to strengthen the government in its drive against Communist infiltration is not necessarily more investigations by Congress , but the enactment of laws which will make it possible for the FBI , the Justice Department , and the courts to pull up communism by its roots . Headlines Explained Not that the Attorney General , in his radio and television address to the nation , made any reference to congressional @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that much of the really sensational work of the courts in convicting Communist leaders has got little in the way of headlines because of the fact that television and newsreel camera are not permitted in the courts Congressional hearings , on the other hand , are widely publicized by these media . What the administration asks of Congress in the way of new laws ? " new and powerful constitutional weapons " ? as the Attorney General put it , has been spelled out very specifically . Sterner Laws Asked The administration now wants from Congress laws which ( 1 ) will permit an employer to dismiss from a defense plant during a national amergency any persons whose record indicates he Is likely to engage in sabotage or espionage ( 2 ) a statute to eliminate proven Communist control of any industrial organization or labor union in vital segments of the national economy . And the Attorney General took occasion to repeat some of the legal , weapons which the administration has requested previously , such as the use of wire-tapping evidence ; the revocation of citizenship when a person has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ penalty for peacetime espionage ; time extension of the Statute of Limita-tions It is by these constitutional processes that communism and Communists in this country can be handled most effectively , the Attroney General argued . In giving the public a peep into hush-hush FBI activities , he inferred that the administration is really putting the finger on Communists these days . The reports of the FBI have furnished much of the material on which current congressional investigations have been built , with these committees calling former FBI undercover agents as their principal witnesses , he noted FBI agents , even now , are so closely knitted into Communist organizations in their counterespionage work that Communist leaders do not know whom to trust within their own cells , according to the Attorney General . FBI Work Traced Nor do these agents know one another in this supersecret and dangerous work until they doff their " disguise " and appear as government witnesses when the evidence is in , he disclosed . During 1953 and up until now in 1954 , 36 active Communists have been convicted and sentenced to jail . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Communist Party here have been indicted Of these 67 have been convicted for conspiring to overthrow the government , Mr. Brownell said . All members of the National Committee of the Communist Party except one have been convicted , the remaining member not having been biought to trial yet because of illness , he continued There are known to be 25,000 " potential foreign agents " within this country , and the FBI , and its head , J. Edgar Hoover , have the praise of the administration for " doing a magnificent job " in keeping the government alerted and advised on the activities of these remaining Communist conspirators , the Attorney General said                     