@@715583

txt WASHINGTON , July 10 ? The three Democratic members of the Senate Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations , resigned today in protest after the seven-man subcommittee voted 4 to 3 to give the chairman , Senator Joseph R. McCarthy , Republican of Wisconsin , sole power to employ or discharge staff members . The action was a sequel to the subcommittee fight that led yesterday to the resignation of J. B. Matthews , a McCarthy appointee , who became executive staff director on June AM Mr. Matthews provoked a storm as a result of his article , " Reds and Our Churches , " in the July issue of The American Mercury magazine . In the article Mr. Matthews said that " the largest single group supporting the Communist apparatus in the United States today is composed of Protestant clergymen . " His resignation was accepted after President Eisenhower and Protestant , Roman Catholic and Jewish leaders had assailed the attack on the clergy . The Senators who resigned from the subcommittee were John L. McClellan of Arkansas , Stuart Symington of Missouri and . Henry M. Jackson @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Committee on Government Operations , the parent committee , of which Mr. McCarthy also is chair man . Charge ' Impossible Position ' The three Democratic Senators said they had been put in " the impossible position of having responsibility without any voice , right or authority . " " I will accept the resignations , " Mr. McCarthy said . " If they do n't want to take part in uncovering the graft and corruption of the old Truman-Acheson Administration , they are , of course , entitled to refuse . " He said the subcommittee would continue to function whether or not it had any Democratic members . The mass resignation , he said , " would appear to be a continuation of the old Democratic policy of either rule or ruin . " The Senate Committee on Government Operations has only two more Democrats upon whom to draw to replace those who left the subcommittee . Both said that they would refuse assignment to the investigating group . Parliamentarians said they knew of no rule that would prevent a single political party from manning a subcommittee completely . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would want to take full responsibility for future ' McCarthy subcommittee investigations . Senator McCarthy at first had refused to accept Mr. Matthews ' resignation , tendered July 2 , but then accepted it , effective yesterday , after the President assailed // the attack on the clergy . The Pres'ident 's action was construed here as marking the first direct shot by President Eisenhower at Senator McCarthy and his investigative group . Without mentioning names , but leaving no doubts as to his targets , the President made known his position yesterday in a reply to three national co-chairmen of the Commission on Religious Organizations of the National Conference of Christians and Jews . Matthews Testimony Refused While the 4-to-3 majority of the McCarthy subcommittee voted today to give the chairman sole appointive powers , Republicans joined Democrats to refuse the appeal of Mr. Matthews to be permitted to go before the panel to " document " his article , in which he said that in the last seventeen years about 7,000 Protestant clergymen had aided the " Kremlin conspiracy . " Mr. McCarthy was reported to have proposed , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if Mr. Matthews would be heard , he would name a Democrat to head the subcommittee hearing him . This , he said , was because the Democrats had tried to force a vote that would dismiss Mr. Matthews . Senator McCarthy earlier had blocked a vote on the dismissal of Mr. Matthews on the ground that the law and Senate rule gave him the authority to " hire and fire . " Democrats took issue , and the vote on the question led to . the resignations today . Republicans joined Democrats in holding that taking testimony from Mr. Matthews at this point would plunge the Senate subcommittee into an investigation of the clergy , an area in which it had no jurisdiction . It was suggested that Mr. Matthews , if he wanted to defend his article under oath , go to the Un-American Activities Committee of the House of Representatives , headed by Representative Harold H. Velde , Republican of Illinois . Mr. Matthews said he had no intention of asking the House committee for an audience . From 1938 to 1945 , Mr. Matthews , a former @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Communist-front organizations , was director of research for the Un-American Activities group , then headed by Representative Martin Dies , Democrat of Texas . Byrd Denounces Article Senator Harry F. Byrd , Democrat of Virginia , denounced the Matthews article as attacking the Christian faith , which he called " the chief bulwark in the world today against communism . " " Mr. Matthews should give names and facts to sustain his charge or stand convicted as a cheap demagogue , willing to blacken the character of his fellow Americans for his own notoriety and personal gain , " Senator Byrd said . " If he can not name all the 7,000 he claims are guilty and give proof thereof then let him name those whom he can . " Senators McClellan , Symington and Jackson said , in a joint statement , that giving full power to Senator McCarthy meant that all members of the subcommittee would incur full responsibility for the actions of the panel itself , the chairman and the staff , " without the opportunity to appeal to the Senate during the coming recess period . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the impossible position of having responsibility without any voice , right or authority . " Senator McCarthy asserted that " they ? object to our chairman having the same authority that their chairman had when we were in the minority . " Mr. McCarthy yesterday joined the other members of his subcommittee in denouncing the Matthews statement that Protestant clergymen made up the largest American group supporting the Communist apparatus . Hepoccepted the resignation of Mr. Matthews , who wrote the article before he took the subcommittee post , with expressed reluctance . Mr. Matthews said today the President 's statement had nothing to do with his quitting , He said he had written a second resignation hours before the President made his statement and had not even known of the Presidential action until this morning 's early hours .                     