@@719761

txt The Soviet Union Kas dramatically flexed the muscles of its rocket program in hurling the earth 's largest artificial satellite into space . Sputnik III soared into orbit May , 15 . As with previous Soviet achievements , it obviously was a culmination of years of planning by Soviet scientists and engineers . By contrast , the United States present rocketry efforts ? both military and scientific ? were made to appear somewhat elementary and long delayed . Plans are far from completed and financing is uncertain for scientific exploitation . A rocket with sufficient power to orbit satellites comparable to those of the Soviet 1958 model are not anticipated in the United States arsenal for more than a year . Moscow Gives Figures Moscow Radio gave the satellite 's weight as 2,919.53 pounds . Width at the base of the sputnik ' was said to be about five feet , eight inches and the height 11 feet 9 inches . Little was reported about its contents except that it was jammed with scientific instruments . Moscow made no mention of any living contents in Sputnik III @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it will be legitimate to speculate whether the new generation of Soviet satellites are carrying pay loads of military significance , such as telescopic instruments for reconnaissance . Called IGY Experiment In announcing some of the details of the satellite 's instruIments , the Soviets said its latest space experiment was part of the International Geophysical Year program . This may prove important at a later date . IGY continues through this year . The day before Sputnik III a United States State Department spokesman told a Senate committee that beyond IGY the use of space for satellites was far from agreed upon . Specifically the Soviets said that their new satellite contained solar batteries in addition to electrochemical sources of power . Its purpose , according to Soviet scientists , is among other things to determine pressure and composition of the atmosphere in the upper layers , and to obtain information on cosmic rays and temperatures . There was little immediate reaction in Washington . The main preoccupations here on May 15 are terrestrial troubles arising from anti-American outbreaks overseas and the homecoming of the touring Nixons . Up on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ legislation for a space agency , Sputnik III may speed up debate , however . Scientists and rocket enthusiasts may also find a few more coming around to their point of view that the United States is going to have to spend more money than the administration now contemplates if this country is to stay in the same space league as the Soviets . Problem Unchanged But the basic problem remains  --  how to speed up the development of the Atlas and the Titan , the two giant intercontinental ballistic missiles which would enable the United States to begin to compete with Soviet rocket power . The Atlas is now under the highest priorities , Titan development has also been speeded up . It does not now look as if they can be made ready much earlier than previously anticipated . The cold facts remain . The United States did not start long-range missile development as early as the Soviets , because it was n't sure a hydrogen warhead could be used by rockets . Hence , the concentration on the airplane as a weapons carrier . In 1953 and 1954 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rockets were leasable . Then the rush began . The Soviets either had advance knowledge that rockets could be successful nuclear warhead carriers , or they went ahead speedily anyway long before 1953 . The only new space programs announced so far by the United States are moon probes , These are to be made by vehicles fired aloft by what are basically intermediate range ballistic missiles . There is also the continuing Vanguard satellite program of                     