@@716505

txt The statement declared that the rearming of West Germany I would cause insurmountable obstacles in the way of unification of Germany and would render impossible any agreement between East and West on Germany 's future . But the British Foreign Office announcement of Mr. Eden 's flying % ? isit to the original EDC countries shows the British Government more determined than ever to find an alternative to EDC by which West Germany can play its part in strengthening western European defense . Mr. Eden will see Benelux foreign ministers in Brussels Sept. 11 ; West German Chancellor Konrad Adenauer Sept. 12 : representatives of the Italian Government in Rome on Sept. 13 and 14. and French Premier Pierre Mendes-France in Paris , Sept. 15 . Decision on this swift British initiative is understood to have been taken by the British Cabinet Sept. 8 . Prime Minister Sir Winston Churchill was lunching with Mr. Eden at the latter 's . official ? London home Sept. 10 ' for last-minute consultations before the Foreign Secretary 's crucial trip . Nine  --  Power Talks ? Some commentators have been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hold a nine-power meeting in London next week on German rearmament and alternatives to EDC . More likely explanation is that talk of such scope at the foreign ministers level simply could not have taken place at such short notice . An official British Foreign Office statement on decision that Mr. Eden should go to the EDC capitals says : " Mr. Eden 's journey is in no way a substitute for the nine-power conference which the governments have proposed and which they now hope may be held in London about the end of September . The purpose of Mr. Eden 's conversations will be to prepare the ground for that conference and for a later meet ing of the North Atlantic Council . " The statement says Mr. Eden will explain British views on German rearmament and alternatives to EDC to the responsible ministers in each country and learn their views at firsthand . The urgent need to do something to counter the sense of letdown and disillusionment which has followed French rejection of EDC is particularly apparent to anyone who has just returned from the annual Trades Union Congress @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ abroad among the mass of working folk in Britain . That feeling looks as if it could spread alarmingly if nothing is done to present clear-cut and understandable new western defense proposals before the ordinary people . Washington Watched There is talk of emergency meetings of the British Labor movement and Labor leader Clement R. Attlee 's being called back from his Australian tour to hurry through some new compromise plan on German rearmament for the Labor Party executive to present to its annual conference at Scarborough at the end of this month . Unless some skillful action is taken by the executive , it looks as if the Labor conference will reject German rearmament . Mr. Eden 's decision to fly round European capitals immediately is undoubtedly prompted by recognition that Communist propaganda is being given wide-open opportunities by the current state of western uncertainty . Mr. Eden will try to work out a common policy to present to a nine-power London meeting if and when it takes place . At the same time , Washington is recognized as holding the key card . And people here wond- , T @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is said in London that the American administration really is engaged in reappraisal of its whole position in Europe .                     