@@718484

txt The drive to modernize Senate rules by curbing the filibuster ( the right to kill legislation by unlimited debate ) has been defeated 55 to 38 , but under circumstances that indicated possible modifications ahead . The liberal antifilibuster senators were encouraged by these developments : 1 . Their vote was almost double the 70-to-21 vote of 1953. 2 . Vice-President Richard M. Nixon sided with the liberals , and even implied that part of Rule 22 ( permitting filibusters ) is unconstitutional . 3 . Republican Leader William F. Knowland of California , though voting against immediate change , pledged himself to introduce on Jan. 7 a resolution for lesser changes . Senator Hubert H. Humphrey ( D ) of Minnesota , one of the leaders of the antifilibuster bloc , expressed confidence that Rule 22 will be modified this session . He was exultant over the showing made in the short sharp struggle that occupied six hours of continuous debate before the vote at 6 p.m. on Jan , 4 . Other senators were less certain . They made these points : Senator Knowland 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , must come before the Senate for debate under the present stringent rules  --  which gives the South a veto power . Although Senator Knowland offered the pledge of rule changes , Majority Leader Lyndon B. Johnson of Texas said he thought Senate rules very good as they are . Finally , President Eisenhower is proposing shortly a civil-rights bill which is in just that field of racial legislation that has heretofore always united the belligerent southern wing of the Democratic Party . An undercurrent of national politics was evident in the debate at all points . Many observers believe that both Vice-President Nixon and Senator Knowland are Republican rivals for the GOP presidential nomination in 1960 . Continuing Body ' ? It was significant , therefore , that Mr. Nixon cast his lot on the so-called " liberal " side . The action is being quietly noted all over Washington . It is taken to imply that he feels that the path of progress for his party , and the road to political prefer ment , is within the so-called " Eisenhower liberal " group . Senator Knowland 's attitude @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Nixon in maintaining that the Senate is a " continuing body " and hence carries its rules from one term over to the next ( unlike the House of Representatives ) , he made a big concession by implying that Rule 22 is too stringent . He offered specific changes to be taken up in an " orderly " fashion ( through committee study and later separate floor action ) . Liberals would be delighted if they could get the Knowland changes . Politically important , too , was the division on the filibuster vote within the two parties . Democrats split geographically down the middle , southerners ' voting almost solidly to table the antifilibuster resolution of Senator Clinton P. Anderson ( D ) of New Mexico . Democrats from the North , East and West generally supporting it . Democrats voted 27 to table the motion , 21 against tabling . Republicans voted 28 to table ; 17 against . New England 's 12 senators split as follows : Against tabling : Smith and Payne , Maine ; Aiken and Flanders , Vermont ; Kennedy . Massa- chusetts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ For tabling : ' Cotton and Bridges , New Hampshire : Saltonstall , Massachusetts ; Green , Rhode Island ; Purcell , Connecticut . . Mr. Nixon 's opinion was asked for from the Senate floor , but was not binding on the Senate . The question was whether the Senate is a " continuing body " in the sense that rules from one term ( including the stringent Rule 22 ) are binding on the next , or whether they can be settled by majority vote at the start of a term . Mr. Nixon cited the constitutional provision that ' each house may determine the rules of its proceedings . " He commented : " This constitutional right is lodged in the membership of the Senate , and it may be exercised by a majority of the Senate at any time . " This runs just counter to a section of Rule 22 . Mr. Nixon , accordingly , held that that part of Rule 22 is unconstitutional . Sweeping Change The Nixon opinion undercuts the quasi-legal , argument to which the southern group and the Republican **28;653;TOOLONG , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ohio and now by Senator Know-land , have appealed . He says they arc basing their position on an unconstitutional provision . It also draws a sharp distinction between Messrs . Nixon and Knowland . Senator Knowland 's proposed modifications , if accepted , would be sweeping . Cloture could be imposed by two-thirds of the senators present and voting , instead of the absolute " 64 " now required . Also cloture could be applied on " any " motion , thereby eliminating the present loophole which exempts motions to change Senate rules from any cloture whatever . How senators voted : Page 8                     