@@716035

txt Bipartisan Senate negotiations to find a compromise for the ' proposed Bricker constitutional amendment to limit the President 's treaty-making powers ended in failure today . The senior Senate Democrats withdrew from their long and fruitless discussions with the Republican leaders and marshaled behind a plan of their own . This was the proposal by Senator Walter F. George , Democrat of Georgia , to knock but the original resolution by Senator John W. Bricker , Republican of Ohio , and to substitute for it a milder approach . Meanwhile , on the Senate floor , Senator J. William Fulbright , Democrat of Arkansas , attacked the Bricker forces as isolationists whose objective was " a retreat from the world . " The George text would leave untouched the President 's powers on treaties but would provide that nontreaty executive agreements could become internal law only by Congressional legislation . White House Objects The Eisenhower Administration objects to this internal law section of the George version . Until yesterday , it had been approved by both the Republican and Democratic Senate leaderships on the condition that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ given a similar approval , with the same condition . The President 's objection to Mr. Bricker 's text are even ' stronger . The Bricker text would put treaties as well as Executive agreements under the necessity of obtaining the approval not only of Congress but in some instances of the state Legislatures . Senator George , with the support of the Senate Democratic Floor Leader , Senator Lyndon B. Johnson of Texas , first indicated his intention to go it alone by formally introducing his substitute . His plan had thus far been held in reserve pending the outcome of many efforts to find a compromise with the Republicans . His intention was to put it in a position on the Senate floor where it would come to the showdown ahead of the Bricker proposal . Having thus moved decisively to put in his resolution on his own and without cosigners , Mr. George announced to a press conference : " We have now got to push it his own substitute to a vote . Either the whole issue must be sent back to committee a process that would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or down . " " There is no hope for any compromise now , " he declared . " Then negotiations are practically over ? " he was asked . " They are over , " he replied . The top members of the Republican Senate leadership , Senators William F. Knowland of California , the Floor Leader , and Homer Ferguson of Michigan , chairman of the Republican Policy Committee , were at work on new language for yet another approach . For this they were attempting to obtain the acceptance of the Administration . In the meantime , they hurriedly introduced relatively noncontroversial proposals that officially would be alternations to the Bricker amendment , as the first item before the Senate . Their purpose here was to make certain that these proposals , at least , were voted on before the substitute George proposal , which still held its precedence over the Bricker original . Democrats for George Senator George has unusual influence on his party in the Senate , as the senior Democratic member of the Foreign Relations Committee . He therefore was assured , on the private @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the conservative wing of the Democrats . Some in the Democratic liberal wing , whose basic position is one of hostility to any amendment , ' made it clear that , where the test was simply the George text against the Bricker text , they would stand with Mr. George . Some indicated , however , that once the Bricker version had been killed , they might at the end turn against the George approach and ultimately vote against any amendment at all . Senators Ferguson and Knowland , both of whom are on record for an amendment of some kind , thus were put in this position : If they were to have any hope of obtaining anything in the end , they must eventually obtain White House approval for some Republican approach or they must ultimately go along with Mr. George and his Democrats . Still , to amend the Constitution requires first the approval of two-thirds of those voting in both the Senate and the House of Representatives and then of the Legislatures of three-fourths lof the states . No Amendment Possibility All preliminary votes in the Senate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is to supplant the Bricker text  --  are by simple majorities . Thus while Senator George whil " a very substantial vote " for his proposal , he made no claim that it would ultimately prevail . The possibility was growing that the net outcome would be I no amendment at all . The proposals put in by the Republican leaders in order to have something on the calendar ahead of the George proposal would involve : ' IA stipulation that no treaty or Executive agreement in conflict with the Constitution would be valid . CIA stipulation that no treaty made after the adoption of the Constitution should be the supreme law of the land " unless made in pursuance of this Constitution . " ' JA provision that the Senate in ratifying treaties must hereafter do so only by a roll call vote . The first and third of these are understood to be acceptable to the Administration ; there is doubt about the status of the second . The recent course of this long controversy has been : On Jan. 27 , Senator George gave notice of his substitute @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a , treaty or other international agreement which conflicts with this Constitution shall not be of any force or effect . " SECTION 2 . An international agreement other than a treaty ' shall become effective as internal ' law in the United States only by an Act of Congress . " Compromise Acceptable This was fundamentally ac-1 ceptable to members of the Senate in both parties , and par-1 tictlarly to those who wished to take some substantial action in the field but not to go so far as Mr. Bricker would go . The George proposal accordingly became the center of the compromise that had been accepted last week , conditioned on like White House acceptance , by all Senate factions save those adamantly opposed to any change . Added to the George version were paragraphs of Republican origin , including the " pursuance of the Constitution " proviso put into the Senate late today by the Republicans . The Administration , however , raised protests that Mr. George 's language about Executive agreements might be read to take away some of the President 's war powers and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were proposed . Senator George retorted that what the Administration wanted to do would " largely nullify " his work . Accordingly , he said , " No . " Thus , at this point , all bipartisan negotiations collapsed .                     