@@717598

txt Letters to The Time To THE EDITOR OF THE : NTEw YORK TIMES : On the same editorial page of Jan. 4 where The Times deplores the results of the French election , another editorial is devoted to welcoming to the United States the cadre for a new German army . The juxtaposition of these two events is by no means a coincidence . Indeed , they are very much related to each other and both are intimately tied up with the workings of United States policy in Europe . At the end of World War II United States prestige in Western Europe was at its zenith . The peoples In that area were confident that United States policy would give priority attention to their needs before the German aggressors . Certainly France , which had been ravaged by German armies twice within a generation and had lost 700,000 of her people fighting the Nazis , deserved our full support . The delivery of German surplus equipment and raw materials , particularly coal , was an immediate and vital need to the French . To a large @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Western European democracy depended upon the prompt and thorough implementation of this reparations program . Re-emergence of Germany As it turned out , United States policymakers doused cold water on reparations and concentrated their attention on the quick " rehabilitation " of Germany . The net result of this shift in emphasis and in direction marked the relative decline of French strength as against the reemergence of the German powerhouse . Many Frenchmen bitterly assailed the United States position , calling it a " Germany First " policy . It had profound psychological repercussions on the French people , whose feelings were not assuaged When our policymakers subsequently called for the rearming of Germany . There is hardly a family in France which has not lost a relative in resisting German invasions . Most Frenchmen regarded the rearming of the former invader , without a period of careful check as to Germany 's trustworthiness , as a new threat to France 's security . The neo-Nazi activities preceding the Saar referendum and the studied silence of our policymakers , who ignored United States past commitments to support the French on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ French people . Thus our very policy to check the inroads of Communist totalitarianism by making Germany the keystone of our policy ir . Europe turned out to be a decisive factor in generating anti-American sentiment in France  --  and not only in France ? which the Communists have skillfunk exploited . This is not to deny that other factors have contributed to the political strength of the Communists in France . On the other hand , to ignore United States responsibility and to treat the problem as though it were solely a French affair is to miss the vital lesson that should be learned . Aid to Communists What good is the resurrection of a German army backed by a mighty war potential supposedly dedicated to the defense of freedom against communism when the very thought of its reappearance has given more aid to the Communist cause in Europe than any other project supported by our State Department ? Is it not clear that we can not have it both ways ? It does not mean that the Communists in France will take over . Indeed , the results of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the cause of democracy if they stimulate the much needed self-criticism and reappraisal of our policies . History has shown that France has been among the United States ' most reliable democratic allies . In this moment of crisis France should be able to look to the United States with hope and confidence that we will not fail her , just as she has never failed us . ALBERT S/MAND . New York , Jan. 5 , 1956 . Small Taxicabs Opposed To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : I would like to suggest to the City Council that before it licenses more small taxicabs it give further careful consideration to the matter . I To the physically handicapped the large taxi means mobility ; the smalle cab means immobility . I refer not only to that group of the permanently handicapped in wheel chairs ' and on crutches . I am of this number and for me the threat of the small cab is acute . But I think it is no less acute for the elderly and for the temporarily handicapped ? the pregnant woman , those @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an arthritic knee . There are many of us for whom the small taxi creates a problem and . in fact , imposes a real hardship . JEAN FERGUSON BLACK , New York , Jan , 5 , 1956 . Results of French Election Hope Expressed They . May Stimulate Reappraisal of Our Policies Tribute to Mrs. Borg To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW Yoex Times : The sudden death of Mrs. Sidney C. Borg leaver : no words to describe the immensity of her loss . To say that she was tireless in her dedication to the public good is in itself a high tribute . But her dedication went beyond giving leadership to so many existing causes in human welfare . She was in fact an innovator as well as a leader , virtually building with her own hands and mind a chain of monuments that will link her for all time with the field of social work . Among the many notable aspects of her fifty years of service v4fe her pioneering efforts in the mental health movement . She became a member of the State Committee on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . As the executive secretary of this committee at that time I can testify to her farsighted view of the neeels , . and potentialities in the field long before mental illness became recognized as our Number One health problem . Mrs. Borg 's life and works wilt serve as an inspiration for modernday career volunteers who in their own way are making a contribution to human betterment in services:to the deprived and neglected , to faniHies and children in deep trouble , to the mentally and physically disabled , and to what we call the community , Mrs. Borg has left many mourners . The Community Service Society stands among them in everlasting gratitude for her contribution to the children and families of this city , STANLEY P. DAVIES , , General Director , Community Service Society , New York , Jan. 10 , 195g . To Strengthen Security . Action Urged to Constitutionalize Administration of Program The writer of the following letter is Associate Professor of Political Science at Washington and Lee University . To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Senator George 's announced intention to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reappraisal of the basic philosophy of national security policy rather than merely a lineitem budgetary analysis . Such a Congressional investigation is long past due both because of the rapidly shifting basis of the ' cold war struggle and also because neither Americans in general nor their representatives know much about the actual administration of our national security policy . We do not know what is implied in statements that we must use all means short of war to achieve our foreign policy aims . We do not understand what actual types of policy actions are implied in the phrases " total diplomacy " and " militant liberty . " This is grave in a democracy where we often hold it erroneous to erect a distinction between means and ends and dangerous to argue that a given end may be so high and even the lowest means may be justified . And though an ill-conceived investigation of national security policy could itself be a too dangerous means of , enforcing the dictates ' of high constitutional morality in this sensitive area , yet it is possible in at least two ways @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Individual Responsibility First , Congress can forcefully /7-affirm the principle of the individual responsibility of each governmental agent for his own acts . This principle can be made required reading for employes in functions deprived of traditional Congressional scrutiny and publicity . Each such employe can be directed to be governed by the working assumption that , although his actions are now hidden from public view , security pro*-tions might end during his employment with all his actions becoming the subject of full Congressional investigation . Each employe can be apprised specifically of the extension of the principle of individual responsibility into international areas established in the Nuremberg trials under American leadership . Second , Congressmen of Senator George 's statesmanly stature can investigate the means being employed in the implementation ? el% American security policy , together with what is available concerning security implementation by other countries . On this basis can be established more specific guiding principles and admonitions for the carrying out of security policy ,  - -  principles similar in conception to those found in constitutional documents . One of our gravest reeds America today is to constitutional @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . J. H. WHEELER . Lexington , Va. , Jan. 1 , 1956.                     