@@715238

txt President Eisenhower put into execution yesterday an adage with which it might be a good idea for all of us to refresh ourselves , because the evidence to date suggests we 're going to see a good deal of it in the next four years . That is the adage that the way to begin is to begin . Referring to price-wage controls in his State of the Union message , the President declared that this program should be permitted to die on April 30 , when the statutory authority expires . Meanwhile , he said , the tapering-off process should begin without delay . Yesterday , four days later , he held a two-hour session with his Cabinet , and when it was over he released an executive order which threw the engines of Government control , under which the economy has been operating for two years , into reverse . The order ends wage and salary controls immediately and removes the ceilings on a long list of consumer goods , including all meat products , all furniture , all apparel and all meals sold in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ list said yesterday that it would affect " nearly all of the thousands of items normally sold in department stores . " The President 's directive on wage and salary controls calls for an immediate suspension ' ' of all wage and salary regulations and orders issued by the Wage Stabilization Board ( or Wage Stabilization Committee ) , Salary Stabilization Board ( or the Office of Salary Stabilization ) and the Railroad and Airline Wage Board . " Adjustments in compensation , including retroactive adjustments proposed in petitions filed by employers , or by employers and unions jointly , and still pending before any of these boards , the order declares , " may now be placed in effect . " In summing up the economic philosophy behind yesterday 's order President Eisenhower made the following points : 1 . The production of materials and services and the demand therefore in the national economy are approaching a practicable balance . 2 . The earliest possible return to freedom of collective bargaining in the determination of wages will serve to strengthen the national economy and thereby the national security . 3 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is not now necessary to carry out the purpose of the Defense Production Act . 4 . For those reasons " it is appropriate to permit adjustment of wages , salaries and other compensation arrived at through the processes of free collective bargaining and other voluntary action . " Both before and since the State of the Union message there have been those who have professed their fear lest the lifting of controls might mean a return of rising prices . Well , rising and falling prices have been a feature of the American economy since the country 's beginnings . We do not like to contemplate , moreover , where or what we would be as a nation if this had n't been the case . But rising prices , when a nation is in a normal state of economic and mental health , produce i their own corrective . If anyone doubts this , let him observe what has been happening recently in the case of beef . Rightly or wrongly , following the Korean invasion , the public was in a mood where it was convinced that if @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ delay it might be years before it could get those items again . This is a dangerous state of mind and if it reaches serious proportions can justify resort to emergency measures . But there are , unhappily , those who are so obsessed with the imagined advantages of a controlled economy that they would keep the idea of an emergency alive in perpetuity to realize and retain this state of affairs . President Eisenhower , in yesterday 's action , has rejected this philosophy of indefinite emergency and he has done it in terms that everyone should be able to grasp .                     