@@714131

txt Quite as impressive as the near unanimity in support of the Japanese treaty at San Francisco has been the fact that while many exceptions and reservations have been recorded these : lave not stopped that support . The East and the West , the great and the small , have spoken freely about their objections . They have not suggested Iliac any or rnem was ground for rejecting the treaty . They have kept an eye on essentials . The Cuban delegate expressed this feeling succinctly yesterday when he declared that Cuba did not entirely agree with the terms of the treaty but supported it in the interest of world harmony . The representative of Ceylon had previously voiced the same sentiment when he stated that his country would have preferred a different way of settling some questions but that this was not a reason to abstain from signing the treaty . Now , of course , the treaty itself is not an irrevocable and unalterable instrument . Some of its provisions , such as that on reparations , for example , have deliberately been left indefinite @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ issue brought a major objection from the Philippines to the several drafts from the beginning of the discussions and a satisfactory compromise has been reached . The objections and reservations that were brought forward yesterday by nations warmly endorsing the treaty itself were thoughtful and moderate . They expressed viewpoints that should certainly be taken fully into account as further agreements with Japan are worked out . The delegate from Colombia remarked that no pressure had been put upon his Government to support the treaty . That is good as far as it goes . What we need also is continuing close attention to the sug ? gestions of our various allies . El Salvador , for example , in yesterday 's session made some penetrating comments in the field of territorial settlement . It opposed the return of Formosa to Communist China , stated that it was no party to the Yalta agreements on territorial disposition , noted that it was not committed on the future of South Sakhalin and the Kuriles and insisted that Salvador 's acceptance of Japanese renunciation of territory did not mean Salvador 's recognition of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ worthy of the most respectful consideration . Similarly , Norway suggested the rightness of indemnities for Norwegian seamen who had suffered hardships in Japanese prisons during the war . This is a modest and reasonable claim in the reparations field and should be entertained . Likewise , Norway urged some restraint upon a possible overexpansion of the Japanese Antarctic whaling fleet . The anxiety revealed in this viewpoint was reflected also by the Belgian delegate , who expressed the desire for safeguards against what had been regarded as unfair commercial practices . Other suggestions looked closely to strengthening the position of the United Nations . The Egyptian delegate made a strong point in expressing the hope that the final disposition of the former Japanese territories could be made through the instruments of the United Nations rather than elsewhere . This is a constructive position and deserves a thoughtful reception . It should be clear from the treatment of these statements of reservation that no small coterie of Powers is trying to steam-roller a treaty through the conference against objection . The drastic rules of procedure that were so enthusiastically adopted were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ They were designed merely to safeguard the conference against acts of sabotage . These rules will seem highhanded only to those whose motives at the conference are not above reproach . What is being emphasized at the sessions , even by those who raise these questions and reservations , is the wide range of backing for the general concept of the treaty . The objections that have been made by all those except the members of the Communist bloc are objections . in detail and not in principle . Many of these objections can and will be met as further settlements are made . What had to come first was a general agreement on broad lines . That agreement , it is now impressively clear , has been reached .                     