@@719351

txt President Eisenhower met with his full Cabinet for an hour and forty minutes today , and then , practiced golf shots on the White House lawn for fifteen minutes . The President 's pace  --  just a week after suffering a mild stroke  --  amazed his aides , but won the approval of his physicians . General Eisenhower also reviewed foreign policy problems with Sohn Foster Dulles , his Secretary of State , in two cOnferences totaling about sixty , minutes . These were in preparation for tomorrow 's meeting with Democratic and Republican Congressional leaders . Scope of the Conference The White House said the President hoped and expected to take part in these discus-. sions . They will cover preparations for the meeting in Paris of heads of government of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization , foreign policy generally , national defense preparations , extension of the Reciprocal Trade Agreements Act , and the activities of the United States Information Agency overseas . General Eisenhower was exa mined at the end of the day , by Dr. Howard McC . Snyder , his personal physician @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said the President had " showed no signs of fatigue . " The President returned just after noon from his Gettysburg , Pa. , farm , making the eightyfive-mile drive in just under two hours . He went to his office briefly to dictate a memorandum , and then went on to the White House proper for lunch and a nap . Returns to His Office It was his first visit to his office since he suffered the cerebral arterial occlusion in. midafternoon last Monday . He returned to his desk about 2:10 P. M. , and worked on official papers for about twenty minutes before entering the Cabinet MOM . It had been announced that the President would participate in the Cabinet session only briefly . He stayed , however , until all major policy questions had been discussed . Cabinet members said the President " looked fine , " and had participated fully in the extended discussions of big spending plans for next year . as well as other legislative proposals . James C. Hagerty , press secretary , and Henry Cabot Lodge Jr. , Ambassador . to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ disclosed none of the speech impairment noted in the first hours after the cerebral attack . Greets Each Member The President entered the Cabinet room after the other members had assembled . He greeted each member by name as he took his seat in the middle of 6ie long table with his back to the Rose Garden . He asked for the customary moment of silent prayer , then called for the first business of the agenda . He made no reference to his illness , nor did Cabinet members . When the Cabinet session ended , the President left with Secretary Dulles for . his own office and a discussion of NATO planning . In this Mr. Dulles has had the counsel of Adlai E. Stevenson , the Democratic Presidential nominee in 1952 and 1956 . Mr. Stevenson will participate in tomorrow 's meeting with the President . There has been no indication that he will be asked to go to Paris for the heads-ofgovernment meeting . General Eisenhower 's first meeting with Secretary Dulles lasted about twenty minutes . Mr. Dulles returned to the Cabinet session while the President @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Dulled came back to the President 's office for a forty-minute session . They were joined briefly by Neil H. , the new Secretary of Defense . Mr. ' Hagerty again declined to estimate when a final decision might be taken on whether the President will be physically able to . make the Paris trip . If he does not go , the United States delegation will be headed by Vice President Richard M. Nixon . In late afternoon photographers observed the President practicing golf shots on the South Lawn . A few minutes later Mr. Hagerty confirmed the news . He said the President had been practicing twenty-yard chip shots with a No. 9 iron and a wedge from the grass just below his office across a small road to the green . It was the first time that he had s ( vung a golf club since his latest illness . Dr. Snyder watched through the window as General Eisenhower exercised . Dr. Snyder reported that the ) President got about ten hours of sleep last night , awakening just before 8 A. M. , and that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Government business on the drive back from Gettysburg . Riding with him was Mr. Hagerty . Mrs. Eisenhower stayed at the farm , but was expected back soon . " Speaking not as a doctor , but as a layman , to me his recovery each day is great , " Mr. Hagerty told reporters . All members of the Cabinet were on hand for the session . They were joined by Ambassador Lodge ; the two Presidential assistants , Sherman Adams and Maj. Gen. Wilton B. Persons ; Gordon Gray , Director of the Office of Defense Mobilization ; Maxwell M. Rabb , Cabinet secretary , and Mr. Hagerty . The Cabinet remained in session after the President and Mr. Dulles left the room . Vice President Nixon presided in the President 's absence .                     