@@720085

txt Starting , at 12:05 A , M. on Monday there will be a 3-cent charge for transfers now given free on the lines of two of the city 's largest franchised bus companies. , Permission to impose the charge was granted unanimously by the Board of Estimate yesterday to the Fifth Avenue Coach Lines , Inc. , and its wholly owned subsidiary , Surface Transit , Inc . The lines of the two companies serve about 1,100,000 riders daily . It was estimated that 191,000 persons now using free transfers would be affected by the 3-cent charge . Both Rave ** Fare The Fifth Avenue Coach Lines operates in Manhattan and Queens . Surface Transit operates in Manhattan and the Bronx . Both companies now charge a regular - fare of 15 cents with free transfers at specified points on their own routes .. No provision is made for inter-company transfers . Because of the 3-cent charge , daily riders on the buses who use the transfers will have to pay an 18-cent fare beginning Monday , In Manhattan the two lines operate on major north and south @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Forty-second Street . They also run on most of the major crosstown streets north of Fourteenth Street , 8 Speak at Hearing The charge was approved after a brief public hearing at which there were only eight speakers . The Estimate Board acted on the recommendation of James J. Thornton , director of its Franchise Bureau , He reported that both companies would incur large operating deficits in 1959 unless the requested transfer fee was allowed . Mr. Thornton also said that the additional revenue from the transfer charge would just , about cover the cost of a wage increase of 10 cents an hour to the operating employes of both companies . The pay rise , like the 3-cent transfer charge , becomes effective Monday , John E. McCarthy , president of both . bus companies , said notices of the transfer charge would be posted in all company buses starting today , Patron of the lines would also be notified by radio broadcasts - and newspaper advertisements , he explained . The transfer charge is ex pected to increase the annual , revenue of Fifth Avenue Coach Lines by 820,000 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Fennell , counsel for both companies , told the Board of Estimate that the additional revenue would cover increased labor costs , but still would leave each company with an operating deficit of about 5100,000 at the end of next year , Approval Is Conditional In the case of the Surface Transit , the Board of Estimate made the 3-cent transfer charge conditional . It stipulated that permission to collect the charge would lapse on April 1 , 1959 , if the company did not file by that date a petition to modify its franchise to give the city the right ' to make Third Avenue a one-way thoroughfare . At the public hearing the Bronx Chamber of Commerce and the Bronx Board of Trade urged that the requested transfer charge be allowed . Opposition was expressed by several persons describing themselves as taxpayers . Another opponent of the transfer charge was former City Councilman Benjamin Davis , who spoke , on . behalf of the New , York State Communist party . Isaacs Offers Plan City Councilman Stanley M. Isaacs , Manhattan RepublicanLiberal , urged that the companies be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ He criticized the non-rush-hour service of both companies as " incredibly bad . " Harris 3 . Klein , former member , of the New York City Transit Authority , opposed the transfer charge on the ground that the city lacked the necessary technical staff to decide whether it was justified . Mr. Klein , who ' appeared before the Board of Estimate in opposition to the requests of all of the city 's franchised bus companies to increase their fares from 13 cents to 15 cents , charged that the city 's estimates of the additional company revenues from the higher fare were far too conservative . Before the Board of Estimate approved the 3-cent transfer charge Mayor Wagner directed Mr. Thornton to look into the quality of the service provided by the two companies . He also asked Mr. McCarthy to take notice of criticisms made of the service supplied by the two companies . 