@@717362

txt The Government of President Juan D. Peron in effect appealed Ito the rebels tonight to refrain ( from bombing Buenos Aires . A statement broadcast by the official radio , even as insurgents stood poised to attack the Argentine capital from sea and air , said that " it is not in the national spirit to use among brothers tactics that Argentines abhor , even in situations of international war , such as bombing open cities . " ' The broadcast was monitored here . The unexpected statement , coming after earlier Buenos Aires ' assertions that threats of bombardment were absurd , was 3een as tantamount to declaring the capital an open city . This underscored the seriousness of the situation facing President Peron at the end of the third day of the revolution against his regime by the Navy and sections of the Army . Rebels Cite City 's Defense The rebels had threatened to bomb Buenos Aires if General Peron did not resign at once . A rebel broadcast heard in Montevideo , Uruguay , said Buenos Aires could not be considered an open @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Under international law- a city proclaimed and acknowledged to be open , or undefended and divested of military installations , would be immune from attack . In other developments in the battle between the rebels and loyalists , the revolutionary command announced that the inland provinces of Mendoza , San Luis and San Juan were under the control of its forces . Because of censorship , news from rebel sources is not transmitted from Buenos Aires . The Government , in a late communique , said that its troops had completed the recapture from the rebels of the city of Cordoba . in central Argentina , However , the Cordoba radio resumed broadcasting early this evening after an all-day silence , asserting Cordoba still was in rebel hands . The Government also accused the insurgents tonight of having // damaged the gas pipelines leading into Buenos Aires from the south . It requested the population to reduce to the minimum the , use of cooking gas . The military actions throughout the country were accompanied by a simultaneous battle of the airways , with each side seeking to discredit the claims @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the situation extremely serious  --  despite the confident tone of the broadcasts by the official state radio during the day  --  was seen in several other drastic steps taken in Buenos Aires in the last twentyfour hours. , The most important , perhaps , was a radio appeal to all Argen- , tine workers to take up arms in the defense of the regime . The rebel radio at the Puerto Belgrano naval base took to the air immediately thereafter to say that " the complete defeat " of loyalist military forces made it necessary for the Per  --  nist Government to ask civilian workers for help . The Government had imposed a strict curfew and blackout over the city as the insurgent fleet approached from its base at Bahia Blanca . Troops and anti-aircraft guns were poised along the Rio de la Plata ( River Plate ) in Buenos Aires to repel naval or air attacks but , as of early tonight , the capital had not been attacked . The revolutionary radio at Puerto Belgrano said that the fleet had already reached the mouth of the river , fifty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Puerto Belgrano had warned the inhabitants of the capital to stay away from the river and the harbor sections to avoid injuries in a bombardment . Fleet Reported at River Meanwhile , Argentina was completely isolated from neighboring countries . Airline flights were suspended and all the frontiers were closed to railroad and highway traffic . Tight censorship was clamped on press dispatches from Buenos Aires early in the day , and news correspondents there were permitted to cable only the texts of official Government communiques . Telephone connections from Argentina to the outside were also cut by the Argentine authorities . The military situation tonight . according to rebel and official broadcasts monitored in Santiago , was as follows : The rebels captured the three inland provinces . Mendoza , San Luis and San Juan , according to broadcasts heard here at 1:30 P. Mt . from the Puerto Belgrano and Mendoza radios . This was the first time that the Mendoza radio , calling itself " The Voice of the Army of the Andes , " had been heard in Santiago . The Mendoza broadcast said that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the streets were patrolled by soldiers with orders to shoot and kill anybody acting suspiciously . A subsequent broadcast by the Puerto Belgrano radio said that loyalist troops in the three provinces had joined the rebels . The Puerto Beigrano broadcast , describing the " victory " in the three provinces , said that the Second Army , under Gen. Julio Alberto Lagos , had gone over to the insurgent forces . The insurgent Navy , claiming full control of the air and the sea along Argentina 's coast , declared early today the blockade of all Argentine ports and airports . It informed foreign governments not to send planes or ships into Argentina . Late broadcasts by the rebels also spoke of " victorious " fighting in the provinces of Corrientes , Entre Rios and Santa Fe . It was still not clear tonight who was the chief of the revolution forces in inland Argentina . Gen. Eduardo Leonardi had identified himself in a Cordoba broadcast as the chief of the " liberation movement " and issued a proclamation setting forth the aims of the revolution . But he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Balaguer , who had originally captured Cordoba Friday , had been considered the leader of the insurgent movement in Argentina . A new name appeared today in rebel broadcasts . It was that of Gen. Roberto Nazar. who was said to have assumed control of the military government of Cordoba Province . Earlier information indicated that General Balaguer was forming a provisional government with Admiral Ismael Rojas , commander of- the rebel naval forces : Commodore Krauss , head of the Noncommissioned Officers ' Aviation School in Cordoba , and antiPeron political leaders .                     