@@713963

txt The illegal entry into the United States of migratory Mexican farm workers has resulted in a most complex and deplorable situation . This practice of employing wetbacks is indulged in by only a small fraction of farmers . Actually , only the largescale farms employ them in large numbers . Large farm units constitute only 2 per cent of the nation 's farms , and only a small fraction of that percentage employs the cheap alien labor . Because of this huge supply of Mexican migratory workers the wetback wage becomes the prevailing wage for farm workers generally . This selfserving group of large agriculturists has absolved itself by some curious trick of conscience from any responsibility toward either American standards of employment or toward the wetbacks as human beings . This comparatively small " handful of large agriculturists has asked and obtained Government assistance in recruiting and employing low-wage farm workers from Mexico in addition to thousands of wetbacks illegally in this country added to the work force , all in competition with domestic labor . The excuse used is the unavailability of domestic workers . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ well , that the wetbacks , coming in in such high numbers , evade all immigration laws . They escape any screening for security purposes and escape inspection by public health officials . Thus , they bring with them communicable diseases . The discussion which took place on the floor of the House recently on H. R. 3283 , amending the Agricultural Act of 1949 to cover the importation of Mexican labor , revealed an indifference to the domestic farm worker which is unconscionable . I offered amendments designed to penalize those hiring , concealing or harboring wetbacks . Such amendment would , in effect , impede the flow of illegal Mexican immigration , since it would close off job opportunities motivating these entries . This , in turn , would increase the job opportunities for domestic labor and result in better standards of health , housing and working conditions for entire communities . Other amendments were offered designed to make the employers in some measure at least accept their responsibilities as employers . These were defeated . The final bill which passed the Congress on June 30 encourages and abets @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It likewise broadens the definition of agricultural labor to include operations such as canning and freezing . ItJegalizes Government contracting of workers illegally in the United States . It affords free scope to those labor contractors who prey on the misery of the wetbacks . Such contractors ( or crew leaders , as they are commonly called ) will continue their practice of recruiting thousands of illegal entrants from Mexico , like so many , heads of cattle , and hiring them out en masse to the large farm units , charging the wetbacks exorbitant rates for food and lodging and supplying them with the worst of both . The bill should be vetoed . Scope of Bill Despite the defeat of the remedial amendments offered in connection with the bill covering the importation of Mexican labor , I shall again offer such legislation in the form of a bill to amend the Immigration Act of 1917 , as amended . While under Section 8 of the Immigration Act the harboring of aliens is a criminal act , there is no enforceable penalty under the , decision of United States @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the Immigration Act giving the necessary clear statutory penalties for harboring , concealing , or transporting illegal aliens as well as authority to the Immigration and Naturalization Service to enter places of employment to determine if illegal aliens are employed . The bill will further provide , among other things , that it be unlawful to employ aliens illegally in the United States and that the Immigration and Naturalization Service shall have the authority to remove all legally imported labor from any place of employment on which any illegal alien is found employed . I believe that a general reading of the report of the President 's Commission on Migratory Labor would so arouse public opinion that the enactment of remedial legislation could not be blocked by an unholy alliance of Republicans and Southern Democrats acting in the interests of a small selfserving group against the interests of the nation . May I take this opportunity to congratulate THE NEW YORK TIMES on its splendid series of articles written by Gladwin Hill , which so graphically set forth the whole miserable picture of the exploitation of the wetbacks . EMANUEL @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Unreality Toward Russia To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : May I congratulate you on your editorial " Realism About Russia " in your issue of June 28 . As you suggest , there has been a " peculiar unreality attaching itself to the American policies " pursued with regard to Russia after the First and during the Second World Wars . Even in Asiatic countries where the Communists have not captured the revolutionary movements we lose friends by presenting our foreign policy as a struggle against communism . The people of most of these countries make the distinction which we seem unable to make between communism as a system of economic collectivism and Communist revolution as an instrument of Russian imperialism . Communism as an economic system , in whole or in part , appeals to many of them . While we might be able to persuade them that Russian imperialism presents a danger to their security , and perhaps induce them to join us in a system of collective security , our exhortations against communism as such must leave many Asians , to say nothing of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ill. , July 9 , 1951 . Future of the Saar Territory 's Desire for Participation in ? European Federation Noted TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : THE TIMES recently published several articles concerning the status and the future of the Saar . Your reporter has created the impression that there is presently a strong pro-German tendency in the Saar ; that elements of the Socialist party , and even a majority of them , are in favor of a reconsideration of the future of the Saar and that loud objections have been voiced against the banning of the Democratic party . I happen to have been a frequent visitor to the Saar during the six years that I was a correspondent in Germany . Although convinced that your reporter was wrong , I checked with authorities in the Saar . I chose members of the minority and of the opposition to Johan Hoffman 's Government . Here is , in substance , a condensation of the replies received from Saarlanders : They are afraid that your Frankfort correspondent was never here . They wish he would come @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the opinions of the Saarlanders and not look at Saar problems only through Bonn eyeglasses . Return Not Favored First of all , there has not been S. surge in popular sentiment favoring We return of the Saar to Germany . That is simply not true . Why should the Saarlanders want to go in for unemployment , higher taxes , higher prices , less earnings , less social insurance , higher rents , suffer from graft , share their homes with Eastern refugees , have an unbalanced budget , etc . ? The man in the street if asked would say : " All we want is work , food and a decent life , earn enough money to raise our children rebuild our homes , our villages , our barns and our towns , live in peace and enter soon as equal partners a united confederated Europe . What we do not want is that others quarrel about us and Bonn should leave us alone . If a plebiscite were held tomorrow , 65 to 70 per cent of the Saarlanders would vote for the actual status . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ another . It is remarkably strange to Saarlenders that they spend their time , in Bonn , in talking only about the Saar , but never about the Eastern provinces . Should Bonn take the Big Three for so much weaker than the Russians ? No substantial opposition has developed inside the Socialist party and THE TIMES is wrong again . This party is not supporting the nationalist policy of Dr. Schumacher . In a motion voted at the congress of the Socialist party 406 out of 407 delegates opposed return to Germany . Party Reasons The fact that the Saar 's two Socialist Ministers left the Government had to do with internal party reasons only . The Socialist party is now in the opposition and no longer in coalition with the Christian People 's party . These things happen in all countries , but they do n't mean that the Socialists want to secede from the Saar . The people of the Saar have not been worried about the banning of the socalled Democratic party . They took hardly ahoy notice of it at all , while the German and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are not interested in -- they even refuse  --  a new plebiscite . They want the Allies to make a treaty with Germany and solve the Saar question , but that they should hear the Saar as well . The present status was imposed on the Saar after the war . It has been accepted with much goodwill . Saarlanders want to take the first step toward Europe . A unified Europe is the hope of the youth of the Saar . ROGER H. CHARLIER . Kearny , N. J. , July 2 , 1951 , Preserving Academic Freedom To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : I see where the National Education Association is worried about growing restrictions upon academic freedom . It was good to see that such a respectable and conservative organization is getting worried . I do n't think it 's too late for the N. E. A. to do something about it . MARTIN WOLFSON . Brooklyn , July 6 , 1951.                     