@@713874

txt Great Britain , Canada and the United States have rather quietly reached an agreement on the standardization of more than 400 defense items . There is still not an accord on the calibration of the rifle , and there are a few other differences that can be brought into line in good time . But the basic intent to agree is obvious . This is to be a joint effort , and the massive areas of common interest make picayune the areas of temporary disagreement . What may not be adequately realized is that there is also an important and deep trend toward agreement in some areas of policy , notably in respect to the Far East . At the present time the United States and Britain are actually nearer to full accord on Asiatic policy than they have been at any previous time in the past seventeen months . There have been gradual shifts in ground on both sides of the Atlantic that have often been overlooked in the clamor about " cleavage . " This clamor has come chiefly from extremists on both sides . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tried to suggest that the United States was trying desperately to precipitate a general war in East Asia and that the defense of Europe would be sacrificed to it . In the United States the professional Anglophobes have tried to suggest that it was formal British policy to give aid and comfort to the enemy . Neither of those suggestions has been true and the events of recent weeks have given ample evidence of their falsity . The United States has recalled its distinguished commander in the Far East in an official declaration of policy in favor of a strict limitation on Korean hostilities . The commitment of the United States Government against enlargement of the struggle could hardly be made more plainly . At the same time , the United States has dispatched the first contingents of its newly authorized troops for the defense of Europe . This , likewise , should be vastly reassuring to even the most apprehensive . On the British side , the United Kingdom has readily joined in an embargo on all strategic materials to Communist China . It has clamped down on rubber shipments @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the Formosan issue is not germane to the present discussion in respect to Korea . Britain , in short , has come as far toward reassuring the United States as the United States has gone toward reassuring Britain . There is still one major difference in Asiatic policy . The United Kingdom has expressed its willingness to recognize the Peiping regime , The United States has now stated bluntly that it does not propose to do so . This difference , however , is becoming more academic as time goes on . The British willingness to extend recognition has not led to the establishment of anything remotely resembling normal diplomatic intercourse with Peiping . In point of fact , six additional British consulates in China have recently been closed . The real crux of the British recognition problem would iie , of course , in whether the Unitea Kingdom would become a sponsor for Peiping 's entry into the United Nations . It is becoming steadily more apparent in utterances from London that Great Britain has no intention of espousing the cause of a proclaimed aggressor . Matching this problem @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ espouse the cause of the Iranian extremists ana offer technical assistance in the production of oil from establishments seized from British op erations . The best reassurance that Britain could have on this score is not the statement from Washington but the torrent of abuse that the Iranian extremists are pouring on the United States . The force of circumstances may be expected to combine with pod sense to bring Americans and Britons closer together . That good sense need not be impeached by a few wild words either here or there . We have no intention of " standardizing " our ideas as we have standardized so many of our weapons . Similarly , we do not suggest that there be any stricture upon the right of any Briton or American to speak his mind . We do suggest that our enormous areas of agreement can serve to keep our differences of opinion in something like a healthy perspective .                     