@@719695

txt The Eisenhower administration today stiffened its opposition to free : pending Democratic sponsored plans for pepping up the economy . Louis S. Rothschild , undersecretary of commerce for transportation , voiced a flat objection to a bill for 512 mu -- Ilion dollars federal aid to air'I ports , sponsored by Sen Mike . Monroney De Okla . . It has been heralded as another jobcreating program . Suggests User Financing . festifying- before the Senate aviation subcommittee , Rothschild said cities and airport users should finance the enlargement of air fields to handle jet passenger planes which are due to begin service this year . " We have no doubt as to the need for enlarging and improving airports over the count r y , " Rothschild said . " But more and more cmimunities are finding sources other than federal aid thru which to finance economically necessary and desirable airport development . The federal government has already contributed more than two billion dollars to development of local airports . " Sen. Monroe ney Disappointed " I am terribly disappointed at the position taken by the administration , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all airports by military and other federal government planes , and I do n't see how Washington can escape responsibility for part- of the cost . " Rothschild said it is possible that a public works program in the future might include an airport program . The Eisenhower administration has such a program " on the shelf " for emergency use , he said . The administration stand on the airport bill was seen as a portent of future clashes between the Democrat Congress and the President . Both houses of Congress returned today after an Easter recess in which they consulted the voters at home , finding them uneasy over the business decline , according to report , but not clamoring for a tax cut , one of the more popular proposals in Congress . Wannest Day of Year The warmest day of the year and the opening of the baseball season postponed action and oratory for at least 24 hours . Both houses adjourned quickly to permit legislators to watch Mr. Eisenhower throw out the first ball . Lyndon Almon D. , Tex . , Senate majority leader , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ weeks ago , told reporters he would push tomorrow for action on a bill authorizing a billion dollars in long term , low interest loans for local public works projects . This measure had been scheduled for passage before the recess hut William Knowland R. , Ca1.3 , Senate minor ity leader , forced a delay until after Easter , noting that most senators did n't know what was in the legislation . " The fate of the bill will depend on the attitude of the administration and Senate Republicans , " Johnson s a i d . " They caused the delay . If the , minority does n't want to face up to this recession , that 's their responsibility . " Mind Not Made Up Johnson said he has not yet made up his mind whether to seek Senate action on overriding the President 's veto of a bill to bold farm price supports at or above their 1957 levels . He would need substantial G. 0 . P. support to override a veto , he said . The White House announced that the President will make a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 20 to members of the American Management association wmcn mien an eco ? nomic mobilization conference as the result of suggestions made by Mr. Eisenhower at a meeting here March 18 . At that time , the President said the vigor of private enterprise , not government , is " the real mainspring " of the national economy . In response to the President 's plea for speedy action on extending unemployment compensation payments , the House ways and means committee tomorrow will open hearings on an administration proposal and a more liberal Democratic substitute . Production Index Down in another facet of the recession picture , the Federal Reserve board reported that its index of industrial production declined 2 points in March to 128 . This was the lowest level it had reached since the 1954 recession . It was the seventh consecutive monthly decline . The board said the March figure was 12 per cent below the level for a year ago when the figure was 145 . The index , in ' which 100 is the 1947-49 average , is a measure of the volume of production of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ announced an " accelerated program " to build 70,484 f amily type homes for its personnel this year and next at a cost of about 1 billion dollars . It said most of the houses will be located at new strategic air command installations , ballis ? tic and guided missile sites , and expanded air defense installations . The air ? force said the program is both " a substantial contribution " to the nation 's economy and a step to provide badly needed shelter for air force families . 