@@713039

txt The Board of Estimate 's " unanimous " decision to hold private bus lines in New York City to an 8-cent fare after July 1 , while charging a 10-cent fare on city-owned lines , contradicts logic and contravenes justice to private enterprise . It accepts the political philosophy of Controller Joseph , who was a low-fare man on city transit until even he was driven from that position by a deficit so large it could no longer be swallowed . It ignores the reported opinions of the Reid committee to which the Mayor had referred the question for informed judgment . It sets up a double standard for public and private operation in the same field , with a clearly implied policy of putting the private lines through the wringer on the way to municipal purchase at a knockdown price . This is described as an interim decision and is , we hope , subject to prompt change . We do not put too much confidence in such a hope . We have seen the city slow down to a walk so habitually in granting fare @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on time , but rather the delay that is the denial of justice . Such delay has been instrumental in forcing the Third Avenue system into bankruptcy . It forced several smaller lines to give up to the city . It has deprived investors of a legitimate return . It has deferred intolerably the payment of back wages to employes . It has been a prime underlying cause of labor unrest which has caused anxiety and the inconvenience of strikes to the riding public , and which will invite new trouble in the early future . We say again , if private lines , bearing their added burden of taxation and capital outlay , can afford to operate at a lower fare than cityowned lines , then a serious question has arisen as to the efficiency of city transit management and a time may have come in the public interest to put surface passenger operation under private management . The last time we criticized Controller Joseph on his attitude toward the fare for private lines we received a thirteen-page letter from him in defense . We published his views on March @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was then standing against an 8-cent fare , to which ? he , has now acceded tardily. when the city raised its surface fare to seven cents , two years ago , he was for giving . the private lines six cents . We invite Mr. Joseph to look beyond the voter and to take a larger view of the city 's expanding transportation needs ; to adopt an attitude that will encourage private enter- ' prise to join with ? the city in the investment in new equipment that will mean faster , more comfortable and more frequent service , and assure stable labor relations ; to look to the future , with the need for finanding soundly , without too great burden on the taxpayer ( or the abandonment of other capital projects ) , of many millions of dollars of new rapid transit in Queens and elsewhere . These broad objectives could have been served , at least to some degree , by a 10-cent fare . A higher franchise tax could reasonably be asked of these companies for their use of city streets , and the rate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Profits could be watched , and the increased revenue to the city could be constructively used for improved transportation in the people 's interest . But the narrow view prevailed , through lack of conviction and leadership within the Board of Estimate .                     