@@720009

txt A " ready grin " in the face of adversity and avoidance of ' gamily fights " were ' prescribed by President Eisenhower ' today as the essentials of a Republican victory in next . month 's elections . The President spoke at a breakfast given on his sixty- , eighth birthday by 600 party workers . Members of his White House staff joined workers of the Republican National Committee and the Republican Campaign Committees of the Senate and House of Representatives in honoring the Presi-dent , The General urged a national chain letter campaign . as anoth er way to , banish apathy among registered Republicans . The campaign , he said , could win over " discerning Democrats " and independents to what he termed the cause . of " sound and solid government as opposed to radical government : " Before , his talk the President held a prearranged telephone conversation with Mrs. ' Annabelle Smiley .. Khalaf , a Maplewood , N. J. , housewife , to signal the start of a nation-wide telephone drive to get voters to the polls next month @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as 2,000.000 phone calls might be placed for this purpose in New Jersey . Mrs. Khalaf , who is active in the New Jersey Republican Housewife 's Get on the Phone campaign , told him that the goal had been set at 3,000 , - 000 calls . " Well , you 've just raised me out of the pot , " the President exclaimed . Mrs. Khalaf wanted to know what the President meant . He appeared ' a little abashed as he explained that he had used a poker term . G. 0 . P. Campaign Funds Lag In his response to the birthday greetings from the party workers , the President acknowledged that " political money " had been hard to come by and was not coming in to the national committee 's treasury . He said one reason for this was that prospective contributors " have been believing what their opponents want them to believe . " " We have got to stop it , " General Eisenhower told cheering breakfasters who filled the main ballroom of the Stotler : Hotel . " The campaign can be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Democratic propaganda to make Republicans believe that " we are apathetic , that we have no interest in this election , that we are saying : ' Oh , what 's the difference ; it 's hopeless and that 's that ' . " Even some Republicans are beginning to believe this propaganda , he complained . Draws on an Experience The President drew on early personal experience to point a lesson Ito the breakfast meeting . He said that as " a slightly ambitious young officer " years ago , he had a wise , skillful and understanding boss of whom he inquired what was the most important qualification of a staff officer , The officer , he said , told him : " A- ready grin . " After pondering the answer awhile , the President said , he understood that this is what it meant : " A staff is a team , and no Matter what the capabilities of each member of that team , if that staff is not basically motivated in the same direction , if they do not have the same basic aim @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be a good team . " In the same way we must be supporting each person that is close to us . We must , in turn , be supported by them . Internecine warfare  --  family fights ? will hot do any good for any team that is trying to do something which has a common objective . " One of the main points of the President 's extemporaneous talk was that there was , no valid reason for Republican workers or Republican voters to feel discouraged about their election prospects . Wrote Personal Letters The President told of an experience that had prompted his suggestion of a chain letter campaign . He recalled having written personal letters to 450 friends in business and professional life asking their support of his Defense Department reorganization plan . Such was the flood of supporting correspondence to members oT Congress , the President said , " from that time on there was nothing left to do but talking , " If every one of the workers present would write ten letters to friends and ask them to write ten more , the President @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lively interest in the election campaign and the banishment of all Republican complacency and apathy . " By the way , for myself , I am doing some of it again , " he said , As the President left the White House just before 8 A , M. for the breakfast , he was surprised to find the Army Band assembled on the south lawn of the Executive Mansion . His appearance with Mrs. Eisenhower was greeted with " Ruffles and Flourishes " and " Hail to the Chief " from the band . Then came a braccy ' Happy Birthday to You . " The birthday song was repeated by the assembled party workers as the President walked into the hotel ballroom . General Eisenhower appeared in high good humor as well as the best of health as he took his place at the center of the head table with Mrs. Eisenhower .                     