@@719628

txt WASHINGTON , March 22 ? In the coming month the ominous mushroom cloud of the atomic age will start rising once again over the crescentshaped Eniwetok atoll in the Pacific . Over Soviet Central Asia and the Barents Sea north of Murmansk similar clouds can be expected to unfold from Soviet atomic test explosions . And while the clouds float around the world depositing their dangerous radioactive material , the air will be filled with proposals and counterproposals for ending atomic tests . This dichotomy of explosive clouds and peaceful sounding words is symbolic of the conflicting forces at work within Moscow and Washington over continuation of the atomic arms face . Within both capitals there is the inevitable desire to develop better and better bombs that can destroy more efficiently and counter weapons advances bye the other side . And yet there is an appreciation on both sides that there is a tremendous psychological victory to be won ! , in world opinion if some way . can be found to seize the initiative in ending the atomic tests . These conflicting forces are ? illustrated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Administration over a new ap- ! proach to the question of atomicl disarmament . After m .. ntlis standing pat in intcrn4tionall disarmament talks , the Admin. istration is going through a fundamental re-examination of its past position that a cesFaton of atomic tests would only be acceptable if it were tied in , with a carefully inspected halt , in production of atomic ' weapons . New Tests While this disarmament debate goes on , plans are proceco- , ing for another atomic test ' , series at the Pacific proving ground starting early ilex ' , month . The Administration is caught in this dilemma : If it adamantly declines to suspend atomic tests , the United States will ' suffer a psychological setback in the eyes of the world with far-reaching implications . And yet , if it does agree to suspend ' ' tests , the United States may be placed at the mercy of the new ballistic missiles developed by the Soviet Union and the overwhelming Soviet , ground forces with their capability for waging conventional and " brush fire " wars . A new development @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would have virtually no radioactive fallout . But their perfection is dependent upon further testing , probably stretching far beyond the forthcoming , series . To a lesser extent the Soviet Union is caught in the same dilemma . For the moment it is in the enviable position of having captured the psychological initiative in proposing a cessation of atomic tests . But at the same time it is exploding nuclear weapons in an impressive rapid-fire fashion , including two H-bombs in one day . The most likely explanation is that the Soviet Union ? just like the United States  --  is racing co develop new warheads tor the Dallistic missile era befor. ? . any ban is placed on future testing. , Paradoxically , the forth-1 coming Pacific tests may open up an avenue out of the present dilemma . After the tests are completed , the Administration will be in a better position to judge whether further t. , 2sting is necessary for weapons development or ' whether the United States can safely rely for the time being on its existing arsenal of weapons . In the current debate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ coming from the Atomic Energy Commission and Defense Department on one side and the ' State Department on the other . Like the inventor always seeking the better mouse trap , the Atomic Energy Commission and the military inevitably are driven to development of better , more useful atomic bombs . And they tend to frown on any suspension that would stand in the way of perfection . Diplomatic Pressure The State Department , on the other hand , is being pushed along by the tide of diplomatic and world opinion toward some agreement on test suspension . Its.main problem is to find some face-saving compromise that would riot clash too strikingly with its previous insistence that tests could not be halted without an ironclad agreement to control the production of weapons materials . The redefinement of the U.S. position on suspension of atomic tests must take into account the attitude of its , principal allies  --  France and Britain . Even more than the U.S. , these two nations are under pressure to continue testing and developing atomic weapons . Britain is still in the early stages of development of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its first atomic weapon . Nevertheless , it is not believed that Britain or France will impose any insurmountable barriers in the way of an agreement to suspend tests . They also are under heavy diplomatic  --  as well as domestic  --  pressures to find some way to halt the atomic arms race and could ill afford to take an adamant stand against any test suspension . The possibility of a summit meeting , preceded by a prepatory foreign ministers meeting , is having the effect of imposing a deadline on how long the debate can range without a decision . It is likely , therefore , that the Administration will come up with a compromise position late this spring  --  after the mushroom clouds have disappeared into the stratosphere leaving behind a radioactive reminder of the atomic arms race .                     