@@719294

txt President Eisenhower will meet tomorrow with his two top civilian defense chiefs in an apparent continuation of a series of Administration moves to speed this country 's lagging program on missiles and satellites . The , meeting with Neil H. , Secretary of Defense , and Donald A. Quarles , deputy Secretary , has been scheduled for 5 P. M. , after the President 's return from a medical check-up at Walter Reed Army Hospital . The topic of the conference was not disclosed by the White House today . Presumably , however , it will involve methods of implementing plans outlined by the President in his talk to the country last Wednesday night for speeding scientific programs . The meeting also may help clarify Mr. 's directive of last Friday ordering the Army to join the program to launch earth satellites . Army Had Been Limited Other Pentagon sources appeared to confuse the issue yesterday by telling the press that this directive did not mean that the Army was to " race " the Navy , which is charged with the Vanguard satellite program @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a satellite . There were also indications that President Eisenhower might be getting ready to ask Congress to lift the $275,000 , - 000,000 ceiling on the national debt as one means to provide greater freedom for developing satellites and missiles . This would probably be neces-1 sary if increased spending were authorized for the programs . Today , Secretary Quarles said that this country was not lagging five years behind the Soviet Union in satellite development . That estimate was made yesterday by Dr. Wernher. von Braun , former German rocket expert who now heads the development operations division of the . Army 's Redstone Arsenal in Huntsville , Ala . Mr. Quarles said there was " no such difference at all . " However , he conceded that the Russians were obviously ahead of this ' country in satellite development . . He said this was the responsibility of " all of us " in the Defense Department who had conceived of America 's satellite program as a strictly scientific project that would be geared to the International Geophysical Year , rather than as a military race with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Soviet Union , Mr. Quarles listed electronics , atomic weaponry and " many branches of aviation . " He conceded that outer space was going to be " increasingly important " and that the United States " must undoubtedly move more energetically in this area . " Hails U. S. Rocket Power Mr. Quarles indicated that the United States has rockets capable of the lift and thrust evidenced by the Russians when they successfully launched their two satellites into orbits around ithe earth . I A questioner noted that the Irsecond Soviet satellite had Rifted ' 1,000 pounds 1,000 miles into space " and is capable by scientific figuring of carrying 5,000 pounds to the United States . Do we have a rocket that is capable of lifting that weight ? " " We have rockets , that are capable of doing the kind of ! thing you are describing , yes , " Mr. Quarles replied . He did not identify them . The Secretary refused to say . whether he thought the United ? States or the Soviet Union was lahead at the moment in the ! @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it would n't be pos sible for anybody  --  to answer that question exactly , " he said . Asked about the effect of in ter-service rivalries on the , defense programs , Secretary ' Quarles said he thought the dif- I ferences had been " greatly ex-I kr . Quarles made these points on " Youths Wants to Know , " a : television program of the National Broadcasting Company . Killian 's Choice Praised - Thomas K. Finletter , who was Secretary of the . Air Force in the Truman Administration , said today that he thought the President 's appointment of Dr. James R. Killian Jr . as his special assistant on scientific development was good in itself . But " a mere appointment is , not going to solve the problem , " . said Mr. Finletter . He said the country must decide what it is trying to achieve in its programs , and there must be greater candor on the part of the Administration . He also said that the Administration must be prepared , if necessary , to ? take steps as drastic as raising @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Finletter gave his views on " College Press Conference , " a television program of the American Broadcasting Company . Congressional leaders who are scheduled to meet with the President on Dec. 3 and 4 have already been approached by the Secretary of the Treasury , Robert B. Anderson , to sound out their views on raising the debt ceiling . For the first time since the President began holding presession ' conferences with the legislative leaders , members of the House Ways and Means Committee and ' the Senate Finance . Committee have been invited to attend . These invitations clearly indicate that increasing of defense spending will be discussed . Senator Harry F. Byrd , chairman of , the Senate Finance Committee , said today that so far he had received no request to review the debt limitations . If such a request comes , " it , of course , will be given serious consideration , " the Virginia Democrat said . " For practical purposes , " he said , " the debt limitation is the only check Congress retains on spending . We have yielded the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ appropriations of billions of dollars . Before we increase the debt ceiling , we will have to have some concrete evidence that action is necessary . "                     