@@774298

txt  | unions and large or largest firms , local wage rates established by the larger companies , and similar important issues . How TO OBTAIN BEST PERSONNEL FOR THE SMALL PLANT In view of these conditions it should be obvious that personnel management in the small plant has a character different from that prevailing in large plants . Usually , there is no personnel director and still less likely a **26;1852;TOOLONG expert . The owner or manager still does his own hiring , and the subsequent relations are between him and each employee . The small plant personnel , owing to the small number of people involved , must become by necessity a group . Personnel management must , therefore , be aimed to form a group in which each member becomes integrated with all other members , not only by his specific contribution to the work to be done , but also by his attitudes and actions . If people are hired without consideration for the necessity of group formation , cliques form which are always the beginnings for open splits into factions , favoritism , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inclined to call in psychologists to analyze the prospective employees , and since in the majority of small plants the unions do not yet supply the workers , many small plant managers have developed simple , direct , and often quite effective policies for hiring their employees . Recruiting from the Neighborhood : This is the most obvious and most often applied hiring policy of small plants . The people coming from near by consider the plant as part of their environment . They have many experiences and interests in common ; often they favor the same local sports , teams , politicians , or at least they have heard of the same people . They work more easily together , understand each other and the manager , and cooperate more readily if properly guided . They form a " natural , voluntary group , " the most desirable small plant group to have . Into such groups also newcomers , who have settled in the same neighborhood , are quite readily assimilated , which sometimes offers to the plant manager the opportunity to hire especially good men who otherwise would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which are known for " good employment conditions " have to advertise for workers . Those working there always find someone whom they " recommend , " and if the plant owner or manager applies the proper judgment , he can consider the recommendations and still keep the undesirables out . It is his responsibility to decide if the new employee is  | capable of doing the work and will fit in with the group at the same time . Small plant groups recruited in this manner are by no means inferior to those hired on the basis of fancy tests or rating schemes so much played tip as methods of hiring . In fact , small plant employees are generally more natural , happier , and much less sophisticated than those bright young men . office politicians , beautiful ladies , and touchy shop crews found in large plants . Whether they do clerical work or shopwork , they know they arc " working people " like the boss , and all are rather proud of it . The good old-fashioned pride in being a worker is by no means @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Small Plant : Small plant managers rarely are burdened with the concepts that men over forty are unfit to work , that ambition indicates " executive caliber , " and that bossing others is the main requirement to be sought in a foreman . The tolerance that can be found in small plants as to age and physical handicaps and the willingness to " give a break " to the old as well as to the young are in gratifying contrast to the cold , abstract reasoning so often found in the larger plants . Good small plant management , however , does avoid too great uniformity in the age distribution and always aims to create an intelligent group composite of older , middle-aged , young , and youngest people , so that petrification is avoided . The main object is that all cooperate to do the daily work and aim to help each other . Employment of young people can be found often enough , but it is hardly done to exploit them . It is caused by the kind of work which they are asked to ( 1o @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ draw lower wages but because they do certain kinds of work more aptly or patiently than men or boys . The Kind of Work to Be Done Should Determine the Worker : As many and varied as the scientific opinions may be on how to select a worker or clerk , in the small plant the know-how rules are few and simple . There is a definite kind of work to be done , and the one who can do it best is the one to be given the job . Many small plant managers who hoped that " willingness to work " would he enough soon found that in their performance not all applicants live up to their promises . Few employees have the ability to " create their own jobs " in the large firms , and still fewer can do this in the small plant . It is a duty of the manager to create the jobs and to determine the details that are required to do the work that has been planned ; then he must find  | the man or woman , boy or girl to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ each job needs in terms of qualifications , the better he will form his group and avoid the necessity for corrective measures . This same policy should be upheld by foremen where they act for or advise the manager on hiring . A foreman who has to rely on the workers to work out their own routines is not a good foreman , and looseness of operating is bound to result . Job descriptions , job analyses , and job ratings have definitely a place in the small plant and are methods that save in wastes and troubles more than they may cost . They also fortify and strengthen the small plant manager in current or prospective dealings with unions . The fact that a small plant may have " only a small number of workers " is no excuse for not clearly planning each job and job routine to be organized and seen through as would be best technically as well as managementwise . If each job is thus established carefully and then described , analyzed , and rated , then for each job a satisfactory basic wage rate can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all other job rates , and thus a sound basis for a wage structure will be created . Troublesome argumentation can thus be avoided or settled on the basis of facts . A small group rather than a large one is open to reason based on facts , and that should be considered in reference to every job and every employee in the plant . Women Workers : Experience has shown that women are perfectly competent to perform work that was always considered a " man 's job . " In those instances where speed and manipulative dexterity are at a premium , women work out particularly well . They also appear to have better resistance to monotony in routine , repetitive operations than have men . In the opinion of many foremen women pose more personnel problems than men , and there is evidence to show that they are not so steady on the job as men . It may be observed that this is due to two outstanding factors in addition to physical considerations : Many women do not have the same home responsibilities for the support of dependents @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ home burdens that these family duties interfere with their attendance at work . Experience has shown that women with industrial experience and family obligations , but without too many duties in caring for a home , make excellent employees . Toilet , locker-room , and rest-room facilities for women in small plank are often lacking , and since the duplication of such facilities for men and women is expensive , the lack often constitutes a bar to the employment of women . When women are working on the same job as men , legal requirements often make it necessary to adjust the working speeds of men to  | women or to adjust female rates of pay to a lower level than that of men doing similar but more work . Since the policy of similar pay for similar work by men and women was established , some complications may arise over this issue . Hiring Only Experienced Workmen . ' Matti small plant managers seem to believe that only those should be hired who already possess the qualifications to meet the requirements of the job as established through the job-description procedure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that it does away with the necessity for training new employees and for making several promotional changes in order to fill one job . However , workmen rarely fail on the job to perform the tasks assigned them owing to a real lack of experience , especially when a reasonably thorough job of screening and at least some teaching are done by the person doing the hiring and by the foreman . Against hiring only experienced men are the higher wages which have to be paid and the frequent unwillingness of such workers to do , in a different manner , a certain kind of work which they claim to know . Training : Many small companies prefer , therefore , to establish an on-the-job training program to train inexperienced employees . The advantages of this approach are numerous . Young blood is being constantly fed into an organization in contrast to the policy of hiring only experienced employees , which obviously will steadily increase the age level of the working force . By establishing lines of promotion and giving young employees training and increasingly more difficult work as they are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its ranks from getting stale and its operating can gradually be improved . Promotions should be the reward for meritorious performance at the lower level . Unions have shown a distinct tendency to insist that upgrading he made upon the basis of seniority , with some consideration being shown for merit and ability to perform the work . The basis for this attitude allegedly stems from charges of favoritism being shown by management , and there is some truth in the contention . By matching the employee 's qualifications against the requirements of the job , it is possible to determine his deficiencies in a systematic manner and to give appropriate training to correct these deficiencies . The same procedure applies in preparing the employee for advancement to the next higher job classification . He should be prepared in advance to perform the work when the opportunity offers . This does much to overcome the difficulties of promoting strictly in accordance with seniority , since training of this kind brings win clear relief the qualifications of the  | employee in comparison with the requirements of the job while he is being @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are weeded out at this stage , loss of face on their part is avoided , and the union and the management are given a chance to agree in advance as to who will be promoted rather than making a decision under the pressure of having to fill a vacancy immediately without adequate time to consider the matter thoroughly . Seasonal Employment : In many small plants there is a distinct seasonal increase or decline in activities , due to the nature of their products or line of work . In other small plants such increases or declines arise because their main customers either call on them for special help during certain months or curtail their orders during other months . These changes in production loads can be partly corrected through better management planning , but often they can not be helped because the small plant has to conform to its orders and may need the money which this irregular business brings . Thus seasonal employment is created in quite a few small firms , and it is for the manager to handle these conditions fairly and squarely . Often employees @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ short-lived or seasonal . but they are not informed about this for fear that they would not accept the jobs , stretch the work , or ask for higher pay . They simply are laid off without notice when the rush is over . Such a procedure is hardly conducive to good labor relations , and once it is repeated , the reputation of the plant as an employer is bound to be impaired . Seasonal employment should always be made known as such , and surprise actions should be avoided . There are always people willing to do temporary work , but no one should be made to believe that he has a permanent job when he has not . Racial or Other Discrimination : As regrettable as it is , discrimination exists . Regardless of laws and social enlightenment , quite a few employers have definite preferences as to the kind of employee they want in their plants and as to whom they do not want . Since there is no law which could compel any private employer to hire whom he does not want , he keeps the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there has been some irrational discrimination against the employment of women in industry in the past , there has also been considerable irrational discrimination because of race and religion . Experience indicates that discrimination made on this score is unjustifiable . The employment of considerable numbers of like people as well as the hiring of people regardless of nationality , race , creed , or color is likely to result in the  | formation of cliques . It is therefore advisable to have the working force either as completely homogeneous as possible or as completely heterogeneous as possible . If members of minority groups are employed in small numbers , it is preferable to make sure that they are scattered throughout the organization and assimilated without regard for their race , creed , color , or nationality . It is an error to hire Negroes , for example , as common laborers only . They should be placed in skilled as well as unskilled jobs ; they should be selected with the same expectation of upgrading as any other employee . In instances where this has been done , the results @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The small manufacturer may well give serious consideration to another type of discrimination which has become of more importance during recent years . Many large corporations have provision for compulsory retirement at the age of sixty or sixty-five years . Two factors affect this policy . The first is that these men are supposed to be no longer capable of maintaining the high pace required of them , and the second is that many of the plants are unionized with attendant pressure being brought to prevent cutting the wages of these men in accordance with their productivity . Since they are no longer able to maintain the pace that justifies the payment of their high rate , they are separated from their employment . The experience of these men should not be lost , nor should their productive ability be lost ; they are far from ready for the scrap heap . For example , in a recent study of the wage structure in a plant , a consultant noted a screw-machine setup man earning a rate considerably below that of the operators . Investigation disclosed that only one setup @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the physical capacities of a setup man retired from one of the finest companies in the city . The man and the company were both perfectly satisfied with the financial arrangement that had been worked out , and there was , in fact , no inequity in the rate due to the limited amount of work required . Physically handicapped applicants should not be overlooked in considering sources of labor . A study of the job description will often show that the general screening is much more stringent than necessary with regard to physical requirements . The key to the problem is that a worker is not handicapped , in spite of any physical deficiencies he may have , if he possesses the necessary physical ability to fulfill the requirements of the job . These handicapped workers have proved that their attendance is better , the quality of their work is better , and the quantity of work produced is greater than the average nonhandicapped worker performing the same kind of work . These comments should show that the recruiting of the right kind of work group for the small plant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It needs , however , care and the definite intention to form the human element  | into a smoothly functioning team and to fit each employee into a job , well considered in all its details . Then comes the much more difficult task of keeping the men working not only at their jobs but also with the management , so that mutually satisfactory management-labor relationships are established and maintained . SOME OLDER METHODS OF GETTING WORKERS ' GOOD WILL AND GOOD RELATIONS Small plant managements perhaps more so than large plant managements have over the decades developed quite a number of techniques , the main purpose of which is to get workers to turn out the work desired of them and still remain contented with their jobs . These two points are the main and possibly most basic objectives of any systematic efforts at good labor relations . They are being made especially in those plants where no union is established and where it is the aim of the management to keep on friendly terms with those whom they employ . if friendliness and mutual understanding are aimed at and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ applied to make discipline and obedience outstanding features of the relationship . Nor is harmony achieved by playing up anyone 's authority or superiority of command . These practical , time-tested techniques stress mostly the advisory , teaching function of those who have to show the others how to do the work and how to ask them to do a certain amount of it . In all these techniques little is said about relations . This is all for the good , in so far as talking about good relations does not really create them . Therefore , the less said the better . But there are certain deeds which are brought into action and that seem to be much more effective than any psychological campaign or legalistic argumentation . These deeds are practical , understandable , and tangible expressions of good will on the part of management . And in general they are responded to by the workers . Payment of Higher than Union Wages : In order to prove to the workers that their work is appreciated , many small plant managements voluntarily pay the same wage rates as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Of course , this makes such plants good places in which to work , good workers are attracted , and since such managements carefully observe all other possible requirements as to insurance , hospitalization , vacations with pay , working hours , working conditions , fair treatment , and quick response to requests or complaints , very few disagreements or arguments can arise between such managements and the men . Even the unions do not interfere , because they are not asked by the workers to do so .  | Granting of Indirect Wages or Benefits to the Workers : Those managements which can not afford or do not desire to pay higher than union wages usually pay the same wage rates asked by the union , but if they desire to have especially good management-employee relations , they offer in addition special inducements or benefits to show their appreciation to their men . As such are offered training , hospitalization , family hospitalization , medical help , dental care , special bonus for length of service , seniority consideration whenever justified , recreational or sports activities , and quite @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the company . The workers and the unions consider these benefits as indirect wage payments which , in general , they accept , but often enough they suspect indirect payments and make it known that they would rather receive higher wages . Various Forms of Wage-incentive Plans : " Where management and the workers desire to improve their relations mainly on the basis of wages , higher wages , and special wages as reward for special or better work , a variety of incentive-wage plans are applied . For the purpose of this discussion , the term " incentive " is used to mean payments made in accordance with some plan to vary the amount paid in accordance with the productivity of the employee . In those situations where the worker has little or no opportunity to vary his productivity owing to the nature of the work or where it is impossible to measure his productivity with any degree of accuracy , straight day rate is the best method of wage payment . In some jobs it acts as an incentive . Ease cf administration and general acceptance of day rate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ question if it is in accordance with the American philosophy of competition , which would indicate the desirability of rewarding the better producers with higher wages . A mild form of incentive is the establishment of a " rate range " for jobs which are paid on a day-rate basis . This provides an opportunity for rewarding the more reliable and more efficient employee for his efforts and at the same time acts as a mild sort of punishment for the worker whose performance leaves something to be desired . When rate ranges are established , it is customary to use ranges amounting to somewhere between 10 and 20 per cent , depending upon the circumstances . For example , if the evaluated rate for a job were $1 per hour , the range for the job might well vary from $0.95 to $1.05 or perhaps as much as from $0.90 to $1.10 per hour . The use of merit ranges creates some immediate problems . The system See also J. Keith Louden , Incentive Wages . New York , John Wiley &; Sons , Inc. , 1947.  | is open @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ favor his friends and discriminate against those whom he does not like . It may require some procedure for having a second party verify the soundness of the supervisor 's recommendations with reference to merit increases or establishing of a " merit-rating " program to determine who are the better producers . Merit ranges often allow union representatives to bring pressure on supervisors for wage increases which result in the elimination of the merit range simply because everyone in a short time receives the highest rate , regardless of his ability . In spite of these difficulties , the obvious advantages of merit rating clearly outweigh the disadvantages pointed out . Those who have the managerial ability to overcome the obstacles mentioned will enjoy a competitive advantage over those who can not overcome them . A properly administered merit-rating program will act as an incentive and will produce higher efficiency in the working force . In those instances where the employee can exercise considerable control over his output and where his production is readily subject to measurement , a stronger incentive is highly desirable . There are a great many different @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ particular advantages and disadvantages . But there are certain fundamentals which underlie all of these formulae . Essentially they are based upon the number of acceptable units or pieces an employee is able to produce in a given time . Call it piecework , measured daywork , standard hours , bonus ; call it time saved ; call it what you will , the underlying principle is the same . The simplest way to understand these formulae is to plot them graphically on rectangular coordinates . The curves show the relationship between the reward and amount produced . It follows that the steeper the slope of the curve the greater the incentive to produce . When the curve has no slope , it has the characteristics of straight daywork . Incentive systems are not panaceas for poor supervision . On the contrary , they require the finest kind of planning , methods . material control , tooling , etc . It is dangerous to attempt to use incentives where present performance is poor . It is true that an incentive program , even though poorly conceived and executed , will often @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : When employees who have been loafing along far below their productive capacity see an opportunity to increase their earnings through increasing their production , they will naturally do so . But even the increased production may be nowhere near what they could produce if they were so inclined . Realizing that , if they produce to the best of their ability . their rates of pay would be so high that the employer would certainly increase the standard or " cut the rate , " the employees limit their production to a particular rate . Here we have a new situation in which the employer now concurs with  | the employee that production is above " standard " or above " normal " and supervision is no longer in position to urge greater production even though the improved production is , in fact , far below what it should be . Or let us suppose that the employer finds himself with a terrific unbalance between the rates being paid his salaried employees in comparison with his hourly paid employees . To argue that the customer was willing to foot the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ foot the bill for exorbitant piece rates is foolish . The customer will do so in a seller 's market , but when that situation changes , some of those who allowed their piece-rate standards to get away from them will go broke quickly . For these reasons , piecerate plans should be introduced with great care . If experts are not available within the company , employers will do well to consider securing expert advice from outside before embarking on a piece-rate program of wage payment . SOME MORE RECENT METHODS OF GETTING WORKERS ' GOOD WILL AND GOOD RELATIONS In addition to these older methods of getting good management-labor relations , quite a few additional ones have recently been developed . Some have been adopted also in small plants and might be of interest to others . Reasons for Factual Considerations of Jobs When a man applies at the employment office , he is principally interested in what will be expected of him and how much he will be paid for the performance of his duties . From there he goes on to considerations of the permanency of his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ etc . In relatively few instances does he go into detail concerning welfare programs , paid holidays , vacations , and the many other laborexpense items which are frequently piled on top of the wage structure ( on the average , amounting to about 15 per cent of the total payroll cost ) . Interestingly enough , the employer is often less inclined to talk about the precise nature of the work being offered than he is to talk about the so-called advantages of working for his particular company . Perhaps one of the reasons for this is that he wishes to retain as much flexibility as possible in exercising his right to assign work and establish requirements of performance . He has learned from rather bitter experience that , once he has definitely stated the duties the employee is to perform , the employee resists any change or addition to this assignment . This natural and normal  | resistance to change often results in the employee 's feeling aggrieved if his job is changed after he has started to work . He then wants to reconsider whether or not he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the changed conditions . If a union contract is involved with provisions relating to transfers , promotions , upgrading , etc. , the problem is further complicated . The employee may not wish to terminate his employment with the company and at the same time may not wish to accept any modification in his work assignment . As a result of these considerations , management is frequently loath to state precisely what duties the employee will be expected to perform . This is a mistake which will , perhaps , postpone meeting the problem , but it certainly will not solve it ? instead it complicates the whole relationship . Job Analysis Job analysis , the systematic study of the activities in which an employee must engage to perform a job and the conditions under which these activities take place , is the keystone of labor-relations technique . A sharp line of demarcation may be drawn between this technique and the related engineering techniques of motion and time study , methods engineering , etc . Whereas these techniques have to do with the best methods of performing the work and determining @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , job analysis has little immediate concern with these objectives . It is true that the endeavors of job analysis and motion study are very closely allied and must be integrated by the management in such a way as to reach the ultimate goal of management , namely , the efficient production of goods to fulfill the needs of the customer while creating the best possible working conditions and paying the highest wages that are economically feasible while producing a fair return to investors . Factors and Point Values Possibly to Be Used in Analyzing , Describing , and Evaluating Jobs It is apparent that job analysis should be undertaken after jobs have become fairly well established as the result of work simplification , motion study , etc . In order not to be misunderstood in this connection , may it again be pointed out that it is fully realized how dynamic working conditions must necessarily be . Furthermore , it is not meant that any of this work must be formalized to such a high degree that results will not justify costs . In those companies where the methods and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he done on formal job analysis .  | Job Descriptions In situations which are characteristic of smaller companies whose volume of production will not justify the elaborate programs to be seen in large organizations , a " ready-made " job description from the United States Dictionary of Occupational Titles ( available from the Superintendent of Documents , Washington , D.C. ) may serve as a starting point or pattern to be followed . It contains the description of thousands of jobs commonly found in American industry . With few exceptions , these descriptions are excellently done . Just as a ready-made suit will not fit like a tailored suit , these descriptions will not fit the jobs in a particular plant in the way that tailormade descriptions , " made to measure , " would fit the situation . True , one may have to make a few alterations , but it is a major premise of labor relations that the best job analysis must be used that can be secured with available talent and money . With these descriptions at hand an investigation of the plant situation can be started @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the plant come to fitting the description of the job as given in the Dictionary . It should be borne in mind that a job may consist of one or more tasks and that what is called a " job " in one plant may be only a single one of several " tasks " composing a " job " in another plant . Therefore in using the Dictionary , one may have to combine several " jobs " as given in the Dictionary into a single " job " in a particular plant . By modifying and combining descriptions given in the Dictionary and making one 's own observations it should be possible to do a respectable piece of work in analyzing and describing any job as it exists in the plant . Job Evaluation 3 The first step in attacking the problem of giving a fair day 's pay for a fair day 's work is to describe aaequately the workman 's job . By classifying his jobs in accordance with the descriptions mentioned above , the employer places himself in position to compare the wages paid in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the community or in his industry . In this connection , the various trade and business associations should not be overlooked as a source of information on current rates of pay . Of even greater performance than a comparison of rates of pay in any plant with the rates being paid in the community or industry is the relationship between the rates being paid for one job within the plant as compared with the rate paid for another job within the same plant . Conditions vary footnote Sec Bibliography .  | widely from one plant to another ? jobs bearing the same title in two different plants differ from one another in such important aspects that it is difficult to determine within a few cents what the relative values of the two jobs really are . Community rates may serve as only a general yardstick in assessing the value of a job in any given plant . The status of the wage structure in one plant may be roughly compared with the community wage level by noting how many people leave the plant to go to work for other companies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ better . " figure When it comes to the comparison of rates for one kind of work with another in the same plant , we have a very different situation . Since other conditions of employment are identical , in this situation , the management and the employees are able to gauge quite accurately the value of one kind of work as compared with another . Because the individual employee is in position to know the facts , in his own plant , concerning the relative difficulty of his job as compared with the relative difficulty of the work performed by a fellow employee , he will feel that he is being discriminated against if he does not receive what he considers equitable pay . He will feel that the management just is not interested in seeing that he is properly paid . The experience of many companies will support the statement that employees often quit a job because of such inequities in the rate structure in one plant and accept employment at a lower rate of pay in another plant . A review of the factors affecting morale will furnish @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are frequently as important as rational responses in determining what a workman will do . DERIVATION OF LABOR GRADES AND RATE RANGES  | This situation may be avoided by a relatively simple , systematic analysis . A committee composed of persons qualified to know ( superintendent , foreman , and workman , for example ) can review the requirements of each job in the light of the job description and simply rank each job in accordance with the difficulty of the requirements of the job . Such consideration would surely include working conditions and the amount of training and experience required to perform the work . This is called the " ranking method " of job evaluation . More elaborate methods are available , and for those who wish to go into this problem in detail , we recommend the reading of any one of the many fine books written on the subject of job evaluation.4 When the jobs have been properly ranked in accordance with their difficulty to the satisfaction of all concerned , differentials in rates of pay can be assigned to each job , bearing in mind that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conformance with the rates being paid for similar work by other employers in the industry and the community . But the greatest concern is to see that the jobs are correctly rated one to another within the plant . EMPLOYEE PARTICIPATION IN COMPANY AFFAIRS One of the most important of the modern relation techniques is that of learning how to secure the participation of employees in formulating policies , designing good procedures , and establishing good practices . Oftentimes when workmen express a desire to participate in this way , the management immediately concludes that the employees are asking for " the combination to the safe . " And sometimes they are ! This condition , however , almost invariably arises as the result of the management 's attempting to enforce policies conceived in a vacuum without regard for the opinions of employees . A better understanding of discipline and morale is a prerequisite to the undertaking of an extension of employee participation in those companies which have not done as much along this line as may appear desirable . Encouragement of participation certainly carries with it the risk that employees @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . What business activity does not involve risk ? Occasionally we see managers who simply throw up their hands in the face of this problem and abdicate their positions . Employees do not want this . However , they desire to participate constructively in the formulation of labor policies if high morale is to be achieved , since cooperation is the essence of morale and cooperation means participation . ' See Bibliography .  | A weak-kneed manager who accepts unreasonable suggestions or demands from his employees is as poorly regarded as the imperious dictator who rides roughshod over his people with strong-arm disciplinary methods . In general , the management should accept the responsibility for initiating changes in the existing state of affairs . Such proposals should be definite and complete and should come in response to visible needs . Before being put into effect , they should be discussed with as many of the work force as is practical or desirable in the light of those who will be affected . The reasons for the proposal should be honestly and clearly explained without withholding any pertinent facts . Sufficient time @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Granted that some situations require change , it is still true that many companies drop changes of all kinds like a bomb among their employees for the very purpose of taking them by surprise and preventing them from participating . Such companies seem to prefer the fait accompli and a strong arm to good morale . If , whenever possible , employees do participate in the formulation of changes , a margin of safety is built up for the introduction . The employees have confidence , since the matter has been referred to their consideration . There is one further point of great importance in employee participation . Management should retain final authority in all these matters and should openly state that it is doing so . Unfortunately , some managements invite employee participation , allege that the decisions are controlled by the employees ' opinions , and rely on their sales ability " to convince ' em it 's their idea " while pursuing a predetermined course of action with no consideration to the opinions of those consulted . What nonsense ! All of us have been run over by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ effects on our morale . A frank , authoritative statement is far more to be desired than such deceits . BEWARE OF MORALE CAMPAIGNS Ignoring the true concept that morale is a social condition , pseudoscientific quacks offer their services now also to small plants to put on campaigns which are often referred to as " morale builders " ? campaigns to indoctrinate the workers with some pet idea of the management . They conduct surveys of morale before and after giving the employees a dose of their particular morale medicine . These surveys purport to prove that their brand of snake oil is worth the fantastic fees they sometimes charge . These experimenters blithely compile " statistics " to prove that the campaign instituted on their advice is the cause of improved production . The real truth may he that the improvement resulted from the workers ' belief  | that , as a result of a shift in world politics , the product they are working on has assumed new importance to the national welfare , or they simply produced more for some other reason . The point is that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , abstract conditions . As such they are not subject to objective measurement or verification . In spite of the impossibility of making such measurements , many businessmen , accustomed to dealing with blueprints and specifications , are easily persuaded that the same techniques can be used to solve social problems that are used to solve engineering and other production problems . HOW TO OBTAIN REAL MORALE A continuing program of sound policies , techniques , and practices is a better answer to the morale problem than an occasional high-pressure campaign . In order to develop the more important features of such a program it is essential to have a more complete understanding of the characteristics of morale . Then , with an understanding of the characteristics of morale one has a standard against which to gauge the likely effect of any particular labor-relations technique which may be considered for use in a particular business establishment . Any group of individuals living or working together establish relationships with each other in such a manner that the group can maintain its entity with as little personal friction as possible . These relationships @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wide variety of means . A social code is built whereby each person enjoys particular rights , privileges , and prestiges . Anything which causes a shift in the relative position of one member of the group necessitates a complete readjustment of each person to a new social situation . Is it any wonder that we all resist change in the established order of social things , whether it be the home , the church , the plant , or the national political situation , unless we are convinced that our own interests will be clearly benefited thereby ? Here is the heart of the morale problem : Employees usually suspect the motives of the company when policies , procedures , or practices are altered and they are certain to resist change of any kind when it destroys the social equilibrium of the group affected . Once these facts are appreciated , one is better able to perceive why many employee-benefit programs designed to improve morale are doomed to failure . The facts in the matter may he that the program actually does benefit the employees ; they may be convinced @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; but because of the changes it effects in the social order of the group , the net results may be nil or negative .  | If the group thinks the program is merely some new kind of a speed-up to get more work out of the employee , the reaction is certain to be bad . That the new welfare activity by the company is truly the manifestation of a sincere interest in improving the lot of the worker makes no difference if the employee feels ? believes ? takes the attitude ? that " this is another fast one the company is trying to put over . " If a welfare program is carried on at a hysterical level designed to keep the worker completely occupied during every waking moment with activities that the company thinks are " good " for him , the employee will strongly express his antipathy for the program . On the other hand , programs directed toward greater security for himself and his family , with an opportunity for him to participate voluntarily in the benefits of group action without substantial encroachment upon his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that welfare programs in small towns , dominated by a single company , may be much more paternalistic and much more social in nature than such programs could be in large industrial centers . But the way of life is growth , and the nature of growth is change . It is true that we must " keep abreast of the times , " we must " meet competition , " we must " improve . " And this may well bring the management into conflict with the tendency of the employees to establish static conditions within a social group . The ill effects of this necessity for change can be ameliorated to a marked degree by careful planning , clear thinking , and the avoidance of unnecessary social experimentation and change for the sake of change . Some personnel men seem to feel that they are not earning their money unless they are putting some startling new idea into effect . When changes are necessary , the importance of convincing employees that such changes are going to benefit them can not be overemphasized if good morale is to be maintained @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are , in fact , necessary or beneficial , but whether the employees think the changes will be helpful . And this difference in attitude or morale always does determine the success or failure of a new idea . Timing plays a most important part in the successful revamping of policies or procedures . Good employee communications demonstrate their greatest value in bringing about a readiness for and acceptance of change . CREATE STABILITY AND GET MORALE Disruption in the social order of things is frequent and violent at the lowest level of the organization because employees at that level , required to make adjustment and adaptation to new situations , are those who are least  | capable of making such adjustments . As one goes upward in the organization and away from ever-changing requirements of production , he comes to the realms of higher , inherently more stable levels . An opportunity is offered by this situation which may help in solving the most difficult aspect of the morale problem ? meeting and fulfilling the desire on the part of the employee for stability in an ever-changing industrial world . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fundamental labor policy should be used to give the production worker such a feeling of stability . Such a statement coming from the management is invaluable in building morale , for the management , in the eyes of the rankand-file employee , is a symbol of the American free-enterprise system ? a symbol of the American way of life in which he believes thoroughly . He can freely give his allegiance to this symbol of the freedom and plenty of American production to which he refers in his conversation as " the company . " Just as in his youth he had a father or an uncle who was , in his opinion , a paragon of virtue ? wiser , stronger , nobler than the father or uncle of the boy in the next block ? the worker now wants his company as his symbol of security . He scans the newspapers , alert for favorable reports of company activities , plant expansion , new products , the activities of the company executives in community affairs . All these things improve his confidence and his morale . They are concrete @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ regrettable to note how few companies avail themselves of these opportunities to improve their employee morale . In companies lacking a published labor policy , at the very place where the employee looks most longingly for symbols of stability and permanence , he finds none . He can only assume one reason for this , i.e. , that the company does not issue a statement of labor policy because it is contemplating some change in its policy which may affect him . Unless there are compelling reasons to the contrary , labor-relations policies should be made known to every member of the organization . In small plants this can be readily done . When such relations policies are established and made known to the men , they must be actually applied and carried out . It is a simple matter to make the statement that it is the policy of the company to " place employees in the kind of work best suited to their abilities , " but quite another matter to apply the policy in practice . And when the relations program reaches into the field of pure welfare @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to encourage thrift , " it begins to take on some very serious aspects , not in the sense that thrift is not a desirable virtue , but in the sense that an employee may feel that what he does with his money is none of the company 's business . It is at this point that the employee begins to wonder about the desirability of the " all-wise " management as compared with the  | delights of individual initiative and liberty and possibly the advantages held out by some union . HOW TO GET MORALE IN THE SHOP Turning from the morale problems affecting the working force as a whole to those of the smaller groups , we have the foremen acting for " the company " as the symbol to which the employee looks for guidance . At this level are the problems of changes in the hours of work , rates of pay , and working conditions . Here it is that we hear so many situations weighed in terms of " fairness . " Almost invariably the employee interprets fairness to mean that his earnings , his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ group do not suffer as the result of a foreman 's decision or change in company policy . When a complaint is made , the employee wants " fair treatment " in the handling of his complaint . But what is fair treatment ? What is a just complaint ? Complaints may be grouped into three categories , according to Roethlisherger and Dickson in their volume Management and the Worker . They suggest that one class of complaints is based upon opinions which the employee forms from things which he can see or touch . Physical operations such as moving , turning , handling , lifting , assembling , as well as logical operations such as counting and verifying , enter into their determination . These are complaints which can be resolved by test or measurement . For example , the statement that " the tool is dull " involves standards which can be agreed upon by most people technically competent to judge such matters . This type of complaint is relatively easy to resolve , since it involves concrete facts which are open to repeated demonstration and objective proof . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that they are sen , vory perceptions involving sensations of heat , cold , pain , nausea , thirst , fatigue , etc . They are terms whose meanings can be determined only socially or biologically . They vary with time , place , age , personality , social status , and temperament . For example , " the work is dirty , " " the work is hard , " " the room is hot . " Here we begin to get into the gray area of the employee 's subjective perceptions . If he thinks the room is too hot , it is too hot as far as he is concerned even though some other worker may simultaneously be complaining that the room is too cold . Nonetheless , the complaints involve enough objective material to enable standards to be agreed upon that are acceptable to most employees . ' E. J. Rocthlisbcrger and William J. Dickson , Management and the Worker . Cambridge , Mass. , I larvard University Press , 1929.  | The third class of complaints invokes sensory experience to only a limited degree . They @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are complaints arising from the changing social environment and therefore are in no way subject to measurement or verification . They exist only because the employee believes they exist . Examples of these are complaints that " the rates are too low , " " ability does n't count , " " seniority does n't count . " It is in this third group of complaints that the real difficulty is encountered . For example , examine the complaint that " the rates are too low . " Management assumes that a fair rate is one that is set in a systematic manner on the basis of past performance or on time and motion studies and in accordance with rates paid by other concerns in the same area or industry for comparable work . But this is management 's definition of a " fair rate . " According to the employee , the piece rates are too low when they are not in accordance with his changing personal requirements or his hopes and desires . Depending upon whose definition is used , the complaint may or may not be justified . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is constantly being asked to resolve to the satisfaction of the complainant if high morale is to be retained in the working force . To handle these problems effectively the foreman must consider the psychological form of the complaint as well as the material content . They must not be considered only on the basis of the apparent facts themselves ; they must be treated as symptoms or indicators of personal or social situations which must be explored fully . The recognition of the employee 's social problem and the provision of an opportunity to discuss it with an understanding and sympathetic listener often provide the complainant with a mental outlet which changes his attitude toward his job in a fashion that could never be accomplished without recognition of the social and psychological factors motivating his complaint . These illustrations serve to spotlight the difficulties that arise when changes are necessary in the hours of work , rates of pay , or working conditions of the rank-and-file employee . It is highly desirable that he be prepared iii advance to accept these changes and that their social effects be minimized in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ morale . COMMUNICATIONS BETWEEN MANAGEMENT AND MEN All of us have at some time or other experienced the horrible feeling of frustration that accompanies the inability to express oneself adequately , as happens even among friends and members of a family . II ' it is difficult  | to secure complete understanding in the family circle , it is not surprising that the art of communication is so difficult to master in the industrial situation . There , one is dealing with people of divergent interests , sometimes conflicting , and with people having heterogeneous religious , social , and racial backgrounds . Nonetheless , here is an area in which vast improvement can be made in most industrial organizations and often also in small plants . There has for some time past been considerable misunderstanding on the part of many managers as to the limitations which the labor laws place upon their right of communication with their employees when the activities of a union were involved . Although there has been much comment on the provision of the Labor-Management Act of 1947 , which clarified these rights , they had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Wagner Act . Essentially the only important limitation upon the " free speech " of an employer in discussing labor matters with his employees is that he must make no promise of benefit or threat of coercion in his speech . He is further limited in certain technical situations , but these limitations are of minor importance and may , generally speaking , be dismissed from consideration in the day-by-day handling of communications and relations . To have adequate communications a definite plan is needed . It must be as complete as a production-control plan , a cost-accounting program , or the plan for controlling the quality of a product . The purposes of the communications program must be established , the methods of procedure outlined , duties assigned , authorities granted , and subjects approved as in any other type of business planning . Control of communications certainly must not be overlooked . An illustration of the necessity for control is found in a recent case concerning a large corporation engaged in the manufacture of a consumer 's good . The foremen of the company had been undergoing about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ direction of a very expensive expert at the cost of thousands of dollars of foremen 's time in attending . The prime objective of the conferences was to convince the foremen that all supervisors were one big happy family with no distinction between the highest and lowest levels of management . Another staff department , at about the time the foremen were convinced , released a schedule of discounts on purchases by employees of the company 's product which indicated that executives would receive one discount ( the largest ) , department heads another , and the foremen another . Proper communications would have kept each of these staff departments informed of the other 's activity and would not have permitted the formulation of such a policy , let alone the release of such information .  | Primarily a communications plan should consist of a determination of : What should be said ? By whom ? To whom ? How ? When ? Definite channels of communications should be established to encourage the flow of communications from the employees up the line to top management as well as from top management @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be provided for an adequate exchange of information between those at the same level with each other . In the up-and-down flow oral information is often so modified by its passage that the originator would never recognize it . The production worker knows that his foreman does not like to hear bad news , so his story to the foreman rarely ever loses any of its good points when he tells it . By the time it has been filtered by the various supervisors and finally reaches the president of the company , everything is wonderful in spite of the fact that the company is losing money and the president is lying awake nights trying to figure out why . In most instances when a union has organized a company as a result of dissatisfaction among the employees , the president is amazed to hear that his employees are dissatisfied with their lot and is surprised by the results of the NLRB s election . In the upward flow of information , there is no substitute for personal contact by top management with rank-and-file employees , except possibly through meetings . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the president of the company is provided . ( Properly administered suggestion systems sometimes alleviate this situation to a minor degree . ) Even if such a channel were provided , it would not be used , inasmuch as the ordinary shop employee has neither the inclination nor the ability to use it . Such contact is also important in the downward flow of information . It is true that top management can and often does communicate with employees by means of written and printed statements , bulletins , general meetings , etc. , but none of these is an effective substitute for personal contact . The proper handling of the working force is the most important single factor in the successful operation of a business , yet many managers seem loath to devote the amount of personal time to the problem that they are willing to devote to less important matters . It is of prime importance that communications from the management should , in many instances , he made to the family of the workman as well as to the workman himself . footnote National Labor Relations Board @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ utmost importance . Nothing is more distressing to a foreman than to have his subordinates informed through the newspapers of important news concerning the company which the foreman himself does not know . This seems to be particularly true of the release of financial information concerning the company . For some unknown reason it seems customary to release information concerning the earnings of the company , for example , to the newspapers without releasing the same information to the employees at the same time , thereby indicating that the management thinks the employee is not so much interested in the financial welfare of his company as the general public ! The same thing often happens with new developments , plant expansions , etc . What a golden opportunity to improve morale is being missed ! This is a kind of employee participation which often is overlooked . Management must sincerely try to anticipate and answer questions in the minds of employees ; otherwise , they will not be conditioned to receive information that the management is particularly anxious to convey and to have them understand . No one can start suddenly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the need for cutting wages and expect to be convincing . Systems of communication must be introduced gradually and naturally , with the sincere purpose of securing employee participation in contributing to the solution of mutual problems . The system of communication not only must encourage questions but must answer them . LABOR LAWS AND RELATIONS WITH UNIONS In view of all the previously described means of establishing good relations , how so many large and small manufacturing firms have to resort to the laws and regulations in order to settle arguments between their management and their men is an interesting point to ponder . Yet disputes , grievances , lockouts , and strikes are increasing in number and intensity . They amount to millions of man-hours of idleness each year and cost enormous sums to the workers , companies , and the economy . The fact that in nearly all instances unions are representing the workers before the authorities does not prove that the unions cause all these troubles , but it should stand to reason that the managements have not succeeded in establishing satisfactory labor relations . Labor troubles @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can hardly be within the scope of this chapter to explain , interpret , or expand upon all the laws that exist , nor can it cover in detail what any manager might do in establishing his company 's relations with the unions . But since laws are to he observed and should he known to the manager  | of even the smallest plant , the texts of these laws should be on hand for ready reference and consideration . The most important law of this kind is the Labor Management Relations Act of 1947 , also called Taft-Hartley Act , which regulated the legal aspects of labor relations . Revisions of these regulations are available and should be obtained in due time from the nearest Labor Relations Board or any other public office dealing with labor management relations or direct from the Government Printing Office , Washington , D.C. SUMMATION ON WORKERS AND RELATIONS Laws , it should be kept in mind , are important and help in establishing relations with labor , but there is no doubt that legal thinking alone or dealing through legal channels will never give best @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the direct dealings between the manager and all the men .  | HOW TO GET ALONG WITH THE UNION BY WILLIAM GOMBERG , Director Management Engineering Department , ILGWU i THE POSSIBLE ATTITUDES TOWARD UNIONS There are three fundamental policies which both big and little business can follow in dealing with the union : 1 . Fighting the union 2 . Tolerating the union 3 . Actively cooperating with the union . The object of all three of these policies , according to any manager , is industrial peace . The fact is that at some time or other any one of these three policies has achieved industrial peace . Following World War I , organized management by and large pursued policy number one with marked success . They fought the unions , licked the unions , and had pretty much their own way . There was industrial peace and for a very simple reason : the unions had been reduced to such ineffectiveness that they were unable to assert themselves . Thus there was little overt evidence of labor dissatisfaction . Management thought that the unions were ( lead and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interest by enlightened management would keep them that way . ' The International Ladies ' Garment Workers ' Union is well known for having brought about satisfactory employment and wage conditions for the workers as well as for having stopped the cutthroat competition and pernicious abuses of the small plant owners that for decades prevailed in the industry . This was achieved by hard-headed union policies and by giving practical management counsel to the employers . Today , American women are the best dressed in the world , garment prices are within the reach of all , workers are assured of strong union backing , and the industry is healthy and progressive . The author is director of the Management Engineering Department of the II ( ; WU . Because of the pioneering work of the department , Mr. Gomberg has been Ladled upon as a consultant by the United Automobile Workers , CIO ; the International Association of Machinists ; United Automobile Workers , AFL ; United Textile Workers , AI 1 ; Commercial " Telegraphers Union , AFL ; and others . 275  | THE SMALL PLANT MANAGER AND @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , small plant management does n't fit into this class . Your plant is little business . You have always treated your employees fairly . You know each of them by his first name . You get along with them fine . Each man has always known he could come to you in time of trouble . There was the time when the wife of faithful Tom became ill . You did n't say anything ; you knew that Tom could n't have any savings . You just quietly told the doctor to send you the bills . You knew your men . Why , it is n't so long since you had to punch in and out of the factory yourself . You know what hard work is . You are proud that you started at the bench . You like nothing more t mn to get together with the boys at the annual plant picnic for a few hands of pinochle . In spite of all this , however , the men are none too happy . They think of having a union . The union then appears . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who says that you have to talk to them ? Why ca n't you do what you 've always done , talk directly to your own men ? Could not any man come in , tell you what 's on his mind , and have his grievances adjusted ? REASONS FOR UNION ACTION Perhaps the best answer to these questions is to examine the basic reasons for the unions . Professor Slichter of Harvard lists the purposes of unions as follows : 1 . To provide a vehicle for the setting of wage rates . 2 . To replace the little oriental despotisms that made up our business world with democr . ties governed by a code of juridical law . The fact of matter is that from the point of view of the union the good treatment is something about which the manager is free to be the sole judge . He can extend it or withdraw it at his pleasure . It was not bestowed upon the men as a matter of right , but as the result of the paternal behavior of an enlightened despot . There is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ policies at any time . Then again , if a plant is part of a highly unionized and competitive industry , the union feels that any nonunionized employees are merely taking advantage of a free ride . Ability to pay the prevailing wage or a wage in excess of the prevailing wage depends upon competitive position . Certainly a plant would not be able to pay certain wages if the competitors were free to cut wages at will and reduce labor costs below those which the nonunion  | plant is paying . The union , of course , sets the wage levels of the competitors . Because of this , the competitive position of each plant is protected and some are able to pay high wages . In other words , the nonunion employees are reaping benefits at the expense of their fellow workers who through the union are striving to maintain a stability which will permit the payment of a living wage . Telling a trade unionist that employment conditions are so good in a factory that the employees do not need a union is bound to be as well @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ factory operates so satisfactorily that the shareholders have decided to dispense with the management of the firm . For these main reasons , and because any worker acting singly has no influence , unions feel that just as the function of management is an integral part of the business structure , so the trade union is a substantive part of the employer-employee relationship . Discussions about personnel policy and labor relations without the union in the picture is like a performance of Romeo and Juliet with the love interest omitted . Thus it happens that any factory , large or small , may become the target of an organizing drive . Now , if a manager is mainly interested in staving off the unionization of his factory , this chapter has very little to offer him . He should find someone whose specialty it is to find loopholes in our national legislation . Some lawyers think they are well versed in all the stratagems by which a union can be kept out of a plant . At the end of such efforts , unionization may have been staved off , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ management may well find that it has to deal with a group dedicated to seeking a neurotic vengeance . HOW ABOUT TRYING TO GET ALONG WITH THE UNION ? Obviously then , if opposing the union is a somewhat fruitless and possibly hopeless effort , what are the relative merits of tolerating the union and actively cooperating with it ? If it is assumed that unionization is both a good thing and almost inevitable , then management may want to know how best to get along with the union . Unfortunately , one can not give any general formulae that will fit every case . General formulae have a habit of degenerating into platitudes like " be fair " or " remember that you are dealing with human beings . " Such directions are hardly constructive enough , and often , indeed , they serve merely to rationalize whatever policy , good or bad , the employer wishes to apply .  | In order to understand how to get along with unions , it will be most useful to consider and analyze those things which unions feel they need for their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ management . caption LEARN ABOUT THE HISTORY OF THE LABOR MOVEMENT Most employers of past generations received their first information or misinformation about unions when they heard about various radical groups who were trying to effect a complete revolution in our economic life . It was not at all unusual for a manufacturer early in his experience to link words like collective bargaining , the cooperative commonwealth , and the dictatorship of the proletariat all in one breath . Thomas Roy Jones , the head of American Type Founders , points out that in his early training he had never received any instruction on how to get along with employees , much less employee organizations like unions . Fortunately , the newer generation of engineers and managers is attending educational institutions where collective bargaining and industrial relations constitute an important part of the curriculum . The labor movement , actually , first arose essentially as a social-protest movement against the economic and social abuses to which workingmen were subjected . Initially it attracted a whole host of social reformers and revolutionaries who looked upon trade unions as valuable social instruments to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Early  | writers on the labor movement attempted to classify unions on the basis of the ideology that their leaders professed . However , the day-to-day activities of democratically organized unions compelled them to pursue a line of action which was dictated by the economic and social environment within which they were operating . Strangely enough , both those unions who started out with radical or socialist aspirations and those who either did not question the social order or even expressed loyalty to private enterprise discovered that they were doing the same thing . The philosophy pursued by unions , either consciously or unconsciously , was first formulated by Professor Selig Perlman of the University of Wisconsin , whose theory of job-conscious unionism built the whole dynamics of the labor movement around the job . Professor Perlman has pointed out that unions base themselves on a consciousness of limited job opportunities ? a situation which requires that the individual worker , both in his own interest and in the interest of the group to which he belongs , occupy his job on condition of observing the common rules for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seeks by collective bargaining with the employer to establish rights in the jobs both for the individual and for the whole group . The preoccupation of trade-union leadership with these problems , irrespective of the political and ideological conviction professed by any of them , soon places any utopian panaceas into the background . Negotiating agreements , administering the contract , handling grievances become the full-time job of the trade unionist . Political activity is strictly subordinated to these considerations . The political activity in which trade unionists do engage is generally prompted by the conviction that proposed or existing legislation will either hinder or help them in their very mundane day-to-day activities . The one exception to this rule is the very small group of unions run by Communists . The Communist leadership of a trade union can best be understood by comparing it with prewar Nazi management of the General Aniline Corporation . The primary purpose of both institutions was subverted to serve the needs of a foreign office of a foreign power . Thus , when L. H. Hill 2 attempts to secure union respect for some arbitrary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ control over the managerial function , American trade unionists are hardly convinced . They have always maintained that the totalitarian Communist and the antiunion diehard employer shared much more in common than they cared to admit . Since Communist unions in their very heyday never represented more than a small fraction of organized workers , they can safely be ignored . footnote ' L. II . 11111 . Pattern for Good Labor Relations . New York , McGraw-Hill Book Company , Inc. , 1947.  | THE MOST IMPORTANT OBJECTIVES OF UNIONISM Thus we can summarize the main objective of workingmen in organizing and joining established unions in one word : security ? emotional security , social security , and economic security . Consideration of social and economic security will make up the bulk of this chapter . The emotional security is linked to the status of the worker in the shop , where he expects good treatment because it is his right as an industrial citizen . The fact that the employer may be a good fellow or an irascible neurotic does not determine the need for the union . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ get along with each other . The need for social and economic security may be summarized in Sam Gompers ' dramatic phrase : " The worker wants more . " STUDY THE STRUCTURE AND FUNCTIONING OF THE LABOR UNIONS Before any manager would consider himself ready to deal with any union , it is important for him to know something of the structure and functioning of the American trade-union movement with which he is dealing . American trade unions are organized into two principal federations of autonomous international unions with branches in Canada ? hence the name , international . These federations are the American Federation of Labor and the Congress of Industrial Organizations . Whatever may have been the original reasons leading to their division into two federations , the functions they perform and principles they pursue are virtually identical . The older organization , the AFL , is made up of 102 international unions and 196 Federal unions . A Federal union is a temporary organization for organizing and administrative duties , working directly under the national AFL until such time as its workers will be assigned to their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to cover a jurisdiction not held by any existing international union . Thus office workers were members of Federal locals until such time as there were enough locals to charter an Office Employees International Union . The CIO embraces in its membership about 6 million , while the AFL membership includes about 7 million . The Railroad Brotherhoods , which include within their membership the operating employees , are outside the two principal federations . However , they work closely with them . Other independent unions , like the United Mine Workers and the Inter-  | national Association of Machinists , have been in and out of the CIO and AFL and can eventually be expected to return to the regular federations . The various unions of both the AFL and CIO organize themselves on a local basis into state , county , and city groups for sponsoring legislation of importance to the labor movement as a whole . All unions have by now 16.5 million or more members . It is important to know that to distinguish between the AFL and CIO as craft and industrial unions , respectively , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such as the barbers , are associated with the CIO . On the other hand , old-line AFL organizations like the Teamsters Union have extended their jurisdiction to warehouses , so that to all intents and purposes they have become an industrial union . The living structure of a trade union is dictated by the problems the union faces rather than by a preconceived academic theory . The United Auto Workers Union , CIO , is a typical industrial union . Still , they were compelled to give recognition to craft problems by the creation of a special Tool and Di ? Council charged with taking up the special problems of highly skilled workers . On the other hand , the original craft structure of unions like the International Ladies ' Garment Workers ' Union has been modified by the creation of joint boards of the different crafts , so that the employer is able to deal with one representative for all the workers in negotiating collective agreements . WHY THERE ARE JURISDICTIONAL DISPUTES The reasons for jurisdictional disputes become apparent at once when the motivating forces and the underlying structure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ management has of jurisdictional disputes is that they flow from the selfish desires of labor leaders to extend their sway . Actually , as Barbash 3 observes , when union election time occurs and the rank and file has its direct say , " No fact in a candidate 's record for reelection is more potent in many unions than his ability to win for his union in jurisdictional controversies with other unions . " These disputes arise primarily because each union is interested in maximizing its job opportunities as a result of either an already existing shortage of jobs or an anticipated shortage . Thus the slogan of the carpenters ' union , " once of wood , always of wood . " Jurisdictional disputes are not confined by any means to disputes between international unions . They very often take place between two local unions of the same international union . Thus a dispute may arise between ' Jack Barhash , Labor Unions in Action . New York , Harper &; Brothers , 194R. p. 34.  | the house dressmakers ' local and the street dressmakers ' local of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ local to which the workers of a particular establishment ought to belong . In the ILGWU arrangements have been made for such cases , and since the locals acknowledge a strong international leadership , this dispute will be settled long before it has a chance to reach the public notice . In all likelihood , if the federations exerted the same degree of authority over the autonomous international unions which the international union exerts over its local unions , most jurisdictional disputes would be solved as readily . However , the problem then arises as to whether management would be happy with the concentration of so much power at the top of the labor movement , which would still more strengthen union government and administration . HOW UNIONS ARE MANAGED AND OPERATED The annual convention is the highest legislative body of both the AFL and CIO . It is made up of delegates elected by each of its constituent international unions and affiliated central bodies . Inasmuch as the international unions are autonomous organizations , it is seldom that questions of immediate collective-bargaining interest to employers arise at these meetings . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ policy designed to influence the environment within which collective bargaining takes place . The conventions elect executive councils that function as governing and policy-making bodies between conventions . At the head of the federation are a president and secretary-treasurer . Their function is to administer the various staff departments such as organization , information , research , and legislation . The government of the international unions , on the other hand , is much more highly centralized . The executive council and national officers of the international union generally exercise very close supervision over the suhordinate locals , particularly in the matter of collective-bargaining policy . The reason for this is very easy to understand when one stops to consider that the agreement formulated between a local employer and a local union has a powerful effect upon the negotiating opportunities of sister locals elsewhere . Small plants , particularly , are much more subject to competition than the large factories . If every local were free to negotiate a separate wage policy , undue advantages would accrue to one employer while others would be threatened with going out of business . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been at the bottom of much of the friction between business and labor . Many a manager has bitterly complained that he would do all right if he were free to deal  | only with his local union ? it is the interference from the head office which they resent . But this supervision is needed to obtain uniform union action in all plants . HOW MANAGEMENTS AND UNIONS CAN WORK TOGETHER Perhaps this is as good a place as any to review the objectives of unions and analyze to what extent they conflict with the avowed objectives of management and to what extent the two sets of objectives can be made to dovetail into workable cooperation . Professor E. Wight Bakke 4 is among the more profound students of relations between unions and management . He has come to the conclusion that at the basis of most specific difficulties reported was the fact that both management and union leaders were expecting the other to behave in a way which each believed impossible if they were to survive . Professor Bakke 5 then notes a number of guideposts upheld by management @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Industrial relations are primarily and basically a matter of relations between management and employees , its own employees . The first objective of industrial relations , like that of every function of management , is the economic welfare of the particular company . Industrial-relations arrangements must leave unimpaired management 's prerogatives and freedom essential to the meeting of management 's responsibilities . Unions on the other hand , he states , are guided by two fundamental principles , both of which have already been noted : 1 . A union is an employer-regulating device . It seeks to regulate the discretion of employers at every point where their actions affect the welfare of the men . 2 . The union is a device to reduce or eliminate competition among workers by establishing uniform rules and standards and compelling workers to conform to them . The conflict between these two sets of abstractly formulated principles is it once apparent . In a sense , there is not a single management function which does not come within the collective-bargaining area . Bakke observes that he could not get a clear-cut definition of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the other hand , however , he does point out that he could not get any representative group of managers to agree among themselves what the area of collective bargaining should be . footnote E. Wight Bakke , Mutual Survival . New Haven , Labor and Management Center , Yale lnivcrsity , 1946. " ibid. , p. 3.  | On the basis of this formulation , the country ought to be in the throes of perpetual industrial war . Yet industrial peace , coming from collective bargaining , characterizes a much greater part of the economy than does industrial war . The failure to recognize this peace perhaps arises from a false idyllic picture of what industrial peace is . Professor Selekman of Harvard has observed that by and large industrial relations in our country are very good . The peace that we have is the normal peace , which is occasionally disrupted by argument in the same way that a family spat develops . By and large , American families manage to get along with one another , yet there is hardly a family in which at some time or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or mother and child . This is the kind of living peace we have in industrial relations . The unrealistic peace pictured as an objective by too many social observers more closely resembles the peace of the churchyard . The reason that labor and industry have managed to develop a pattern of live-and-let-live behavior is because they have avoided arguing in terms of management prerogatives , union rights , and the interests of workers . As Bakke has put it , They worked on a less abstract level . They dealt with specific and practical definitions of the points at which management had to retain absolute control and the points at which it could share control . They focused their attention on the practical job to be done . They were willing to resolve any conflict by an arrangement which would meet the practical , if not the abstract , needs of the other . If there is a fundamental principle of collective bargaining , this is it . Its acceptance may lead to an even more fruitful relationship between the union and the employer than that of collective bargaining . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Many of the unions in contractual relations with small plants and businesses have practiced this cooperative relationship as a fixed policy . The reasons for this policy of selfish altruism become quite apparent after a little reflection of the compelling facts . UNION-MANAGEMENT COOPERATION IN PRACTICE Take , for example , the International Ladies ' Garment Workers ' Union . The first strikes of the ILGWU were aimed at the immediate employers of the workers , the clothing contractors . One of these contractors , David Gold , operated the S. J. Contracting Corporation . He employed about 50 workers . About 30 of them were sewing-machine operators . The rest either pressed the finished garment or performed a number of other miscellaneous tasks  | under the general heading of floor work . Gold had a partner , Joe Riley . Riley would manage the manufacturing . Gold would go into the market every morning to visit jobbers to see whether or not they had any work available for him . The jobber with whom Gold did most of his business was the Saks Suit Company . The Saks Suit Company @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mills , employed designers who made up the line of merchandise , and maintained showrooms where buyers would congregate to see the offerings and place their orders . Saks maintained no sewing plant but subcontracted his sewing to contractors like Gold . This gave him the double advantage of flexible plant capacity and freedom from manufacturing problems . The plant capacity varied with the number of contractors to whom he furnished work . Then again , he never had to face the workers who were the most tragic sufferers from the cutthroat competition of which he himself was the victim . Saks liked Gold , but when they talked business , Saks wanted to know only two things , ( 1 ) how speedily could Gold deliver his orders , and ( 2 ) at what price . One fine day Gold informed Saks that the prices he was receiving would have to be raised 10 per cent . Saks wanted to know why . " Well , you know the union organized my workers and I 've had to raise wages . " Saks replied that was his hard luck @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the union screaming , " I told you you 'd put me out of business . You 've got a first-class wage scale but no work . " The union could not very well answer Gold by saying it did not want to trespass upon the prerogatives of management ; the workers needed work , not legal claptrap . The union representative , therefore , went to see Saks . His position was : " ' Tell the union I employ none of their members . I have no business with them . " So the union went out , discovered who the other contractors were who worked for Saks , and in the middle of the manufacturing season called all the workers employed by Saks ' contractors out on strike . The union was ready to sign contracts with all these contractors on behalf of their workers . The contractors pleaded with the union , " We 've already accepted a price from Saks that makes it impossible for us to give any wage increases at this time . " Now the union became the legalist . " Our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ answered the union representative . While they were talking things over at settlement headquarters , a girl came in to say that Saks was asking to see the union representative in the outer office . Saks did not wait to he shown in , he burst in . " But you told us you had no business with us , Mr. Saks . We 're ready to send the workers back to work , provided you will sign an agreement that you will employ only contractors who maintain collective agreements with the union . " Saks signed . This pattern was repeated all over the industry .  | UNIONS CAN MAINTAIN ORDER IN WAGES AND UPHOLD FAIR COMPETITION When union recognition was achieved , new problems came up . The universal wage-payment method within the industry is piecework . These piecework plans sometimes are dressed up in various **26;1880;TOOLONG costumes , but sooner or later they reduce themselves to how much does a worker get for turning out how much work . Saks now was a union jobber , but competition was still keen . There were price committees in all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rates with the contractor . Gold would be called in by Saks . How much would it cost to make up this number ? Gold would calculate his estimated labor cost , add a percentage for overhead and profit , and tell Saks $1 . Saks would then go to contractor B. " Gold will make this for $1 , what 's your price ? " B would dig into his profit and say 95 cents . On hearing B 's price , contractor C would call his price committee together and say , " Look , I know that if 1 pay the regular piece rate on this number , I ca n't get the order from Saks . How about giving me a break on the rate ? " The workers would go into a huddle . Work was scarce , they needed the work , they would cut the rate . It did not stop there because contractors D , E , and F still remained to be consulted . Now , if this gave Saks a real competitive advantage , perhaps something could be said for this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ same thing . The result of this process was that clothing prices were being subsidized by the dissipation of the industry 's capital and the payment of depressed wages . The union again stepped into the picture . It brought the manufacturers together and announced that hereafter all workers ' price committees of the contractors would meet at the same time on the premises of the jobber or at an impartial settlement headquarters and set the labor rate for the garments . Once this was set , the contractors were free to compete among themselves . This placed competition on the basis of relative manufacturing ingenuity and good management . Industrial engineers were brought into the industry to assist both parties in setting up meaningful bases for the settlement of piece rates . The result has been that both manufacturers and union have been able to lend some stability to an industry which had resembled an economic jungle . Differences in earnings between workers now reflect a combination of the relative productivity of the workers and the relative efficiency of the management .  | caption UNIONS CAN HELP THE SMALL PRODUCER @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ feels secure enough to look into rate grievances objectively , to determine whether the worker is at fault or interferences with production , unknown to management , keep earnings down . This , of course , means discussing a whole host of problems with the union ; practically every phase of production control including routing , scheduling , and dispatching of work . Twenty years ago , Gold , his partner Riley , and Saks would have refused to discuss any of these subjects with the union . They were prerogativeconscious . They wanted the union to stick to its job . They would manage the plant . They resisted the union shop bitterly . The official reason was , of course , that they were not going to compel a worker to join a union " against his will . " The real reason was that they did not want to make the union any stronger . Today they know that , if they have to deal with a union , it is best to deal with a strong , responsible union . A union shop gives the union rights @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unions and manufacturers operating in competitive industries can show similar experiences . The Steel Workers Union has been of substantial help in keeping many of the smaller mills operating profitably . These are the results of accepting the union and operating with it cooperatively.  | IMPORTANT SUBJECTS OF COLLECTIVE BARGAINING The typical pattern of most collective bargaining today is toleration of the trade union . This means that collective bargaining includes a comparatively restricted area of subjects : 1 . The extent of union recognition and security 2 . Wages and hours 3 . Vacations with pay 4 . Health , welfare , and pension funds 5 . Seniority 6 . The development of working rules 7 . The development of communication lines for resolving grievances . The Extent of Union Recognition and Security : The first subject that arises in collective bargaining is for whom does the union speak ? The fiercest strikes before 1937 raged around this question . Before the Wagner Act there was no accepted means of determining the answer except through the demonstration of the strike . There are now adequate legal procedures for deciding this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ established to represent the men in the lactory , the union will press to compel all beneficiaries of the collective agreement to share in carrying its burdens . It will want the union shop . That is , all employees who are in the factory are expected to join the organization after a fixed period . Unions are suspicious of workers who develop principled opposition to membership in unions but feel no corresponding compunction about sharing in the improvements negotiated by the collective-bargaining agents . It has been noted that where provision is made for a contribution also from nonunion workers corresponding to union dues , so that all assist in the administration of the collective agreement , most of this principled opposition to membership disappears . Practically every union-shop election that has been held under the TaftHartley Act has shown consistently that over 90 per cent of the employees of factories were in favor of the union shop . Employers who oppose the union shop on principle generally open themselves to the suspicion that what they really want is to keep the union as weak as possible . This in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ necessity , must cater to each individual member and plant of the industry , and if a management has put a premium upon union irresponsibility , it is likely to get just that . However , various stratagems have been devised to compromise this issue ; there are the preferential shop and the union **25;1908;TOOLONG clauses .  | The preferential shop in which union members are given special privileges was first formulated by the late Justice Brandeis when he was assisting settlement of the garment workers ' strike in 1910 . Both the union and employers found it neither fish nor flesh nor fowl , and it has since been replaced by the union shop . The **25;1935;TOOLONG clauses were first inserted as a compromise for the union-shop clause by the War Labor Board . They generally provide that union members at the time of the signing of the agreement must maintain their union-dues payment for the life of the agreement . This arrangement , too , is gradually being superseded for the same reason that the union shop superseded the preferential shops . Management eventually gets tired of the turmoil @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ compelled to maintain an organizing drive to sign up old workers who have refused to join and new workers who are under no compulsion to join . And they join , because it is the logic of a membership appeal that the union can continually obtain better concessions from the management . Inasmuch as there is quite some variety to what a union can ask for , the union has little trouble in bringing up new issues . The management may find it somewhat difficult to maintain peace without at least considering and fulfilling some demands . Actually , many factories today are operating as ' union shops without any such stipulation in the union agreement . The management in that manner is able to save face after it has demanded that the " freedom to work " be left intact . On the other hand , the managers who have to get out production have mostly pragmatically adjusted themselves to real life needs instead of relying on ineffective legalistic formulations . The attitude which management shows toward the issue of union security will be critical in determining how well it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to a full program of union-management cooperation . Wages and Hours : These are the central issues around which most of collective bargaining revolves . Issues like vacation with pay and health , welfare , and pension funds can be considered part of the wage picture . After all , they are indirect wages . Many large-scale employers have in the past refused to discuss vacation and health , welfare , and pension plans on the grounds that they were not proper subjects for collective bargaining . The recent Supreme Court decision sustaining the National Labor Relations Board order to Inland Steel to negotiate on these issues has settled this question . Management 's criterion for negotiating wage scales with the union varies with the prosperity of the business . if business is good , employers will think in terms of keying wages to the cost of living . In good times , managements consider ability to pay as not a proper criterion for wage adjustments and  | the books of the company are " management 's business . " When conditions begin to get bad , the union is invited @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can not afford an increase . For these reasons no union will key its wage demands to any single criterion , whether it is cost of living , productivity , or the earning power of the company . Each of these factors plays its part in formulating the union 's final position . If this leaves management at sea , they should feel no more uncomfortable in this position than they are when they do not know the final price at which they will have to dispose of their product . Uncertainty is part of the risk picture of private enterprise . The assumption here is , of course , that collective bargaining is being confined to the employer-employee relationship , that it embraces no ambitious program of union-management cooperation . In negotiating , the first thing an employer always wants to know is what are the wages being paid by his competitors . He does not want to pay more . He would like to pay less . He wants " a special bargain . " It is for this reason that the union may uphold regional industry-wide collective bargaining @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hardly in a position to complain that the union refuses to bargain when it presents a wage scale and says it will take more but not less . Management should make up its mind as to whether it wants to participate in industry-wide collective bargaining or be compelled to conform to the pattern set by the industry leader . It can not have both . While most managements do agree that wages are a subject for collective bargaining , somehow they have attempted to claim that the amount of work which is expected from a group of workers is not a subject for collective bargaining . This has been a source of conflict between big business and labor rather than between little business and labor . Management has always attempted to keep for itself the definition of a fair day 's work and unilaterally to determine production standards . Fortunately , in most cases , the managers of small plants are much closer to their operations than those of big business , and they take a truly realistic view of the matter . Today the techniques of industrial engineering , such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the design and administration of wage-incentive-payment plans , are being converted into tools of , rather than substitutes for , collective bargaining . The Principle of Importance of Seniority : This principle arises during periods of industrial contraction . The union has to take an adamant position , particularly when it comes to layoffs . This is easily understood when note is made of the great difficulty that a man over forty encounters in seeking new industrial employment . Where the actual life of the business is at stake , the union may relax its seniority rules , but short of such critical considera-  | tion , the seniority clause is one of the cornerstones around which the union is built . Some unions have attempted to circumvent this seniority question by dividing up work . However , this solution is confined to those few industries where the basic technology makes this solution feasible . Moreover , the new rules promulgated for unemployment-insurance collections make many of these dividing-the-work techniques obsolete . Instead , they too often become share-the-poverty devices . The Development of Working Rules : These set up a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the technological changes in American industry . No union today opposes technological change in principle . They do , however , attempt to use working rules to safeguard the worker against being victimized by many of these changes . When an engineer attempts to evaluate the cost of improving a technical operation , he uses a number of rules of engineering economy to evaluate the comparative merits of the old and the improved processes . The trade union wants to be sure that the engineer includes the social cost caused by displacement of the worker or dilution of his skill as one of the legitimate expenses of a new installation . Thus , when pressing machines were first introduced into the garment industry , the number of pressers the employer had to maintain exceeded the number absolutely necessary to run the machine . This practice was continued until the normal labor turnover made it no longer necessary . Other working rules will protect craft jurisdictions by forbidding workers to perform work outside their classification . Sometimes these working rules are developed cooperatively with employers to protect codes of fair-trade practices @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ development in small enterprises . Big business usually has to set up involved grievance procedures because communication is so difficult a problem . One of the advantages enjoyed by little business is that a good deal of this grievance machinery can be maintained on an informal basis . The important fact to remember about grievances is that they should receive prompt attention and a rational terminal point in arbitration or some other mutually satisfactory device . It might be wise to point out , too , that the advice of many industrial-relations experts may cause more problems than it can solve . Their unnatural emphasis on the " facts " behind the grievance may be nowhere near so important as the evidence given that something else is causing severe emotional strain . That is , the grievance may be only symptomatic of a disturbance much more basic than the actual facts involved . Under the circumstances , an employer may dismiss a grievance as nonsense , only to find himself with a serious situation later on .  | SUMMATION ON HOW TO GET ALONG WITH THE UNION Quite obviously it has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that arise between management and the union in the administration and negotiation of collective agreements . But there are some of great im-portance : The basic technique in getting along with the union is to allay the union 's suspicion that the employer is awaiting the opportune time to rid his plant of the union . The attitude that management takes toward union security is considered a critical indicator ; another is whether the company really wants to bargain or wants to get into long , involved , abstract discussions about management rights and prerogatives . When an employer asks , what is it that the workers want to know from him , the answer quite obviously is : anything and everything which affects their present and prospective pay and working conditions .  | HOW TO BUY BEST FACILITIES AND MATERIALS BY HENRY T. COATES , President Henry T. Coates &; Associates New York , N.Y. , and Clinton , N.J. ' IMPORTANCE OF BUYING RIGHT The term " buying right " is sometimes loosely interpreted as buying at the lowest price . A little thought , however , will show @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ quality , service , and price are of importance in the order named , but the true meaning of quality is not always understood . The nature of the term is a great variable . It is often thought to be one or more of such conditions as strength , good workmanship , high polish , or beauty . It may be one of these , but this depends on the use to which it is to be put . Good growing soil is of the utmost importance for a farm but usually has no relation to the choice of a factory site . Beauty in a factory building may have : i high advertising value , though in the average small plant it is small or almost negligible and in many of no worth at all . A tool may be of fine workmanship , extra strong material , chromium-plated , but not worth the higher price that these factors bring . A machine may be so built that it runs silently , is so proportioned that it pleases the eye , is well painted , etc. , and yet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than a rough and cheaper one . Raw materials may have more purity than others that will result in just as good a product . Materials are like persons in that their quality should he measured by what they do rather than what they look like . On the other hand it is false economy to buy land , buildings , machinery , or anything for the factory because the price in dollars is low . It is of the highest importance to foresee how it will perform and how much it will affect the operating economy . fottnote The author was for many years a member and director of the National Association of Purchasing Agents , was assistant engineer of motive power of the Pennsylvania Railroad , director of purchases of the Dairymen 's League Cooperative Association , and is now head of his own company . 293  | PURCHASING Purchasing has become recognized as a management activity and as a profession of importance as great as any of the other divisions of management , and a person performing this function , whether called purchasing agent , as he would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ title , as he would most likely be known in a small company , must have knowledge of all the activities of the plant down to the smallest details and be able to recognize quality in its truest sense in everything he buys . There are associations to help engineers in perfecting themselves in their field , also for men and women specializing in any line . The National Association of Purchasing Agents , having local chapters throughout the United States and Canada , is of great value to its members and consequently to the companies that employ them . When establishing a small plant , the necessity of observing caution can be just as important as for a large company , in fact perhaps even more , for the small plant is more limited in its field and usually less secure in its financial structure . It can not expect to have a large force of highly trained men to decide all the questions accurately and quickly , and with it a quick decision is often or , we may say , usually the wrong one . Such a decision @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ future profits or , as frequently happens , cause bankruptcy . In the first part of this chapter , therefore , an attempt is made to point out the best way to obtain all such facilities , mainly when a new plant is to be started but also when adding new products to the output of an existing one or when it is obviously time to modernize an old plant . The considerable sums of capital to be spent on facilities such as land , buildings , and machinery will represent fixed assets and must be written off by continuing charges of depreciation and interest , which add to the cost of production and must be recovered in the sales price of the product manufactured . It can , of course , be readily seen how this cost may be greater than that of a competitor and prevent the volume sales necessary to make expenses , or make it necessary to sell on a margin too small for reasonable profits , thereby causing business failure . The decision as to the amount of capital necessary to acquire all that is needed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its careful study is too often neglected or entirely overlooked in the enthusiasm of starting a new venture . After it has been decided what products are to be made and what parts , if any , are to be purchased from others , the first consideration is to form a definite program for buying all that has to be and can be bought for the time being and %chat might be bought later . A complete list of all items  | should be prepared , carefully studied , and revised to include everything that is essential to the operation . One tentative decision must be weighed against others , bringing out all the advantages and disadvantages of each . CONSIDERING PROPERTIES One item under buying consideration naturally comes first , namely , buildings and grounds . Choosing the location may be very difficult and must be given corresponding care . It should be made an important part of the planning process . ' Unfortunately , sentiment sometimes is allowed to supersede judgment such as " sticking to the home town , " or depending too much on the advice of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and may not know much about the proposed business , regardless of how much it is explained to him . Inducements are sometimes offered by towns such as certain free services , special tax rates through the chamber of commerce , board of trade , or corresponding bodies . Caution should be exercised when giving consideration to these offers to be sure they do not overshadow disadvantages or virtues of other locations being studied . One of the factors often overlooked and sometimes of high importance is the possibility of an unfriendly public attitude toward the type of business that it is contemplated to bring into the vicinity . This rarely appears on the surface at first , and it is very difficult to learn or plan how to meet such an attitude . Some small companies have finally had to move , after establishment , at great expense . The local chamber of commerce should certainly be consulted , if possible , before making the final decision with regard to location . Where and How to Buy the Plant Site Choosing the actual site for a new plant must be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the undertaking . What facilities are there or can readily be arranged ? Is there satisfactory railroad service , such as available siding and proper shipping facilities ? This at once raises the question as to the proper plan for dispatching the product of the plant . If it is shipped in small , easily transported lots , handling in motor trucks might be best . If bulky carload lots prevail , a railroad site is a necessity . Trucking to ? a freight station and transshipping may be expensive . If the goods indicate trucking , are there regular lines operating ? Or can they be provided , perhaps by combining with other shippers that need such facilities ? With largo , footnote ' See ( ' hap. 5 , " Top-management Planning for the Small Plant , " p. 100ff. , and ( ' hap. 3 , " Community Progress ( ' rented by Small Plants , " p. 2911.  | bulky shipments even a water route might be considered , although this is not often a criterion with a small plant . The labor supply is alway important @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ labor that will be needed for the kind of plant contemplated , considering the fact that many workmen drive to work in their own cars or use bus lines ? Is the available labor population stable , or is there a migratory trend ? Do a large percentage of them own their own homes ? What is the experience of other manufacturers in the neighborhood ? It is sometimes not wise to put a new company in a position of close competition , in this respect , with existing companies . What kind of labor is needed for the undertaking ? If the plant needs a high percentage of skilled men or women , the location should be chosen where such skills predominate . If it requires only a small percentage of skilled work and common labor can fill most . of the needs or can be readily trained to a point of efficiency , the choice of plant site may be different . For instance , a jobbing machine shop 's primary requisite would very likely be a place near many plants , garages , or other customers that would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ usually for repairs or temporary substitutions that call , for quick action , with price of less importance , there is a strong tendency to go to the nearest shop for this service . Skilled machinists , machine operators , molders , patternmakers , and others are not always available , and a strong consideration might direct the choice toward a community or district where such labor can be obtained . For a jobbing shop , it is fortunate that the location which offers the greatest possibilities in business for the plant is very apt to have a good supply of machinists and the other skilled men required . This is also true of some other industries , and it is further true that the more manufacturing companies that come to a town the better the chance becomes of obtaining wh : : t is desired in labor . It must be borne in mind , however , that this attraction of labor to the towns where labor is in demand also tends toward a labor classification , and it is well to decide whether or not the plant under consideration @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , New Englan I for a hundred years or more has attracted textile workers , though in the last decade or two this industry has been moving to the South and other parts of the country . If a new plant would use advantageously that kind of abandoned help and was ready to start at the time of removal of plants to some other place , it would find a splendid labor supply . As a matter of fart this is one of the circumstances which cause the flow of labor from one place to another . It can readily be seen that if an industry , long established in one geographical location , should move to another , it would leave behind hundreds or thousands of persons skilled in the work of such industry . Most of the  | own their homes and are not willing to follow the industry to another locality . They naturally try to get work in those plants which give indications of remaining . This , of course , creates strong competition for such jobs as there are . It is also advisable to know @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and regulations . Local customs , though not often objectionable , may have a bearing . We are reminded of a case some years ago , in which an American contractor undertook to build a large manufacturing plant in England . The workmen were hired locally , and there were hundreds of them . On the first working day the superintendent , to his amazement , saw them all stop work at four o'clock in the afternoon , gather in groups , and begin building fires . He soon realized that , to these men , it was teatime , and there was nothing he could do but watch them take 30 or 40 minutes out of work on a rush job with a time penalty on it . He solved the problem by putting a number of stoves around and assigning a few men to see that they were hot at the right time and that water was on hand . The time lost was cut from something over 30 minutes to about 5 . In these times , entertainment for the men is becoming important . If there is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ drifting off to a neighboring town , and having gone to that trouble , they may make a night of it and turn up late in the morning . Even health conditions may be a problem . Some towns have a ' larger percentage of sickness due , in most cases , to poor sanitary conditions . For some types of manufacturing a good and perhaps large water-supply site is essential . If water enters into the product to a considerable extent , the quantity , purity , or mineral content of it may be very important . There was , a few years ago , a plant making paper cartons used largely for food products . Thousands of dollars were lost by this company because the stream from which they obtained the water began giving a bad odor to the paper , although it had not done so before . The plant site had become bad . A small chemical plant needing considerable quantities of water must be sure it is available on its site without undue cost for drilling wells , piping , pumping , buying from the local @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ then may be of paramount importance . Is power available in the quantity that will be needed ? Will it be economical for the company to generate its own power ? How is the residential section situated ? And is there danger that noise , smoke , or fumes from the plant may be objectionable ? A small company was once formed to process a certain mineral . The plant was to be located where a proved deposit was known to exist . It was a substance in fair demand , and the land was acquired . The location was more than a mile from the railroad , and the product would be bulky . At  | that time motor trucks had not become as economical as they are today , and the company planned to carry the product in buckets on an overhead cableway to the railroad , which was a common method at the time . They failed to get a right of way over a main highway , and the cost of a dirt road , over which the trucks would have to travel , together with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it would be impossible to compete with other companies . The project was abandoned . Years later , World War I brought about higher prices for this mineral product . Trucking costs per ton-mile became lower through improvement of motors and especially through improved roads . Another group of men established the plant , and it was very successful . The year selected for the first venture and the overlooking of one particular wrecked the first company before it started , but the subsequent company made profits . It is possible to select a site that has a very good prospect for appreciation in value , but this should be a minor consideration unless there are definite reasons to move in a short time . Some Practical Points on Property Dedls Renting : As a rule , the owner of a building expects to receive a rental sufficient to cover the taxes , repairs , depreciation , and a profit on his investment , and this will sometimes be more than the costs on a building owned by the user . Then , too , the cost of moving , which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ apt to be very expensive . Have the building and location all the facilities needed at a satisfactory cost ? If rent is higher than the estimate for operation in a new plant , will the difference be more than it costs to depreciate a new property ? For a small plant with small capital it is often cheaper to rent than build a new plant , but with rents nigh or space available only in inconvenient locations , it is very often possible to raise the necessary capital to buy a plant and save materially . In either case all management ff:ctors must be considered carefully , especially the engineering and operating features . A summary of the factors most commonly found to be of primary importance would be labor conditions . taxes , water supply , availability of raw materials , nearness to market , electric supply , steam supply , transportation , banking facilities , and possibly others . A table should be made of all the properties of the plant sites available , and all the characteristics should be considered , giving proper weight to each . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if it meets all the essential requirements . At times there are real bargains , but of course , good judgment is necessary with a level-headed analysis of all the advantages and disadvantages .  | Special Leases : On the whole , building is the most satisfactory solution if the necessary capital and time are available and building costs reasonable . Whether buying or building , one should look as far ahead as possible , and that is especially true if one establishes a plant that is expected to give work and provide income for a long time to the owner , partners , or stockholders and heirs . In buying land and buildings , to be successful , one must consider the cost in connection with interest and depreciation . When it comes to building a new plant , it is obvious that the ground on which to build is the first consideration . The location , presumably , has been chosen . The main thought , naturally , is to buy enough ground to take care of the proposed buildings and future ones as far as can be foreseen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ worth considering and might be good under some circumstances . Ground can sometimes be leased for 10 , 20 , 50 , or 100 years . Some buildings in large cities are on property leased for 100 years . Some factories are on ground leased from railroads and have been for 30 years . It sometimes occurs that everything in a certain locality looks favorable for the location and building of the plant except ground . But the railroad has a strip adjoining its tracks that would be sufficient , and a siding could easily be arranged . The railroad will not sell , but if it can see an annual income from a piece of property that , at present , is only an expense for taxes , and receive freight from it , a railroad will be glad to consider even a small rental . In fact , if it can foresee a substantial volume of business , the price may be very low indeed . The same idea will sometimes be possible with property owned by a town that would like to encourage new industries . The kind @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ length of the lease and the desirability of the location from the viewpoint of the lessor . If there is any doubt as to the permanency of the lease , the buildings erected will necessarily be much less expensive than when erected on owned property and may sometimes be almost flimsy . How to Appraise the Real Cost Value of Rent The costs of building or renting vary so widely in different sections of the country for different kinds of industry , etc. , that no figures can be given here except rough ones for illustration . If we assume that the equipment must be supplied by the proposed operating company , as will be usual , a building for the purpose might be built for $30,000 . The ground may cost $1,000 . I f we depreciate both on a 20-year basis , the cost per year would be $1,550 . We shall assume taxes to be $800 , giving a total of $2.350 . The annual rent on equal facilities would , if we assume it to he one-tenth p 300 of the value , which is usual , be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ apparent saving of $750 . But the cost of upkeep or the question of permanency of the project might make this a very minor consideration . It must be understood that these figures are only for illustration , and a thorough study would show which plan would be the more practical . In quite a few instances it should be advisable , especially for the small plant , to take advantage of an arrangement which is known as " rental with option to buy . " Under it the premises are merely rented for a time and the manager has the opportunity actually to try out the location and plant arrangements before he makes use of the option . to buy whereby he then becomes the owner of a plant , which he knows . will serve his needs . The question of . whether to build a plant or rent space must be decided by comparing all the costs and conditions . BUYING , ADAPTING , AND MAKING MACHINES AND FACILITIES Whether to . start . a plant with used , homemade , or new machinery also depends largely on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the market at all . times , except during a war or other times of tremendous demand ; normally , there always is a great supply of good used machinery of the sort commonly used . There are lots of special machines , too , but not so numerous as the regular run of machine-shop equipment , such as presses , lathes , millers , shapers , and boring mills , small and large . It is possible easily to find machinery suitable for a jobbing shop doing either light or heavy work or even large machine tools suitable for a locomotive shop . Selection must be made carefully and by one who is thoroughly posted on what is needed . A man used to the kind needed can readily see if a machine offered is suitable , but one with only a general knowledge of machines and not conversant with the fine details is in danger of selecting a machine with a special rig or mechanism unsuited to the work contemplated or badly worn . As a general rule , it is best to buy new and up-to-date machinery . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ usually show the advantage . Other equipment such as vats , benches , jigs , flasks , molds , and furnaces may be homemade to effect a worth-while saving . The time element and the ingenuity of the available help are big factors . Some facilities of this nature can not be bought to suit the operation , and some machinery for light work can be made very satisfactorily by a bright mechanic at a ve much lower cost than buying . The field is too wide to attempt to cover i completely , but examples of machines that have been homemade and put into regular use arc multiple drilling heads , light power-driven tools f (  | assembling small parts , power clamps , hoists , conveyors , gluing rigs , and spray-painting setups . What to Beware of in Machine Buying The kind of machinery to be bought is well indicated by the product to be made , but it should be borne in mind that most plants will take on new production items from time to time , and much thought must be given to this possibility and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a changing market , to meet competition , and especially to lower cost of production . It may be foreseen that changing conditions of these sorts will likely call for either heavier machines or lighter and faster ones . Often these possibilities are overlooked , and machinery is bought to do only the work seen at the time of purchase . Heavier or more complicated machines than are needed are sometimes acquired at a sacrifice of speed . Also , when . the purchase is made to replace a machine that has been in use for some time and the shortcomings of which are well known , the fascination of a larger machine and the number of processes for which it can be used ? even if it is realized that many of these probably will never be required ? sometimes overrules better judgment , with a consequent enlarging of overhead uselessly . At the other extreme , a small plant is apt to keep old machinery long after it is outmoded without seeing the time loss and consequent money loss . There are also cases of machines being discarded while @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ age previously set for obsolescence . No machine ever wears out so that it can not be repaired by welding , replacing parts , etc . It should be replaced for wear and tear when the foreseen repair will be too costly or when it has a resale value which makes it worth while to discard it for a new one . Some firms replace each machine after only 3 or 4 years ' use , and in this way they avoid almost entirely the cost of repairs and also reduce the possibility of breakdowns . This keeps the plant equipped with the very latest machines and tends to get the best machine speed for production at all times . It is , however , a practice too costly for most plants unless there is a ready demand for the discarded equipment and consequently a high resale price is obtainable . Some Practical Points on Machine Buying Deciding when to buy equipment or what to buy should never be left to one man , even if he is the sole owner . The controlling owner should be the first to see @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ worth-while ideas , though it is hard to bring them out . The manager should develop  | in his men enough interest and judgment to enable them to know some details about the equipment that he can not himself be expected to have , and discussions are necessary to find out what would be best . This need not mean calling a number of hands into the office and a stoppage of work . Discussions are best held at the old machine while it is producing . A few words while the operation can be observed are worth hours in the office . If the company has a mechanical engineer , a purchasing agent , a production superintendent , or anyone functioning as one or all of these , they or he should be consulted and the recommendations of anyone should be overruled only after every consideration has been given . A small company just starting is not apt to have employees fitted for many functions of this sort , but there are engineering firms and other sources that can be called in for advice . What to Expect as to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The name of a manufacturer who is well known for quality products is reasonable assurance of satisfaction and a safeguard for the buyer who is not sure of his knowledge ; but usually it also means a higher price than would be paid for a less known make which would be just as satisfactory in the use to which it is to be put . The remedy is to consult employees freely and get advice from others . Dealing with the maker of the equipment is the most satisfactory method from the viewpoint of guarantee and help in getting in proper operation in the shortest time , but discounts can sometimes be had from dealers that can not be had from the maker . Many items of this nature have prices well fixed , but many price concessions also can be obtained by bargaining . It sometimes happens that a manufacturer will sell at a very low price to introduce a new model into a certain locality , especially if his competition is keen . Buying Hand Tools Much money can be wasted in buying hand tools , though this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ extent . In many types of operations the suitability of the tools is almost , if not quite , as important as the machinery . A man provided with the wrong tools will waste hours , clay after day , adding steadily in unnoticed increments to the cost of the product . Hand tools must be good but not fancy , of the right durability to suit the job , not better than needed , but certainly not too poor . Some " cheap " tools , for some work , will give just as good results as the best . In many circumstances , however , a " cheap " tool can he very expensive . On some kinds of work the tool that " fits " the workman who will use it is the best buy .  | Hand tools that are commercial standards are subject to trade discounts . A carpenter can obtain these for the tools of his trade , and so can men of other trades for the tools that they use . A manufacturing company can get discounts which sometimes equal those to the " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The buyers for a small company can often get discounts ranging from 10 to 30 per cent . The practice is , of course , based on the expectation of more future business than would be obtained from an incidental buyer of tools . The buyer for a small company can often get best discounts by indicating the probable amount of business his firm will offer in a year , or sometimes the dealer can guess by the nature of the firm that it will use large quantities , even when no figures are mentioned . If the company intends to use the tools as accessories for its products or in a special tool kit or toolbox , also a special discount may be negotiated , but usually it will be less than the " trade discount . " Dealers look on this in different ways , and if the volume of tools to be bought is sufficient to justify the time spent , it pays to " shop around . " The discount obtained on the first few purchases from any dealer is apt to be the regular one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ items increases , it is sometimes hard to get better discounts unless the dealer thinks he may lose his customer to a rival . Prompt Repair and Servicing Important Points in Buying Machines and Tools Since in many small plants special work is often performed with special machines and tools , the kind of servicing which is provided by the manufacturer or is obtainable through the dealer is an important point not to be overlooked in buying such items . Also in reference to transportation equipment which is used , quick repair or service is essential . Provisions to take care of breakdowns in regular standard machines should be made by buying spare parts and training someone to make simple repairs . But for the more complicated repairs the service of the manufacturer or dealer must be relied upon , and then the kind of service , its promptness and cost become important . Quick , good , and reasonably priced repair and other services are possibly as important points to be thought of as are prices , discounts , and similar considerations . Often enough a " good-name " manufacturer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rendering service because there are so many calls that the small plant is made to wait . Most manufacturers or dealers , however , make every effort to render excellent and quick service at reasonable costs . In any case it should he good practice to consider also , when buying , the repair and service facilities that are available . Great differences prevail in  | different localities in reference to the various makes . If this is overlooked , the resulting higher costs and delays increase the cost of production and may cause repeated difficulties and delays in deliveries . Office work should be at a minimum in a small plant , but for this very reason the office machines and such special equipment as are needed should be obtained with the same considerations for repair and service . How to Get Gauges , Jigs , Special Fixtures Gauges can be bought in great variety , but many simple ones that can be made in the plant will give just as much satisfaction as the more expensive ones , and there are cases for which there are no satisfactory ones @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made of ordinary angle iron for small shears , brakes , drill presses , saws , etc . The number of conditions covered by these and the satisfactory performance depend very often on the ability of some particular employee . Jigs are usually special drilling or tool-guiding devices suited for special operations , and those for one plant will rarely suit another . They are of necessity " tailor made . " There are special shops that will make them , but then they are likely to be very expensive in money paid and in the time consumed by one or more employees in conveying the right idea to the jig maker , checking them , correcting , and fitting them . Jigs are less costly when homemade . When making tools , gauges , or jigs , the cost of labor and material must be watched to be sure it pays . This is often overlooked , and they become more expensive than the saving in work warrants or the price for which they can be bought . The former occurs most frequently when they are made for work that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ jigs is rarely given the importance it deserves and is often overlooked entirely . The old method of scribing from templates is very expensive when applied to operations that are suitable to jigs . Of course , jigs are not worth making when the volume of an order is too small and the cost of the jigs too high . The difficulty of a small plant is often that there is no one in the organization with sufficient ingenuity to devise these jigs or who could make them at a low cost . This ability , even when found , often dies because there is no incentive , raise , bonus , or even commendation to keep it alive . Rewards must be granted to get these devices made . When there is no one in the organization who shows ability of this sort , it will be found worth while to employ a consultant . Unfortunately , most engineers known as consultants are interested only in large operations , but there are some who will advise on small items such as those under consideration . Industrial engineers accepting such work @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whom machinery is being bought ,  | but as a rule only if that company is urged to provide such men and it is understood that their services are to be paid . The wastefulness of penny wisdom and pound foolishness is displayed in this consideration more often than in most . It seems to hurt to pay an outsider two or more times the money received by a regular employee , but the fact should not be overlooked that the outsider has an overhead to cover , including sales cost and unavoidable lost or unproductive time , not to mention the years of training , often expensive , that have equipped him to do something that the regular employee can not do . If the supplier of the machinery can not furnish such a man , he will , if pressed , usually know of someone whom he can recommend . Sometimes these experts can be located through the professional societies and often through the officers of a firm making a similar product , though one that is not competitive . BUYING TRANSPORTATION EQUIPMENT Transportation equipment , to be used @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the plant , if poor , is not only costly , but the handling times and waiting periods between work operations slow down the work flow , and thus reduce the volume of production , which would be much greater if best transportation were provided . Most small plants have poor transportation equipment , and this is a major factor in the control of their output . In buying transportation equipment they consider only price , but not the daily cost of delays , and when prices are fairly high , they do not buy truly best equipment . Transportation Equipment for Outside Use : Since for most small plants , incoming as well as outgoing shipments are small in volume , they usually let suppliers make the delivery , and for outgoing freight they contract with trucking firms or others who call for the shipments . This kind of operating is more costly but saves the investment in equipment otherwise needed . It saves also the cost of drivers , repairs , maintenance , garaging , license fees , insurance of various kinds , and a lot of liabilities @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ proved repeatedly that small plants pay more for transportation performed by their own personnel than If they had contracted for it . Unless there is a definite necessity for doing outside freighting , contracting and paying for such services is more advisable . Transportation Equipment for In-plant Use : The great possibility and need fitr equipment improvement lie , as far as the small plant is concerned , in the means of materials handling and transportation inside the plant .  | The most commonly used equipment types are hand trucks , power trucks , simple chutes , simple mechanical movers ( roller or chain conveyors ) , belt conveyors , monorails , assembly conveyors , or such as would feed into the assembly area . Besides , there may be hoists and cranes . All these types of transportation equipment are available today in any form , size , shape , quality , and condition to suit the needs of any plant . They all save costs , speed up flow , and cut idle times between operations . The common difficulties which prevent buying and installing the best transportation equipment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of good equipment and the costs of installation . Both are often considered as being beyond the possibilities of the small plant , and therefore it uses slow , old , outworn , unsuited means of transportation . It is impossible to recommend offhand the buying of any kind of transportation equipment . But it should be appropriate to recommend that any plant manager call in an engineer from any one of the equipment concerns , who , mostly without any charge , will be able to point out which kinds of equipment would be best , how much they woulcl cost , and how much time and money they would possibly save . Buying this kind of equipment involves careful study of the proper utilization and proper coordination of the new acquisitions with the available machines . If the results of these studies are favorable , purchase should be considered . There is little opportunity to obtain used equipment , bargain prices , or special considerations from any of the reputable makers , and therefore buying from good firms is always safest because they guarantee their installations . The main @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its price or cost but the desirability of having it . By now many small plants have mechanized their internal transportation or at least parts of it . None can be found who regrets it , and more should investigate their own conditions . // In most products the cost of material is the most important cost item . In the daily operation of a plant the buying of materials is one of the most consequential activities , and over the years considerable amounts are spent on them . In many plants , sizable portions of their capital are tied up in material inventories . The small plant , requiring mostly relatively small quantities of material , is from the start somewhat handicapped , in so far as it has to buy without the benefit of large quantity discounts and , often enough , can not buy direct footnote See also Chap . 18 , flow to Make Savings and Else Profits , p. 4488.  | from material producers but must buy from dealers and middlemen who charge considerably more than the producers . If larger quantities are bought than will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ piled up . This ties up funds and creates excess stock , some of which may never be used , so that obsolescence losses are caused . What was a gain in buying may be offset through inventory loss . The manager thus has to decide which he would prefer . The main handicap of the small plant , however , does not lie in this decision but in the lack of material planning which prevails . Most managers do not figure out for any length of time ahead what kinds and how much of each kind of material they will need . They apply " hand-to-mouth buying . " They buy only as much as they immediately need ; they buy at irregular intervals from various sources of supply , mostly from dealers . They wait until the last minute with their buying and , naturally , must pay more for their material . The large companies all buy more at one time , buy from well-chosen sources , and buy under contracts ? all of which is called " contract buying . " Obviously they get better prices , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the lowest price " may be as risky as " buying for speculation , " but not if the buyer knows precisely what is needed and has the means of checking the quality before accepting delivery . He may , in fact , save very substantial sums by getting the lowest price available in the market . Two very simple and good rules for the small plant to follow in its buying can be stated as follows : I. Make contracts where possible and where the market indicates the advantage , but be very careful of any terms , written or verbal . Have a clear understanding of those terms . The advantage of contract buying is especially evident in obtaining raw materials that go into the product . 2 . Keep material inventories at the most economical level : not high enough to endanger waste by obsolescence , spoilage , or tied-up capital ; not so low that there is danger of running out and causing operating losses . The Achieving of Contract Buying The small plant manager who plans for a few months ahead can discern the materials he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for which it would be best to contract . There will be other materials the need for which will be uncertain , and they will , naturally , have to he bought from hand to mouth . The quantities needed should be estimated at least for 3 months ahead  | and preferably 6 months or a year ahead , which will give the basis on which a number of suitable suppliers can be approached . When one or more suppliers have been selected , a full understanding can be had as to deliveries , prices , price flexibility , payment conditions , etc . Tn times of material shortages , some suppliers will not deal with small plants on a contract basis . But increasing competition and return of more normal conditions are bound to strengthen the opportunities of the small plant . The best contracts are those which are not iron-clad obligations but provide at least reasonable flexibility as to changes in prices , weekly quantities to be delivered , and other conditions which may need adjustments . The lower price which can be asked for contract quantities is justified @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dealer or manufacturer , can make his arrangements with his suppliers on a firmer and possibly contract basis , so that he is strengthened in his own activities as are all those supplying him . If contract deliveries are properly arranged , the need for material stocking is reduced and inventories can be lower . How Much Material to Keep in Stock Large companies use formulae for figuring minimum and maximum stocks for the most economical inventory turnover , best control , and economic lot sizes to buy . The small plant manager can follow a similar procedure , though somewhat simplified . As long as he continues to buy from hand to mouth , he needs a larger inventory and has to pay the highest prices for what he buys . As soon as he plans and aims to buy at least some of his materials under contract , he can obtain lower prices and keep a reasonably low material stock at the same time while ensuring production to a larger extent . Material obsolescence is common in all plants . It is costly as well as undesirable , in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ requires floor space , handling , and final disposal at almost zero value . Main material lines should be kept in stock only in such quantities as economical delivered prices indicate and production needs require . It is not the inventory turnover which decides this , but the kind of arrangement which the purchasing contract provides with the supplier . Supplies should be kept on hand and delivered with regularity to cover reasonable needs and in such quantities as can be purchased at best economy . Few small plants buy supplies in large quantities . Fuels ( Coal , Oil ) : Keeping a plentiful supply of these on hand is not the final answer . Having sufficient is important , having too much is wasteful ,  | and buying the right kind is of more importance than is usually thought . If the quantity consumed is large , considerable saving can be made in the buying . Services : The purchase of electricity , gas , steam , or refrigeration requires intelligent handling , although the rates are nominally fixed . There are sometimes opportunities for price allowances . Raw @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ material of this nature as is bought from others should always be purchased on contract and be kept in stock in only such quantities as delivery conditions require . SUMMATION ON PURCHASING Obviously each small plant manager can and should use his own system and techniques of buying . Those who think it smart to outsmart suppliers or dealers will be likely to lose by it in the end . Those who think they are at the mercy of suppliers and that the effort to overcome this is not worth while will find on the other hand that suppliers recognize that the best longrange policy is to cooperate . Supply and demand will always be the foundation of a price structure . Competitive bidding is healthy unless it is of a cutthroat nature , and then it will not last long . Prices may go up , but they are also bound to come down . Purchasing , properly understood and applied , will take cognizance of the conditions that prevail , but even the smallest plant manager has his rights , and he should aim to 1 . Create truly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 2 . Buy only in such quantities as can be reasonably expected to be needed . 3 . Buy on contracts , instead of haphazardly or for speculation . 4 . Avoid too large or too small inventories , but keep a safe minimum stock . 5 . Insist on being given a best price , deliveries as needed , and conditions that are fair to buyer and supplier alike . 13uycrs ' market , sellers ' market , rising market , shrinking market , all these are well-known conditions , but what is needed most and gradually must be created is a stable market in which even the smallest plant can buy enough and so low that its products can find the greatest number of buyers .  | HOW TO OBTAIN BEST PRODUCTIVITY BY PARKER CAPPS , President The C. I. Capps Company , Inc . Jacksonville , Florida i THE PRODUCTIVITY PROBLEM IN THE SMALL PLANT Two days after I accepted the preparation of this chapter , my entire plant was destroyed by fire . Suddenly we had no productivity at all . It took nearly 4 months to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ way and another 3 months to rebuild our steel-fabricating shop and machine shop . Much more had to be done before we could operate again with any degree of productivity . This incident shows only one of the crucial elements that interfere with productivity in the small plant more often than in the large factory . Force majeure , acts of God , or unavoidable detriments take their toll in form of major or minor disasters such as fire , floods , explosions , serious breakdowns , and similar events . Wise and fortunate are those managers who in good days are providing for disaster days and for those drab and nonproductive long periods which follow them . Precaution and even great watchfulness sometimes go for naught , and INSURANCE is after all not only a most desirable provision for survival , but disaster can become and can be made through foresight the starting point for better operating and more intensive or possibly best productivity . This is the kind of productivity we shall aim for from now on in our shops and plant . In good days and in most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one of the least thought of and least aimed at objectives of managers . All too many are satisfied with only a certain gait in their operations . Once established , it is accepted by management and by the men as footnote ' The C. I. Capps Company produces " Dependable " Gray Iron , Brass : , and Aluminum Castings and has machine and pattern shops . The author is the chairman of the Florida Section of the ASME.  | possibly the best they can do . They continue at the same pace week after week and keep it up until disaster , competition , union trouble , economic developments , high taxes , increases in costs , declining prices , losses , or lack of profits cause a most serious awakening to the fact that more attention to productivity might have been in order and would have created quite different conditions . LOW PRODUCTIVITY AND ITS CAUSES IN SMALL PLANTS It is safe to say that not more than 20 per cent of all small plants operate actually at near best or 100 per cent productivity . Probably 40 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to 70 per cent of efficiency , and the remaining 40 per cent of all small establishments achieve only half or less of the perfection which they could achieve with the same number of men and the same facilities and machines . The lack of productivity is not caused by any inherent disadvantage or weakness , which by necessity would have to arise in small plants . The low degrees of performance are caused by poor management , indifference on the part of the manager , lack of knowledge on how to achieve productivity , or just plain carelessness . The causes of failure of small plants and of small enterprises in general , shown elsewhere in this study , reflect and show all weaknesses commonly found in a truly enlightening manner . They are , in their sequence of frequency , incompetence in management , scarcity and difficulty of obtaining materials , shortage of adequate labor , increased labor costs , lack of goods to supply customers , lack of capital , increased rentals , shortage of equipment and repair parts , lack of dealer organization , etc . These @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not occur only in production work but that productivity may also be ab-ent in engineering work , sales work , and financial work and in any specific phase of managing any other activities . Lack of management know-how is definitely more general than the lack of technical know-how . Probably the most frequent cause of failure and low productivity is the inability of the manager to create a good combination of technical and management know-how , a combination which is highly desirable no matter which kind of work and activity is involved . Since in this study the various management activities are covered in specific chapters , for instance , sales , accounting , etc. , in this chapter only the achievement of productivity in technical or production work is discussed . Before going into this subject in detail , he it said that it is never too early or too late to begin thinking seriously of the creation of productivity .  | It is relatively easy to get work done ; it is more difficult to get good work done ; but to get best work done and thus best @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , interest , and effort to put the best ways of achieving it across to all members of the plant . MEANING AND OBJECTIVES OF PRODUCTIVITY Productivity is the degree of perfection in which the objectives of production or of services are achieved . The degree of perfection depends on the application of know-how to men , machines , and methods . It can be influenced , however , favorably or unfavorably by quite a few conditions . Best productivity may at times aim primarily at a constantly increasing and possibly at a maximum of physical output . At other times it may aim only at the achievement of less than maximum volume , but at some maximum in quality , low costs , or time of delivery to suit specific conditions . The achievement of lower costs has been recognized as possibly the most indicative and most important criterion of productivity . " Best productivity " is thus somewhat flexible in its meaning . At all times , however , it expresses the best possible and reliable fulfillment of the production tasks , or unit goals , and the achievement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ should give lower cost . Best productivity should give lowest cost per unit made . Upon these objectives of productivity , the practical as well as the scientific minds who have investigated this problem are fairly well in agreement . SCIENTIFIC DEFINITIONS AND METHODS FOR MEASURING PRODUCTIVITY Ever since the days of Frederick Winslow Taylor , who was the first to measure work in terms of time , to the discussions of the Conference on Productivity held in Washington , D.C. , on Oct. 28-29 , 1946 , under the auspices of the National Bureau of Economic Research , the scientific definitions and methods for measuring productivity have varied widely . Besides , the concepts of productivity have changed . Nowadays , productivity is no longer expressed in units of time or in the form of time standards . Today most authorities use product units made per worker , production value per worker , production units per man-hour , production value per man-hour , and even the average value of production achieved in one hour divided by the average cost of wages per hour in order to measure productivity .  | @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Labor , the Committee for Industrial Organization , and the Department of Commerce , as well as quite a few private organizations and individuals have given careful consideration to the need of developing reliable measuring methods and to the establishing of understandable and precise productivity indexes , but so far neither full agreement nor truly reliable indexes have been established among all these authorities . The Bureau of Labor Statistics of the U.S. Department of Labor has compiled Man-Hours of Work and variations thereof and has published these indexes for all manufacturing industries as well as for some industry groups . The data go back as far as 1909 , and in form of Output per Man-Hour there is available at least one kind of index that can be widely used . These data are published in the Survey of Current Business ( U.S. Department of Commerce ) , in the Statistical Yearbooks of the United States ( U.S. Department of Commerce ) , and in some publications of the U.S. Department of Labor . The New York Times has prepared more recent data on " Unit Labor Cost in Manufacturing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ published in The New York Times , Aug. 26 and 27 , 1948 . The National Association of Manufacturers at about the same time ( August , 1948 ) circulated among its members a table comparing the over-all changes in production per man-hour with the over-all changes in wage cost per unit of production . It also has made a special study on productivity , given out in the winter of 1947 . Dr. Solomon Fabricant , through the National Bureau of Economic Research ( New York ) , published Labor Savings in American Industry , 1899  - -  1939 in November , 1945 . It is perhaps the most useful study on productivity so far and may be used by those who intend to study productivity from its scientific angle . The productivity indexes developed by Dr. Fabricant are shown . The Bureau of Labor Statistics in its Summary of Proceedings of Conference on Productivity , Oct. 28 , 29 , 1946 , brings out the fact that the basic idea of higher productivity is that of continuing the traditional American record of raising the standards of living through producing more goods @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of charge from any office of the U.S. Bureau of Labor and will interest especially those seeking a practical ap . proach and introduction into this subject . The major findings of the conference . were presented by Samuel Thompson of the Department of Commerce as follows : The country needs standards of measurement that will help incren productivity . These measures should be useful as tools to help increase t total quantity and quality of production .  | More different kinds of measurements are needed in addition to those concepts of productivity which use so far only man-hours for measuring productivity . In particular , monetary measures such as payroll costs and the value of output should be considered and used in measuring . The entire procedure of productivity measuring should be conceived to accelerate the broad social purposes of continued program toward high levels of production and employment and a rising standard of living . The established measurements introduced and used by the economists should be reviewed and improved for greater indicativeness and usefulness . More industrial firms should take interest in and establish records truly suitable for measuring @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ management efficiency should be considered in measuring productivity and not only efficiency of workers . The rewards of increased productivity ? savings in costs , time , or other forms ? should not be claimed by management , labor , investors or consumers but should be distributed as fairly as possible in wages , salaries , bonuses , profits , and lower prices . The prevailing methods of measuring productivity were considered neither as too reliable , accurate , and informative nor as adequate , and careful improvements to make them useful for and in collective bargaining as well as for other modern needs of industrial analysis were recommended . As these conferences and findings prove , the subject of productivity is no longer being taken lightly in top-management , top-labor , and government circles in this country . Behind the search for best methods for measuring productivity lie the big problems of the rights of management to bring about higher and best productivity , the rights of labor to be protected against exploitation , and the rights of the consumer to goods at a price which his income can afford @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of practical purposes has gained even further by the studies of Colin Clark , 2 Australian government economist , who has developed an international unit for measuring productivity which he used for measuring and comparing the national productivity of 40 countries . As international unit he has chosen " the quantity of goods and services exchangeable for $1 in the United States during 1925-1934 . " For all the economically advanced countries he used money national income , corrected for the wide differences in the purchasing power of the various moneys . For countries with large or predominantly peasant populations , such as the Soviet Union and India , he revalued their consumption at higher Western The New York Times , Aug. 21 , 1949 , pp. 1 ft . See also Colin Clark , The Conditions of lieortomie Progress . New York , The Macmillan Company , 1949.  | retail prices , increasing their statistical income by an imputed income . " Measuring in this way , the United States , New Zealand , and Canada lead the world in national productivity , with Australia and Great Britain just behind @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or appraise Clark 's method in detail , the interesting fact remains that he considered economic progress and national productivity as measurable by a country 's output of goods and services related to the labor time expended by its labor force . He uses the physical quantity of goods produced and obtainable for $1 , which means the price to consumers , as a basis to see which degree of productivity has been achieved . This consideration of price and costs to the buyers really means that productivity is increasing only if all the people , not only the workers , can actually get more physical goods for the same amount of money , a criterion well worth remembering in all aspects of discussing or creating productivity , management-labor relations , wages , and similar subjects . NEED FOR PRODUCTIVITY IN THE SMALL PLANT While in the small plant there probably is less interest in the scientific definitions and methods for determining productivity , there is nonetheless a definite practical need for achieving and creating good and possibly best productivity . The need for best productivity not only arises from the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ necessity when the small producer , pressed between high costs of production and declining prices caused by competition and shrinking markets , simply must aim to operate more efficiently if he desires to remain in business . The small producer can exercise pressure on neither suppliers nor buyers . He can not plead much with the union , if he has one , because most wage rates are not set for any one shop alone but for all shops or work classifications within an industry or area , and as a rule they have to be observed by large compai.ies and small organizations alike . But even if there is no union , wage chiseling is no method of creating productivity . Nor can the small plant readily obtain operating loans under adverse conditions , to create better operating conditions or more productivity through better equipment or other forms of investment . The new financial burden would only increase the difficulties of the plant . Reliance on the good will of good friends does not really create best productivity , nor can a friendly employee-management relationship alone achieve truly best operating @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ task of creating best productivity in the small plant rests upon the manager and depends upon his knowledge as well as his initiative . In good times and even more so in difficult times , it is one of his special know-how tasks , and at all times there is a definite need to obtain best productivity if the small plant is to prosper . How TO OBTAIN BEST PRODUCTIVITY There is no one method or procedure which could be applied in every plant , at all times , or under all conditions in order to create best productivity . It does seem , however , that there is a basic pattern of approach and also various methods that do create productivity . By choosing the best suited ones the achievement of better and possibly best productivity can be expected . In general it needs 1 . Planning and goal setting in order to create clear objectives for the productivity desired 2 . Study and appraisal of the known methods creating more and better work performance 3 . Selection and application of the method or methods best suited for the conditions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ methods to achieve the intended best productivity . The efforts at best productivity must be molded intelligently into the daily work patterns . The best methods must become daily practice , and super , vision must bring about improvement in gradual stages by patient education and gradual application rather than by ruthless " installation " and " enforcement . " Any worker and even the most cooperative employee group resent obvious attempts to get more out of them than they have given so far . Unions are definitely against such tactics and reply with defense measures that can stifle even the most determined management . Seeing it from the practical management angle : The achievement of best productivity is a matter of give and take and above all fair dealing with all concerned . It is and must be fair to all . In particular it needs best engineering and best management in order to achieve it . In the following there are presented those measures and methods which w far have been applied , are recognized as fair even by unions , and can be used in small plant management @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In our plant we do various kinds of work . Some we do as job orders , requiring only one operation to be performed . This gives us approximately 5 per cent of our business . About 10 per cent of our business may still be only one item but may require many operations , such as drafting , patternmaking , foundry , and machining . Another 30 per cent of our business is rough castings . Steel fabrication accounts for roughly 10 per cent more . In the remainder we have fairly sizable orders that require production runs in related units and operations over a few days to possibly months . When a purchase order is received from a customer , we give it a preliminary planning to determine through which departments it must be routed . The job-order sheets are then typed and sent to the productionplanning section where all detailed planning and scheduling is done . This includes making up material lists for purchasing material , operation planning , methods planning , determining job-lot sizes , and fitting into department and machine schedules . On our unit orders @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the job is taken up directly with the individual foreman , which saves paper work , time , and expense . It is , however , scheduled as will be described later . In order to get productivity , we bring these orders into as logical a program of production as we possibly can . We schedule them carefully , allowing for good work times as well as emergencies , and thus feel that , by having a truly good production program and a truly good production calendar ( schedule ) , we have created the necessary basis which must be established before any of the methods can be applied which would give best productivity . After all the above has been decided upon , the program and schedule are transferred to a visual production board . ( We use Wassell Produc-Trol boards . ) These are set up by department , operation , partial completion date , completion date , material availability date , and other pertinent information . Even a simple work-order scheduling system will do . The main point is that it be well done and upheld @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not use too complicated time-study techniques , nor do we set highest performance standards in order to achieve records in work times in our scheduling . We expect and schedule our work at about 85 per cent of top efficiency , be this in man work or in machine jobs . With this as a starting basis we have not had and do not expect to have many difficulties . At 85 per cent of top efficiency neither the men nor the machines are overworked or overstrained , but we do know that much greater performance is possible . We know that our basic production planning gives fair productivity , fair to men and fair to management .  | Planning for 85 per cent of top efficiency as regular work performance does not give lowest costs but only reasonable costs . In order to get best productivity and lowest costs , special methods must be applied . By now quite a few have been developed . They can be classified into four basic patterns . From them the manager has to choose most carefully the one which he would feel is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ described below . Good Productivity in Spite of Old Equipment In small plants where so many incredible things happen , one can find occasionally that a top performance in volume and at lowest costs is achieved with equipment that is by no means new and perhaps obsolete but is in good repair and in good operating condition . The secret of the volume perfection lies in the low volume of work that is needed . It is sufficient to keep the plant going at best capacity . The secret of lowest costs comes from the fact that the building is fully paid for , all machines are written off , and therefore little overhead has to be charged . These conditions are much more frequent than one may realize , but they can not be readily applied or duplicated at will in other plants . Better Productivity through Wage Incentives About 60 per cent of all factory workers in American small plants are on wage incentives , and many different incentive systems are applied in the different kinds of production work in order to obtain high productivity . The reasons for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ obvious . Wage-incentive plans are methods of paying workers in some degree for their effort rather than of paying them on the basis of the time they spend at work . Wage incentives permit substantial increases in wages and effect significant decreases in the unit cost of production . It has been observed that an increase in production per man-hour of about 40 per cent may occur in the first 90 days of operation of a new plan . In an ideal industrial society each individual in management and labor would desire to think and work up to his capacity . There would result the best of engineering , plant layout , scheduling , working conditions , production , and earnings . There are probably a few instances where , through inspired leadership and excellent cooperation , this condition is approached . however , being mortals , we are actually far from this ideal condition . Profits and possibility of salary increases have been the chief means of encouraging management to do its best . Wage incentives were established to provide the seemingly necessary motive to create a desire among workers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ do not require new or even improved machinery . Nor do they require much more intensive supervision . The worker , under his own effort and using his own intelligence , improves productivity as best as he can and as much as the facilities available to him permit . The cost of additional inspection is usually not increased . For all these reasons the wage-incentive systems are economical for the management and relatively easy to introduce . Although the workers turn out more work , the value of their increased production is somewhat higher than what their increased payment will be . This is a feature of most prevailing incentive systems . And since they earn more and the managements obtain more products to sell , both find their incentive method satisfactory . Also the unions usually agree unless the incentive is insufficient . With incentive-wage methods quite definite improvement in productivity can be achieved . Applied in form of overtime payments at 1 ? times the regular wage , productivity increases that may be desired for short periods can be solved . If applied in the form of permanent incentive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cent worker 's productivity can be obtained for as long as the incentive method is applied . The savings in costs achieved by incentive systems depend on the incentive plan used as well as on the share the worker is paid and on the other share that management can retain . Some forms of the Emerson plan , for instance , leave little cost savings to the management because they give nearly all savings to the workers . Other plans yield as much as 30 or 40 per cent or more of the value of increased production to the management for cost lowering , but they are open to criticism by the men and their union . Overtime costs 50 per cent more for wages and gives usually little or nothing more than regular work wages in form of units . Thus it is very costly for the management and a penalty for not getting work done during regular hours . Incentivized productivity has its main shortcoming in the fact that it deals only or mainly with the efficiency of the workers but does not cover the whole work cycle , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ delivery of a part or product . Accordingly , it is entirely feasible that work operations be performed at time top speeds by the workers , who work hard in order to get the incentives , while in between the work operations more time is wasted , purposely perhaps , than ever was saved up in the work operations . In this manner only a fictitious best productivity is created in the work operations , but no cost savings at all are obtained by the management , which also has to conside the in-between operations . In many instances the incentive plans have been further used to obtain  | the employment of " helpers " and other nonessential men , who are claimed to be needed to obtain best performance in certain jobs . " Feather bedding " is the term for this kind of practice . The most striking proof of the practical shortcomings of incentive plans as productivity creators is given by the fact that in certain industries twice as many workers at highest wages and ample incentives turn out only as much or little more than what half @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ half of the present wages . Certainly this indicates a drop in productivity rather than an improvement , and reports of 50 or 60 per cent productivity have been received from many industries . As long as one measures productivity only in terms of time , it may well be that the incentive has reduced a job from 1.6 hours prior to the incentive to 1.3 hours for the new incentive basis ( Standard ) and to 1.0 hour of actual , incentivized work time . But if also wage increases and incentive payments are considered , then best productivity may not have been achieved , since no cost savings remain ; in fact , costs may have gone up , as they did for nearly every product made today . In all those economic periods when increased volume is difficult or impossible to sell , the manager should most carefully check all the results obtained or obtainable under incentive plans . He should figure out their true productivity , not only in terms of time , but also in terms of actual cost savings . Although it is almost universally @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ man power soon after it is installed , it is also unfortunately true that a carelessly conceived or poorly maintained plan is likely to bog down , cause bad labor relations , and end in restricted production . It is a fact that there are many plans all over the country which have been operating for years on an unscientific basis , with lack of proper management attention and accompanied by recurrent labor-management disputes . A wage-incentive plan is neither a perfect device nor a panacea . It can not be said that differences of opinion do not arise between management and labor regarding the fairness of standards . They surely do . But incentives not only offer inducement , they provide a demonstration of urgency . They are a time-tested way to get better results . They are traditional in the American system and should be used where they fill the needs .  | Best Productivity through Methods Improvement For the small plant this kind of approach to obtaining productivity through methods improvement is possibly the best . So far , it has been applied least . Above all , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ leave no dire economic consequences . In a small plant which is started new and where management from the beginning and later provides for good facilities and methods , improvement does not have to rely on the workers ' initiative and does not have to stimulate them into personal efforts to obtain best productivity . A small plant where good facilities and improved methods are provided will give as much output as the facilities and methods yield . If planned correctly as to size , products , processes , machines , and other basic factors , it does not need more workers than are required to run the plant . And thus it has few to dismiss as long as it is operated at all . A plant of this kind can turn out most volume at low costs at all times and does not have to depend on the men entirely to obtain good productivity and good costs . Both are permanently engineered into the plant , and the stress is upon engineering and work methods rather than upon wages , incentives , and bargaining . An old small plant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will possibly need fewer men , but after this , it can be managed to show the same good features as a new , well-methodized plant ; it can be made stable as well as quite productive . The provision of good facilities and of good methods costs less than incentives cost in the long run , and engineering as well as work-methods improvement can also be brought about in gradual steps where funds are missing to do it in one sweep . That costs can be brought down in this manner and that productivity can be improved to good levels and wages can be kept high have been proved before and during the war and are proved over and over again with increasing competition . The secret of the success of this methods approach to productivity lies in the simple fact not only that workers , work times , and work operations are carefully studied but that for the entire work task to be done ? for productive as well as nonproductive work ? the best way of doing it is provided . Methods engineering is good in good times @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gives as much output as has been provided for in terms of machines and of methods . A plant of this kind can be given a range of flexibility , and its savings in costs are such that at all times it can adjust itself to changing economic conditions and hope to sell its goods also in rather competitive markets . Few of such plants had to be closed so far , and not many will have to be closed in the future .  | Engineering improvements are somewhat more difficult to install than wage incentives in order to create good productivity . They can be made to pay men well ; they prevent argumentation and are therefore among the more desirable methods to obtain best productivity for all times . Very Best Productivity through Supermodern Equipment Continuous processing , automatic equipment , high-efficiency machines , conveyorized transportation , optimal space utilization , finest working conditions , combined with high wage payments and very best productivity are by no means pipe dreams or visionary thinking still to be achieved some time in the future . All these engineering feats can be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mark the achievement of the highest level of engineering and possibly also of shop management so far known . Perfection of this kind is not created by quibbling with the workers or by creating minor improvements here and there but by mobilizing best engineering knowledge and combining it with a new kind of management thinking that aims from the start to create the greatest volume of products in the best manner , in order to achieve lowest costs and serve a maximum number of buyers . This kind of productivity does not only seek and rely on the available or known markets ; this kind of thinking tries to create new , bigger , longer , and wider markets . The lowest costs thus created are not shared between the workers and the management alone ; they are shared with the consumers , still to be found , still to be won , still to be educated to absorb the large quantity of goods that can be created . It takes courage to think in this kind of productivity and still more courage to invest in a plant of this kind @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at lowest costs and will conquer the widest market . Yet this conviction has been borne out time and again . It has made small plants large and large plants bigger . Food canning done in tens of thousands of small plants not only has become a large industry but has benefited farmers , families , workers , and managers , who otherwise would not be there . The garment , clothing , hat , and apparel industries , mostly small plants but working at very best productivity , have brought out hundreds of thousands of products at prices so low and in such variety that even the poorest could buy them . The supply-industry plants are by no means all large . In fact , most of them are of small size as far as plant size goes . But their productivity is not  | only high , it is the highest known anywhere , and through their work tens of thousands of complex products are now available to millions of people . Best Engineering and Best Management the Keys to Best Productivity As this review of the patterns that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in production work or in rendering technical services is not a matter of abstract or theoretical thinking alone . Nor is it only a matter of stimulating workers or managers by the prospect of higher rewards or higher profits . It needs best engineering and best management action actually to create it . Besides , the highest productivity so far known has been created not only by setting the proper objectives in terms of output per man-hour or similar measures , but above all by bringing the interests of the consumers and final buyers of goods into the scope of thinking . In 1939 , 1 pound of a Cadillac automobile cost only 60 cents , although in the car were about 6,500 parts , probably 80,000 to 100,000 work operations , and , besides 3,300 pounds of material of all kinds and the finest of workmanship . One pound of Ford cars cost only 30 cents . A pound of precision machinery hardly cost more than 80 cents , and a house could be had for 20 to 30 cents per pound . Productivity thus really considered and meant consumer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Now that consumer interest seems to have been left out from setting the basic objectives for productivity , wages and costs and prices are highest , but markets are shrinking . Clearly , the more one studies best productivity and the methods of achieving it , the more he comes to realize that the methods of measuring are of much less importance than the final aims , which should be the creation of productivity through engineering and management measures that actually would yield lower costs . Only if scientists , managers , workers , and above all the unions will come to realize again that best productivity is not only a matter of maximum volume or maximum wages at minimum man-hours , but a matter of reaching a maximum of consumers through minimum costs , the true meaning of productivity will have been fulfilled , at least in production and possibly in all other activities . AUXILIARY METHODS FOR MEASURING OR CREATING PRODUCTIVITY In addition to engineering and management and in addition to men , ma chines , and methods which must be used in creating best productivity , every manager @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ auxiliary methods  | which help him to measure and to direct his actions toward the achievement of higher and probably best productivity . It may be difficult to develop perfect productivity measures for the entire economy or large groups , but for measuring productivity on smaller scales quite a few management methods actually have been used in large as well as small plants , mainly for the purpose of control and also for creating at least better productivity than existed before.3 They are : 1 . Budgeting and especially production budgets 2 . Cost accounting and especially production-cost analysis 3 . Standard costs and especially cost standards for materials , labor , and overhead or burden expenses 4 . Management ratios , especially those measuring production-management efficiency . Each one of these methods can be and has been used in small plants , not in all of them to be sure , but in the better managed ones . Not all are best for the small plants , but a manager definitely should use one or more of them . We make up a production budget as part of our general @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is control of overhead expense , but the only aspect which is of concern here is the method of reconciling actual production with estimated sales requirements in a coming period . Our budget is , therefore , a manufacturing program that is in question , determining the volume of production each week or month for a period of several weeks or months ahead . As we go along , we check how close our actual expense has been to the budget , and we thereby obtain clues as to where we are weak and take steps to improve at these points . I n order to review the management methods for their usefulness toward the creation of productivity , their strong as well as their weak points are set forth below . For all of them it should be kept in mind that they are auxiliaries for measuring productivity rather than the real means to get productivity such as engineering and shop-management measures . Production Budgets as Means of Obtaining Productivity Budgeting , at least in simple forms , is probably more in use in small plants than the other methods @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nearly always expenses for selling , production , and other requirements , such as engineering or research , are made part of a simple budget control . ' For additional information on these methods see Chap . 8 , Supervising and ConIrolling the Small Plant ; also ( ' hap. 16 , Bow to Do and Use Accounting .  | A budget is an estimate , usually made before the start of a new fiscal year . It shows what incoming amounts are hoped for , and what outgoing amounts should or could be allowed during the budget period , which may be chosen as 1 , 3 , 6 , or 12 months in advance . Since all budgeting is done in dollar figures , any attempt at reliability or accuracy is handicapped by a multitude of possible changes in prices , units , material costs , wage costs , and overhead costs for services , transportation , etc . As it is most difficult to foresee all these possible changes , no budget procedure ever has been or ever will be a truly reliable means for planning the desired @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ perfection obtained . Nevertheless , many plant managers think in terms of dollar figures , and by preparing budgets they develop at least a preconsidered financial operating program which they try to uphold as a goal . If it is carefully done , budgeting and the final check of the actual situation against the planned one are desirable procedures . If the production budget is made up in physical units and also in dollars , this definitely helps in managing and in achieving productivity per manhour as well as low costs . At least an attempt is made to aim in this direction , which is always desirable . Since good budgeting is a rather complex process , no attempt is made to explore its techniques . Only its desirability is indicated and endorsed for small plant operation because it also helps in keeping the plant up-to-date and providing for new needs in machines , tools , or equipment . Production-cost Analysis as Means of Obtaining Productivity Financial data on production , as they actually materialized during last month or last week or during the year , are always worth analyzing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ developments in certain cost or expense items , in the various sections of the plant , or in certain kinds of work or jobs . Since accounting furnishes data only long after the action has taken place , a good deal of the analysis furnishes only hindsight and the manager must supply the foresight for the future . If the cost-accounting data are not too much delayed before they are analyzed , a good deal for better management and also better engineering can be learned from the figures . In particular , production expenses can be studied carefully and steps taken so that the expenses yield the desired performance and productivity . Actual production-cost figures have more convincingness to foremen and others than budget figures , and this is an important point whenever higher productivity is desired .  | The use of cost analysis , properly done and based on carefully established accounting data , is a good approach to obtaining higher productivity . Cost Standards as Means of Obtaining Productivity Before the war , cost standards or standard costs were considered by some as one best method for getting production @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tried , but most of them gave up . The preparation of a multitude of material-cost standards , wage-cost standards , and overheadcost standards is worth doing only if unit-output standards also are prepared . In the small plant , there are usually not sufficient employees or the proper knowledge available to do this kind of work sufficiently well , with the proper advance knowledge , and with sufficient definiteness to impress anyone in the shop . Even if fairly accurate cost standards were established in periods of economic stability , in times of cost instability the mere readjustment of all the various cost standards for any period ahead would be an undertaking few small plant managers would attempt . Management Ratios as Means of Obtaining Productivity Hardly can management ratios of the commonly known variety be used to improve production in fine detail . This will have to be done by the men , foremen , engineer , or manager . But where an easily established , understandable , and reliable over-all control is desired to measure not only the performance achieved but also the level of productivity and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ratios seem to be very much worth having , either alone or as complements to a production budget system or in addition to some production-cost analysis procedure . They are easy to establish and require little extra work , few statistical data , and can be calculated weekly or monthly , for any period or a whole year . There is no dearth of such ratios , and the more useful ones are listed below : figure  | These three ratios correspond to those most frequently recommended in scientific discussions on productivity . By using the same ratios , but using data for only certain shop sections or products , one can also measure and follow up the productivity obtained in these sections or parts of production . If output can not be stated in units , the weight or cubage or any other measures common to the variety of products can be used . By using monetary values of costs , production , wages , or man-hours one can measure even totally different production lines and combinations thereof and thus determine the productivity of plants although they may do a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ change , one can also recalculate the affected values to the old prices or costs and thus establish a long-trend series of uniform cost- or price-measuring indexes which will give true comparability of the weekly or monthly or extended findings . These measuring techniques should suffice for most small plants and give sufficient guidance to the manager for an intelligent appraisal of the productivity attained . Those who desire finer analysis , covering machine utilization , shop transportation , production-expense productivity , labor turnover , absenteeism , or any other phase of production work , can either find suitable ratios in Alford and Bangs , Production Handbook ( The Ronald Press Company ) , or construct some new ratios suited to their needs . SUMMATION ON HOW TO GET BEST PRODUCTIVITY 1 . Best productivity should be desired not only in production , which is the only field covered in this chapter , but also in engineering , technical research , sales , and all other phases of work , such as accounting , cost accounting , and even paying taxes . 2 . Best engineering and best shop management should @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ work or in any other kind of work but also in planning , organizing , operating , and supervising if best productivity is desired for the entire plant . 3 . Methods for measuring productivity should be used even in the small plant , because they cost little , can be used to determine weak spots , and serve to transform management thinking into management action .  | HOW TO DO TECHNICAL RESEARCH BY FRANK WILLIAM MILLER , Vice-President Yarnall-Waring Company , Philadelphia ' In the smaller plants nearly everyone with a creative aptitude may have to undertake occasional research in order to assist in developing a new product or improving an old one . Research is a function along with others , such as solving production problems , personnel problems , and financial problems , in which managers participate . The necessity for doing research may arise spontaneously or may be decided upon after careful deliberation as part of the small company 's pride and efforts to show what it can do to keep progressing . It is gratifying to see managers and men in small companies cooperating closely and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , develop better qualities , overcome bottlenecks , please customers , or keep pace with technical advances that will keep all the men on the job , proud and happy of their role in the achievements . This common interest in the solution of technical difficulties is the necessary basis upon which at least a majority of all the 280,000 small plants maintain themselves in business . Where it is missing , the small plant stagmites and finally withers . No small plant manager alone can create all the necessary improvements , do all the thinking that is needed , and try and try again until all problems are solved . To help him he must depend on the ingenuity of those men in his company who can contribute new ideas . Perhaps this may be called applied research , and through it the desire for technical improvement is realized . It is definitely the fountain and origin of all those ideas which are systematically developed in these small plants . These small plants make special products , difficult mechanisms , unusual items for which there may or may not be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that are needed in our high-level civilization . ' The author is in charge of production and research of a small but well-known plant making blowoff valves , impulse steam traps , strainers , expansion joints , liquid-level indi'ators , water-level gauges , spray nozzles , and hydraulic valves . 329  | INSURING THE FUTURE AT YARNAI , 1. - WARING COMPANY In center , high-pressure ( 2,500 lb. wsp ) test boiler equipped with operating and experimental Yarway water columns , water-level gauges , and blow-off valves . Boiler steam drum is 18 in. diameter , 3 in. wall thickness ; tubes are 1N in. , ? /Y6 in. thickness . Heating surface , 130 sq ft ; furnace volume , 82 cu ft. ; gas fired from city supply , automatically controlled . Still at rear left furnishes pure feed water and superheater on right-hand wall is used as source of high-temperature steam . Other equipment ( some not shown ) includes apparatus for experimental work on steam traps , expansion joints , and liquid-level indicators . SCOPE OF RESEARCH IN THE SMALL PLANT The prime urge to provide for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sagacity is keen in successful management men . They know the value of providing a needed article which will do more or better things for more people . They install research for this purpose and expect such articles from their researchers . There is a reward which comes from such products . Besides , there are rewards that are incidental but nevertheless are of great value to the company . Basic research as done by the larger companies may yield unexpected new products . The small company , however , seldom finds itself financially able to pursue basic research . The small company does plan and execute , for its advantage , product research and development .  | To illustrate this , probably each manager or researcher can think of improvements made in some of his products or the development of new products . At Yarnall-Waring Company we have a small Research Department which is staffed by men who are contributing substantially to new and better Yarway products . Research also creates prestige which , for example , may be instrumental in the furthering of an advertising program . Frequent objectives @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is smaller or use of a material in construction which is abundant , thereby saving a strategic material for the products for which no substitute has been found . Still more frequent and most important is the search for new products to be made available for allied industries further to improve their own products . Industry moves forward on a broad front . Each idea helps to determine our future and contributes to the advancement of industry and commerce . Just the saving of metal required to make a product , as , for example , reducing the weight of a valve by 25 per cent , is , to the company making the valve , a real advance . But equally important is the possibility of using that saved metal for other needed products to enrich our lives . Besides , it is easy to understand how the transporting of such valves has been aided . Since they are smaller , more valves can be hauled in the same space or the same number of valves and additional items can be shipped . From research more things for more people @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a higher standard of living . From the selfish desire to perpetuate a business there comes in the end an unselfish contribution to mankind . HOW TO PLAN AND ORGANIZE FOR RESEARCH Let us take a small industrial organization without a research or development department , and together we shall install such a department . At the conclusion we shall have a department staffed and equipped . It will contribute substantially to the healthy progress of this company . The steps to be taken usually can be and should be arranged in a systematic pattern to obtain best results as follows : 1 . It needs a decision really to establish research as a distinct activity within the company . 2 . The need for research should be convincingly proved to all concerned . 3 . A list of problems deserving research should be established . 4 . . Sequence of research work must be scheduled .  | 5 . The research personnel must be obtained , trained to work as a group , and encouraged . 6 . A definite research philosophy should be evolved and used as a guide @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be made known . 8 . Adequate space for research activities should be provided . 9 . Equipment should be obtained . 10 . A research budget should be authorized . 11 . Actual research can then get under way . In the following sections each one of these steps will be described in detail . WHEN THE MANAGEMENT MUST DECIDE TO DO RESEARCH This may at first seem elementary , but there comes a time when someone will ask the question , " Should we have a research department ? " This will not occur to all key men in the organization , for they may not know the benefits to be gained . Then there is a need for those informed to acquaint the others . A few basic facts , together with a summary of experiences to date , will usually be convincing . Research , as a distinct , well-organized , and carefully guided activity , is usually a needed and worthy undertaking even in the small plant WHEN 1 . The company makes a simple or complex mechanism or any chemical , food , ceramic , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ strength of its competitive quality . 2 . The quality features have to be strictly observed and improved to maintain and improve the position of the company in its field of endeavor. 3 . Competition brings out superior products regularly or by surprise , in order to attract more sales and customers . 4 . Sales are falling off , because this indicates that competitors are forging ahead and the company is losing ground . 5 . Competitors are cutting prices and improving quality at the same time ; this means that research is the only means left and should he installed before it is too late . GIVING PROOF FOR THE NEED OF RESEARCH Most enterprises are started with a basically sound product idea . This idea is expanded to additional uses or enlarged to cover adequately a greater field of similar uses . However , any product runs its course of useful-  | ness , and then comes the time when it is necessary to expand further or find new products to keep the company going prosperously through the systematic development of new ideas . How is this to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ problem for a while , but no one has sufficient time to do a thorough job . Since no really good new ideas are produced , the necessary appropriations for advertising and producing the poorly conceived improvements are only halfheartedly fostered . Any new idea or product born in such an atmosphere will surely become anemic and lead a faltering life . Success is not born of such planning or , rather , lack of planning . As a result the future is insecure . At such a point of uncertainty , the management may decide to discontinue all its activities . This has happened many times in the past and is happening today . The loss is great and final . However , planning , which aims to avoid such a position , and dissatisfaction with the sad prospect of lack of progress or even failure should produce a decision to have a department devoted to research . Furthermore , this research should be applied research and development . " Research may be defined as the search after new information by the experimental method . Applied research seeks to solve @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " This is the definition given by Spriegel and Lansburgh in their book Industrial Management ( 1947 ) . It fits the small plant approach . In our everyday lives there is a multitude of ideas coming to our attention as a result of questions asked and through environmental influences . Not always are these ideas clear or strong at the start . The germ from which an embryonic idea is born may begin life in any of many ways . The germ , once recognized through the fog of the unknown , should be carefully nurtured , for it may be of great value . The resulting idea is taken for a journey through past experiences , competitive fields , economic examinaNons , practical uses , and customer reactions and then through the necessary development stages . In this journey , which may be as eventful as a fast-moving novel and as fascinating as a Conan Doyle story , there probably will be rough going but also stretches of smooth highway where the traveling will be easy . In these calmer periods we probably can study the work of others @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ solutions for our immediate and future problems . This la the basic assurance that the company can and will move forward . It should be expected that even with research the journey may be rough and dangerous from time to time . In such difficulties the research engineer will be tried at every turn to find the best road which will lead the company In the successful achievement of its goals . But with good research and good management , success should he the reward .  | HOW TO Do RESEARCH IN THE SMALL PLANT Make a List of Problems Deserving Research When the need for a research department is recognized by management , a list of problems should be prepared concurrently or , as happens in many cases , even before . The first of these problems is usually one of need for improvements in existing products . This stems from advancement in allied lines of products made by those who buy from the company and therefore require products which have likewise progressed . Also important in this awakening are the improvements being made by competitors in their products . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , i.e. , the survival of the fittest . In some product lines we can not survive , as competition may advance beyond our ability to keep up . Or a new industry is born which needs new products or forces our product or old ideas into the discard . Therefore we can not be content with improving one product only . Often the need for broadening the entire base is a requirement . To broaden the base suggests more products . Ideas and suggestions do flow in from many sources . Customers , salesmen , engineers , research workers , men with ideas in allied companies , etc. , send in ideas which they hope will find favor in the research project planning . From these , selections are made for continuing the business , and then follows full development of the improvements to be made . In their entirety they give the clues for the list from which a definite research program can be evolved . The Research Schedule A clear timetable for all the research projects , showing dates for beginning and finishing , is a stimulant to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ part of management to him of the importance of the research work that he will do . Reasonable time allowances must be made for contingencies . The researcher responsible for performance on any project must have confidence that management has given sufficient time for producing a worthy item or process . A short period for completion must not be construed as a means of expediting the work to the degree that failure is sure to result . Such an attitude on the part of any worker must be avoided because it destroys the winning spirit so essential in this department .  | Time budgeting as well as money budgeting can be great aids in the efficient performance of research workers . To save time , short cuts are often advisable and should be permitted . But they should not detract from the quality and effectiveness of the research covering a finished process or product . Cutting costs , resulting in over-all savings , is one of the prime objectives of research , but cutting of research time does not always yield them . The research schedule should allow ample time to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ listed . The task of preparing the research schedule must be taken seriously by a manager or , if there are a few , by the management team . They should select the projects from the many ready for immediate consideration . This selection is first made on the basis of their relation to the present products . For example , the company may have a line of heat exchangers . These actually cover a wide range of pressures and temperatures . But there is a recognized need in the industry for a better heat exchanger because of tube failures . The company managers sense this need and decide it would he to their advantage and the advantage of the industry to find a solution to this problem at an early date . Therefore it is assigned , and the reasons for the assignment are carefully explained to the researcher who is to work on the project . The researcher should participate in making this decision . In this way he is fully informed concerning the background of this assignment and will be guided by the thinking of those who desired @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ allotted for the development . Second , the selection of a research project may be established on the basis of its uniqueness and individuality and the contribution to the industry which is expected to result . Such a selection is made , knowing the greater responsibility which will be placed on the entire organization . It is recognized at once , for instance , that such things as new equipment for the manufacture of a new or improved item may be required , as well as new inventory , and that a new group of customers would have to be found which may require a new sales force to supplement the present force , etc . This is somewhat like setting up an additional and completely new organization . It can and should be developed slowly and with caution to ensure success , so as not to outrun the potential returns of the item and thus incur heavy unwarranted investments . This is to be avoided by those in responsible charge . Research departments and their schedules are not a means of getting rich quickly . They are a means to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ large degree of security for the company can be assured . The proper timing and good scheduling of research help immeasurably to achieve it .  | Research Personnel Selecting the man who will do the research and then assisting him in the selection of others for his department constitute a task of the management upon which a large part of the success of the department depends . First he himself must meet several requirements such as honesty , integrity , loyalty , technical ability , leadership , and enthusiasm for his work . He must also have the quality of clear vision and particularly the ability to penetrate beyond the known . With this quality he can recognize facts which are obscure to others . By putting these facts together with ideas which are suggested by surrounding influences , new products are born . Thus the man should fit the established purpose of this department . In a small company only a very small research department can be supported . In addition to the man in charge , an able mechanic of the all-round kind is an essential . He should @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . He should help in running tests , make suggestions for improving department functioning , and be especially helpful in selecting equipment . The number of assistants to the main research man will depend on the size of company , nature of products , and the growth requirements . These men should have technical background and be keenly interested in their assignments . They must be equipped with a high degree of ingenuity and unfailing in the knowledge that all problems are to be solved in securing a desired result . Discouragement is a word they should not understand and one to the meaning of which they should never succumb . Although individualists , they should be trained to work cooperatively in a common effort to help guarantee the future of the company . The employees in this department should be bound together by a knowledge of the company 's need for them and by a loyalty which keeps the company secure in developing new , unique , practical ideas for new products . On the other hand , they themselves should make sure that nothing will be divulged to others @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the item to the detriment of the employee 's own company . Security , then , for the company is also security for the employee , and both must earn it honestly . All researchers become better researchers as they progress in their work , having the greater experience gained from doing things and working with others while learning from them . Besides , they should be encouraged to take an active interest in learning from technical meetings and technical schools the latest thinking in their field of endeavor and in allied fields . Discussions should be fostered , since they assist in dissipating the fog obscuring dormant ideas .  | Scientists belong to professions that encourage novel thoughts . Novel ideas receive the highest awards , and mostly they come from the strata that have been first thoroughly probed in experimental searches . Visionaries with a germ of practicality are needed to break from the normal pattern . They are evolutionary rather than revolutionary in the ideas presented for consideration . It is from these that the greatest design advances are'made. figure Now Many Employees to Have in Research : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ answer . A small firm may have only one good man in research and get ample returns from his services . Others may have Ihrcc , four , or more and receive little from their work . Research is not so much a matter of numbers of employees but rather a mutter of technical ability mud creativeness , which is proved by the fact that  | in many small plants the owner himself contributes substantially to the research and development of selected ideas . Nevertheless , Graph 1 is offered to help in developing an answer to the question in regard to numbers of research employees . These data are taken from a National Association of Manufacturers survey made in 1947 . FUNDAMENTALS FOR A RESEARCH PHILOSOPHY Medical doctors say that no two people are alike , and as a result they diagnose each patient and deal with him as though they were doing research , conducting a new and most important experiment . This is an approach to healing mankind which draws on the best thinking of the profession . This spirit , prevalent in the doctor 's philosophy of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ needs of his patients . Engineers do not take the Hippocratic oath , but they have " The Canons of Ethics for Engineers " to which they subscribe . There is a fundamental similarity in the approach of these trained professional men to the problems before them . Above and beyond solving the immediate problems at hand , the improvement of the welfare of their countrymen is devoutly desired . This is especially true of the seasoned researcher who has developed a feeling of responsibility for humanity in each idea he develops . It is not enough to present a theory , a practice , or an idea which will make a profit . The new discoveries must justify their development by being improvements over what has gone before . This is a desirable challenge to all researchers , for it is an incentive to build better for tomorrow . Confidence comes from success in a particular field of endeavor . With success there is associated a like degree of pleasure in performing the duties . Success feeds upon this pleasure and grows to foster mental strength . Sudi strength goes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ department . Such a group has confidence in itself . Some men become more proficient than othea in a given kind of work . Their work , which at first should preferably be ttlle l ss t ifhicult kind , will contribute toward a broadened knowledge and a measure of confidence . This kind of philosophy merely recognizes the probability that a man e , vals sfuir , cgn ; ril Uting ideas ; to4l7 ; e.develgpmentmf ; s ccessful vvatehps is Pore - likejy tp cqutinue successful ; in the i cjev l , p , eltt , of igyp ) intricate , parts , tltt r one , whose experience avid , suecess , was in , developing earth-moving machinery . The wise research , ma , wi4ll , assig , axnentssto his gawp so that he can most effectively use itisAye , kipf cj ghil , i ey. ; ; This , of course , requires at least some research , 4n , Pr$ ( Ot ; vfl  | In the small business each research worker develops all his latent talents . The more he has the more useful @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ growing ability to do things ( an awareness of the fruits of success ) and the possibilities of progress . The path has understandable signs , and it is not quite so steep to climb . The more difficult problems are solved with a surprising mental agility . Where this atmosphere of confidence prevails and the harvest of products is resulting in increased sales , there is the basis created for a healthy start in research activity . COMPANY POLICIES MUST BE MADE KNOWN TO RESEARCH MEN There is in each company , regardless of age , a guiding policy which has been developed either consciously or unconsciously . The policies in regard to interest in employee welfare , quality of products , sincerity in treating customers , and desired rate of company growth are among those things which should be clearly stated to all research workers . The fairest of dealing with all at all times must be provided , and particular care be taken in explaining fully to them any change in policy and each new assignment . There is full expectancy that the company will , through its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be done by any individual or any group , so they may condition themselves in preparation and often work on several projects at the same time . This is healthy morale building . Lack of activity or sudden assignments without sufficient introduction unnecessarily disturb the equilibrium . It is most interesting to study the basic company policies which are built into their products , and more and more buyers pay careful attention to every detail that may offer a clue . Many purchasing agents are engineers , and they , as well as their test engineers and generally all good designers , can gauge from the looks of a product or from a blueprint the kind of company offering the product . ADEQUATE SPACE FOR RESEARCH A small company may at first find it convenient to allocate only a small doom or a portion of a room to research work . Obviously , in the early Stages research is subjected constantly to a critical examination . Often there is not much room or space available . Will it be a worthy venture ? This is the big question , and 40 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ big question indeed . However , today , we find ' on all sides this question being answered in ? the affirmative . A small room is probably the best a small company may  | feel it can justify for research . It is something new , and conservatism guides the thinking when cost is considered . But even in a small room much useful thinking and building can be done , and the department can get started in establishing its place as an essential one in the company . Research people are creators , and to realize a high degree of perfection from their talents , it is necessary that a comfortable place be provided and inhibitions be avoided . This fact is fundamental in research , and every plant manager should seriously consider it whenever the space problem for research arises or room for experiments is requested . There is no hard-and-fast rule that one could develop for guidance on space for research . Bulky products and experiments may require much space , especially when research is to be carried on for a considerable period with several projects continuing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ possible to do this outside . Usually a small room will suffice to do all the research thinking . Even in very small plants one can find laboratories de luxe , and in big plants rather inadequate research facilities and crowded research space can be observed . Each manager can suit his own taste , but poor space allowance is bound to have adverse effects on the research to be done . RESEARCH FACILITIES AND EQUIPMENT The physical equipment in a research department can become extensive . Many facilities are essential , such as machine tools necessary for producing models for form and for test under actual conditions . These models or test pieces are tested in conjunction with other equipment for extended periods of time , preferably in the research department . To do so it is , of course , necessary to have the process equipment or the test apparatus . Instruments of the recording and indicating types are usually required . Electricity for machine-tool motors and steam for operating test equipment are examples of necessary types of energy sources . Gas may be required for heating or heat-treating @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or special testing . These are in addition to such items as piping , valves , tanks , metals of various types , materials , wood , plastics , and acids as may be required . To avoid an excessive amount of equipment it is well to encourage a spirit of thriftiness , using equipment many times for similar tests rather than requiring new equipment each time . There is also the wise use of standard equipment on the market which is produced in large quantity . Usually these items can be purchased for a nominal sum and obtained quickly . It some such items can not be used directly , they can be adapted at relative ! low cost for test purposes . There is , besides , that desirable quality of ingenuity exhibited by t  | research-department personnel which builds makeshift equipment . It is a most commendable quality , especially in small companies where the budget is relatively small compared with the numerous tasks to be done . Such thriftiness can be encouraged by the manager . He knows of the needs when assigning the project and must @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ department can aid in this . Access to a good technical library and to current pertinent magazines affords sources of great help to this department 's personnel . These facilities are mentioned briefly but are nonetheless important . Much of the above . equipment is in the class of capital goods and can be : amortized as such . It is well to keep in mind the special character of some of this equipment and the need for accelerated depreciation . RESEARCH DEPARTMENT BUDGET As new assignments are given to the research department , a study is made of estimated expenditures for carrying forward the assignment either for a riven period of time or to completion . When a major assignment is made , it may not be entirely clear when it will reach its terminal point . In such cases the expenditure of a preliminary wnount may be authorized . This is to pay costs over a given period . At the expiration of this time a conference is held to discuss the amount of money spent and progress made in this project and then to study the advisability ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , authorizing necessary money to do so . By this means there is control of expenditures , and even more important , the advisability of proceeding with the project can be determined . Some projects will be dropped in this kind of approach , i.e. , where careful budgeting is followed . ' I'he simpler assignments may be fully authorized , and the money budgeted for their completion . In this case , of course , a periodic review will be made to see if the money is insufficient for completion or if the project should be Nimplilied so as to be completed in a shorter time than that originally estimated . A review of companies maintaining a research department reveals a fairly clear relationship between research expenditure and sales dollar volume . The small company spends a larger percentage on research than r large company . In a National Association of Manufacturers ( NAM ) urvcy made in 1947 there were 400 companies each having a sales volume $5 million or less per year . Of these companies a weighted value of 2.07 r cent is found when their research @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the sales volume the larger the percentage Of research expenditures , as shown in Graph 2.  | figure Mention is made also of five companies having sales volumes of $100,000 to $1.50,000 per year , which spent 20 per cent of this amount on research . These figures are omitted in the graph above because they represent an unusually large expenditure for research . However , this information should be used for guidance along with that given in the graph . Those companies having larger sales volumes , i.e. , those over $5 million per year . support research programs which cost from 0.62 to 1.55 per cent of sales . In the 1947 survey made by NAM there were 283 such companies , the weighted average being 1.08 per cent . This information , too , is given here for comparison purposes only , as we are primarily concerned with the small companies . HOW TO CARRY OUT THE RESEARCH Once the small plant manager has decided that he needs and really wants technical research done in a systematic manner , and when he has planned and organized the research @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ circles on graph show number of companies having this percentage . I  | tion of the research work becomes relatively simple and ties itself in almost naturally with all the other work done in the plant . Since for most research projects the desired result can be fairly definitely described and clearly stipulated , the researcher can apply at least some fairly direct methods of investigation and development . While often enough at first no satisfactory solution is found , continued investigation , combined with the application of trial-and-error methods , gives surprisingly frequently if not the specified result , then at least a satisfactory facsimile of it . In large plants where ample funds and sufficient personnel are available , the research is simply continued until all objectives are fulfilled . In the small plant the manager is mostly forced either to accept the facsimile achievement or to allow more funds for continued research efforts . In such cases it is a question of deciding how important the perfect solution would be for the company and the user . Generally , the small plant can not and should not indulge @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ should continue its efforts as long as the experimenting is conducted along practical lines and gives at least plausible indications of satisfactory results . Research projects which after a reasonable time do not indicate any satisfactory conclusions are better abandoned or shelved for some time until a definite urgency proves the need for continuation . On the other hand , shelving of a started research project always prov ides a delay during which competition may be active on a similar project . I he decisions of delaying , curtailing , or abandoning research projects should therefore be carefully weighed before such changes in the research program and schedule are made . In the small plant the execution of research is probably done best if at all times it is confined to the practical , not too abstract , not too deep or involved , not too superficial , and not too costly . The prime objectives of creating better products and improvements that increase the company 's production or strengthen its processing techniques in a workable manner should always be kept in mind . If research is applied in this manner @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the company can preserve its reputation , and a competitive position can be maintained . Research is concerned with cost , but quality rather than cost should always be the prime thought . Companies maintain themselves and survive through quality and superior quality rather than through price . Superior quality improves the possible quantity of sales , and more sales lower the cost per unit . Price is one factor to be considered in research , but only quality can match or exceed the competition and create sufficient demand . No temporary economic condition need influence the faith in and execution of a  | research program that has been carefully planned and accepted . Research is one fundamental through which the small company can protect and uphold its stability . FIELD TESTS FOLLOWING THE RESEARCH WORK When the development of a research project is initially completed in the research department , usually the major part of the work has been done . The best tests in the research department are , however , weak substitutes for real field tests . To extend the knowledge necessary for complete confidence in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ necessary to install several units or processes in the most difficult field situations . They are carefully watched to obtain possible customer reactions . Unfavorable responses are analyzed , and corrections made . These may be minor , or they may be major . In either case changes must be made to overcome the objections . For instance , the heads of bolts may not be accessible when using wrenches commonly available to the customer . This can be a serious objection , and proper clearance must be provided . Fumes from a process may result in a hazard to employee health . Provision for removal by ducts may be required . The first set of field trials may result in returning the units to the research department for further development . They have been unsatisfactory to the trial users . This again is an important step in perfecting for customer acceptance . Such field tests are run preferably within easy distance of the research department so that the men who have been close to the develop ment can follow the field progress to satisfactory completion . Such tests are made @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ knowledge that the installation is made for test purposes . The fundamental theory basis for the needed improvement must be established again and tested in the research department , and the ( often ) long and tedious process of perfecting component parts must again find a more nearly perfect solution . The research department must do these things . The time has passed for the manufacturer to sell products that would not fulfill promises made to the buyers . GIVE RECOGNITION FOR NEW , USEFUL , AND UNIQUE IDEAS Ideas sometimes come from the most unexpected places ; however , most of them come from the expected sources . But from wherever they come , full credit should he given to the originator . This is essential , and care must  | be applied to ensure that full credit be given where it belongs . Short developments are relatively easy to trace back to the idea source . At the inception of the idea development there is mostly general agreement that an idea is good , and in that first period it often happens that several tentative ideas are suggested . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time of suggestion because of the lack of knowledge of the part they will play in the final unit , but as the time approaches for potential patent application , there should be a review of the entire development in order to establish the allocation of credit . The idea requiring an extended period for development should have its originator 's name coupled with it along the entire way . This association will avoid unhappy consultations . If a patent is applied for , it will be made out in one or more names , with the patentee or patentees assigning the patent to the company which employs them . The number of patents in an employee 's name serves to indicate his contributions to the company . Should the idea come from a source outside the company but interested in its development , a somewhat different approach must be made in rewarding the source . In this case the originator is consulted for the purpose of arriving at a satisfactory working agreement . This may be an outright purchase or a payment of royalty , based on the assumption that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ combined efforts of the originator and the company 's research personnel . Variations of these plans may be used , depending upon individual circumstances . TRANSFORMING THE RESEARCH PROJECT INTO ACTUAL PRODUCTS When the findings of a research project are finally approved , they should he passed from the research department to the engineering or production men . The research department usually produces commercial units in very small quantities . These are practice units , utilitarian in nature but needing refinement and often adaptation for economical production . The plant manager should meet with the research head and the engineer or chief production man to take the first steps in this transition following completely successful field tests . Sketches , models , tested units , and all data secured in tests are fully explained to the plant manager and his associates . They then prepare scale drawings , complete bills of material , and specifications . This information is subjected to analysis and determination of estimated shipping platform cost . The manager will use this study to establish an estimated cost and price and to determine the estimated sales potential . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ production in quantity .  |  | containing the acid solu'ion immersed in a temperature-controlled water bath automatically maintained at 150 ? F. ? 2 ? . A motor-driven stirrer was provided to circulate the acid about the metal specimens , which were suspended in the acid solution from glass hooks . The acid solution was covered with a film of oil to prevent aeration and evaporation . A glass tube large enough to permit passage of the test specimens was extended into the bath to provide an oil-free area for entry and removal of specimens . Tests were conducted to determine the corrosion resistance of various alloys separately exposed by suspension from insulation hooks and also in galvanic contact with low-carbon steel . These latter tests were performed to approximate the effect of valve trim in physical contact with a steel valve body . Specimens were carefully weighed on a chemical balance sensitive to 0.1 milligram before and after the test with the observance of the customary procedure for cleansing the specimen of corrosion products . The weight loss of the specimens together with the surface area was used as the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ over the test period . This information was prepared in tabular form . Pictures were taken to show the appearance of the specimens at the conclusion of the test . The results of these tests are given in terms of weight loss of the corrosionresistant alloy and also for the carbon steel in contact . It was noted that alloys containing nickel and some molybdenum in galvanic contact with carbon steel showed reduced attack over that suffered separately and that the corrosion of the carbon steel is slightly increased by the galvanic contact . The order of these corrosion rates is such as to permit satisfactory applications of these alloys as valve trim in steel bodies with life expectancy corresponding to normal boiler life . The practical application of Type 316 and also Type 317 stainless steel for valve parts on boilers subjected to acid washing confirms the test results . Factors such as hardness , resistance to erosion , accelerated corrosion of the valve body adjacent to the trim material , etc. , were equally important in the selection of suitable valve trim materials . Information for the Sales Personnel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ item are essential . They are needed to make the product known . Even more important are demonstrations and verbal instructions to the salesmen . A completely informed salesman is a strong ally , able and willing to solve problems posed by the customer . Without complete information and a thorough understanding of the new product , the salesman will unconsciously present a weak approach to a critical prospect . An approach which is weak does not make sales . So reference is made to the need for supporting the work done in the research department . Only through successful sales can the research program be justified . Technical Questions for Service Purposes : In order to furnish full answers to strictly technical questions , they should be anticipated and answers prepared before the product is presented for sale . Customers are bound to ask  | these questions , and the answers should be ready . If they are omitted , time will be lost , sales will be retarded or not made . The main point in preparing these technical data is to prepare them intelligently , to cover all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a readable manner . At first not too many of these bulletins should be printed . because actual selling and service conditions will always add other points or questions which had not been previously considered . Instructions for Customer Use : Instructions for installation , operation , maintenance , and repair of the unit by the installer and user should also be prepared . These instructionns are the watchwords from the producer to the user . They must be clear , concise , and complete to convey an understanding of these aspects to the user 's operators and maintenance men . The researcher has initiated a new item , but without the full description of its use , its value may be lost by neglect of proper instructions and best application . PATENTS FOR THE SMALL PLANT Patents are the protection which makes progress possible . Without patents some companies could not stay in business . During the protected period a company can generally regain the money ( usually with interest ) expended during the time required for developing , testing , and patenting . Again referring to the survey made @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of replies to the question , " How many U.S. patents have resulted from your research activities ? " The answers reveal that many of the small manufacturers have patents which have resulted from their own research . The survey showed that 27 of the smaller companies , those with sales under $500,000 per annum , have 423 such patents . i.e. , an average of approximately 15 patents per company . Thirty-two firers with sales between $500,000 and $1,000,000 per annum reported 498 such patents , also an average of 15 per company ; 57 companies with sales between $1,000,000 and $2,500,000 reported 979 such patents , an average of 17 per company ; 76 companies with sales between $2,500,000 and $5,000,000 reported 2.282 such patents , an average of 30 per company . . . . The importance of patents to the small manufacturer is illustrated by one answer stating : " Our business is a good example of a small manufacturing plant whose birth and growth have been almost wholly dependent on patent protection . Under such protection the business has been lucrative and gives steady employment ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " footnote For other comments on patents see Chap . 9 , How to Fulfill the Legal Requirement%  | OUTSIDE SOURCES AND AIDS FOR RESEARCH Assistance from College Laboratories : There are times when it becomes necessary for management to secure test results which are beyond the scope of their test facilities . Such test results can be obtained by finding a laboratory in a college where all or much of the necessary equipment is on hand . The facilities are usually willingly placed at the disposal of the company on a payment for time and work basis . Personnel to aid in performing the tests can be arranged through the college staff , the aid of students often being enlisted . Such cooperation between colleges and industry is desirable . Roth are stronger when working together on the basis of giving and receiving worth-while information . The college supplements its income and finds a means of providing subjects for interesting assignments to graduates or undergraduates for supervised study . Industry benefits by finding a ready way of getting needed information and possibly an opportunity to acquaint a group of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Usually these young men are potential users of the company 's products at a later date . The college scientist is quite likely to be a true scientist , held by his interest in the work and the feeling that he can do his best work there rather than in industrial pursuits . Quite a few create a healthy approach to new ideas and are good as sources for innovations . Assistance from Commercial Laboratories : At other times there are problems to which only specialized laboratories can give aid or where there is a desire to go further in the development of a process which is well understood basically by some person in an especially equipped commercial laboratory . Such projects can be advantageously developed in these laboratories . They have well-developed apparatus and highly trained personnel . Such facilities may also be engaged by a group of companies interested in a common problem . This is a desirable procedure for small companies , especially when the project would require appreciable time and the aid of the highly trained personnel . Quite frequently the laboratories have extensive practical experience and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ experience aids them in rapidly concluding an assignment . . l eristtuu e from Consultants : In certain cases the services of a specialized consultant may be of great usefulness to the small plant . Especially does this occur when the development can he done by the plant research men  |  but requires guidance and supervision by someone who has definite experience in the special field of experimentation required . All consultants charge fees , and all make a report . But there is a great difference among consultants . Some have had experience in one field and some in another . Quite a few solicit the research contract on the strength of their experience and then send a young engineer from their own office to " see the project through . " By this means the company facilities are used partially by personnel from the consultant 's office . This is a desirable arrangement only where the consultant 's experience can be directly useful in solving the research project . At all times the small plant should make sure that it will get true and practical consultant service which , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from Prospective Buyers or Users : When research work is done to benefit a relatively small group of users or possibly only one large user firm , it may well be that the researchers of the maker and the user of the desired product can be pooled to work out the project on the basis of a cooperative agreement . Care should be taken that such an arrangement be worked out carefully in advance and especially in consideration of the future sales and profits to be derived . SUMMATION ON TECHNICAL RESEARCH Researchers as Weavers of Intricate Patterns : Research men are the weavers of intricate patterns . They continue to astonish their associates and compatriots with their ability to break with the past by improving the present and reaching for an even higher standard in the future . They are continually seeking to unlock the bolted and padlocked doors to nature 's secrets . These treasures are here for mankind to use , but the best use can not he achieved without learning to use them safely . Nature does not reveal them suddenly and before men are ready for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of these treasures too early . Others , as yet , have not been developed to a full usefulness for the progress which still has to be made toward a higher goal . Some inventions have been made a means to a selfish end . Others , unfortunately , have not been used for man 's good . This was not the intent of nature , and it is unfortunate when misuse of her resources is permitted . Researchers are always striving to improve upon the present . They arc never satisfied with their own work and that of others . Through their work the advance of civilization moves slowly but surely onward .  | The Need for Stability : Successful research results in new things ( new products , new processes ) for the small plant . But too many new things cause bewilderment . It is the better part of wisdom to avoid confusion by keeping research in proper balance with the other departments . Each department 's normal functioning is essential to the company 's health . If in a small plant enthusiasm for new developments from research @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ departments to absorb the new products , then the new products will suffer and research has been wasted . The need for balance and stable progress should not be forgotten . Too much research should be avoided , just as it is most important that sufficient research be done . This seems to be the essence of real , balanced research for the small plant .  | HOW TO GET BEST SALES BY ALFRED B. DEPASSE , Sales Consultant Worcester Chamber of Commerce , Worcester , Mass . ' THE PLACE OF SALES The market holds the key to small plant success , and sales management holds the key to the market . Neglect of this simple fact is one of the greatest causes of small plant failures , if indeed it is not the greatest cause . There are few more widespread or seriously erroneous ideas among small plant operators than that the world will beat a path to the door of the builder of the better mousetrap . Today 's mousetrap is mass produced , and the techniques of mass selling are required to bring it to markets spread @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ must carefully choose his channels of distribution , select and train his selling organization , and plan his promotion and merchandising among many other necessary selling activities . The display position the retailer gives the product on his counter can mean several hundred per cent difference in the sales volume during the display period . Of no less importance is the attention the jobber gives the particular mousetrap in his voluminous catalogue . It is the function of the sales manager to determine , interpret , and actually create the wants of the market , and then it is his responsibility to see that those wants are profitably filled from the production of the plant he repro sents and not from his competitors ' lines . On all too many occasions , a new or growing company creates a demand for a product but not for its own brand , which must be made the first and last thought in all selling . footnote 1 The Worcester Chamber of Commerce has pioneered a consulting service for tho 650 manufacturing firms of Worcester , most of them in the small plant group @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ transportation , and foreign trade . The author is the sales consultant of this organization .  | COMMON MISTAKES AND WHERE TO GET INFORMATION Rather than concentrating on ways to satisfy the wants of the market , rather than considering his sales approach , the manager of the small plant frequently becomes completely absorbed in the intricacies or qualities of his product . The manufacturer of an automotive accessory was not the least bit unusual in this respect . His product possessed several qualities far superior to those of his competitors : Durability , fire resistance , cleanability were all proudly pointed to . Style and price , however , were the important market appeals for this class of product . The former was mediocre in the new unit , and the latter was necessarily exorbitant . As if such neglect of the wants of the market was not sufficient to discourage sales , the commission offered sales agents was wholly inadequate . It was too small to attract experienced men and insufficient as an incentive for the intensive effort needed from any less experienced men . No fundamental fact of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ manufacturer than that his plant operation can be justified ? ; mil prosper ? only according to its ability to profitably satisfy the wants of the market . " Consumption , " as Adam Smith said , " is the sole end and purpose of all production . " Every technique of sales management is based on this fundamental , an awareness of which would result in much greater success for 90 per cent of all small plants . While the problems of small plant sales management are more difficult today than at any previous time , the sources of management assistance are equally greater . An entirely plausible story is told about the manufacturer who spent $5,000 on a research study that was available at the cost of a 3-cent stamp . The U.S. Department of Commerce 2 distributes through its regional offices numerous small business aids of great value to sales management . Excellent sales studies and industry reports are available at little or no cost . No small manufacturer should neglect this source . I he best sales-management thinking and experiences are covered by such professional publications as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Tell , and Advertising &; Selling . Small firms profit from the surveys , check lists , merchandising , and promotion plans described in these journals . For small subscription fees , plant operators can , in effect , expand their snlcs-management staffs . Professional selling and marketing associations represent other inexpen- footnote Sec Bibliography for detailed list .  | sive means for the sales manager of the small plant to broaden his background . Through sales executives ' clubs of National Sales Executives , many such men have acquired selling ideas from sales leaders whom they would otherwise have never seen or heard . Through regional and local conferences and clinics small plant operators in Worcester and other communities have had the opportunity to check and improve their own selling techniques . Under a new type of program , small plant operators are free to consult a professional management-engineering staff maintained by a local chamber of commerce or , as in the case of Vermont , a state organization . The sales consultant on such a staff is available for advice without fee on any salesmanagement problem that may develop @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ business schools of many universities , which frequently offer management assistance through their faculty and student body . Trade associations , too , offer invaluable assistance to companies operating in their particular field . A few sample pages , showing how to analyze a product for its sales possibilities , are presented below . They were taken from U.S. Department of Commerce , Economic Series No. 53 : A CHECK LIST TO HELP YOU INTRODUCE YOUR NEW INDUSTRIAL PRODUCTS Section I. Is Your New Product Salable ? The easy way to " define " the market for your new product is to say something like " Every farmer , manufacturer , and transportation company needs something like this , " or " Every city government in the country can save money using my product . " That is the easy way to convince yourself there is a big demand for what you want to sell . But it is never true ! Markets do n't happen that way ! Every product 's potential sales ? even to a particular class of customers like airlines or building contractors ? are limited by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but there are others . For example , every product 's potential is limited by what the product itself is good for , by whether it can be produced efficiently enough to sell at a reasonable price , and by a variety of factors ( reciprocal sales , for instance ) over which you , as manufacturer or distributor , may have little control . It is natural to say that all industry needs your belt dressing or burglar alarm or burr remover , but some ca n't use it , others already have it , others ca n't afford it , others have always bought from a competitor . So enthusiastic generalizations as to the size , location , or character of the market for your product are dangerous . The only sound , sensible way to determine the possible market for a product is to test , secure the facts , and consider all the factors involved .  | First find out whether the product ( designed and produced as you will design and produce it ) is salable to typical , representative prospects . This section Section I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                    