@@773696

txt // It is evident that under normal capitalistic conditions , . some great institutions like the church or universities as well as quite a few politically , altruistically and emotionally acting individuals shape their scales of preferences , not in conformity with our hypothetical pure economic man . This fact does not imply , however , that pure economic theory should drop the concept of such a pure economic man as an instrumental device as is suggested by Veblen . On the contrary , we must insist that in economic theory the economizing individual or " economic man " has to appear ( at least under conditions of a normal money exchange economy ) as a rational being who develops a normal ( that is , rational ) subjective scale of preferences and aims at gratification of his sound self-interest . His hedonistic calculus is quite logical because such a man would not undergo any pain which would not be associated with a certain subjective satisfaction or pleasure . Any deviation from this normal type of economic man will bring about a seriesof complications obscuring the picture @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a few problems which can be solved competently only by psychology or sociology . Of couse , there is no doubt that any deviation might bring our economic man closer to reality , but might also provoke a confusion because complex reality can never be grasped at once in its entirety . So , a logical simplification is the best instrumental device for any theory . In other words , we use a certain abstraction which does not distort reality at all because at least some economic subjects , important in our time , namely producers and consumers of the factors of production , usually act in accordance with the principle of minimum means , that is , strictly rationally , and because the average consumer of finished goods tends under capitalistic conditions to imitate the conduct of the pure economic man . Very typical in this connection is the expression , " Let 's talk business now " , that is , we have to forget about everything except our mutual self-interest . We have to turn now to another problem which is rather complex , namely to the relationship @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is a certain tendency to identify these two cases of human activity because they have something in common , namely : 1 . Technique , like economic activity , belongs to the realm of means . 2 . Technique as a method of performance is inherent any trained or vocational act which is essential for economic life . 3 . Technique varies with the change in economic style ; for instance , it becomes more risky or less risky more aggressive // or less aggressive when the social economic order changes . Yet both phenomena are different . Let us take a scheme of comparison which reduces the distinction between economic activity and technique to the follow , ing three propositions : 1 . Technique is only the selection of means for the given end ; economic activity is , however , something more because it also implies a choice among the secondary ends ( uses and wants ) . A technician frequently applies a given means to the given end . Even when he is creative , he uses a given fundamental means , for example , uranium , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it under different conditions . Also , in this case , the technician does not in reality choose his end . Thus , technique is still more a " realm of means " than economic activity . In general a technician asks only how the given means should be used , while the economist asks whether they would be used with regard to the given end . 2 . The engineer applies the principle of minimum means , but in different sense than does the economist . He is interested exclusively in tehnological productivity which he wants to increase in the most efficient way but he forgets entirely about its profitability ( or cheapness ) . In terminology of Reverend Cronin , a technician cares only for the physical productivity and not for the value productivity . A laboratory of a big manufacturing concern creates devices which are examined by its commercial research department . Progressive inventions are rejected very often because they " do not pay . " Students of economic history know how often revolutionary inventions are neglected and are transformed into revolutionizing innovations a century later or eyen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . For instance , an electric incandescent bulb was invented in the middle of 19th century in Russia by an engineer , Lodygin and rediscovered somewhat later by Thomas Edison . In our time " monopolistic " concerns sometimes buy up patents and leave them unused until they see fit to employ them . 3 . Economic activity is a sphere of culture , such as religion , fine arts , science , etc . Technique in that respect is inferior because it is simply a mode of procedure . This difference is stressed by Sombart and Veblen . Technique changes only under the influence of the " spirit of the age , " ( in Hegel 's terminology ) , which is international in its essence , while the economic life of a nation is sensitive to any change in the socio-economic mentality of a given people . If , for instance , Saudi Arabia begins to employ modern technique , it does not imply that some peculia // rities of economic life will be lost . In other words , it is easier to transfer technique to another country @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other hand , we can not deny that technique is a great productive revolutionary force stimulated by knowledge . It practically shapes evolution , even social progress . This is the reason that Veblen , leader of the American technocratic movement , expects engineers to become the ruling group in a completely mechanized and automatic economy . He disregards , however , the fact that the most important task of such a future state will be organization of leisure which will require leaders far more cultured than the technically-minded engineer . At this point , we know enough about economic acvtivity to be able to give its full description . Economic activity can appear in the following ways : 1 . As any remunerated ( or priced ) activity that cares for the satisfaction of another man 's wants , that is , satisfies him or enables him to gratify the wants of another individual . It can be : 1 . A preparatory activity which provides the means for the future or makes the satisfaction of present wants possible , for example , construction of a factory or of an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . John Commons and Paul Samuelson point out correctly that the bulk of economic activity is directed toward the future . 2 . An immediate satisfaction of another man 's wants , for example , sale of a commodity by a retailer , remunerative lecturing. 3 . Intermediate activity which simultaneously provides for the future and fulfills the satisfaction of a present want , for example , manufacturing of a commodity for a wholesale dealer . II . As any activity that is not an end in itself and cares for the satisfaction of man 's own wants . ( 1 ) Preparatory activity of different kinds , for example , home canning for the winter , Chirstmas shopping , hoarding in some cases , etc . Shopping is normally a preparatory action even if the moment when the satisfaction starts is near , for example , buying a shirt to be used in a couple of hours . Furthermore , shopping is an economic activity because : ( a ) One provides for a want which is still not satisfied . The action here is in principle a // means @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ b ) One acts in a rational way by applying the principle of the least mean . ( c ) One could employ somebody to do the shopping , for example , a cook who is in charge of it . Hoarding also is an economic action sometimes . For example , when an individual buys gold coins in order to hoard them as more stable purchasing power instead of buying an insurance policy . In this case , a certain goal is attained with a cost saving . Danger of inflation and social unrest make such a hoarding very probable . ( 2 ) Intermediate action which is not an end at all because it is preparatory in its nature but nevertheless may bring immediate satisfaction , for example , studying or acquiring knowledge in order to obtain a diploma . Such action is dinstinctly economic since it is pragmatic . Furthermore instead of acquiring knowledge one can employ a secretary or pay for the studies of a secretary , a practice used in the Orient . From a purely economic standpoint to learn means to save an expenditure . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a letter . When an action is pragmatic , or is a means , but can not be performed by an employee or , in other words , is a pure process of living , it is defined as final consumption and can not be considered as an economic act ; for instance , an individual consumes food that he does not enjoy and does it without any practical reason as would be the case if he wanted to build up his muscles for a professional sport . III . As an economic action which is purely psychological or rather a mental phenomenon . 1 . ( Liefmann 's case ) . Developing a man 's rational scale of preferences is an economic action in itself . A man may relax to deliberate for a while and to plan his future expenses . In this case , the individual figures out how he can gratify his wants in the near future in conformity with his personal hedonistic calcu. - his . Such action is economic for the following reasons : ( a ) It is not an amusement but a rational @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of adjustment and saving . ( c ) It can be carried out by an employed secretary . Yet , Liefmann somewhat exaggerates for two reasons ( a ) All economic activity can not be reduced to such a deliberation . On the contrary , this mental act is usually quickly followed by another economic action , normally shopping . In addition sometimes shopping is carried out in conformity with a subconsciously developed scale of preferences . ( b ) Developing a man 's subjective scale of preferences is not a purely psychological or emotional act but has a distinctly rational character . In other words , it is a " subjective " action only in the sense that it represents a distinct mental effort of the given individual . 2 . ( Sombart 's case ) . Deliberation that economizes man 's effort in a very restricted period of time . In other words , it is possible to distribute mentally the given means over wants which are selected in a brief period of time . If an individual decides twenty minutes before the departure of his train that he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ already possesses and the remaining ten minutes to reading the newspaper he has in his pocket , he practically performs a mental act which absorbs the given economic activity since he distributes the satisfaction of two selected wants ( or secondary ends ) and two already given means over a given short period of time . In this case his limited energy can find only a definite restricted application . Here the deliberation but not the resulting behaviour ( i.e. smoking and reading ) belongs to the realm of economic activity . There remains still another approach to the concept of economic activity , namely , the teleological which analyzes this activity from the standpoint of its sublimation and purposes and thus involves the problem of the welfare of an economizing individual . Let us take some propositions pertaining to this aspect of economic activity . The following scheme will give us the final approximation to the concept : 1 . The economic activity of a nation tends to approach a norm , that is , an ideal status which is designated as a " standard of living . " Such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in place and in time . Any major change in the productive forces of the given national economy influences its standard of living . This norm is a goal which is approached but // never exactly reached . The actual material welfare ( or still better , the degree of welfare ) which usually is defined by laymen as " standard of life , " is considered as " plane of living " in economic theory . This plane of living constantly tends to rise and thus pushes the standard of living which serves as the norm toward which it gravitates . This also implies that the standard of living of any nation must change in time and consequently is a highly dynamic phenomenon . The standard of living is determined by two factors . First of all , it is influenced indirectly by technological development which raises the physical productivity of the given country and thus increases its social product . The reason is that the actual plane of living depends in a large measure upon the size of this social product . The institutional system of distribution sometimes may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the given country . It will hardly upset it entirely however . Usually a country which has a greater technological productivity can afford higher wages even in its foreign trade . lts exported products will not be more expensive than the products of a country with lower wages but lower productivity . When , however , the plane of living rises , the given nation tends to raise its standard of living likewise because any nation , like any individual , is subject to the law of an unlimited expansibility of wants . Thus , the standard of living is not a static but a highly dynamic or even evolutionary norm . The standard of living of the given nation is influenced directly by the socio-psychological development which is of great importance . For instance , at the present time , American public opinion , which in a sense is a tool of the socio-economic mentality , favors a campaign against technological unemployment . Hence , in this country we have the promise of the government to enforce a full employment program . Simultaneously , in Great Britain , the state @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this trend means that the standard of living which is a social-psychic phenomenon is being raised and that the practical life will tend to push the present plane of living toward this new higher norm . We do not know how near the plane will approach the new norm , but usually the standard of living acts as a magnetic force . Thus , the standard of living and plane of living influence each other . 2 . Economic activity can be considered as a great pedagogic tool , or , as Frank Knight says , economic activity is an agency for formation of character , in particular of taste for competitive sport as well as a tool-forming wants , that is , an agency for the formation of a high standard of living . We may add that in the Soviet Union economic activity has become a tool of the so46 ECONOMIC SYNTHESIS called " socialistic emulation " which has an ideological tendency and is supposed to train the man for a " collectivist sportsmanship . " It should be noted that also Marshall stressed the character-forming effect of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a creative selfexpression of an individual because man 's creative spirit manifests itself either directly or indirectly in the result of any human productive effort . Almost every form utility is in a sense a cultural symbol . 4 . Any economic activity involving at least two persons must be bilateral , or in other words , must be wanted and remunerated by somebody . Yet , the opposite party should not only pretend that he needs the services in question . Not every economic activity is , however , implicitly productive . When we say that economic activity is bilateral we mean that an economic action must be wanted by someone who is willing to pay for it . In other words , an economic action must create objective utility . It must be able to satisfy another man 's want , or the wants of an entire nation . An economic act can be a unilateral action only when it is performed by an isolated individual such as Robinson Crusoe before he met his companion or when it is a mental effort . Otherwise , it will usually be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is not an economic activity because it increases an individual 's real wealth without rendering any service . It is a strictly unilateral act . On the other hand , if a gangster pays his agents for robbing other people , their activity ( not , however , the activity of the leader ) is economic from a purely economic standpoint . Gambling is a more controversial phenomenon . If an individual wins a fortune in a game not as a pastime while doing this as a professional gambler he performs an economic act even if his gain is disproportionate to the service which he renders to the losing party . In principle his action is bilateral and pragmatic . Also any person who has a gambling house is carrying out economic activity because he satisfies another man 's desire for wealth and adventure . In Europe , there is a small independent state , Monaco , which derives considerable wealth from large scale gambling . Some economists deny that gambling , including pure speculation , is an economic act because the gain of the winning person usually is disproportionate to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ proposition because a monopolist and even an oligopolist frequently gets a disproportionate profit in the same // way . No one , however , denies that they are carrying out an economic activity . The comparison can be in favor of a pure speculator or gambler because he runs a greater risk than a monopolist and his disproportionate gain can be easily wiped out by a likewise disproportionate loss . Yet the activity of a gambler is by far more assailable and really differs from that of a monopolist but in another sense ; namely , the activity of a monopolist is productive even when he displays an extreme acquisitive proclivity . The activities of a pure speculator and of a gambling individual are distinctly unproductive . This difference will become clearer after we have found out what we understand by a productive action . As mentioned above , the bilateral character of economic activity implies that the " opposite party " should not only pretend that it needs the services in question . If for instance , the Government employs some otherwise unemployed workers to bury and dig out some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there will be a certain " public work " based on a disguised dole but not an economic activity . Furthermore , if a remunerated instructor teaches a boy who considers himself as a victim , it is not the child but either his parents or the state that represent the respective " opposite party " and for this reason rationally acquire the teacher 's services . Sombart and Veblen emphasize that from a genetic viewpoint the specific weight of economic activity has increased because common robbery under ordinary modern capitalistic conditions represents a less normal case than the piracy three or four hundred years ago . CHAPTER II PRODUCTION AND PRODUCTIVITY The concepts of production and productivity have been somewhat controversial since the beginning of economics . The first scientific concept of production was given by Aristotle and was inherent in his philosophy . According to him production was first of all , an arrangement of matter by educing a new form . Every unfinished good is simultaneously a form and crude material from the standpoint of a higher form . Thus , a semifinished product is a new form @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with regard to the respective finished good . For instance , cotton yarn is a form of cotton but matter which is actuated into the cotton fabric . This theory of production was based , atleast in a large measure , upon Aristotle 's theory of " entelechy , " or as we might say , on the idea of metamorphosis . In other words , it is assumed that any matter experiences a prolonged change from one form or shape into another one under the influence of proper and sufficient causes and thus fulfills its self-realization . Aristotle was especially impressed by the process of vegetation which he observed in agriculture . For instance , a maple seed becomes a maple tree and not an apple tree . Consequently , a maple tree is entelechy of a maple seed or the final form into which it develops by actuating under due conditions the potencies of the seed . This principle also holds true with regard to manufacturing , although here it is less conspicuous because the producer can select among alternative forms . Yet , if he handles iron ore @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ iron product and not a copper product . According to Aristotle that activity is productive which creates a new form either " as by magic " as in agriculture or by labor as in manufacturing . He considers commerce and transportation unproductive because they do not create new forms . Until now , we follow Aristotle when we consider the process of production as a hierarchy of consecutive stages , in which the given raw material is ripening and developing into a congenial finished product . In other words , one must admit that Aristotle introduced the idea that there is a certain period of production composed of successive or vertical stages . Aristotle himself considered the empirical process of production rather as an . illustration of his theory of entelechy . Yet , he realized that there // is a certain peculiar production before the process of metamorphosis begins , at least before this process becomes visible to the human eye . For instance , in the case of cattle breeding there must be a calf as a certain net surplus product before it can develop into a cow . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the French physiocrats , and in particular , by Quesnay who went too far in that direction by assuming , in contradistinction to Aristotle , that only an activity which originates a new net surplus product is productive . In other words , according to them , agriculture including cattle breeding or the process of vegetation ( as a process of biological maturing ) is productive . Manufacturing on the other hand is unproductive because it creates only a new form , that is , an additional man-made utility but not a net surplus product . Now we realize that a new product ( new in a physical sense ) can arise as a new bearer of original utility sometimes outside the natural process of vegetation , for instance , in the chemical industry which belongs to the realm of manufacturing . In other words , the appearance of a new net surplus product may sometimes distinctly coincide with the creation of a new man-made form . Consequently , if we want to uphold the standpoint of Quesnay , we practically have to go back to Aristotle and admit that not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is productive . Yet , the physiocrats made a lasting contribution to the theory of production by elaborating on the concept of technological productivity . At present , we are used to compare the creation of a physical net surplus product with the creation of a new surplus value which is in a sense a psychological and , in our time , also a distinctly monetary phenomenon . Thus , technical productivity ultimately is brought into juxtaposition with profitability . Should we use the less scientific terminology of Horace Taylor , we would say that the making of goods is compared with money-making . If we consider production from the technical standpoint we easily come to the conclusion that at times manufacturing has a resemblance to agriculture ; in both cases , man may bring into contact different energies and as a result of this action a new net surplus product , in a technical sense , appears . For instance , in agriculture he unites soil and seeds , which are distinct sources of a creative non-human energy and thus may get the necessary crop . Let us consider some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of vegetation and also where a surplus product in the narrower sense appears outside the production of material goods . 1 . Two bearers of non-human energy are brought into contact while a catalyzing agent is introduced and provokes a chemical reaction . In this case , the process of transformation of the given matter is so close to a biological process of vegetation // that even a quantitative effect can be expected . Besides , one can hardly emphasize under such conditions the creation of a new form but instead must stress the production of a new substance conceived as a new bearer of utility . This case is typical of modern chemistry . 2 . Manufacturing sometimes picks up free non-human energy which increases the original utility of the given material without being taken into consideration by cost accounting . A good example is the primitive process of tanning when hides were treated in the sun . Some economists , for example , Jurgens Seraphim , consider the increase in original utility in such a case as a certain net surplus product . This standpoint should be contested . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would be some distinct differences between such a case and that considered in our first paragraph . There we meant the use of a natural resource , such as a chemical element , which is priced . In the second case , however , we mean a free unaccountable energy such as sun rays or oxygen that is productively consumed . This takes sometimes place in the modern chemical industry . 3 . In some cases the creation of a form utility ( or arrangement of matter ) so seriously changes the given raw material that the process of transformation or manufacturing outgrows pure changing of quality . For instance , flax is turned into linen in such a radical way that it becomes entirely unrecognizable . In this case , a new product as a bearer of new utility is produced even in a physical sense ; yet such a process of transformation is not close to the process of vegetation because there is no distinct quantitative result . For this reason , most economists consider such a process mere creation of new form utility . If one wants to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is rather intermediate because a certain quasi-surplus product in a technical sense comes into being . 4 . In the field of production of immaterial wealth , there is a distinct creation of a net surplus product in the form of new objectively useful ideas . Every book is a stored up knowledge or an accumulation of ideas just like a machine is in a sense a bundle of natural resources and labor which were productively used . Spann says correctly that Aristotle 's stored-up ideas fed for centuries a host of publishers and printers . The proposition that creation of new useful ideas , in particular of technical inventions , is a creation of a real surplus product is recognized by Alfred Marshall . We have just finished discussing several cases where manufacturing and agriculture show a substantial resemblance because manufacturing sometimes produces a distinct quantitative effect or brings about a drastic change of the original matter . There are however , two cases when the productive process in a technical // sense assumes a form which is unfamiliar either to manufacturing or to agriculture , namely : I. In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ So man controls the process of vegetation ( or metamorphosis ) only while he maintains and protects changing matter . This is typical of cattle breeding and fruit growing . 2 . In manufacturing , when man merely composes matter , he sometimes only forms the given raw material without affecting its original substance . For instance , iron ore can be recognised easily in any form which it might assume during the process of production . Even when an iron good is reduced to the status of scrap , the iron continues to be distinctly visible . Surplus product is a vague but very important phenomenon . We have to distinguish between two essential cases : 1 . Surplus product in the narrower sense . This kind of surplus product appears when a new objectively useful good as a new bearer of original ( objective ) utility is produced For instance , a new amount of iron ore is extracted . It means that a dormant natural resource has been awakened and is available as a new surplus product in the technical or physical sense . This kind of production @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) , chemical transformation , etc. 2 . When a very small amount of iron ore is transformed into only one iron stove a form utility is created because the given ore can be used better in this new form . In other words , the given net surplus product in the narrower sense is simply adjusted to human wants . If , however , the amount of the given iron ore is so large that it is stored up ( that is , remains sterile ) and a manufacturer starts to transform it into many stoves , one can say that the surplus product is increasing but only in a broader or a purely economic sense . One m , st be cautious in this case because the stoves can be reduced to the original surplus product represented by the accumulated iron ore , yet we have to admit that in such a case , there is a conspicuous increase in the social product due to actualization of a semi-dormant natural resource , and this increase can have economic repercussions because it may exercise an influence on the price level @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one should speak of creation of a new surplus product likewise in the broader sense which is a new bearer of exchange value because it has " vendibility " or " pecuniary serviceability " to use Veblen 's terminology . In our example , the actualization of a large amount of iron ore produced quite a few articles as merchandise or bearers of exchange value so that at least some individual prices could be affected . It is evident that surplus product in the broader sense is an economic rather than // a technical phenomenon and concerns the problem of profitabi lity more than the problem of technological productivity . According to John Commons , when we compare surplus product in the narrower sense with surplus product in the broader sense , we consider a problem of " engineering economy " versus a problem of " business economy . " Summarizing , we can say that production from a technical ( that is , a narrower viewpoint means actualization of matter ( never its creation ) , in particular getting some additional material goods as bearers of original utility . Man @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of iron ore or when he helps an apple tree to yield apples ( since such a tree must he constantly supervised , fertilized and protected ) , or finally when he domesticates a wild animal . Even an increase in creative ideas which are usually patented means production of a net surplus product . From a more economic view point , production means the arrangement of actualized matter . In other words , man readjusts the given matter so as to make it more useful . For instance , he transforms a log of wood into a table . In such a case , there is production in broader sense , even if it still has a certain technical character because no new matter is made available but only the original utility of the given matter is increased . In our example , form utility is produced . Should we use Aristotalian terminology , there is creation of an " accidental " and not of a " substantial " form so that there is production which stresses the man-made elements of the good . If the given manufactured table is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Thus each commodity offered by a capitalistic firm simultaneously bears original utility ( pertaining to the given material ) , an additional bundle of man-made utilities , and exchange value . Not every surplus product of any kind however necsssarily is a bearer of surplus value . An additional table can depreciate other tables , while losing a portion of its own exchange value . With regard to material goods , one can agree with Cassel , that production in the broader sense means making a larger quantity of a certain kind of goods , while only the original is literally created . So there may be an original model of a particular type of automobile but this created model can be produced and reproduced on a large scale . And created model is still an arrangement of matter . Reproduction of an original is likewise typical of goods which contain some spiritual elements , so a picture created by Rembrandt has been reproduced as a series of identical copies . Only ideas are literally created and simultaneously produced as a distinct net surplus product . Production , in the narrower @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in principle upon demand . For instance , an apple tree will bear fruit regardless of whether there is demand for apples // or not . Contrariwise , the production of any man-made merchandise necessarily depends upon effective demand for it . Modern economic theory no longer confuses economic activity with productive activity although they normally coincide . In addition , it makes a clear distinction between physical technological productivity and pecuniary economic productivity , even if the latter concept is interpreted differently . In reality there are some cases when economic activity is not simultaneously technologically productive , namely : 1 . A purely mental ( or psychic ) form of economic activity , like the development of a rational subjective scale of preferences is technically unproductive . In a sense the same is true of commerce , transportation and the last stage of manufacturing , such as packing . 2 . Any creation of a net surplus product in the narrower sense is technically productive but if this activity is an end in itself , it does not represent economic action . Technological productivity implies creation of a net @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ part a quantitative problem . Yet , it can appear in two different forms : 1 . The capacity of producing a certain amount of material goods and services . In this case , the technological productivity of a given country indicates its productive potentiality , or its aggregate productive power . One can , of course , appraise such a potential productivity only approximately . 2 . The actual measurable production of material goods and services . From the standpoint of the national economy as a whole , this kind of technological productivity fixes its social product and thus the actual plane of living . Some economists , like Othmar Spann , go further and maintain that potential or actual production of immaterial goods , like new sound ideas or services of a developed banking system , can be considered from the standpoint of technological productivity , if they come into consideration as certain quantities . Of course also , in this sense , a country can he prolific . Economic theory has several different approaches to the concept of economic productivity , namely : 1 . Mercantile According to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ creates surplus value , that is , is profitable or advantageously priced . The most typical representatives of this approach are : Adam Smith , Nassu Senior , A. Cournot , Robert Liefmann , Peter Struve , Paul Sweezy , and to a certain extent , John M. Keynes , John Commons , and Wesley Mitchell . // 2 . ' Utilitarian This can be sub-divided as follows ; ( a ) Predominant : Advocated by F.B. Say , McCulloch , and by most of the contemporary economists , in particular by Alfred Marshall , Frank Knight , Richard Ely and Albert Meyers . All of these economists consider as economically productive any activity which awakens or increases the original utility of a good . ( b ) Genetic : Advocated especially by Gustav Cassel and Othmar Spann . According to them productive activity in a purely economic sense is any activity which pertains to the entire preparation of goods for the satisfaction of human wants , that is , which helps to make the given good ripe for one of the stages of its economic curriculum . In the last @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ starting point is different . 3 . Idealistic This can also be sub-divided : ( a ) Any activity which awakens or materializes a generative ( or productive ) force . This standpoint is advocated by Spann , also by Baxa , and formerly by Adam Mueller and Frederick List . ( b ) Any activity which is useful from the standpoint of the whole . Representatives are practically the same . In the latter case , the idealistic approach assumes rather a " holistic " nature . Before we start to discuss the first approach to the concept of economic productivity , we have to prove that technological productivity and profitability are two colliding phenomena . Under normal capitalistic conditions , the increase in the surplus product in the broader sense symbolizes an increase in technological productivity . It should not trespass the social limit of profitabilt ' , which establishes the actual point of relative overproduction . In the present highly dynamic capitalistic money exchange economy , however , this point is subject to constant revision or change . Still , Adam Smith , who advocated the rising phase @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , any increase in technological productivity , or in the quantity of commodities which are supposed to be marketable should not decrease " the aggregate amount of exchange values . " In other words , in our terminology , Adam Smith wanted to say that when the entire net surplus product in the broader sense trespasses the actual social limit of profitability , the goods will depreciate and the whole price mechanism will be upset . This happens because the increase in the surplus product in the broader sense , that is , in the amount of the bearers of // exchange value , very often decreases the corresponding monetary surplus value ( in a non-Marxian sense ) and thus forces some producers to suffer a loss . Until now , it is seldom realized even by economists , that under normal capitalists conditions , a strict correspondence between surplus product and surplus value must be observed . For instance , Wilford King declares : The more goods are produced , the more spending power there is in the industry . This contention is risky for several reasons , namely : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ viewed from the standpoint of entire national economy increases to such an extent that exchange value seriously shrinks , that is , a good many going business concerns become unable to cover their total costs because of constantly dropping prices , the whole economic life will run into a serious crisis . Under normal conditions , a lower price level is beneficial only if the producers are able to lower their costs or to cheapen their product accordingly . In other words , the social limit of profitability will not be violated under normal conditions by an increase in the surplus product ( or technological productivity ) , if this increase is followed by a simultaneous and sufficient decrease in the corresponding objectively normal costs . As soon as the given marginal and slightly super marginal producers begin to be eliminated enmasse , any further increase in technological productivity will mean a grave violation of the given social limit of profitability . Of course , this social limit is highly dynamic , yet one can not change too quickly some technical and some institutional limitations . For instance , institutional rigidity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tend in our time to tighten the social limit of profitability , especially because the size of the " normal " price depends in a certain measure upon the given psychology of entrepreneurs . Sometimes entrepreneurs will quit operating the business sooner than , from a purely objective standpoint , they should . Consequently , in real life , the social limit of profitability is subject also to the changes in social psychology or rather mass mentality . In any case , the social limit of profitability is fragile and vital for the entire production process as long as profit remains the main motor of economic activity . One speaks sometimes of " profitless prosperity . " It is doubtful that such a prosperity could be a lasting phenomenon , if we assume that the capitalistic socio-economic order is preserved . 2 . Professor Wilford King and some other contemporary economists assume , just as many classical economists , that any // increase in surplus product is necessarily accompanied by a simultaneous and equal increase in spending power which absorbs it . This standpoint is rather antiquated because our modern economy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ productivity . The goods under normal conditions become more abundant and at the same time the costs of production are composed more and more of some items which do not create an immediate spending power , such as an excessive writing off of depreciation ' of mechanized equipment which remains temporarily immobilized , taxes , which likewise may represent provisionally immobilized capital disposal , etc . For this reason , the increase in surplus product or in production may reach the social limit of profitability sooner than before unless the above-mentioned tendency is counter-balanced by an injection of purchasing power , especially by means of dishoarding . In addition , modern technological unemployment strengthens this tendency because it likewise implies a certain decrease in effective demand . It does not mean that we can not have a higher level of production . It means only that we must be more cautious than ever because our present system of distribution can not normally stand any major violation of the social limit of profitability since such a violation provokes a grave relative overproduction . In any case , the growing mechanization of production @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the costs of products , besides rigidity of quite a few cost items , require still greater attention to the actually possiblle limit of expansion which is set by the given and slightly mobia social limit of profitability . To this problem , we shall return in another context . 3 . Technological productivity is checked by two social limits , namely , by the above-mentioned social limit of profitability and the social limit of consumption . The first limit is violated when slightly super marginal producers are eliminated by the decline in prices which accompanies an increase in technological productivity . Consequently , the social limit of profitability is of extreme importance for the capitalistic socio-economic order . On the other hand , the social limit of consumption is extremely important in a socialistic economy . This limit is violated when development of technological productivity menaces the consumption of a future generation , for example , through depletion of soil or of woods , or when one branch of the national economy , for example heavy industry , is over-developed to the detriment of present consumption . Under capitalistic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ limit which usually will be neglected // unless the state enforces it . On the other hand , violation of this limit in Soviet Russia leads to an abnormal situation because the actual standard of living is practically divorced from the plane of living which should not be devoid of socialistic character . Such disequilibrium between the actual plane of living and the norm toward which it should gravitate can not be a lasting phenomenon . Economic productivity ultimately appears in two different forms . 1 . In a broader sense . In this case , we mean any kind of productivity , including technological productivity . 2 . In a narrower sense . In this case , we mean pecuniary or exchange value productivity , that is , profitability . The first approach to the concept of economic productivity which pertains to the above-cited scheme of approaches is entirely based on the idea of profitability . The main propositions of the mercantile approach to the concept of economic productivity are as follows : 1 . The surplus product in the narrower sense , with the exception of mining and vegetative @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hand , surplus value ( in a non-Marxian sense ) is very important and appears when the given product is sold at a higher price than its costs . Even agriculture itself is productive from an economic standpoint only if someone is willing to pay a sufficient price for its products . 2 . Under conditions of a modern money exchange economy , producers must be interested exclusively in the creation of exchange values . Their activity is unproductive unless it can be considered as a " money-making " pursuit . 3 . Any increase in production of goods which upsets the price mechanism by violating the principle of profitability makes the national economy as a whole unproductive . This proposition , however , is not shared by every representative of the school . 4 . Economically productive is profitable activity relating to the production of material goods and as with regard to services , can be considered really productive only if embodied in a " vendible " material good . Criticism of the cited mercantile interpretation of economic productivity can be reduced to the following propositions : 1 . This @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the physical technological productivity with pure economic productivity impossible . It goes too far in thisdirection , however , because it shows no interest in the problem of surplus product in the narrower sense , which should not be // neglected since any bearer of exchange value either represents or actualizes a surplus product of this kind . 2 . This approach identifies economic productivity with profitability and thus rejects the concept of economic productivity in the broader sense . Such an assumption has both a strong and a weak side . Its weak point is that it disregards the objective utility of a good which is chiefly physical , in part a psychic phenomenon but hardly has any mercantile bias . This implies that the mercantile approach neglects the process of increasing original utility as ripening " of the good and explains only what happens in the market under capitalistic conditions because profitability itself is a historical category . The making of goods is almost entirely displaced by " money making . " This approach however also has a strong side . One can not deny that from the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ economic productivity is closely linked with profitability no matter who gets the net revenue . The leading representatives of this approach maintain that when profitability is violated on a large scale , the welfare of the country decreases . For instance , Robert Liefmann says that when coffee production in Brazil is too abundant , part of it should be destroyed because the entire country , in a sense , lives on the export of that product . Should the price of coffee fall , the national welfare of Brazil would be seriously affected . For this reason , Liefmann defines a rational and forcible depletion of a considerable part of the coffee crop under such conditions as " profitable destruction " and thus a productive activity in the economic sense because it serves pecuniary ( or value ) productivity . Not only destruction could come into consideration , but also a certain " profitable and thus productive misapplication " of the excessive produce . For instance , Argentina recently used wheat as a fuel for locomotives . In the United States , the " New Deal " applied " profitable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ potential cotton crop by means of rewards granted to those farmers who cultivated a smaller area . On the other hand , in the ancient world , the government often imported grain and distributed it gratis among the poor people who formerly had to purchase it from expensive home producers . This action , however , did not imply a profitable destruction in Liefmann 's sense but on the contrary was economically unproductive because it destroyed or at least seriously damaged a remunerative branch of the city economy . Any representative of the mercantile approach maintains that one has to make a clear distinction between a destructive action which promotes prosperity of the nation and an altruistic action which , may prove to be harmful to a large portion of the population . PRODUCTION AND PRODUCTIVITY What is there to be said about the concept of profitable and thus " productive " destruction ? We can not say much against it as long as the world economy represents a loose system of national economies and as long as some of them like Brazil , Guatemala , Egypt , etc. , are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In some cases , the situation is more complex so when the United States virtually destroys a portion of its cotton crop , by means of profitable prevention , this might be economically productive from the standpoint of the southern states , but harmful from the standpoint of the whole nation because the entire country does not depend upon cotton exports . Profitable destruction and misapplication may prevent the given capitalistic country from violating the social limit of profitability . On the other hand , " profitable prevention " of production may induce the country to abstain from violating the social limit of consumption at least with regard to a part of its population ( e.g. , soil is not exhausted etc . ) . Yet , the policy of Henry Wallace safe-guarded the social limit of profitability and thus was in a sense a social but in no way a socialist measure . In some cases , such as the production of coffee and oranges , one can use only profitable destruction but not profitable prevention because in the latter case , one would have to damage the tree . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ demand literally because its product depends upon the process of metamorphosis . If the state subsidizes the farmers and thus enables them to decrease the effective supply of their produce since a part of it will be stored up , there will be a certain profitable immobilization which will have a productive character according to the mercantile approach . The relationship between individual and even group profitability and social welfare is more complicated than is assumed by advocates of the mercantile school . Let us take cognizance of the scheme of propositions pertaining to this problem : ( a ) Quite frequently under capitalistic conditions individual or group-profitability is raised to the detriment of the social welfare . Such a case occurs when technological productivity is decreased before the social limit of profitability is reached , for exampls under a monopoly or an oligopoly . This case is negative . ( b ) Sometimes individual profitability and social welfare are in a " natural " equilibrium . In such a case , production is spontaneously stopped as soon as the social limit of profitability is attained . We already know that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of technological productivity and the price level falls , so that the actual marginal and slightly super marginal producers begin to be eliminated . This case is congenial to pure competition . // ( c ) Tndiviclual or group profitability sometimes can artificially coincide with social welfare . If this is the case , a portion of social product is usually destroyed or misapplied or prevented from being produced . Here equilibrium will have a rather institutional nature . 3 . The mercantile approach frequently , if not always , maintains that profitable activity is productive only if it is directed toward production of vendible material goods or its result is embodied by such a material good . This assumption is not logical because the services of a painter or of a composer can be very profitable . Besides , for instance , the services of a physician belong virtually to the realm of immaterial goods but ultimately are directed toward matter ( the human body ) . It is very difficult to draw a strict line of demarcation in a good many cases of this kind . Some economists , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in their endeavour to uphold the classical standpoint that they do not hesitate to contend that a musician is remunerated solely for the sensually perceptible sounds . They can not , however , explain why in such a case a famous musician will get a larger fee than a less noted entertainer . The second or utilitarian approach to the concept of economic productivity especially in its first version is predominant in economic theory today . For instance , Marshall says that since man can produce only utilities and can not create matter itself , any activity is economically productive which adjusts matter to human wants by making it useful or provides necessary enjoyment . In the latter case , he means any useful service which is really wanted and remunerated . The same idea is clearly expressed by Richard Ely who maintains that any activity which increases original utility is productive and since man is willing to pay only for what he wants , it implies that every service which is remunerated should be classed as productive . However , Ely 's standpoint is not strictly mercantile or pragmatic but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which is profitable is really productive but rather that any action which is productive is useful and thus is profitable . The mistake made by Ely lies in another sphere , namely , he overlooks the surplus product in the narrower sense . Production does not mean only increasing the original objective utility , as some utilitarian economists presumably assume , but also procurement of new goods which come into being as new bearers of original utility . Any fraction of the utilitarian school is strongly influenced by Aristotle because every new good bearing original utility develops as harnessed matter and udergoes a long process of transformation which raises its capacity of being useful in the // satisfaction of human wants . Consequently , the idea of a hierarchy of stages of production is inherent in the utilitarian approach and necessarily leads to the concept of an economic curriculum of the good . It is evident that the utilitarian approach has to distinguish between technical productivity and a pure economic productivity , and to admit that the creation of a surplus product in the narrower sense precedes . Let us consider @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a complex process of production . Such a curriculum covers different stages of production in the broader sense . Production in the narrower sense represents its first stage . On this first stage , the respective natural resource is collected or nature is forced to yield a surplus product in the narrower sense . In the first case , one has to do with mining or collecting fruits , or hunting ; in the second case , with the process of vegetation , such as agriculture , forestation and cattle breeding . In all of these cases , a new good as a bearer of original or fundamental or elementary utility appears because one can not reduce it to another still more original matter . So , for instance , one can not say that grain could be traced to the definite sun-rays or to the definite ingredients of the given soil . It would be still more difficult to trace the origin of extracted pieces of iron ore . Under such conditions , man simply awakens , actualizes and protects matter . He acts here like a peculiar generator and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ protects the given developing matter , he should not be compared with the boy who clings to a street car ( as Schumpeter said at one time ) because a producing man must always remain at least semi-active when he controls the process of metamorphosis . If a raw material , for example , a piece of iron ore treated as a bearer of original utility is shipped to a factory , space utility is produced . In this way we come to the second stage of the production of a good , namely , the respective raw material is transformed through manufacturing . This is a long and complex process composed of a good many successive stages . The meaning of this process is the production of a series of man-made form utilities . In this case , the Aristotelian theory of production becomes especially clear . Before the given raw material matures as a good of final consumption , it normally assumes different forms as a semi-finished product . The respective finished product ( or the given bearer of the increased original utility ) now represents a bundle of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ consumption . Since it is assumed that it is dressed in a form which is congenial to the given effective demand , it is conveyed to a wholesale dealer . // This movement creates once more space utility . The wholesaler 's activity can be thrice productive , namely : ( a ) If he shifts the commodity to a branch office in another town , he produces a space utility . ( b ) If he stores it , he creates a time utility . ( c ) If he orders the good in advance and finances its pro-. duction in the narrower sense , he acts as a sound speculator and thus creates a utility in time . This is the reason , why a sound credit-transaction is implicitly productive . One can say that in the above mentioned case , the wholesale dealer carries out distinct " arbitrage through time . " If the respective finished good is not shipped by the factory to a wholesale dealer directly but is handled on the spot by a broker who acts as a middleman , ownership utility or perhaps better @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of productive activity is very typical of a real estate dealer who adds such an utility to houses by transferring ownership to those who develop effective demand for them . This implies , however , that the given real estate dealer must render a real service , but should not be engaged in " pure " or unsound speculation . When the respective finished good is acquired by a retailer a new time utility is created because any retailer stores up the acquired goods for a while . In addition , every retailer produces " size utility " ( that is , a utility related to form utility ) because he adjusts the quantity of divisible goods to consumer 's desires . Some retailers , like a chain-store , create place or location utility as well as space or distance utility . One can say that any retailer who has a store in the shopping district produces a distinct location utility because he offers his merchandise in the most physically or socially convenient place . If the finished good in question gets distinction at one stage of production in the broader @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ quality or prestige utility is added to it . This kind of utility is created either by an efficient entrepreneur himself or by a sound professional advertiser . We must distinguish between a sound and unsound advertiser in the same way as we would in respect to a speculator . We disregard unsound advertising which we consider as cheating . In Marshall 's terminology , constructive or informative advertising is used for introducing a new product while combative or competitive advertising attempts to supplant competitors . Yet , competitive advertising sometimes simply means that the given producer is enabled to maintain his position . When the given finished good is insured or its transportation is secured by police or its market value is guaranteed by a bank , a certain security utility is added to it . In general , we can agree PRODUCTION AND PRODUCTIVITY 63i with Cassel , that production in the broader sense means that the good is presented in the form in which it is wanted at the place it is wanted and at the time when it is wanted . The scheme of production in narrower @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the regular utilitarian approach is based on Aristotle 's theory of production . It improves this theory , however , because not only the process of extracting and forming matter is considered as productive , but any activity which increases the original objective utility of the given surplus product in the narrower sense and thus adjusts it better to the actual human wants is defined as productive . In other words , such economic activities as transportation , commerce , insurance , sound speculation , sound advertising , etc. become , according to this scheme economically productive in no less degree than manufacturing or agriculture . Thus , our main utilitarian scheme of production considers the evolution of two phenomena : 1 . Objective utility which develops gradually from : he second stage of the good 's curriculum . 2 . Exchange value which gradually increases ( at least in a normal case ) also from the second stage , although in principle , there can be production in broader sense that is devoid of any exchange value problem . This latter phenomenon is an object of cost accounting . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we can say that the process of production appears from a consistent utilitarian standpoint in the following three forms which confirm our previous conclusions made with regard to the theory of production : 1 . Production in the narrower sense which is a technical process and means either procurement of a surplus product in the narrower sense , for example , mining , or increasing of original objective utility in a semi-active way , for example , enabling a young domesticated animal to mature or lumber to cure , or wine to age . In the last two cases there is a " plastic " production in Stackelberg 's terminology because the respective process can be shortened , in a sense , at will . 2 . Production in the broader sense which is more economic than technical in its essence . Yet , this kind of production is carried out in different ways . It surpasses in a good many cases , a purely technical arrangement of matter when , for instance , a product is stored or transported . On the whole , production i n the broader sense @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . , 64 ECONOMIC SYNTHESIS 3 . Production in a strictly economic sense which means transformation of a good bearing original utility plus some manmade utilities into a bearer of exchange value even though the expected surplus value may be only imaginary or negative . In other words , production of this kind creates a distinct surplus product in the broader sense . Any bearer of increased original utility can appear and disappear as a surplus product of mercantile character ( that is , when it functions as merchandise ) many times during its personal history . Many utilitarian economists go even further than our main scheme and consider as productive such an activity which does not directly increase the original utility ( or usefulness ) of a good but makes this increase possible . To this category belong quite a few immaterial productive services . By such services , we understand the following phenomena : 1 . Services generating non-human power which is necessary for extracting or forming matter . The Classical economists recognized that such services can be productive but stressed the fact that their bearers must be distinctly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ present we may consider as productive an electrical power station , for example , which provides energy in a less tangible form and carries out its task in a more " enigmatic " way from the standpoint of a layman . Most economists also consider consumption of food as productive when it generates energy within the worker , provided that this consumption is arranged and supervised by the employer . So , for instance , a factory-cafeteria used exclusively by the workers of the given factory is productive , but not in the same sense as any other cafeteria . Also , a restaurant operated by a college is in a sense a generator of productive energy since the students are reproducers of immaterial wealth . 2 . Any personal service rendered to a producer ma broader sense is considered productive by every utilitarian economist because it saves the producer 's effort in terms of time . Thus , any servant is productive who drives a car , shines shoes , cooks a meal , waits on tables , etc. , provided that he is employed by a producer . Most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ service which is wanted and paid for is productive if it creates a certain objective utility . Thus , they consider productive any servant employed by a rentier , that is , by an idle rich man who takes no direct part in the process of production in any sense . Indirectly , however , any rentier is himself a certain producer because he furnishes investing power to someone and gets remuneration for this service . Ultimately he participates in the national income by virtue of his ownership . Even the classical economists admit that direct services are // productive provided that they are embodied in material goods . For example , a cook was considered productive but a butler was believed to be an unproductive servant . This standpoint is untenable and was duly criticised by Marshall . He gives the following example : According to the Classical economists , a singer in an opera is unproductive the printer of tickets of admission is productive ; while the usher who shows people to their places is unproductive unless he happens to sell programs , in which case he is elevated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who renders a useful , and thus remunerated service , participates at least in production in the broader sense . This leads its to the conclusion that a certain kind of productive activity which is not taken into account by our main scheme pertaining to the production of material goods and to the services which are somehow connected with such a production , is represented by some direct services relating to the production of immaterial wealth . Even economists who. in principle , neglect immaterial goods agree that some distinctly immaterial services are productive , provided that they are connected with the production of material goods . For instance , an inventor who introduces a new technical device , or a college professor who teaches technology or economics ( especially business administration and marketing ) is considered productive while a priest and a scholar teaching philosophy or sociology are unproductive . Obviously this standpoint is too narrow . We have already seen that in the field of immaterial wealth , like knowledge , sense of beauty or aestheticism , sense of harmony , or music , sense of justice or ethics @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ narrower sense appears in the form of creative ideas . In general , however , creative ideas , conceived as a surplus product , can appear in both forms of such a product ; ( 1 ) inventions appear as a surplus product in the narrower sense , and ( 2 ) innovations as a surplus product in the broader sense . Sometimes a creative idea which can be purely sociophilosophical in its essence exercises such a great influence upon the socio-economic mentality that it emerges as an aggressive creative myth and even becomes condensed as a " total idea " which gives birth to a complex totalitarian culture . Today we witness the power of such immaterial influences . Yet even their existence was not realized before some leading social philosophers of our time , namely , Bergson , Sorel , Pareto , Karl Mannheim , Max Scheler , paid attention to this phenomenon , although each above-mentioned scholar was in a sense influenced by Hegel . Thus a new branch of sociology namely " sociology of volition " begins to develop and is a serious blow to the historical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ // ideology determines the development of the material productive forces and not vice versa . At any rate , an economist has to recognize that any direct service , which is useful , not only in the sense that it is wanted and remunerated , but also because it contributes to the production of immaterial wealth is so-to-speak implicitly productive . A priest and a professor of philosophy are obviously productive since they contribute to the national real income by reproducing and increasing immaterial goods bearing a " spiritual service utility . " Should we accept this proposition , we would join a very distinguished company , composed of such modern influential economists as Marshall , Pigou , Sombart , Spann , Bulgakov , to name but a few . We must still consider some important controversial problems which pertain to the utilitarian approach to the concept of economic productivity , namely : 1 . Most economists say that a certain kind of utility is " created , " when one of the above-cited stages of the process of production comes into being . Yet it would be better to say @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , that it is " added , " because virtually only a model , object of art or a system of creative ideas , for instance , a scholarly book as stored inventive knowledge , can be literally created so that a genuine creation of form utility is a rather rare case . We know already that usually in real life , there is no creation of an individual good but production of a new commodity of the same kind . Thus , an original painting is created and can not be literally reproduced , but it is quite possible to produce many copies of this painting . Each copy will be an identical good but will never be able to command the high price which may be paid for an original famous painting . In our present work we shall , however , use the common terminology by saying that utility is " created . " 2 . When we maintain that commerce produces time utility , we want to say hit it stores the given good until it is wanted or commands an elective demand . In other words @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ saving , since saving is a rather manifold phenomenon , as we shall see in another context . 3 . Albert Meyers maintains that a florist adds form utility to a seed when he helps it grow into a flower . We can not accept this statemant . A cultivator of flowers usually only assists the process of vegetation or metamorphosis and helps nature create a new surplus product in the narrower sense but does not literally produce a new form utility . Only in very rare cases does a florist as cultivator , produce form utility . For example , pink hydrangeas can be changed into blue by adding iron salts to the : soil . Here , in a sense , forms but not species is created . // In principle horticulture is a section of agriculture . On the other hand , a dealer in flowers produces form utility when he assembles the flowers in a bouquet . If this action is carried out artistically , one can say that the florist decorator has created a spiritual services utility . The question arises : If so many activities @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ technical , but an economic viewpoint ) is there any activity which would not be productive ? Our answer is in the affirmative , but the problem is complex . Let us develop the scheme of propositions pertaining to unproductive activity : 1 . Any economic activity which does not create objective utility is unproductive . In this category belongs pure ( unsound ) speculation , or direct profiting by a positive price margin . For : instance , an individual promises to deliver at a definite time in the future and at a definite place some securities which he does not possess and which the respective buyer does not intend to acquire in reality . In such a case , the whole transaction on the stock exchange practically is reduced to the realization of profit as wind-fall gain derived from a mere price margin . This transaction is economic because it is not an end in itself and could be performed by a middleman or a secretary . Yet , it is unproductive since it does not create objective utility . This transaction is a certain kind of gambling which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fact that sometimes such activity brings disproportionate gain is irrelevant . For instance , a pure monopolist often gains disproportionately and risks less than a pure speculator ; yet his activity is productive because he usually produces several man-made utilities , such as form utility , prestige utility , time utility , space utility , and sometimes even a surplus product in the narrower sense , for example , when he represents a certain branch of an extractive industry . In any case , any monopolist or any oligopolist is a regular entrepreneur . Practically , a monopoly is not a problem of production but of the market-form , that is , of the socio-economic frame . There are still some other activities which bring a disproportionate gain but are nevertheless productive , such as the business transactions of a regular real estate dealer , of a stock broker , of a contractor and even of a movie star . 2 . Any activity is unproductive which creates a distinct objective disutility . This case is more controversial because it does not have a purely utilitarian , but in part an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ carries out economic activity since its activity is wanted by some people and for this reason is remunerated . More than that , this activity creates place utility , especially if it is forbidden . Yet , a gambling institution is unproductive because it satisfies a want which in // principle is abnormal and its activity represents a disutility from the standpoint of the nation . Also , the economic activity of a minor gangster can not be considered as productive for the same reason . If such an activity is carried out on a large scale , it may do a great deal of harm and upset the entire price system . On the other hand , the activity of a pure monopolist may create utilities of a comparatively low degree but they will seldom appear as a distinct objective disutility . If this should happen , the activity of a monopolist would be likewise unproductive . Since this proposition is partly ethical , it is not universally shared . Some economists insist that production of cocaine , poison , and hideous paintings , is productive activity . So Davenport @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of piety or of merit or of social deserving . In our opinion , however , production of cocaine and poison is an economic activity but is productive only if it serves a useful purpose such as medical treatment . In any case , the criterion should be whether such an action bears an objective disutility , that is , is a disorganizing action , or not . Such a proposition is not entirely of an ethical nature . 3 . Any nonsensical activity is unproductive . For instance , the burying and digging out of bottles filled with paper money conceived as a public work is neither economic nor productive , although Keynes seems to think that it is . On the other hand , Keynes is right in regard to the fact that construction of pyramids and gold mining are productive because in the first case one creates a new durable good which ultimately can increase tourist trade ; in the second case , there is extraction of a material which can serve an industrial and monetary purpose simultaneously . Hoarding of gold by a country represents an economic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ England did this for many foreign countries , as a remunerated agent . In addition , as long as gold is the most liquid form of purchasing power from the standpoint of world economy , the hoarding of gold on behalf of a country is productive in a sense because the usefulness of the gold reserves can increase , even with the mere passage of time , as is especially conspicuous in the case of a major war . 4 . In contradistinction to the mercantile approach , Albert Meyers says correctly that , when we maintain an activity is productive , we do not mean that it is necessarily remunerated . So a scholar who writes a book or a composer who creates a musical composition is productive even if his work does not have a buyer . Very often after his death , his work which bears a considerable " utility in spirit " acquires a great market value and proves to be profitable . On the other hand , a consistent representative of the mercantile approach will have to admit that according to his standpoint pure speculation and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ since they are very lucrative . Cassel , who is one of the leading representatives of the genetic version of the utilitarian approach to the concept of economic productivity , emphasizes that production is not exclusively a manipulation of materials which pertains chiefly to the process of production in the technical sense but covers the entire complex and systematic preparation of material goods for the final consumption . This proposition is correct but too narrow because it openly neglects the sphere of immaterial goods in which even the surplus product in the narrower sense is a frequent phenomenon . Besides , Cassel disregards the creation of some peculiar utilities , like quality ( prestige ) or ownership utilities . Spann 's analagous attempt is much clearer since he openly defines production as the process of making the good " ripe " for the various phases of its economic curriculum . He offers practically the same scale of successive stages on which objective utility grows , because the good in his scheme likewise walks up a long road before it reaches its final form , that is , before it becomes mature @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " secondary entelechy . " For instance , iron ore is transformed into an iron stove which is acquired by a consumer who needs it for his kitchen . Several years later he resells this iron stove as junk to a scrap dealer who reshapes the iron into a table . The process of secondary cntelechy is typical of our moden economy which uses a large variety of metals , but also was familiar to some ancient oriental scholars who saw in it an analogy to the transplanting of souls . Let us now see how Spann develops his scheme of the ripening ( or maturing ) of goods . This scheme is composed of the following stages : I. The matter gets " work maturity . " Thus , when a natural resource is awakened , that is , is extracted or collected , it becomes ripe for shipment and processing . In other words , it is " mature " for being worked upon . 2 . A good usually gets " market maturity , " in a limited way . This means that the good ripens for sale @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a case , it is conveyed to a wholesale dealer or to a factory . 3 . When the good is acquired by a middleman , including a retailer in a broader sense , it gets " place-time maturity " and simultaneously its final market maturity . In other words , it becomes ripe enough to be sold to a final consumer . Any good which is produced in the household , for example , food produced // by a farmer for his own consumption , never has market maturity ? although it may possess work-place-time maturities . A good gets " enjoyment maturity " when it reaches the consumer in its final form such as an iron stove which is installed in the home , or food which is prepared by the consumer in his kitchen . Goods which are used only for productive consumption , such as coal burnt by a factory , never attain genuine enjoyment maturity unless we identify final and productive consumption . In this case , the given good will be " enjoyed " by the manufacturer as a peculiar consumer . On the other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ muturity , for example , when it is placed on the bed in the form of a pillow case . There are still two other " maturities " which are not in  - -  eluded in Spann 's main production schemes , namely : ( a ) Fore-maturity , which is provided by an inventor or an instructor and thus precedes the appearance of a net surplus product ; yet it may influence the product 's exchange value . It is impossible to extract or process a natural resource unless a technical device is invented or previous knowledge ( as immaterial wealth ) is transmitted . Even a skill must be learned . In this case , the immaterial wealth of a country can be inherited by the younger generation . A young man who does not want to study or to learn a skill refuses to safeguard a portion of the national immaterial wealth . He does not differ very much from a man who directly destroys a portion of material wealth ( real capital ) by burning a factory built by his fore-fathers . Knowledge must be stored and actualized just @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is protected and operated . Even in a stationary economy , knowledge must be reproduced like real capital . Spann maintains that a laboratory is an " industry of fore maturity . " We prefer to say that it is an institution which prepares the process of production by reproducing and even increasing the immaterial wealth of the nation . ( b ) Community maturity , which is bestowed on the good by the state , since the state advocates , organizes and protects a certain socio-economic order . Here the state is conceived as an organizing productive force . Also , anything else that contributes to the given socio-economic organization , like a market form or a central bank is a provider of community maturity . The theory of community maturity was developed , not only by Spann but also by the Russian economist , P. Georgievsky , who substituted society for the state as a provider of community maturity . Spann. says that any economic activity of a non-isolated individual , as far as it is not a purely psychic phenomenon , becomes possible due to the institutions which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . One can go to the market as a buyer or seller only because there is such an institution . Remember especially in this regard the " market peace " in the Middle Ages . Spann does not mean that every action of the state is economically productive . For this reason , he makes a distinction between , the state as a system of ends and as a system of means . Only in the latter case when the state is the organizer and protector of the given socio-economic order , should it be considered , as a real productive force , that is , as a provider of community maturity . The state appears in this sense when it organizes and protects a sound money circulation , signs commercial treaties , enforces social peace , etc . Also , an entrepreneur is a provider of community maturity although not every action of his is positive from the standpoint of the national economy as a whole . It will be negative if he stops increasing output before the social limit of profitability is reached . Community maturity increases the objective @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ usually through taxation . The last two kinds of good 's maturities , namely forematurity and community maturity , link the genetic version of the utilitarian approach to the concept of economy productivity with the genuine idealistic approach , which emphasizes that any action which awakens or materializes a generative force is economically productive . Practically , any sphere of culture such as science or fine arts which provides fore-maturity as an active incentive for economic life , and any institution such as the state or entrepreneurship which purveys community maturity as an organizing factor , is acting as a productive or generative force . Consequently , every action which contributes to their development or is performed by them is considered by the idealistic approach as an economically productive activity , Fine Arts come into consideration here in particular in connection with advertising and architecture . The theory of productive forces as it was developed by Adam Mueller , List , Spann and to a lesser extent by Pigou and Haberler , can be reduced to the following propositions : 1 . The prosperity of a nation does not depend upon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of reproducing them if they are lost or on the ability to increase production in case of necessity , During the Second World War Germany which initially had more airplanes was defeated by the United States which was able to develop quickly a greater production of aircraft . Not the actual , but the potential state of production shows the real economic power of the given nation . This fact is emphasized by Gottfried Haberler who recommends that we observe the change in social opportunity costs when the // given country increases its production under duress It is a bad omen if these costs rise because it means that the given national economy is potentially poor . 2 . The material wealth of a country is not determined by the size of its wealth but rather by the use that is made of it . In other words , every present real capital good must be shifted to the use in which it will be most useful in a lasting way because real capital should contribute to the development of the productive forces of the given country but not to its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ consider as a portion of national assets the ideas of a leading statesman who helps awaken quite a few slumbering resources or the lectures of a scholar who stimulates the inventive research work of the nation . In particular , Adam Mueller insists that the state conceived as a productive force is a spiritual product of officials who through their productive activity constantly recreate it . As criticism we can say that in real life , one can appraise these ideas and services as a portion of national assets only if they are inventive and remunerative , that is , if they yield to the country a revenue which can be capitalized . Fe ' . instance , the sermons of Savonarola in the fifteenth century attracted pilgrims which improved the balance of payments of Florence . Professor Pigou says that immaterial " capital " of ideas is the co-determinent of the income getting power of the nation , This is true of the Vatican which even now attracts wealth to Italy . 4 . Institutions produce more wealth than labor applied to the natural resources . Here one means again @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ scheme shows that the idealistic approach considers all potentialities and incentives which act like productive forces . Consequently , this approach is extremely dynamic , in its nature , One should realize that there are four original productive forces which supplement the primary factors of production and thus can be considered as productive agents " sari generis . " We mean in this case knowledge , including skill , entrepreneurship ( conceived as managerial capacity ) , waiting , and patience or endurance . All of these are primary services . The first two in a large measure are inborn in the sense that they depend upon the natural capacities of the given person , The three primary factors of production , natural resources , labor and real capital , are always present and are continuously active if one considers them from the standpoint of a modern manufacturing business concern . On the other hand , entrepreneurship might be absent since it can be replaced eventually by blue prints , while waiting can be represented by the sub-conscious inertia of a capitalist . // Only knowledge and patience must always be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ idealistic approach to the concept of economic productivity , which maintains that any activity is economically productive if it serves the welfare of the whole , is so normative in its essence that it practically contributes to the teleological interpretation of economic activity . In particular , Spann emphasizes that economic activity is productive only if its result is lasting , while Pigou and J. Scitovsky maintain that the private net product should be in equilibrium with the social net product if the welfare of the community is to be achieved . Practically , this " holistic " approach is based on the assumption that economic action is economically productive only if it is functionally useful and if its goal and result are normal and lasting in principle . This explains well why a war economy is unproductive . Of course , war can be very advantageous from a purely material standpoint , especially if the victor loots a conquered nation . Yet we disregard this case because such acquisitive behaviour is unilaterial , that is , it is not economic , and may create disutility from the standpoint of mankind @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Let us now see why a war economy is unproductive in principle even if its managers try to observe the principle of cost saving . The reasons for its unproductive nature can be summed up as follows : 1 . The goal ( or end ) which is substituted for the usual primary end of the national economy and provokes a certain boom is shortlived . As soon as the war ends , the national economy must be reconverted which means a contraction of the over-expanded productive forces that were shifted toward an artificial goal . Some innovations introduced during the war can eventually become obsolete . 2 . The result is unstable and unhealthy , even if war temporarily stimulates employment , because the whole economic life is geared to the detriment of the future and thus violates , in the long run , the social limit of consumption . Under such conditions , there always is a certain dissipation of national assets because the factors of production are largely misplaced and overburdened . The natural resources are exhausted sometimes since the produce of the mining industry is largely a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . 3 . War often develops technological productivity regardless of the social limit of profitability and restricts final individual consumption in favor of an excessive armament production . Thus , it violates the social limit of consumption again . Gordon Hayes says that war is " orgy of collective consumption " at the expense of the individual consumer . // Also under normal capitalistic conditions , when there is. no war , the principle of saving may be violated on a large scale . Here we consider saving , not in connection with investment , but as a mere provision for the future . According to Pigou , in such a case , the private net product is below the social net product ; yet the case is negative because the development of production takes place at the expense of the future . Pigou and Sidgwick emphasize that under normal capitalistic conditions , there is a constant disequilibrium between private and social net products . To prove this contention , Pigou gives the following examples : 1 . Social net product exceeds private net product . This is a negative case @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the contract between a landlord and tenant fails to mention the condition of the land at the end of the lease . Toward the end of the lease the tenant will try to get back as much of his invested capital as possible . For this reason , he will take so much from the land that for some years in the future the yield will be reduced . In this case , technological productivity is over-developed to the detriment of the future and violates the social limit of consumption . This hurts the private interests of the landlord at the same time . A serious exhaustion of the land usually means , in the longer run , a greater decrease in the social net product , than the temporary increase of that product preced ing the exhaustion . 2 . The social net product is below the private net product . For instance , someone constructs a building in a crowded city centre , which by contracting the air space . and the playground of the neighborhood , tends to impair the health and even the efficiency of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that extent the given national assets . Rather it causes the appearance of high " social costs , " should we use the terminology of Hobson. 3 . In some cases , the excess of social net product over the private net product represents a positive phenomenon . This is the case when a monopolist is institutionally prevented from getting a hire profit by stopping production before the social limit of profitability is reached . As mentioned before , Aristotle was the first to introduce the concept of the " period of production . " He suggested following the various stages of the goods transformation throughout the process of production which he conceived as the creation of a series of successive form utilities . The modern utilitarian interpretation of economic productivity is based on this concept . The only difference is that in the latter case , production is taken in a very broad sense because it embraces the entire ripening of // the good . Yet the question whether one should use the concept of the " period of production , " even with regard to the process of manufacturing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Knight , are reluctant to advocate this concept . Some , on the contrary , as von Wieser and formerly Hayek , make an extensive use of this concept . Of course , Cassel does not entirely neglect the concept of the period of production but applies it only in a very abstract way when he develops the economic curriculum of a good in confirmity with the utilitarian approach . The arguments which are supposed to prove the existence of a period of production are as follows : 1 . The origin of a material good is not irrelevant because every product is related to any other product that has some " stem-element " in common with it . Consequently , economic theory must observe the productive stems and must admit the presence of a distinct genealogy in the field of production . 2 . The shortening or lengthening of the period of production can have very serious repercussions at times , especially when specific factors of production are involved . In addition , the period of time covered by any given process of production and commonly called " the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 3 . Under modern capitalistic conditions , there is an interior accounting based on calculated or " instrumental " prices which follows the good 's ascent to the higher and higher stages of its transformation until it has reached its final form . There are several reasons why the concept of the period of production is rejected by some modern economists . These reasons can be reduced to the following propositions : 1 . Although every material good has a history , it is impossible to fix a point in time at which the production of this good was started . 2 . Economic activity , as Commons says , is essentially directed to the future and is logically indifferent to the past .. Only when the monuments of the past come into consideration , . is valuation influenced by the personal history of the given material good . 3 . In actual life , production always is a continuous process which has no beginning or end , if one considers it from the stand  - -  point of the whole . In the full stream of this flow , there will be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ different stages of production . These are two different and antagonistic trains of ideas . Yet , both of them are correct because , on the one hand , . in real life the process of production is a continuous flow . ' 76 ECONOMIC SYNTHESIS On the other hand , the period of production is a very realistic phenomenon in the case of a large business concern which unites several consecutive stages of production and treats each stage as a separate enterprise which has its own cost pertaining to different stages . It certainly is correct that it is almost impossible and virtually unnecessary to give in practical life , a historical account of the production of separate goods . Every material good is a product originated by a group of co-operating productive agents and each factor of production ought to be traced back to some primary original factors , in particular to natural resources which are often imported from distant backward countries where they probably will have an obscure origin . Also it certainly is true that only the " personal history " of some old buildings or the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of an ancient painting , usually greatly influences the valuation of the respective good and thus increases its exchange value . In such cases , there appears a peculiar kind of commerce dealing in antiques . This branch of industry is very important in some countries , such as Italy , Syria , and Egypt . Every antiquarian is productive in the broader sense because he learns the history of the respective , not quite material good like a statue or a painting , or of a still less material good , like the stored creative ideas of a great scholar of the past in the material form of a book . In all such cases he produces time utility , that is , stores the good , space utility since the article is usually brought from a distant place where it sometimes is excavated and a certain " spiritual service utility " because the given good stimulates a sense of beauty and traditions . In addition , a better antiquarian creates form utility when he restores an ancient damaged good , usually with regard to the respective style and age @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( in broader sense ) , namely the business of restorers who sometimes act as real artists . One has to agree with Cassel that the process of production is continuous . Yet , one can not draw such a conclusion without reservations because in agriculture the period of production is distinct since there production is seasonal and occurs once every year . The picture may change only if the entire world economy is taken into consideration . For instance , in the case of Germany , her home crop of wheat was distributed irregularly according to the given season . Yet , her wheat supply was continuous because she imported a great deal of wheat from Argentina where the seasons are in reverse . Also , when a large business concern is composed of many consecutive stages of production , such as spinning , weaving , dying ; each stage treats another one as a separate unit and sometimes even charges a rate of interest // on the books when a semi-finished good is passed over to the nearest lower stage . For this reason , the concept of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ catches up the flow at different stages of transformation and forms a certain ( even if short-lived ) personal history of the given good . In many cases such a device is not inferior to an ordinary balance sheet which , in the last analysis , has a similar task to hold for a moment the dynamic life of the given firm . Besides it is evident that Knut Wicksell and Frederick Hayek are right when they say that there is a frequent and very important movement of the non-specific factors of production within a factory as a result of a roughly periodic change in the structure of production brougl about by increasing or decreasing investment in its earlier ' F later stages . We will discuss this in another context . CHAPTER III CONSUMPTION AND SAVING Consumption does not mean the actual destruction of matter but only a certain disarrangement of matter which can assume various forms . The process of consumption will become clearer after we have developed a detailed theory of economic good . In the present context , it will be suffice to note that consumption appears @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1 . As final consumption which is the ultimate goal of any economic activity and thus furnishes the greatest incentive . Even the factors of production are produced because there is normally ( at least in the long run ) an effective demand for their products on behalf of the ultimate or final consumer . As already mentioned , final consumption is an end in itself and for this reason should be considered as a process of living and not as an economic activity . Final consumption is determined by the goal which is set , not by the kind of good which is consumed . If someone uses the services of a durable good , for instance a chair , as an ultimate consumer , there is final consumption . On the other hand , coal , used by a factory , is not " finally " consumed , although one must admit that it disappears as if it were consumed in an ultimate or final sense . 2 . As productive consumption , which occurs when a good is used up in the production of another good . Here @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , coal productively consumed by a factory participates in the production of a good for final consumption . 3 . As proper ( or final ) consumption of productive character which we have discussed before . Such final consumption is not an end in itself and thus is an economic activity . For instance , a professional sportsman consumes selected foods in order to build up his muscles or a worker is served meals at a low price by his employer who wants him to have greater productive energy . Final consumption of a slave normally belongs in this category . In other words , in the case of ultimate consumption of productive character , the process which ought to be an end in itself ceases to be such . The determination of consuming habits is rather an institutional problem . The following scheme shows that individual final consumption is thus determined : // Under normal capitalistic conditions , it is determined by an economizing individual himself who develops a subjective scale of preferences into which he translates his hierarchy of wants and who may care fora positive hedonistic balance sheet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a large measure upon the size of his money income and upon actually expected prices . Consequently , in this case , final consumption is free institutionally but not quite so from a purely economic standpoint . As a matter of fact , the economizing of an individual is in capitalism somewhat pre-determined by the above-mentioned factors . Under abnormal capitalistic conditions , for instance , in the case of a major war , a part of the individual 's consumption is restricted because of institutional interference . In this case , rationing of some goods is introduced which partly divorces the individual 's consumption from his money income and expected prices . In other words , his subjective scale of preferences is co-determined by the interfering state . Under conditions of a collectivist economy ( i.e. , a centrally directed economy ) which , however , keeps individual incomes , the development of final consumption can assume one of the follow-ing forms : Rationing becomes complete and thus drastically res-tricts consumer 's choice . In other words , the ultimate consumer can practically choose only rationed goods , while trying @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , however , the recipients of ration cards are allowed to exchange the rationed goods among themselves and thus to shape their consumption in a greater conformity with their wants . or All individual scales of preferences are completely equalized by the state . In this case , an individual can not make any choice because the state practically economizes on his behalf . Here regimentation of final consumption becomes complete . In the Soviet Union to day the state co-determines the subjective scales of preferences only indirectly since it determines the quantity and quality of almost all economic goods , sets most prices and fixes the wages . In any fascist economy consumption is often controlled without direct compulsion of the final consumer by a substitution of materials . So , for instance , artificial fibres were substituted for wool , silk , etc. , or the composition of an article , like bread or chocolate , was changed . W. Mitchell and A. Pigou stress that the waves of optimism and pessimism which affect the business fluctuations are favored by the luncheon clubs that bring about a close contact @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that final consumption has a great sociological significance because it frequently strengthens friendly intercourse ; this is especially conspicuous in collectivistic consumption of goods . On the other hand , we can not share Gide 's contention that spending means consumption expressed in terms of money . It is evident that spending a portion of man 's money income for the purpose of buying consumer 's goods serves only as a distinct preparation for final consumption and thus is an economic activity . On the other hand , deferment of final consumption is defined as saving which can assume various forms . Saving can appear as follows : In a hedonistic sense . We previously discussed this kind of saving , namely , an economizing individual observes the principle of saving when he develops his subjective ' scale of preferences in such a way that his present consumption is not stimulated at the expense of his future wants . In other words , he does not inflate his present wants . In this case , saving is a constituent part of the process of valuation and thus is a psychic phenomenon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ deal of attention to this kind of saving . As static saving . This kind of saving appears when man stores some consumption goods in order to make his final consumption more even over time . We exclude here hoarding because it is caused chiefly by expectation of emergencies . Static saving is typical of ancient nations which stored food in antici-pation of a famine . Recall , for instance , the policy of Joseph of Egypt . Such a saving especially means provision for the near future . Furthermore , it is important to note that a certain stock of consumer 's goods always exists within a modern national economy . This is the reason why final consumption is carried out more or less evenly ( under normal conditions ) in any given period of time . Static saving is precisely the main task of-commerce , in particular of retail trade and means production of time and size utilities . As dynamic saving , which may appear in one of the following ways : ( a ) Sometimes such a saving is represented by the storing of consumption goods . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ growth of the original utility of a good . This occurs , for instance , when lumber cures , wine ages , tomatoes become red , etc . All these goods usually are stored for a considerable time . ( b ) The most regular dynamic saving means that final consumption is reduced in order to make a larger production possible . Still even in fairly recent times , some economists believed that a manufacturer must store raw materials , tools , // an ! l even means of subsistence for the workers . They represented the old version of the Wage-Fund theory ( which we will not discuss at this point ) and were duly criticized by those economists who believed that workers are paid out of current production of the country . Even now , however , where transportation facilities are poor , consumption goods and in particular food needed for the local labor force are accumulated sometimes . This is practised , for instance , by the modern oil industry in Arabia . Such a continuous storing of consumption goods for the benefit of employed workers represents a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ static economy which only reproduces all kinds of goods but takes place in order to increase the current level of production . Furthermore , governments store essential raw materials for at least two reasons , namely : 1 . To insure productive consumption , that is , to make it regular on behalf of state factories . An increased production of goods can be aimed at simultaneously . 2 . To have a strategic reserve of raw materials for an eventual war . This latter case , however , is hoarding rather than a certain saving . ( c ) Dynamic saving sometimes means that a non-durable good which could be consumed is transformed into a productive agent . For instance , one can use grain , not for producing bread , but as seed for future production of grain . This case demonstrates the fact that dynamic saving appears under static conditions even if this seems paradoxical . ( d ) Another development in a sense related to this case occurs when the existing real capital goods are shifted to the production of producer 's goods , instead of being @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ however , dynamic saving is exercised by the national economy taken as a whole . ( e ) There is dynamic saving if an individual does not spend a portion of his money income on buying consumption goods and does not immobilize it by hoarding but transforms it into liquid money capital which will be invested shortly and thus will serve in the production of economic goods . There is no doubt that from the standpoint of an individual hoarding means a deferment of consumption and thus might be considered a kind of saving . Yet , this process immobilises purchasing power and does not serve , at least in principle , to even out consumption or to increase production . For this reason , since hoarding is neither static nor dynamic saving , it is no saving at all from the standpoint of the national economy as a whole as long as the hoarded goods or means of assignment are not dishoarded . Consequently , at least in our opinion , o ne should make a distinction between hoarding and saving . // Lord Keynes paid particular attention to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he defined as the " consumption function . " Every economizing individual may eventually develop a subjective " schedule of the propensity to consume " which will show how his expenditure on consumption goods varies when his money income changes . Therefore , one can approximately find out , . if necessary , the actual income-elasticity of his consumption . CHAPTER IV ECONOMIC GOOD As we have already seen , economizing signifies the adjustment of the given relatively scarce means ( goods ) to the given relatively abundant ends ( wants ) . A very important question thus arises : What must we understand by an economic good ? In modern economic theory the concept of " good " is treated variously . It is interpreted in the following four ways : 1 . As a means of satisfying human wants ; a good is then a distinct counterpart of wants in an equation representing the process of economizing . This standpoint is advocated by Cassel , Shumpeter and Knight . Also Marshall means that a good is a desirable thing or an article that satisfies human wants . It is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ good may have no eventual exchange value . 2 . As a useful object which is subject to man 's power of disposition . Otherwise , one can talk only about a " latent resource " or a " commodity element . " This is von Wieser 's method . 3 . As any passive means regardless of its material or spiritual character . This is Spann 's approach . 4 . As any useful phenomenon which costs and is a property even if its character is of a purely immaterial sort . This proposition is advocated by the Russian-German economist Henry von Storch . The first two approaches are realistic or rather empirical while the last two approaches are idealistic . The main scheme pertaining to a good which is conceived as a " means of satisfying wants , " is built up as follows : I. Material goods which are subdivided in the following way : 1 . Non durable consumption goods . These goods are disarranged in a single act of consumption and cease to exist as matter of the same order . If they procure an immediate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " direct means . " Cassel is right when he says that in case of a non-durable consumption good the good and its use are blended . Goods of this kind should be subdivided as follows : // ( a ) Goods of proper ( or final ) consumption . When such a good is used by an ultimate consumer , its substance is entirely lost although the matter itself is not destroyed literally . For instance , food is transformed into energy while gasoline used in a pleasure trip is converted into mileage . ( b ) Productively consumed goods . These goods are also conspicuously consumed and their substance can be lost entirely . Yet , they always serve as indirect means of satisfying wants , because their consumption is necessary in order to obtain normally a direct means , that is , a good of final consumption . In other words , any non-durable productive good is a good of " derived demand " and should be considered also as a certain productive factor . Eventually , it can be defined also as an investment good . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ instance , coal used by a factory , but not , however , coal consumed as fuel in a household which is , in principle , a good of final consumption . I n the latter case , our assumption is that heating has no pragmatic meaning . Some productively consumed goods do not lose their substance ; they simply cease to be available as material since they are embodied by another good when they are used . At least this is the case during the life-time of the product into which they are transformed . This is true , for instance , of iron , cotton , wood , which are used as distinct raw materials . The degree of being productively consumed is in general very different . Sometimes the original substance of the given material is completely disarranged , as in the case of flax . Sometimes , on the contrary , it is easily recognizable in the finished product , as for instance , iron . 2 . Durable goods . These goods are used several times in succession or continuously during a certain period of time @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sail boat ; for the second case , a house . These goods are used by being worn out . The writing off of depreciation normally indicates the degree of consumption with regard to such a good . Furthermore , a good and its services are not identical in this case . This fact was realized still by St. Thomas . Durable goods can be subdivided as follows : ( a ) Durable consumption goods , for example , plates , clothes , which serve in a sense directly since they are goods of immediate use . Normally , these goods are not written off when they are used . ( b ) Durable producer 's goods , which are subject to regular amortization . Such goods are distinctly indirect means , that is , they are conspicuous productive agents . Some of these goods , for example , machine tools , are used for production of other indirect means , while other durable productive agents , for // example , a machine , serve the production of some goods of final consumption . Durable goods are a complex phenomenon inasmuch @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of wants , but their services are . Consequently , they already have some thing immaterial about them . Yet they exist essentially apart from their services . For instance , a house as such has a price but it also can be rented . In the latter case , a price is paid for the use of its continuous services . Sometimes a durable good is kept regardless of its services ; for instance , one can keep a boat as an object of art in order to be looked at or an empty house as an " inflation-proof " investment . If a durable good is used for immediate and personal consumption ( like a boat ) , it can be defined as an indirect means in the broader sense , because it satisfies man 's wants through its services , but not by being directly consumed . 3 . Durable goods which can be put to different uses . These goods used in one way are final consumption goods ; used in another way , they appear as durable goods . For instance , a sheep is a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ used as meat . It is , however , a durable good if it is used for the production of wool . Finally , a sheep can be a mixed good as long as it is fed for slaughtering . In such a case , it furnishes wool but its final destination is the table of the consumer . I I. Services which most economists define as immaterial goods . They should be subdivided as follows : 1 . Services rendered by durable material goods which are impersonal because they are stored in an inanimate material thing . So , for instance , buying a musical instrument means the purchase at one time of a long series of uses . A violin is practically a bundle of future services which are consumed gradually by its user . 2 . Human services which are not uniform since they are composed of the following two types of services rendered by a human being , namely : ( a ) Personal services such as those of teachers , priests , lawyers , musicians , actors , household servants , etc . They are so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are rendered . Here the relationship between producer and consumer is personal . To this category belong frequently services rendered by a state official . // ( b ) Semi-personal services , for instance , protection given to a definite individual by an insurance company which gratifies his desire for security . ( c ) Impersonal services , rendered by a human being . The services rendered by a non-human being should be considered as a certain category among those services which are performed by material goods . Such a solution is logical because usually a non-human being rendering services is a natural resource improved by man . A factory worker or a soldier renders impersonal human services . This kind of human service can be considered from the standpoint of the national economy as a whole , for example , services of a saver and investor ; from the standpoint of a business concern , for example , the services of a creditor and shareholder ; or from both standpoints at once , for example , services of an entrepreneur . If we consider the services rendered by a worker @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ make a distinction between the following three cases : ( a ) Direct services , for example , services of a worker who operates a definite machine . ( b ) Semi-direct services , for example , those of a man who repairs machinery in the given section of the factory . ( c ) Indirect services , for example , services of a janitor or a clerk . Great confusion is created by the fact that most economists such as Cassel , do not stress the fact that not every human service is personal in nature . The above-cited main scheme of a good is insufficient as it does not admit the existence of any non-material good otther than services rendered by a human being directly or indirectly hrough material durable goods . In the latter case , we start with the idea that any economic act is an " actus humanus . " Yet there still are other goods which are numerous and represent an intermediate phenomenon although they usually are incorrectly considered as immaterial or , on the contrary , as material goods . We can treat them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ category of intermediate goods belong the following phenomena : 1 . All rights to hold or use or derive benefits from material things or to receive them at a future time , such as the rights embodied in bonds , shares , mortgages , long-term lease contracts , and right of way . All of these rights can be considered as a portion of the assets of an individual or a firm . The rights to hold and to use are rare and can be assessed only if they can be sold at capitalized net revenue . In this case we have to do , not // with property , but with possession . Albert Meyers confuses both phenomena by saying that the right which one has to the use of a house , either because one owns it or rents it , is property , By property we , like John Commons , should understand a good which one can freely dispose of or which one can freely withhold from the use of any other man . Thus , ownership or property . in principle , is unlimited in scope @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ piece of land is leased for ninety-nine years , as sometimes happens in England and in Soviet Russia , the tenant does not own it as his property because at least the inheritance of it is conditional , that it , is limited in time . Alfred Marshall considers all rights as material goods . Of course , he does not mean stock certificates or bonds as such but the rights which they embody . Most economists , such as McLeod , consider rights as immaterial goods . In our opinion , however , they are intermediate goods because on the one hand , they do not represent matter ( they are but claims ) ; and on the other hand , they assign to a material good . For instance , a stock certificate assigns a " right " to a portion of net revenue derived from the real assets of the respective business concern or to the portion of assets themselves in case of their wholesale liquidation . One can say that normally a right gives a certain control over material goods . Patents and industrial secret devices , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ secure a power over matter . On the other hand , there are some rights which are not material . They are unusual in our present capitalistic system . We mean the right to require labor-dues and various personal services , typical of serfdom and of a modern totalitarian state . In capitalism perhaps the only major example for such a type of rights would be military service due to the state . Marshall calls these rights " external non-material goods , " although he usually considers rights as material goods . A particular category is represented also by copyrights . They are peculiar intermediate goods because they give control over the net revenue derived from another intermediate good ( for example , a book ) . 2 . Intermediate goods in the narrower sense , which are material goods representing bearers of " utility in spirit . " To this category of intermediate goods belong antique objects , statues , paintings , books , etc . A famous painting does not get a higher price , because it is made of a certain material . Even a gold statue should @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ element enters it . This was realized by J.B. Clark . Any brand or differentiated good in a sense is an intermediate good . It is " differentiated " in the customers mind because of some qualitative elements inherent in it . On the other hand , one should not go so far as to agree with Professor Boulding , that // any final consumption good is a " bundle of services . " Of course , one can not deny that when an individual buys a commo-dity , he purchases the services of all the retailers , transport work-ers , etc. , who participated in the preparation of the given good for final consumption . Yet , all of these services expressed in terms of utility , do not differentiate a good as such by creating some immaterial elements which would affect the buyer 's valuation . A commodity of this kind is nothing but a material good . Clark 's contention that any material good is a " bundle of useful qualities " so that its price is a composition of many " part prices " should be likewise @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that an automobile may give simultaneously a direct pleasure . an aesthetic satisfaction and save time . Yet , if such a car is ex-changeable , it will be treated as a homogeneous material good . One will practically pay for a means of transportation with regard to its size and speed . Only when an automobile is treated as a distinct brand , will it be an intermediate good and command a high price which will be paid because of some composite , qualitative elements inherent in such a good . Sometimes the term " intermediate good " is used in another sense which differs from ours . It refers to a semi-finished product which is a distinct material productive good . Such a good is " intermediate " only in a purely formal sense because it no longer is a raw material and not yet a finished product . In our opinion the only other term which could be used for defining what we consider an intermediate good would be " synthetic . " Our main scheme pertaining to " good " also neglects one non-material good which can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ intangible , can be estimated as an asset , and can be sold . We mean in this case " good-will . " Marshall calls it " external non-material good " because it is determined ultimately by the relationships beneficial to the owner . We can not consider good-will as an intermediate good since it does not assign to matter ( at least in principle ) . We could also accept for our main scheme the distinction made by Reverend Pesch between an ordinary durable good ( a " wear and tear " good ) and a material durable good which does not depreciate if it is used under normal conditions . To the first category belong machinery , buildings , etc. which must be written off ; and to the second category belong some natural resources , like a harnessed steam driving a mill . On the other hand , we can not follow Pesch when he advises us to exclude from the main scheme any non-material good even a personal service . Of course , he does not deny that some immaterial phenomena act like useful means and bear @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we treat personal services and rights . ( which in contradistinction to us , he usually considers as . // immaterial phenomena ) as economic goods because such a treatment would " debase " them . Likewise , some other economists are reluctant to define personal services as goods because one would thus reduce a human being to a bearer of saleable services as if he were a durable good , like cattle or a piano . This objection is understandable but we have already practically removed it by sub-dividing services into human and non-human services of a material good and a non-human being . We turn now to the second approach to the concept of good given by Frederick von Wieser . There is one fundamental difference between his standpoint and our main scheme , namely , von Wieser does not mean a good in general , but exclusively an economic good or commodity . Yet , his approach does not imply this openly because a free good also can be a " useful object subject to man 's power of disposition . " The question arises How- is an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ We can distinguish between two different approaches : I. Von Wieser says that it is a scarce utility subject to man 's power . Pesch gives almost the same definition : Matter is an economic good if it is useful , scarce , attainable ( that is , within man 's reach ) and not a free gift of nature ( that is , it costs something ) . Also , Richard Ely comes close to this approach since he contends that economic goods are those which exist in quantities less than sufficient to satisfy all wants for them . Consequently . it is assumed that economic good is scarce , useful and can be obtained only by effort . In other words , as Marshall maintains , one must economize in the use of commodities and must be willing to undergo sacrifices in order to obtain them . 2 . Frank Knight says : " Economic good has a casual relation to man 's conduct because it possesses itself of a certain power over his conduct . " We agree with the first approach that any good is economic or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that is , bears an objective original utility ) , is relatively scarce and is not directly available . Such a good is familiar also to Robinson Crusoe . He can obtain some useful things only by exertion and by sacrificing other alternative uses for his effort in terms of time . If a commodity is useful , transferable and carries a price , it can be considered as merchandise in the broader sense . If a good is merchandise in the narrower sense , it means that it is produced explicitly for the market . Von Wieser maintains that a commodity is a utility while we prefer to say that it bears utility or rather usually is a bundle // of different utilities . In our opinion to identify utility with the good itself is scientifically incorrect . Such confusion takes place because we consider the good from the standpoint of its economic curriculum . When , for instance , a piece of iron ore is extracted , we say that a new utility emerges and begins to undergo the process of ripening . In this case , utility is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in reality represents a new bearer of original utility . If iron ore is stored and later invades the market in the shape of different iron products , we usually say that the utilities are actualized . In reality , however , we are concerned with the transformation of a utility bearer into a bearer of exchange value or into a surplus product in the broader sense . Some valuable refinements of the concept of utility have been made in economic theory , namely : 1 . Ely says : " Utility is the power to satisfy wants , not the power to confer benefits . " This means that a good sometimes can bear a negative utility even from an objective viewpoint . For instance , a cigar is as useful in the economic sense as a piece of bread or a book , yet usefulness has another connotation here . 2 . According to Professor Knight , utility is power over conduct because any object possessing utility enables man to satisfy his conscious wants , that is , desires which he takes pains to actualize . Knight assumes that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ man 's conduct . In other words , their use does not require any effort and consequently often is unconscious . Many economists , including us , would say that Knight neglects the difference between utility and value . Accrording to our standpoint every free good which man is able to control , that is , to use , necessarily possesses an objective original utility . For instance , sun rays are useful and can be harnessed by man . They distinctly participate in the process of production while remaining a free good . On the other hand , some natural resources on the planet Mars do not as yet possess utility because they are , thus far , inaccessible . Thus , a free good has an objective utility but usually is not subjected to valuation . Von Wieser says that objects whose usefulness has not yet been discovered by man and which for this reason have not yet been subjected to his power of disposition possess hidden or dormant utility and should be considered as latent resources . If they are relatively scarce , they can be defined also @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of goods which he defines as commodity elements . They are goods whose utility is known but of which man has so far never been able to // avail himself effectively , because he lacks the power or apparatus to do so . Also , Henry Pesch insists that a good is a real good only if it can be reached and subdued by man . We touch here an interesting case since we can say that socio-economic progress is sometimes given a symbolic expres-sion . Let us consider some " indices unique " in a broader sense which serve as symbols of such a progress , namely : The more progress develops , the more are latent resources transformed into commodities . This occurs because man increases his knowledge of nature . Civilization constantly enlarges man 's control over matter . Now , even control over nuclear energy of the atom is a fact . The more progress develops , the more luxuries are transformed into comforts and comforts into necessities . This is the main genetic scheme pertaining to the good . Sometimes , however , luxuries develop directly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " commodity elements " are transformed into real commodities , and the more consumption goods develop into " commodities of civilization . " Both items of this proposition are derived from von Wieser . The first case involves the problem of the so-called comple-mentary goods . These goods can appear in one of the following forms : 1 . As goods of joint demand which , in their turn , should be sub-divided as follows : Goods which show an extreme degree of comple-mentarity . For instance , one glove normally is meaningless if there is no complementary glove . The same can be said of two shoes of the same pair or rather of the same style . One can hardly buy them separately . Goods showing a strong degree of complementarity ( a rather intermediate case ) . Ink can not be used without a pen , yet both goods can be acquired separately . Also , the relation-ship between food and beverage ( in particular , water ) or meat and salt , is not inseparable , but still has a very high degree of complementarity . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in principle , is independent of the other good . There are some goods which show a comparatively low degree of complemen-tarity , including bread and water , or shirt and tie , scotch and soda , although they are " matched " sometimes . 2 . The goods of joint supply . We shall discuss them more fully in another context . It is sufficient to note here that in this // case there can be a high degree of natural complementarity . For instance , meat and hides are strictly complementary because one can not produce meat without producing hides . The relationship is much looser if a good can be considered as an eventual by-product of another related good . This is the relationship between kerosene and gasoline for instance . One can produce gasoline without increasing the supply of kerosene and vice versa. 3 . There are some goods which are complementary in a broader sense . This is stressed by Karl Menger and von Wieser in particular . In this category belong all complementary means of production which are goods of indirect or derived demand . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ machinery without materials and normally labor without tools , can accomplish nothing . Every factor of production is only a commodity element if the complementary productive agents are lacking . For instance , coal in northwest Siberia remains until this time , a commodity element because there are no " cold-proof " means of mining and especially no such means of transportation . Also , the soil of a desert has a meagre chance of ceasing to be a commodity element . All this implies that the more progress develops , the more commodity elements are transformed into commodities . This fact has a certain affinity with our former case , namely , when we had to do with latent resources . Yet , there is an essential difference between these two cases because in the case of a commodity element , man knows how to use the given natural resources but is unable to touch them , since the necessary tools are lacking . Von Wieser is right when he says that the most sudden increase in man 's possession of goods has occurred when the complementary " goods of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ found in the soil . Von Wieser uses the expression " good of civilization " in two different senses : . ( a ) Sometimes he means elaborate instruments conceived as complementary productive agents which make man 's labor more efficient in terms of time and simultaneously render this diminished exertion less painful . In other words , such instruments produce more quickly and more easily . ( b ) At other times , von Wieser means that every consumption good can be transformed into a " commodity of civilization , " if some subsidiary uses are added to its principle use . In such case , a formerly primitive good starts to yield a refined composite satisfaction . For instance , clothing in a civilized country is more than a mere bodily protection against cold but satisfies simultaneously man 's demand for sanitation , decency , beauty , comfort etc . Veblen says that under modern conditions women 's clothing is rather " dress . " Also , a civilized man as a // bearer of knowledge never can be a narrow specialist but must possess a certain mental versatility @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Such goods are simply unavoidable or vital for any process of production , for example , physical good , oxygen or immaterial good , knowledge . To this category belong such heterogeneous phenomena as location ( site ) and durability . The Mechanical and Organistic schools , in particular Leon Walras and Spann , maintain that every good is in a sense complementary , because any good , if it is used ( that is , if it is no longer a dormant force ) , performs a certain function from the standpoint of the whole and for this reason depends upon any other good which participates in the given organic functional system ( according to Spann ) , or in the given mechanistic functional structure ( according to Walras ) . As already mentioned , Spann considers as a good any material or immaterial element which passively enters the system of economic means . To this system belong either material objects , that is , ordinary goods , or actions representing a passive service . The originality of Spann 's approach is shown in the following propositions : 1 . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is a good in contradistinction to an active effort . For instance , the actions of a skilled worker , in particular of a machinist , can not be considered as goods while the labor of a stoker is a good . In general , every good is a factor of a lower order and is led by an active agent . 2 . The material goods are pure unconditional means because they never can be an end in themselves , save in a pathological case . Any other good , in particular , passive labor , can develop simultaneously as a means and an end . Thus , passive human actions are implicitly more elevated than an active material good , although they likewise belong to the realm of goods . The " instinct of workmanship , " in Veblen 's terminology , can be inherent in a passive human effort . 3 . Any accumulation of material goods is a dead inventory ( in Struve 's terminology , a " heap " ) while human actions can create a certain community ( in Struve 's terminology , a " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to say : Take the spirit away and the economy will become a graveyard of materials . The American " graveyards " of automobiles which impress Europeans are an example . // A still more idealistic approach to the concept of good was developed by Henry von Storch and his numerous Russian followers . Marshall and Eduard Heimann also seem to be influenced by Storch . Marx considered Storch the most intelligent among the " vulgar " economists . Let us take now the main propositions developed by Storch : 1 . Economics analyzes either material wealth or civilization . In the first case , it has to do with material goods which can be material goods in a broader sense . By this latter kind of goods , Storch understands intermediate goods in our terminology . When economic theory studies civilization it concentrates on the analysis of internal goods , whose existence was in principle realized still by Aristotle . 2 . Internal goods are subdivided into primary , ( like health , knowledge , skill , taste ) and secondary ( like leisure and security ) . The latter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enjoyed . 3 . Any internal good is non-material , can not be literarily transmitted , is lasting , that is , is not finally consumed , and is in part co-produced by the individual who acquires it . As far as the first proposition of Storch is concerned , we must admit that he does not misuse the concept of civilization because sanitary conditions , education , and leisure really improve and increase , when the given nation becomes more civilized . Yet , we have seen that material goods also experience development and transformation when the socio-economic progress grows . For instance , necessities become more numerous and more varied ; natural resources are more and more utilized , etc . Thus , we study civilization also when we analyse the realm of material goods . As to the second proposition of Storch , it is somewhat controversial since there are three different approaches to the concept of " internal good , " namely : 1 . The proper idealistic school uses this concept because not only skill , knowledge and taste ( in the field of fine arts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can be treated in a similar manner . Besides , the feeling of security is. dependent on the given degree of community maturity in Spann 's terminology . 2 . Marshall understands by internal goods , non-material and non-transferable qualities and faculties for action and for enjoyment which lie within the individual himself , such as busi-. ness ability , skill , health , the faculty of deriving recreation from reading , etc . Consequently , he identifies internal goods with // personal qualities and makes Storch 's concept narrower . For instance , knowledge is considered by him as faculty already acquired . Its transmission is neglected . A phenomenon , like the feeling of security , will rather remain outside of Marshall 's scheme . 3 . Ely restricts the concept of internal good by refusing to consider personal qualities of man as peculiar goods because such qualities are a part of man 's personality rather than of his possessions . Still he recommends that an exception be made for knowledge and skill which , according to him represent a priceless heritage and should be considered as immaterial goods @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ because he is correct in admitting that knowledge and skill , which are immaterial goods , can be bought and sold . On the other hand , it is more difficult to say the same about taste and in respect to health hardly permissible at all , since the latter phenomenon represents a distinct personal quality . Yet , the idealistic school is logical when it places such personal qualities , as taste and health , under - the heading " internal goods " because they are very distinct productive forces and thus have something in common with economic means . In other words , Storch is not inconsistent in his second proposition . As to his last proposition , it is very instructive and clarifies the character of some immaterial goods , like knowledge and skill . It is true that knowledge is transmitted by a teacher , not like a material object , because when he teaches only his services are acquired while his own knowledge is not impaired since it is at least lasting . Every young instructor knows from his experience that he increases his knowledge through @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not acquire knowledge passively but must co-operate by reproducing it . This was stressed by St. Thomas Aquinas . In a sense Storch is right when he says the same about the process of acquiring health because one can not be cured by a physician unless one makes an active effort to regain his health . Yet , both cases are different because a teach-r , in the last analysis , transmits knowledge while a physician is unable to transmit health . He simply imparts a device . Consumption of personal services can be ollows : 1 . Passive . For instance , a servant shines the shoes of his employer , who at the same time may be asleep or absent . Here consumption is final . 2 . Active . The given bearer of human personal services transmits an internal good such as knowledge . Here consumption means reproduction . Yet , it can appear in two different forms ; ' 96 ECONOMIC SYNTHESIS ( a ) Consumption is an end in itself . For instance , a student is eager to acquire knowledge as such . ( h @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ studies only because he desires the credit . Only the feeling of security could be considered as an internal good , not however security as such , which should be identified with protection and thus belongs to the realm of services . Insurance premium however is a payment for both of them . In order to complete our survey of different kinds of goods , we still have to distinguish between the following types of goods : 1 . There are some substitutive , antagonistic goods and goods of mixed relationship . Goods are substitutive or competing if an increase in the consumption of one good is associated with a decreased demand for another good since both of them compete directly . For instance , there is such a relationship between oranges and grapefruit or between butter and margarine . If two goods exclude each other entirely , they are antagonistic . This is a rather rare and subjective category . For instance , quite a few people consider milk and fish , or tea and cucumbers , as goods which should not be consumed together . Yet , these goods @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not every consumer will agree that these goods are antagonistic because different persons are allergic to different combinations of food . Even fire and water have a complex relationship . In principle , they are antagonistic . Yet , sometimes they are complimentary either for an institutional reason as a symbol of purification , ( remember , for instance , the ancient religious rite of the Tatars ) , or for technical reasons , since , when they are together they produce steam for central heating . No strict line of demarcation can be drawn in similar cases . For instance , land and fertilizers are simultaneously complementary and substitutive , even if not antagonistic . Li other words , they show a relationship of mixed bias . In general , two goods of a mixed relationship sometimes compete with each other and sometimes are demanded jointly . To this category very conspicuously belong sugar and marmalade . If one buys marmalade for consumption , the demand for sugar decreases . If one produces marmalade , the demand for sugar increases . 2 . Some goods are specific and some are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ never rigidly confined to one special kind of use . For instance , a machine // tool which can be shifted at any time to different tasks within a factory , is a distinct non-specific productive agent while a specific tool represents the reverse phenomenon . Also , in the field of final consumption , there are some specific durable goods ( in principle luxuries ) , such as a fish fork or a top hat . Any specific productive agent is especially sensitive to the cyclical fluctuations . 3 . There are goods of the same productive stein and goods of productive relationship . Both concepts were developed by Karl Menger and Frederick von Wieser . Primary entelechy determines the productive stem . Thus , every good made from iron is ' a product of the stem of iron . The relationship between iron ore and an iron stove is a vertical one . Any iron stove is , in respect to iron , an ultimate product or an iron good of the first order which is the closest to final consumption . Here iron ore is in its last @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ relationship has a horizontal character . Every good is productively related to any other commodity that has some stem element in common with it . Thus , there is a horizontal relationship between all products of the stem of coal , of iron , or of non-specific tools . An iron stove is distinctly related in a horizontal way to an iron chair . The fact that most goods are productively related has great economic significance because if one kind of good is overproduced , the manufacturing of its " productive relatives ' must necessarily decrease provided that the given fundamental raw material can not be produced ad libitum . Consequently , mass production can not be expanded indefinitely ( at least in principle ) . This implies that there is another social limit which can not be violated , namely , the limit of economic proportionality in von Wieser 's terminology . If the social limit of profitability is a rather historical category , the latter limit is a logical category , because the productive relationship among the goods is a natural pnenomenon. 5 . Goods can be homogeneous or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , is not a uniform concept , namely : ( a ) Goods are homogeneous in the narrower sense when their services can not be treated apart from the goods themselves . To this category normally belongs any non-durable consumptions good , in contradistinction to a durable good which in this sense is heterogeneous . ( b ) Goods are homogeneous in the broader sense if they bear no " prestige utility , " that is , when they do not represent a brand and thus are not preferred by the customers because of certain qualities or services associatd with them . On the other // hand , heterogeneous goods , in this sense , are differentiated products ( or brands ) 5 . There are goods wich are physically indivisible but economically divisible ; for instance , a building and its site . Some other goods , on the contrary , are physically divisible but economically indivisible , as a stock of interchangeable goods which a monopolist sells only as an entity . Sometimes a competitive wholesale dealer does the same thing . In Soviet Russia frequently a " forced @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ different articles . For instance , one can buy a certain amount of fish only if he purchases a Communist propaganda book . CHAPTER V UTILITY AND WANTS The process of economizing can be expressed in terms of a ratio between the relatively scarce goods and the relatively abundant wants , which should be adjusted to each other . At this point , we know enough about economic good but the concept of want still should be clarified . We can say that a want is a tension or a desire to acquire an object possessing utility or to get rid of an object possessing negative utility , or disutility . It is wrong to identify a negative good with a disutility , just as it is incorrect to consider a positive good as a utility . Disutility is simply a certain quality of a " discommodity " i.e. , of a negative good . One usually pays for the service of removing discommodities so that disutility gives rise to a very distinct economic activity . For instance , garbage or waste paper is removed by a paid agency which may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ true of some durable goods , such as worn out machines and automobiles . Yet , frequently these goods are sold at the so-called " scrap value " provided that the costs of scrapping , or the final destruction of the given form utility do not exceed the expected proceeds . When a good is capable of being sold as scrap , it does not bear disutility . It simply is a depreciated commodity . Utility is objective if it represents the want satisfying ability inherent in the good . The objective utility of a good is its general usefulness or its capacity to satisfy a human want . This want satisfying quality of a good can be defined , in Irving Fisher 's terminology , as its " wantability . " Although objective utility is inherent in the good , the contention of Davenport and Jevons that utility is a certain " relation " can be accepted ( even in a broader sense ) , because the term usefulness implies that there must be a potential user to whom the good eventually can be useful . Also the term " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ something and somebody . When the usefulness of a good is considered from the standpoint of the possessor of the given good or from the standpoint of the person who wants to acquire it , one speaks of subjective utility . Finally , one can , like Frank Knight , talk about " social " utility if a material good , like a mail box is capable of satisfying a collective want . If a good serves as a good of final consumption , its utility is direct . For instance , milk contributes to man 's diet which is an end in itself . On the other hand , if the given milk is used to make butter ,                     