@@774258

txt  | there are no definitive answers at the present time . The magnitude of the problem can be overestimated , however , because in most instances of students found to be unethical the evidence is overwhelming , and decisive action is taken by the university concerned . In addition , few graduate students can transfer from one university to another without some communication between departments . There still remain , however , a small number of students who could conceivably effect such a transfer , especially if a number of years elapse between dismissal from one university and enrollment in another . The Conference was unwilling to suggest that a central registry be established within the American Psychological Association at this time , but did recommend that the problem be considered by state and divisional societies in future meetings . There was no question about the desirability of permanently eliminating from further training students known to be unethical . It was felt , however , that machinery for safeguarding the rights of the individual will be necessary before a central registry can operate effectively . Of very @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in clinical practice . It was generally agreed that psychology departments should provide adequate supervision in all clinical practice . Even advanced students should not be permitted to engage in independent clinical work . It appeared that most psychology departments insist upon supervision in order to avoid mishaps due to inexperience , well-intentioned though the student may be . RELATED PROBLEMS A number of questions that arose are related more to general problems of the practice of clinical psychology than to the problem of unethical procedures by an individual attempting to improve his income or his status . The conflict of values is perhaps more acute in psychology and psychiatry than in other comparable professional areas . These professions are constantly engaged in attempting to alter the behavior and , therefore , the lives and personal relationships  | of the clients and patients with whom they are working . Subtle ethical problems with many nuances are constantly arising . These problems harass the psychologist not only in psychotherapy , but also in research using human subjects and in situations where the clinical psychologist is employed in industry . Interprofessional relations also @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ personal standards . These questions , as viewed Iry the Conference , are discussed below . The Clinician as Scientist and as Practitioner . Several times discussion turned on the apparent conflict between the dual roles of the clinical psychologist as a research worker and as a practitioner . More concretely , can the scientist be aware of and conform to all those ethical practices that constantly surround and curtail the activities of the professional person ? After discussion , the opinion seemed to be widespread that this issue is more apparent than real . In any situation the human subjects of research are constantly protected by law , by cultural tradition , and by codes of ethics . If we are convinced that the welfare of the individual is our ultimate goal , and if the scientist within our society must function within the logical framework of this conception in order to remain active in research , no real problem exists insofar as conflict between roles is concerned . The clinical psychologist as scientist must of necessity abide by all the ethical rules of the practitioner and must , in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ scientific tradition . ( To deny the necessity of an ethical conflict when the psychologist is playing dual roles does not deny the frustration that often arises when a psychologist 's service load as practitioner prevents him from carrying out the research he wishes to do . This , however , is a different aspect of the conflict arising from the dual role . ) The general ethics of the clinician as scientist were touched upon only infrequently at the Conference since here the traditions and practices are well known . Some borderline questions did arise . The use of unvalidated techniques or instruments often raises ethical problems , particularly when their results are included in reports going to members of other professions who may not be familiar with the limitations of the new instruments . The results of unvalidated  | techniques must be reported with more than ordinary caution . Overgeneralization from a single case also continues to be a problem that often provokes ethical issues , particularly if the conclusions fit in with the personal or pet beliefs of the individual clinician . Unscientific conclusions drawn from adequate or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ these conclusions are applied in clinical practice or reported in the literature . It was generally agreed that research and development of new techniques are legitimate and must be encouraged but that psychologists who are engaged in such work must be certain that it results in no harm to individual patients . The Clinical Psychologist in Industry . Where relationships with employers are concerned , the Conference was clearly in agreement that the ethical practices of the profession take precedence over loyalty to a particular employer if conflict arises . This was most clearly stated in a general session devoted to discussion of the clinical psychologist in industry . It was agreed that even though the clinical psychologist is working for an employer whose primary goal is the making of profits , he can abide by no professional code of ethics other than that of the psychologist employed by a hospital or a university . In industry more numerous ethical questions may arise , but their solution can not be based upon standards different from those endorsed by the profession in general . Where a psychologist receives confidential information from both @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ advance , and precisely , what kinds of information will be kept confidential and what will be given to the employer . Interprofessional Problems . Although clinical psychologists do not always work as members of a mental health " team , " their work almost inevitably brings them into contact with members of the related professions . While there is little possibility that problems will arise because of conflicting codes of ethics , problems do occur in the relations between members of the various professions . One sub-group suggested that the ethical codes of the related professions be published in one of the psychological journals . Another sub-group urged the planning of meetings of interprofessional groups to  | correspond locally to the joint committee of the American Psychiatric Association and the American Psychological Association . While there is no way of insuring that each client or patient receives the best possible attention , it was felt that there is an ethical demand on the clinical psychologist to be constantly aware of his own professional limitations as well as his skills . Thus it becomes his responsibility to form working relationships both @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ order to meet the needs of individuals not under the care of a mental hygiene team . A resolution to this effect read as follows : Because of : ( a ) the extreme complexity and variety of problems presenting themselves for solution , ( b ) the equally wide variety of skills and techniques required for the most effective service to the individual , and ( c ) the fact that the current training of any one profession can not possibly ensure mastery of all of these techniques ? we urge clinical psychologists to adopt as a principle of practice the establishment and maintenance of active and effective liaison with members of allied professions in all service functions . Cooperation with members of the allied professions was an ethical demand that was clearly recognized . In its wake , however , arose ' a number of questions that should be mentioned . How does the clinical psychologist best safeguard the rights of clients when his professional relationships are not as yet legally recognized as " privileged communications " ? How does the clinical psychologist establish working relations with the best-qualified @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lack well qualified psychiatrists or psychiatric social workers , is it better ethics to establish relations with such psychiatrists or psychiatric social workers as are present or to make use of the help that may be obtained from other well qualified physicians or social workers of more generalized training ? Although the immediate problems of professional training and practice received the largest amount of attention , some of the more imponderable dilemmas arising from the subject matter of clinical I , . c hology were discussed . For the psychologist as scientist , traditions and customs are apparently clear-cut and deeply imbedded in the scientific and educational traditions of science in general .  | However , even as scientists and promulgators of theories about human nature , psychologists are involved in ethical issues over which they may have little or no control . There are certain issues that now face all scientists . These have to do with the undesirable uses to which scientific knowledge may be placed . The moral concerns of the atomic physicists are hardly the immediate concerns of clinical or other psychologists insofar as their professional contributions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in an effort to understand , predict , and thereby control human behavior , ethical problems are inevitable . A theory of human personality that stems from authoritative sources and captures some segment of public interest is by its very nature provocative of ethical problems . Clinical psychology , together with allied professions , is at present going far beyond the mere fashioning of theories . It is attempting to change human personalities . Since change may occur in a number of directions , the moral issues are more complex than those which arise when , as in medicine , the effort is primarily to restore health . The medical profession has long had an arbitrary solution for its ofttimes uncomfortable power over life and death . There the ethical issue and its solution are readily apparent . Problems of control over personality changes are not so readily apparent , nor can they always be so readily solved by reference to the Hippocratic oath that has served medicine so well .  | Background Preparation for Clinical Psychology Curriculum planners have long been captivated by the notion that there is a " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the most highly qualified graduate in the shortest period of time . The Conference to a large extent disavowed faith in the " one best way " doctrine . When a single highly specific goal is to be reached , it may be possible to outline the syllabus in great detail and to arrange the courses in logical and chronological order . When , however , one is concerned with an eight-year program of college and graduate school in which the final goal is a broadly educated and scientifically oriented professional person , overspecification can present a facade of logical integration that may well be contrary to the facts . Such fallacious " order " is particularly easy to achieve in a subject such as psychology where overlapping content is matched with overlapping or identical methods in two or more seemingly discrete : areas . Even in the medical schools , with their apparently simple curricular progression from basic science to clinical application , there has been growing dissatisfaction with the " one best way " doctrine , so much so that vigorous experimentation in curricular rearrangement is under way as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the Conference gave thoroughgoing approval to the 1947 Report of the American Psychological Association Committee on Training in Clinical Psychology . To the casual reader , the 1947 Report may appear to recommend a highly formalized type of training program . More careful perusal , however , reveals that its  | thinking and that of the present Conference were in harmony in suggesting diversity of university training programs . Its specific provisions are to be interpreted largely as suggestions rather than as strict requirements . This more accurate interpretation ( lack of which had caused many misunderstandings in the intervening two years ) is grasped more readily by reading the most recent report of the same Committee that appears in the August , 1949 issue of the American Psychologist , pp. 331-340 . UNDERGRADUATE PREPARATION FOR CLINICAL PSYCHOLOGY Just as requirements for college entrance largely determine the type of high school education taken by students hoping to enter college , so the requirements of graduate and professional schools are beginning to mold the undergraduate curricula of many college students . Medicine and law are two professions that have taken rather @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ professional college is concerned . Law schools ordinarily suggest rather broad preparation in a large number of undergraduate departments , with specific requirements being limited to a very few basic courses . Medicine , on the other hand , has tended to prescribe a rather complete list of undergraduate requirements . The lack of social sciences in the education of most physicians has become a matter of some concern to medical educators in recent years . Undergraduate Specialization . The two professions cited above are included here only to indicate that psychology and clinical psychology can choose the type of undergraduate preparation deemed most appropriate for their final product . The choice between a rigid set of undergraduate requirements and a flexible program that depends upon a wide selection of appropriate subject matter must be viewed in the light of the final product of professional training rather than as a simple matter of determining what courses are most likely to be useful prerequisites for graduate work in clinical psychology . To some extent the issue is one of supporting extreme specialization over the eight years of college and university  | work @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ education prior to specialization . Historical precedents in psychology are not of much assistance ; there has been no generally accepted practice in this respect . Most departments of psychology have accepted as graduate students those with a relatively small number of undergraduate psychology courses as well as those with extensive preparation in psychology during the ( allege years . It is likely that most instructors of graduate courses have been impressed at one time or another by the celerity with which some students having little or no undergraduate preparation in psychology have mastered graduate courses and obtained wellearned Ph.D . ' s in psychology . The objective data on this point , however , are admittedly very meager . On the subjective side , there has been a strong current of feeling in psychology departments that students preparing for graduate work in any field of psychology should have broad backgrounds in widely diversified subjects . Psychology occupies a peculiar position in regard to the conventional demarcation between the natural and social sciences . Particular psychologists can rightfully claim to be either social scientists or biological scientists ; but no one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ever been able to convince all members of the discipline that they are in one group or f he other . The science of psychology is as concerned with the influence of experience and environment upon human beings as it is with the biological , chemical , and physical processes within the organism . Even the humanities , particularly literature , present the psychologist with a vast , unsystematized body of knowledge that he ' nay constantly use as a check upon his speculations or research data . Another factor that has contributed to the trend toward avoiding undergraduate specialization has been the feeling that psychologists should have a wide familiarity with people and with culture , since psychologists may be called upon to consider problems wherever human beings are concerned . The present Conference reaffirmed the stand , taken in the 1947 Report , for a broad , flexible undergraduate preparation . One of the Nub-groups considering this topic reported as follows :  | The emphasis of our discussions was generally in the direction of retaining a broad , flexible curriculum at the undergraduate level with a minimum of specific @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the breadth and versatility required of the clinical psychologist . The skills and special tools acquired at a later period must have wide and varied adaptations . For this reason , versatile orientation in modern culture is basic to the appropriate adaptation of skills and tools . The Conference as a whole crystallized its thinking along these lines by adopting the following resolution : The undergraduate curriculum of the student who plans to take a doctorate in clinical psychology should approximate the undergraduate curricular contents recommended in the 1947 Report of the Committee on Training in Clinical Psychology . Students Lacking Undergraduate Majors in Psychology . The members of the Conference also seemed to feel that universities should not be bound by any particular array of undergraduate courses in considering exceptional students . There were explicit statements , to which no objection was made , that exceptional students with the B.A. degree , but without an undergraduate major in psychology , might well be accepted as bona fide graduate students in clinical psychology . Such students would be expected to make up subject-matter in which they are lacking , and thereby @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ caution should be inserted here in order that the above recognition of individual differences should not be misinterpreted to the detriment of students considering graduate work in clinical psychology . Universities with approved training programs in clinical psychology are most likely to continue to give preference to students who meet the undergraduate requirements outlined in the 1947 Report . In view of the very large number of candidates now applying for graduate training in clinical psychology , some universities will probably automatically eliminate from consideration students who do not meet those requirements , largely as a matter of simplifying a very expensive and time-consuming selection process . It is  | likely that only very exceptional students with well-documented scholastic superiority plus a very high degree of aptitude for graduate work in psychology will be admitted without having had most of the approved undergraduate preparation . Technique Courses at the Undergraduate Level . So far , this section has discussed what material should be included in undergraduate preparation . The Conference also gave particular attention to what should be omitted from undergraduate work in preparation for clinical psychology . With only five @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and therapeutic technique courses , was approved ; Courses and skills training in diagnostic or other clinical techniques should be offered only at the graduate level and only to students whose education will give reasonable assurance that the use of such skills will be made with proper regard for the best interests of clients or patients and with proper regard for problems of validity and the limited applications of the data derived from such techniques . More specifically , the resolution urges that courses should not be offered at the undergraduate level in the Stanford-Binet , the Vechslcr-Bellevue , or the projective techniques . Moreover , even at the graduate level , enrollment in such courses should be restricted to students who will have a legitimate use for them and who can be trusted to understand the limitations of the techniques themselves . Courses designed to train students in psychotherapy also fall into this category . Many psychologists and other educators who have been teaching courses in individual intelligence tests will object to such a proscription as an illegitimate interference with their own prerogatives , if not an infringement upon academic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there was no objection to teaching theories of measurement , theories of projective techniques , and theories of personality . Undergraduates can not , however , be given sufficient training in psychology to permit them to use these tools properly , since each of the tools depends upon an intensive period  | of supervised training before adequate interpretations can be made . Too frequently , students taking such courses receive certification in the use of the tool and qualify thereby as psychometricians or clinical psychologists . Since the profession of psychology has had a large hand in developing its clinical tools , it therefore has a responsibility to see that the tools are not put to deliberate or even unintentional unethical uses . For several decades , psychologists have stood by rather passively while " testers " with a summer-school course in the Binet or the Rorschach have naively substituted the magic of the quantitative test score or the graphic profile for a sound understanding of the limitations of clinical instruments . However , changes are already occurring . Several companies are refusing to sell test materials to unqualified persons . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recommended to its members that technique courses be abolished at the undergraduate level . The present resolution of the Conference is still another step in the same direction . It is hoped that the Division of Clinical and Abnormal Psychology and eventually the American Psychological Association will endorse this policy . This policy should not be interpreted as an attempt , in any sense , to limit the useful dissemination of psychological knowledge or to prohibit serious students of any discipline from learning even the techniques themselves , provided they have legitimate reasons for knowing them . In the final analysis , however , the ultimate safeguarding of the public against the unwise use of specialized techniques will probably depend upon the adoption of , and public education about , a licensing or certification program for clinical psychology . THE GRADUATE PROGRAM IN BASIC PSYCHOLOGY Among the many decisions clinical psychology has had to make in recent years , one of the most important has been whether to train for practice , for scientific research , or for both . The decision of this Conference , as discussed more fully in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for both research and practice . Such a conclusion largely determines the type of program to be offered ( luring the graduate school program . Thus it is inevitable that training universities are forced to consider the practical as well as the theoretical aspects of their course work in general psychology . Discussions at the Conference clearly indicated that there were certain very definite underlying policies upon which there was almost complete agreement . It was felt , however , that implementation of these policies in the form of specific courses and subject matter arrangement should be left to the universities themselves . Psychology , it was pointed out , is not in a position to specify exact curricula providing ideal graduate or undergraduate training for any particular goal . This is as true in clinical psychology as it is in general psychology . The encouragement of diversification may be expected to lead to more rapid progress toward better curriculum construction . This policy does not obviate the need for a common core of knowledge and skill in basic psychology . It merely recognizes that t here are different ways of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at present , sufficient evidence for preferring one organization over another . Insofar as the contents of the basic core were concerned , there was very general agreement on the following resolution : There should be a common core curriculum for all students in graduate programs leading to the doctorate in clinical psychology . The goal of this core curriculum should be to educate the student to deal with psychological problems in a scientific manner and should therefore center around the areas of theory construction , conceptual tools , and scientific methodology . This resolution clearly implies that clinical psychologists are expected to be thoroughly familiar with such basic concepts and methodology of the science of psychology as are generally recognized . Thus the graduate student in the clinical area is also a tnraduate student in general psychology . This further implies that finical psychologists conceive of their profession as an applied  | branch of the general field of psychology rather than as a separate profession . Many theoretical objections can be raised to such a decision , but its practical consequence that clinical psychology wishes to maintain its identification with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ accepted . Implementation of this goal seems to require that graduate students in the clinical area should have close and prolonged contact with well-qualified graduate students in other areas of psychology , since much education takes place at the personal as well as at the classroom level . The sub-groups that considered the topic of " basic psychology for clinical students " prepared the following report on areas of general agreement : 1 . The goal of the core curriculum is to educate the student to deal in a scientific manner with problems and problem areas in psychology . 2 . The minimum basic core of training for clinical students should not differ essentially from that of other graduate students in psychology . 3 . This minimum basic core of training should center around three objectives : theory , conceptual tools , and methodology . 4 . These objectives should be regarded as guiding principles throughout the entire training program , though various courses may differ in title from one university to another . 5 . A permanent committee at the departmental level and another at the Association level should be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with regard to the basic problem areas and the course structure of graduate training in psychology . Departmental Responsibility for Basic Courses . The last recommendation , that a departmental committee consider the curriculum in basic psychology , met with little resistance at the Conference , although it was pointed out that such a departmental committee might well violate the tradition in many universities that instructors in graduate courses are quite capable of determining the content and procedure for teaching their own courses . The basic issue seems to hinge upon the stake that other members of a graduate department have in the so-called basic or required courses .  | No one at the Conference implied that the basic courses should be approved in all details by the department or the departmental committee . Such routinized and mechanized treatment at the graduate level is quite likely to rob the instructor of initiative and hinder him in creative methods of teaching . There was a feeling , however , that the contents of the basic courses should be known to other members of the department and that arrangements should be worked out @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ This is , of course , what usually happens within psychology departments , although failure to achieve such cooperation has sometimes resulted in the proliferation of overlapping courses , and a consequent additional encumbering of the graduate student in clinical psychology , who already has an overcrowded schedule . A representative from one university that has agreed to departmental responsibility for basic courses reported that this policy is always stressed as accepted procedure when applicants for teaching positions are being interviewed . Overlapping Courses . Another university representative described a recent survey made by graduate students concerning the question of course duplication . The results showed so much overlap that the staff has since been engaged in strenuous attempts to eliminate a great deal of overlapping factual material . However , the staff is making no effort to dispense with overlapping theory , since review of theories from different standpoints seemed desirable to the st udents . The following resolution was generally approved by the Conference , although one participant strongly disagreed and ten had reservations : The objectives of integration of course content with learning experiences and of conserving time @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by having the department of psychology take active responsibility for the planning and approving of content in core sequences and in required courses . The problem of overlapping courses is generally recognized in psychology and constitutes a rather serious problem in curriculum construction . Many present-day psychology courses are organized  | around areas of application , such as " Social Psychology " or " Psychology of Adolescence , " with the result that general principles , common to both courses , receive double coverage . To some extent our present situation justifies this procedure , since psychology very largely lacks unifying principles that have valid application in all content areas . This situation has produced a large number of courses that have legitimate existence as separate courses in their own right but that tend to make the graduate curriculum quite unwieldy from the standpoint of attempting to train students in applied areas in a reasonable length of time . Participants at the Conference frankly recognized that clinical students can not be expected to master all areas of psychology in addition to the clinical area . One sub-group stated the objectives of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ We recognize that the subject matter of psychology is so diverse that it is impossible to include adequate treatment of all its areas of knowledge in a graduate program . This fact indicates that basic core instruction calls for an integration of content , on a representative and non-overlapping basis , into the few courses considered valuable to all graduate students in psychology . Organization of individual courses around integrated constructs rather than around content areas appears desirable . This is certainly a laudable objective and will probably be more widely achieved as psychologists become more familiar with the problems of training graduate students for applied areas . Core Courses in General Psychology . So far as specific subject matter of courses in the basic core is concerned , the Conference was quite willing to endorse the 1947 Report of the Committee on Training in Clinical Psychology , which was viewed as a guide rather than as a listing of required courses and course titles . One interesting proposal in regard to the underlying rationale of the core curriculum was worked out by a sub-group and presented to the Conference as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , both normal and abnormal . In order to understand these , it is necessary to know the variety of factors which determine them . Such factors  | can be found in heredity ; in anatomic , physiological , and organismic data ; in the interaction between nature and nurture ; in maturation ; and in the individual 's experience of both his relation to the group and the influences of the group upon his behavior . The core curriculum should make provision for the study of these factors and for instruction in the methods for examining , determining , measuring , , and understanding them . Two specific subjects , statistics and foreign languages , were initially brought up under the present topic of core curriculum and resulted in prolonged discussions that extended into other topics . The Conference 's conclusions in regard to statistics courses are presented in Chapter 8 . The subject of foreign languages is treated in the next section of this chapter . FOREIGN LANGUAGE REQUIREMENTS FOR THE PH.D . Marked and continuous disagreement was obvious throughout the Conference whenever the subject of requiring foreign language @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more than half of the participants were in favor of abolishing the foreign language requirement from the graduate program for clinical psychology students . Many of those who favored dropping t he requirement felt , however , that demonstrated proficiency in one or two foreign languages should be required for admission to graduate work , so that the language will be available to the student as a tool throughout graduate study . Several representatives felt this suggestion might be feasible in view of the large number of applicants . Only a few participants were in favor of retaining the present requirement of many institutions that reading knowledge of two languages be presented by the candidate before the Ph.D . is awarded . The following tabulation resulted from a questionnaire distributed to all university representatives concerning present prac-tices : 20 Universities require two languages but give the student a choice of the languages on which he will be examined .  | 10 Universities require French and German with no choice permitted . 7 Universities require one language plus competence in an additional skill such as advanced statistics . 4 Universities require only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ some universities , such as permitting the student to present either a reading knowledge of two foreign languages or a comprehensive reading and oral knowledge of one . Some universities require knowledge of one foreign language for the M.A. degree . The one area of agreement was centered about the proposition that there should be no difference in the language requirements for clinical and nonclinical students in psychology . It is evident that opposition to foreign language requirements extends well beyond the field of clinical psychology , but there is little agreement on what should be done . Three of the larger universities , Minnesota , Harvard , and Ohio State , have recently polled all their living Ph.D . ' s in psychology on this question . The results of one of the studies* revealed that at the most not more than ten per cent of living Ph.D . ' s from one university actually use their supposed knowledge of foreign languages . The other two studies are in essential agreement . Various participants at the Conference voiced a number of strong opinions in support of the retention of foreign @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ below , were not necessarily advanced by persons who wished to retain the present requirements . They do represent , however , some of the perplexing questions that face any group considering abolishment or modification of the requirement . Several references were made to the fact that science is an international affair and that abolishment of requirements for foreign language competence will cut us off from knowledge obtained outside English-speaking countries . Second , the Ph.D . degree represents scholarly achievement , which includes acquaintance with the science Footnote  | and scholarship of other nations as well as our own . Since we have agreed to retain the Ph.D . degree rather than ask for a separate professional degree , we will be expected to abide by the graduate school rules generally provided for all Ph.D . ' s . Third , the issue should be settled on local levels in the interest of retaining university autonomy . These arguments in defense of retaining the present requirement were also supported from several sectors by the well-known fact that abolishing such a requirement has met with opposition and considerable failure wherever a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ graduate school . The chief arguments for modifying or abolishing the requirement seem to be the following . First , the three studies mentioned above clearly indicate that only a few psychologists , usually those in research positions , actually know and use a foreign language . Second , students and many faculty members feel that the foreign language requirement unnecessarily diverts students ' energies from tasks that are much more important to their professional future . Third , the practice of substituting a skill such as advanced statistics for at least one language has met with general approval in universities where it has been instituted , and the practice seems to appeal to many psychologists from other universities . Fourth , the present system of forcing students to learn foreign languages results in the minimum preparation necessary to pass the examination ; and passing an examination seldom signifies actual competence in that lnguage . The Conference arrived at no agreement in regard to foreign language requirements . Strong opposition sprang up whenever changes from the status quo were suggested . Strong opposition to the status quo also exists . There @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for some years to come .  | The Core Curriculum in Clinical Psychology The Conference found very general agreement in the following resolution : The core curriculum in clinical psychology should approximate that recommended in the 1947 Report of the Committee on Training . It should have the triple goal of teaching content , developing skills , and inculcating attitudes . It should be so organized that both diagnostic and therapeutic techniques are taught in integrated relationship to theories of personality and behavior . Areas of the Core Curriculum in Clinical Psychology . In order to provide a brief survey of the areas thought to be important in the clinical training program itself , the following twelve fields are reported as those which one sub-group agreed unanimously should be included in a core curriculum . One should keep four points in mind while reading this list . First , this list does not represent twelve recommended courses but is a listing of areas that might be organized into courses in various ways . Second , much of the material mentioned has already been presented in the basic psychology required of all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ quite as overwhelming as it might appear at first glance . Third , the Conference as a whole neither approved of nor recommended the list as a core curriculum to be followed in all details by training universities . The list does nonetheless represent the collective thinking of one-fourth of the participants . When it was presented to the general session , no striking disagreements were voiced . Fourth , the list is presented without implying any ranking of the fields in terms of relative importance . No weights , representing relative amount of  | irne considered appropriate for each item , were worked out . Thus t he list can be considered as defining , rather roughly , the basic areas with which clinical training programs are concerned and about which the even more basic underlying philosophy of clinical psychology training takes shape . 1 . Human Physiology : The sub-group included this material with explicit recognition of the prerequisite training ordinarily required for course work in physiology , endocrinology , neurophysiology , and neuro-anatomy. * 2 . Personality Theory : This area should include both crosssectional and genetic theories @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the tern refers to psychological development and change throughout the life span . Training in this area should deal with the biological , sociological , , and cultural determinants of psychological development . 4 . Social Relations : The term refers explicitly to material in social psychology , sociology , economics , and anthropology . 5 . Psychopathology : It is not intended that work in this area should be concerned primarily with the gross abnormalities found in mental illness . ( See No. 7 below . ) It should cover the psychology of deviant personality . 6 . Personality Appraisal : This area includes all the methods ; available to the clinical or nonclinical psychologist for evaluating tile individual and groups of individuals . In addition to testing methods , it also refers to interviewing , observation techniques , and Elie like . 7 . Clinical Medicine and Clinical Psychiatry : It is here that training concerning the nature of kinds of mental illness is to be included , together with such basic information in clinical medicine as is appropriate and necessary for the nonmedical clinician. 8 . Psychotherapy and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is added , not as an attempt to differentiate remedial procedures from psychotherapy , but to indicate that training in such areas as relearning and remedial reading should be included . Footnote  | 9 . Clinical Research Methodology : There are enough research problems peculiar to the clinical situation to require special training in this area . The usual training in research methodology does not necessarily cover this area . 10 . Professional and Interpro f essional Relationships : This area involves explicit attention to the nature and functions of allied professional groups , relationships with one 's own professional colleagues , and all other phases of professional ethics . ( See Chapters 5 and 13 for more complete discussions of ethics and of interprofessional relations. ) 11 . Community Resources and Organization : The clinical psychologist must know a great deal about the resources , agencies , and institutions of the community . He must be familiar with their operations and the protocol involved in working with them . With respect to methods of training in this area , much can be learned from the experience accumulated by psychiatric social @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Chapter 10 discusses this area . ) Organizing the Clinical Core . As might be expected , Conference participants found little agreement when attempts were made to organize this material into specific sequences . As reported by one sub-group , some participants felt that the best results could be obtained by starting with pure theory , others advocated initiating training with testing techniques , and still others thought that psychotherapy with simple problems gives the student the best overall introduction . In this connection , it appeared that the 1947 Report of the Committee on Training went somewhat further in designating course sequences and year levels than the Conference was willing to go . Despite the fact that agreement on specific procedures for teaching core materials was not found , the underlying principles . that determine how the material is taught in terms of expected outcom and underlying philosophy found a surprising degree of genet .. agreement . The following principles , like the twelve areas Este . above , can not be regarded in the same light as the Conferenc.  | resolutions , but they also seemed to meet with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ developing and assessing the ore curriculum in clinical psychology . One sub-group suggested the following three principles as useful guides in determining the relative emphasis to be placed on each aspect of a clinical method at a given point in training : 1 . The sequence of emphasis should be from : ( a ) the theoretical aspects of a given procedure , to ( b ) the technique of its administration , to ( c ) its interpretation , to ( d ) its full clinical use . 2 . Supervised experience in the observation of patients should precede use of formalized procedures . 3 . Clinical responsibility should be introduced early in training and progressively increased in degree . The extent of responsibility placed on a student at ar y one moment is a function of the degree of competence developed by the student and the degree of skill required by the task . Definite efforts should be made to avoid technique-centered training . In the core curriculum , students should become acquainted with many diverse theories rather than with any single viewpoint . While it is more important @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than to have competence in any specific technique , he should be expected to develop , before completion of the program , a considerable degree of skill in a minimum number of diagnostic and therapeutic methods . Students completing the Ph.D . will , of course , be expected to have competence in necessary job skills . The methods chosen may well vary from time to time as the scene in clinical psychology changes or as the student prepares for specialization in particular areas of the field . Emphasis on theory , general principles , and critical analysis provides a basic framework for quickly learning and evaluating new techniques . A more specific description of the goals felt most suitable for t raining students in clinical methods was prepared by a special ommittee considering technique courses :  | The goal of training in clinical methods is twofold : ( a ) acquiring enough knowledge of the whole range of clinical methods to be critically selective , and ( b ) achieving demonstrable proficiency in one or more methods in each of the following categories : 1 . Observation , including the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ranging from a highly structured , standardized approach to unstructured therapeutic interviewing . 3 . Administration and interpretation of objective diagnostic tests of general and special ability , achievement , interest , special functions , and deficit . 4 . Projective procedures , individual and group , in verbal and action media . 5 . Case integration methods appropriate to ( a ) treatment plans , and ( b ) research . 6 . Therapeutic and remedial procedures . 7 . Research techniques appropriate to the management of data secured from clinical procedures . Another guiding principle brought out was that core training in clinical psychology should have administrative unification and an organizing philosophy rather than be composed of a series of discrete courses . On this score , the Conference found ready agreement and voted almost unanimous approval of the following resolution : Integrated courses which reflect the basic principles of psychodynamics , supplemented by adequate and carefully supervised experience in practical clinical situations , are preferable to a series of single , discrete , technical courses . This resolution clearly proposes that academic course work should be closely integrated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ internship levels . This may be accomplished by such methods as the development of a departmental clinic , the appointment of field supervisors to positions on the department staff , the preparation of syllabi whose purpose is to integrate field experience with course experience , and the keeping of careful records of the experience of each student in specific diagnostic and therapeutic methods .  | The Place of Technique Training . On one point that has provoked considerable concern among psychologists over the past few years the Conference found what appeared to be eminently satisfactory agreement . Many clinical psychologists seem to have become engrossed in the development and application of specific tests . In retrospect , this concentration on techniques was to be expected , since the field as a whole has only recently discovered a wide variety of new techniques and methods , and these require a good deal of exploitation in order to determine their clinical value . The technique-centered movement has , however , aroused considerable anxiety because of its apparent influence in making the clinical psychologist a segmental specialist . The Conference accepted without dissent the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ totalistic approach to the individual , including the society in which he lives . The training should not develop a " test-oriented " philosophy , but should inculcate the view that tests constitute merely one of the means for trying to understand the problems of the individual client or patient . As part and parcel of the well-supported effort to avoid a technique-centered curriculum , the Conference agreed that two important attitudes should be fostered in the student from the beginning : he should be indoctrinated in the critical appraisal of the techniques he employs , and he should be taught a sense of deep responsibility for his clients and patients . In other words , it is the individual client or patient who is most important ; the techniques , if properly understood , provide methods for helping the clinician to understand him . Proper understanding can not be obtained by learning only what is currently accepted about a given technique ; proper understanding must include methods of thinking about , investigating , and evaluating techniques as more knowledge becomes available . One practical consideration that has led to much @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tendencies to add new courses as additional clinical methods are developed . Carried to an absurd extreme , this tendency , some psychologists have feared , might eventually result in a separate course for each  | test in the clinical psychologist 's repertoire . One sub-group reported , however : Proliferation of method courses need not be a problem unless we make it so . New techniques should not be added to the curriculum merely for the sake of acquiring more techniques ; such additions should be justified on the basis of a definitely felt need for better methods of exploring psychodynamics . It was also emphasized that single courses for the teaching of specific techniques should not be encouraged , although a specific technique might be emphasized in a given course . Single courses presenting various techniques and varying theoretical viewpoints were recommended . These suggestions for avoiding the indefinite multiplication of courses seem to point up the principle stated earlier in this chapter : that the clinical core in the training program should be oriented around theory and general principles so that acquisition of new techniques comes as a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ also imposes on the instructor the responsibility of viewing his task as one that requires the highlighting of basic principles rather than overly meticulous attention to the innumerable details in which each technique is embedded . Other sections of this report have emphasized certain principles of curriculum organization that need only be mentioned here . For one thing , emphasis should be placed on prevention as well as on detection and treatment . Also , in line with many previous suggestions , the Conference accepted the principle that well qualified members of other professions should be included wherever possible in the academic as well as in the field-training programs in order to bring about greater integration among the members of the mental health team . Students in clinical psychology should also have some opportunity for training in situations where they have close contacts with students in the other disciplines . It is also the responsibility of the university to provide sufficient instruction and practice in clinical methods to free the clinical agency from the necessity for basic didactic teaching . There also seemed to be widespread acceptanc  | of the statement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is adequate individual supervision . GENERAL REVIEW OF THE 1947 Report of the Committee on Training in Clinical Psychology Toward the close of the Conference and after most of the specific topics directly related to the training program had been discussed , one afternoon was set aside for examination of the recommendations of the 1947 Report of the Committee on Training in Clinical Psychology . The general conclusions of that discussion are included here both as a summary of material presented in this and the previous chapter and as an introduction to the chapters that follow immediately . ( The 1947 Report of the Committee on Training is to be found in the Appendix . ) Three alternatives were open to the Conference in reviewing the 1947 Report : it could ( 1 ) endorse the curriculum provisions , ( 2 ) replace these provisions with a new and specific set , or ( 3 ) specify modifications . Each of the sub-groups apparently arrived at the same conclusion that " We should endorse the report and recommend its review together with a number of comments . " The following topic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Undergraduate Core Curriculum . Departments must require specific undergraduate programs or face the possibility of having to extend the graduate program beyond the present four-year span . ( It should be noted that one special committee suggested that the graduate program should be defined in terms of four calendar years rather than four academic years , since most Ph.D . ' s now completing their training are actually spending the equivalent of four or more calendar years . ) Such specification of undergraduate training content is not inconsistent with a broad arts and science education . Students should have a " minimal major " in psychology at the undergraduate level . Training in related fields rather than a premature concentration in Psychology provides a suitable undergraduate background . If information on departmental graduate entrance requirements were disseminated to students and under-  | graduate advisors , the present confusion would be reduced . Technique courses should not be moved down to the undergraduate level as an expedient solution to the problem of time pressure . General Psychology . The general psychology section of the curriculum should be described in terms of fields @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The word " course " suggests a detail and explicitness beyond that intended by the Committee on Training . This comment applies throughout the present report . Competence in the various areas of general psychology can be insured either by course requirements or by examination . Each university will have to work out its own particular course and scheduling structure in terms of the local situation . Psychodynamics . It was agreed that the areas suggested under this heading should all be included in training , but it was also recognized that the classification system employed in this connection by the Committee on Training was but one of many possible systems . Most departments now offer courses which , under various headings , cover a substantial portion of the suggested topics ( e.g. " personality , " " abnormal psychology , " " mental hygiene " ) . Experimental dynamic psychology might be a major exception . Here , however , the discussion brought out an important function of the Committee , that of stimulating improvements and research in the field . If the Committee is to be anything more than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ keep at least a few steps ahead and stimulate universities to new experimentation where local conditions and staff permit . Several institutions have reported favorably on their experiences with newly organized courses in experimental dynamic psychology . Diagnostic Methods . The following passage is quoted from one sub-group 's report : The currently increasing emphasis on and proliferation of discrete technique courses in place of an integrated stress on clinical methods both harms and encumbers training . Such proliferation also tempts us into extending the length of graduate training programs beyond their present span . Anxieties concerning the adequacy of the staff 's  | own preparation as clinicians and an overpaternalistic attitude toward students provide additional pressures in this direction . Just as standard movie scenarios imply that marriage ends the story , we seem to give the impression that the Ph.D . will terminate the student 's intellectual growth . We act as though the student could not learn without our detailed supervision . And this in the face of our confused doubts concerning the validity of what we are doing ! Let 's have a little more faith in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all , a carefully selected group . The development of explicit post-doctoral training programs will probably be helpful to prospective specialists and anxiety-reducing for instructors . Nonetheless , realism demands the planning of basic programs which can be contained within four years . Departments should be encouraged to review and revise their curricula in order to reduce overlap and to increase efficiency through greater integration ( e.g. cooperative courses , pro-seminars ) . A time limit on graduate training has value in that it forces such house-cleaning . Related Disciplines . Busy students may not be able to meet the extensive prerequisites for standard courses such as anatomy , chemistry , and the like . We urge the development of courses or learning experiences in such areas , specially designed for psychologists , as a means of attacking this problem . Research Methods . The importance of pre-dissertation research or preparation and training was reaffirmed . Universities must give some thought and effort to dissertation formulation during the second graduate year if the student is to make dissertation research ui effective part of his internship . This demands realistic collaboration with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The Committee 's suggestions for first- and second-year-level functions seem to be well on the way to general adoption as a working plan . The situation with regard to thirdiuid fourth-year-level functions will improve as the program for the first two years is clarified , because the time spent in field facilities during that period will be reduced . There is a necessity for flexbility in programs for the third and fourth year because of differences among students and among universities . The importance of  | reasoned deviations from standard practice rather than deviations based on expediency or rationalization after the fact was stressed . The universities must think through their own programs in the light of their needs and assets and act accordingly . Otherwise , the curriculum provisions of the 1947 Report , or any other report of that kind , can not apply to the unique problems facing each training university .  | Training for Research Perhaps the most challenging issue debated at the Conference concerned the role of research in the training of the clinical psychologist . Neither tradition nor the definition of " clinical psychology @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ many different fields , from research planning to fulltime psychotherapeutic treatment . Major emphasis in the past ( as well as in the present ) has varied from producing a statistically sophisticated theorist to preparing a service-oriented practitioner . Despite the broad outlines of the 1947 Report of the APA Corninittee on Training in Clinical Psychology , training institutions have never had , until the present Conference , an opportunity to reach an ; iccord on the goals of training in clinical psychology . The decision of the Conference to recommend the training of the clinical psychologist for research and practice , with equal emphasis on both , is likely to chart major policies in training institutions for some time to come . This was not a compromise to resolve a dilemma , although it was apparent from the beginning of the Conference that there existed two divergent opinions . A few participants were strongly in favor of concentrating exclusively on training for service . For them , insistence upon research training seemed to dilute and weaken the necessary training for competence iii diagnosis and treatment . Some other participants were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time spent on applied diagnostics and therapy . To this second group , the effectiveness of clinical psychologists as service workers is still a matter of conjecture . Perhaps we have been able to diagnose and treat and receive recognition for these accomplishments : but on what basis  | and with what results ? Faute de mieux ? For this latter group , more science and more training in research were seen as the best answers to our present inadequacies . Both groups pointed to possible difficulties in training the same person in two different roles : as researcher and as clinician . In the face of such an apparent split , reconciliation was surprisingly rapid and almost unanimous . This was even more surprising in view of the risks involved in deciding to train students in both areas . Training of properly selected persons in one or the other area is known to be quite feasible . Combining the two is an almost unique experiment in professional training . Reasons for Preparing Students in Both Service and Research . The resolution of the opposing points of view seemed to depend @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it was agreed , should receive training in both research and practice in order to develop interest and background in both areas . Following completion of training , some persons might well continue to be active in both areas ; others might concentrate on one . 2 . The manifest lack of dependable knowledge in clinical psychology and personality demands that research be considered a vital part of the field of clinical psychology . Participants at the Conference displayed considerable humility with respect to confidence in present techniques . 3 . There is little evidence to show that interest and competence in both areas are unlikely to occur in the same person . There is considerable evidence that certain individuals are capable of both . With the number of applicants far in excess of our training facilities , selection can be aimed at students capable of being trained in the double role . 4 . Effectively performed service functions provide an avenue for bringing psychologists into intimate contact with the significant problems of research . 5 . Effectively performed service functions have provided in the past , and probably will provide @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ psychology and psychiatry will obtain much-  | needed financial support for the initiation and continuation of research projects . Competence in service does not insure competence in research , but recognized competence in service is likely to provide support for research as a means of obtaining better answers to current problems . That the Conference reached rather clear-cut agreement on the need for training in a double role should not be interpreted as a complete resolution of all issues involved . Leading members of the profession are strongly identified with one or other point of view . Certain universities strongly emphasize one area to the relative neglect of the other . Not all students are equally capable in both areas , nor can all interests be channeled along both approaches . Perhaps the most significant and far-reaching aspects of the decision to train students in both realms are the implications for the formal definition of clinical psychology as a professional field of endeavor . The door is left open for persons of varying interests and aptitudes . Freedom of choice within a larger occupational area is possible . Specialization by a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ produce narrowness of thinking and rigidity of action . When , however , persons within the same general field specialize in different aspects , as inevitably happens , crossfertilization and breadth of approach are likely to characterize such .1 profession . Whether the four-year doctoral training program , which emphasizes both research and service , will achieve the desired result is a question to be settled by the future . The Conference was learly unwilling to see clinical psychology defined exclusively in terms of either research or service alone . Motivation for Research . If training programs in clinical psyIrology are to produce the desired research viewpoint and competence , special educational efforts will be necessary . Many if not a rrrajority of present-day graduate students in clinical psychology are . rttracted by the opportunities for professional application . It was generally reported at the Conference that students in clinical psychology experience much more difficulty with doctoral and other research than those in other degree programs . There is considerable dread of becoming committed to a lengthy thesis problem . Students  | lack confidence in their abilities to do research , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ noncontributory , timeserving requirement . The educational task faced by psychology departments seems to be one of stimulating interest in research without stifling or frustrating the student 's spontaneous interest in problems of personality diagnosis and therapy . The Conference felt that the task is one that requires a frank facing of the motivational problems rather than a forcing of students into compliance . A general report from the four groups that discussed research listed the following methods whereby research can be made more meaningful to the graduate student : 1 . An active research program within the department , especially in personality and clinical problems . 2 . Association with able and stimulating research workers . 3 . Research activity by the student early in his graduate program , and continuation of at least minor research problems throughout his training period . 4 . Joint research seminars in which both clinical and nonclinical teachers and students participate . Such seminars could , at least in part , be devoted to thesis and dissertation problems at their conception and during various later stages of their development . 5 . The introduction @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in experimental and statistical methods . 6 . Group research upon clinical problems . Two topics from the above list need special consideration and are therefore discussed below : No. 3 , above , refers in part to the Master 's degree ; No. 6 , group research , represents an unresolved issue that will probably receive much discussion for years to come . Research and the Master 's Degree . Although the problem of training at levels below the doctorate is more fully discussed in Chapter 4 , it should be noted here that the Master 's degree in psychology has been a device for initiating graduate students into at least semi-independent research activity . Following the second World War , many institutions dispensed with this degree in the training of clinical psychologists for the Ph.D . degree . It was recognized that those persons with the doctoral degree had little  | need for an M.A. after their name . When supervisory staffs were overworked , elimination of the M.A. thesis reduced some of the burden . It was hoped , moreover , that abandonment of the M.A. degree would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the above-mentioned pressures are still in operation . Yet , as reported by various participants at the Conference , the M.A. degree is still awarded to doctoral candidates in a number of institutions , largely because of the training values of thesis research . In some centers , that degree has also been used as a means of providing the student whose training is cut short , voluntarily or otherwise , with some tangible evidence of one or two years spent in graduate study . Furthermore , the student 's success in an early research problem is often thought to be predictive of later proficiency in research . Thus the M.A. degree is often used as a basis of selection for advanced graduate work . While no effort was made at the Conference to encourage the reinstatement of the M.A. degree , there was very general agreement that a research project comparable to the usual M.A. thesis was a desirable introduction to the research required for the Ph.D . dissertation . The awarding of the M.A. for such research was felt to be a matter for decision by the training institution @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ extremely desirable , not only as preparation for later research , but also as a means of removing some of the fears and misconceptions that students are likely to develop when they have had no personal experience with such mysteries . A resolution on this point reads as follows : Because research competence is acquired largely by doing research , orientation to research problems should be continuous throughout the graduate program ; and , possibly , one or two minor research problems should be done by the student in preparation for the dissertation as the culminating evidence of research competence . The purpose of discussing the M.A. degree in this section is to emphasize that the Conference regarded the research aspect of such ; i degree as important . The Ph.D . dissertation should be neither the first nor the last research ! The actual awarding of the M.A. degree  | and the vocational implications of the degree itself , so far as clinical psychology is concerned , are matters that involve many more problems than provision for early development of interest in research investigations . Group Research . There was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the training of clinical psychologists . Efforts were devoted , however , to discovering methods of improving motivation and encouraging more effective research among graduate students . It is well recognized that most problems in clinical psychology and normal and abnormal personality are extremely time-consuming if collection of data from clinical subjects is involved . Cooperative activity reduces the time consumed in this phase , and also , as a means of increasing the significance of research , tends to arouse more interest by social facilitation . On the negative side , the difficulty in assessing the actual contribution of an individual student in a group project was recognized and accepted as a fact . On the positive side , group research seems to be generally accepted by the profession at large as a means of improving the quality of work accomplished and of bringing several points of view to bear on complex questions . Therefore , it was asked , should we not be training students to meet the actual demands of post-doctoral research rather than clinging to a tradition of a single " independent " contribution as evidence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reached on this topic despite the considerable amount of time devoted to it . In general , there was a willingness to consider cooperative dissertations that showed clear evidence of each student 's independence in formulating , designing , executing , and interpreting his share of the project . The following resolution was generally approved , with a small minority indicating some disagreement : Group research is a desirable and practical medium for the execution of the doctoral dissertation provided there is a part of the research for which each student has assumed particular responsibility , which he can in all accuracy call his own , and which he is prepared to defend as his independent work .  | Research Skills in Clinical Psychology . What special skills in research are most likely to produce results that will overcome tendencies toward academic , sterile , and unimaginative investigations ? This question can not , of course , be answered by listing a set of rules for insuring productive and significant research . Sophistication in research methodology does not necessarily insure that significant ideas will be developed and expanded . Yet the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ help in the training of clinical students . None of the research skills mentioned in the following rules are particularly new . A different group of psychologists might well extend the list : 1 . Students should be trained to make relevant analyses of clinical phenomena in order that fruitful concepts and hypotheses may be developed . New ideas , or insightful rearrangement of old hypotheses , are badly needed in the psychology of normal and abnormal personality . In an empirical science , observation and analysis still remain the most important tools for understanding what problems are in need of further investigation and what answers re likely to be permitted by the facts observed . Clinical phenomena . re probably no more abstract than those in other fields of psyliology , but the methods and concepts applicable to specialized research areas may not be immediately applicable to the clinical field . Training in relevant analysis presupposes an intimate acgiiaintance with clinical phenomena and the ability to separate preconceptions and inferences from observations . Intensive studies of individual cases might well reveal the significant variables required for an adequate scientific account @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ individual case study as a legitimate research for an advanced degree has been debated for a number of years . One can not , however , question the , use study as a means for making intimate observations , for getting " close to the data , " for securing " clinical phenomena " that demand explanations , and for making dramatically evident our present lack lii understanding . Relevant analysis may be seen by the student as an intrinsically interesting kind of clinical activity , and may stimulate an intellectual demand for order and explanation .  | 2 . Students should be trained in the careful definition of concepts as a check upon the " intuitive " judgments often required in such practical situations as staff meetings and clinical reports . Psychologists have long recognized the pitfalls of hazy definition and semantic confusion . Operationism as a tool for examining some of the esoteric language of psychology has received increasing attention . Too often , however , clinical psychologists have been trained in rigorous thinking about nonclinical subject matter , and clinical problems have been dismissed as lacking in " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have been unable to bridge the gap between their formal training in scientific thinking on the one hand and the demands of practice on the other . As time passes and their skills become more satisfying to themselves and to others , the task of thinking systematically and impartially becomes more difficult . Such compartmentalization of thinking could to some degree be avoided by a training program which frankly recognizes that , much of the time , thinking in a practical , clinical setting requires suspension of highly critical , analytical concern over constructs , especially where immediate problems of human welfare are involved . The clinical psychologist ordinarily functions in a social setting in which abstract ideas can not be debated at all times , but where practical decisions must be reached by a number of persons with differing backgrounds and skills . Realization of the need for adaptability should , in the long run , free the clinical psychologist from feelings of guilt over the " unscientific " demands of clinical reality , if at the same time he has had opportunity to learn how to analyze personality concepts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be overindoctrination in the scientific attitude . There can be an illusory oversimplification of the problems faced by the clinical psychologist who is also a scientist . 3 . Students need training in the explicit formulation of research problems and in the design of appropriate investigations in the field of personality and clinical problems . Research training for " rat " psychology is probably most efficiently accomplished by lengthy exposure to problems in which rats are the objects of observation  | and discussion . No one can deny the likelihood that some transfer of training to other fields takes place . Nonetheless , the problems of human beings may demand approaches other than those used in studying the lower animals . If rigorous thinking can produce good research in animal psychology , equally rigorous thinking should be possible where humans are concerned . Proper methodology and crucial issues in the field of personality may be more difficult to establish and define ; the problems faced by one field of science are rarely if ever solved by a simple carry-over of techniques and concepts from another field . 4 . Students need @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ much statistics ? " turned out to be a question akin to " How much science ? " It was recognized that simple formulations of problems were often more important to clinical psychology than involved statistical analyses that demonstrate competence in statistics but show little insight into psychology . One can accept the truism that psychology is not mathematics and still recognize that mathematics can be useful to psychologists . Statistical terms and concepts form a good part of the language of present-day psychological research . From the standpoint of meeting future demands , today 's students in clinical psychology will need more than one course in this subject in order to have sufficient proficiency to master new statistical techniques on their own . In addition to the fact that statistics is useful as a tool for research analysis , statistical proficiency is often involved in the services expected of clinical psychologists in a clinical setting . In the mental hygiene team , the psychologist is often the only person with training in both research design and statistics . Administrative research , which seeks to find answers to problems of practical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ should be undertaken , also demands such skills . It is obvious that no agreement can be reached on the length of time or the number of courses to be required in statistics . At various times , suggestions were made that the requirement should include " more than one course " or " a second graduate year . " The real issue relates to competence in a subject-matter area and not the  | number of credit hours on the transcript . Statistics is one of the few relatively well organized areas in psychology in which competence of any degree can be measured rather objectively . The optimal degree of competence in statistics for clinical psychologists is probably a meaningless question in view of the varied goals for which students are preparing . A minimal degree of competence should not be too difficult to define in terms of the ultimate goal of preparing all students for research as well as practice . 5 . Students need the ability to present research findings in writing in such a way as to achieve effective communication both with psychologists and with other interested professional @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ participants that this need has not , as yet , been met . THE DOCTORAL DISSERTATION Research competence is acquired only by doing research . With this point of view in mind , the dissertation may be conceived of as the prime instrument in the research training of the student in clinical psychology . In this regard , the dissertation has special merits in that it presumably is independently formulated , executed , interpreted , and defended by the student . However , certain possible weaknesses as a medium of research training are often apparent in the typical doctoral dissertation . It is usually a research task of formidable proportions designed in accordance with the most rigorous methodological standards , for which the student is often ill-prepared . Its execution is often attended by considerable anxiety , and the net result may be an extinction rather than a reinforcement of research drive . Step by step procedures may also be dictated by the adviser , in which case one wonders about the training values derived . There is also grave danger that the multiplication of requirements , particularly in the technique @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the dissertation . Earlier sections of this chapter have dealt with methods for increasing the student 's interest in research in the university setting .  | The allied problem of determining topics suitable for dissertation work can not be settled by a conference , since the ultimate validity of any study is dependent upon the research itself . General policies in regard to the possible limitation of dissertation topics were , however , discussed , with rather general agreement being reached on one question and considerable caution being displayed in regard to another . There was unanimous agreement that clinical students should not be dictated to as regards the area of dissertation research ? they should be free to choose any field of psychology . As a means of increasing the store of knowledge useful to clinical psychology , however , it was recommended that students be encouraged to tackle problems in the field of personality . If topics are chosen in other areas , advisers and departments should satisfy themselves that such topics are selected because of their real interest to the student and not solely as a means @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ problem , which met with no opposition , reads as follows : The graduate student in clinical psychology may be permitted to do a dissertation in any field of psychology , but it is desirable and developmentally valuable for such research to be in the field of personality , broadly conceived . Considerable caution was voiced over the suitability of the study of a single case as a dissertation . The group dealing with dissertation problems reported as follows : There is considerable doubt that a single case study , however carefully conceived and brilliantly executed , could satisfy the current requirements of a doctoral dissertation . However , this question deserves further study before a categorical denial of the suitability of this form of research enterprise is made . W hen the Conference discussed this topic in a general session , the usual arguments pro and con found in the literature were presented . 111 essence , these seem to boil down to the following predicament : st.ttistically reliable prediction may be obtained in analyzing the  | data from a single case if appropriate variables are selected ; but how @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ without testing them on at least one other person ? An objection was also raised in regard to current tendencies to explore tests , such as the Rorschach or Wechsler-Bellevue , to the detriment of exploring personality . Too frequently , it was stated , students select a question in regard to personality functioning and then apply as measures two or three of the tests that are currently popular . Greater contributions might be expected if investigations were based upon suitable methodology designed for the problem at hand . When should the dissertation be undertaken ? There is little doubt that the doctoral research will continue to be the closing phase of graduate work . Yet past experience testifies to the frequency with which dissertation plans are limited , to the detriment of the research problem , because the student has too long delayed active preparation for his study . In other cases , students may waste time up to months or even years because they fail to find a suitable topic following completion of the internship or the comprehensive examinations . The obvious solution seems to lie in an earlier @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a suitable design fairly early in graduate work , probably no later than the beginning of the third year . With this in mind , the following proposition was submitted to the Conference . The department should require early the tentative selection by the student of a research or thesis problem for which an adviser or advisory committee is appointed to give continuous advice and to follow up on the student 's progress . More than half of the participants were quite in favor of the resolution , but a sizeable minority expressed some disagreement . Objections were not directed at the principle of the resolution but were apparently due to questions of practicability and experience . The crowded curriculum allows little time for the student to plan the work required by a dissertation while he is also under pressure from course work or from an internship . Much of the maturing of  | the student 's interest and training takes place during the second and third years . The internship , if taken during the third year , may provide research ideas that would not have been contemplated if a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , research that actually makes a contribution is not the type of creative activity that follows a set time schedule . As an addendum to the last point , it was felt by some that certain students can be expected to select topics and plan designs early in graduate work , while others would fail to find topics until late in the training program . In summary , the majority of participants approved the early selection of a dissertation problem . No one seriously disagreed with the general principle . A minority did object to the requiring of early topic selection , largely on the grounds that creative research demands maturity and insight , neither of which necessarily develops " early " in a graduate career . Improving the Quality of Doctoral Research . There was obvious agreement throughout the Conference on the need for improving the quality of dissertations in clinical psychology . One way of accomplishing such an improvement lies in enlisting the support of psychologists , not necessarily in the clinical area , who are particularly competent in research analysis . This desire was embodied in the following @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the department should draw upon its full resources , particularly those staff members from the area of experimental psychology or those who have had the most experience in research and thesis supervision . There was almost unanimous approval of this resolution . In discussion , a possible objection was voiced in the likelihood that persons unfamiliar with the problems of clinical research may apply unduly restrictive standards and discourage the student who is exploring a new area in which experimental niceties may not always be feasible . One can hardly quarrel with the need for fresh research in clinical psychology , and it is always possible that staff members in any area will fail to grasp the significance of many dissertations in embryo . Granting the above , it still was the opinion  | of the Conference that nonclinicians should be drawn into clinical research whenever possible . Another proposition aimed at improving dissertations was generally approved . It read : Both the objectives of the integration of knowledge and skills and of inculcation of research motivation and competence may be approached more effectively through the provision of : ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ research supervision , to allow much personal contact with graduate students and ( 2 ) Sufficient space or other facilities to promote intra-studentgroup stimulation and criticism for the purpose of maturation and intellectual growth . Creative research that embodies the scientific attitude rarely occurs in a desert . There seems to be no satisfactory substitute for personal interaction between student and student , and between students and instructors . The rapid growth of all institutions of higher learning following the second World War has increased the student-staff ratio and has also forced most departments into less and less satisfactory working quarters . At the graduate level where scholarship and research supposedly find their most fertile setting , the postwar deterioration in staff-student ratios and space assumes serious proportions . Undergraduate work in most universities has largely yielded to mass production methods . Technicians in psychology and most other sciences may be trained in the classroom . It is doubtful , however , whether many scientists of top quality can be expected to develop when provisions are not made for optimal personal interaction among students and faculty .  | Training for Psychotherapy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the mid-twentieth century is the generally accepted faith that psychological methods are available for the treatment of individuals with disordered personalities . This faith is in strong contrast to the conception of previous periods in history , which relied upon physiological or hereditary or religious explanations for mental disorder , and which held relatively little hope for accomplishing cures . Perhaps because of the undeniable successes in the physical and biological sciences rather than because of direct demonstration in the correction of maladjustment , modern society expects that those professionally competent in the field of interpersonal relations ? the . sychiatrist , the social worker , the psychologist are capable of Elective psychotherapy . Psychotherapy is , in the main , a valid and rr ially useful way of assisting people with personal problems . Yet lie present picture is not so optimistic as the layman apparently believes . The Need for Research . A sober assessment of present factual knowledge about psychotherapy inevitably points to the lack of rfinition in both theory and practice , the widely varying methods f training , the great differences in competence among persons cognized @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ currently assumed to be treatable by means of r.svchotherapy . A somewhat facetious assessment of the present it cation was given by one Conference participant who suggested , Psychotherapy is an undefined technique applied to unspecified ? roblems with unpredictable outcome . For this technique we recrrunend rigorous training . " Although humorous chagrin may be  | wholesome in reviewing the present status of the field , there is little humor in the manifest need for providing help to the large percentage of our population who could benefit by psychotherapeutic measures , inadequate though our present knowledge may be . With classic understatement , one sub-group reported : " The demands for psychotherapy exceed considerably the supply of competent persons . The opportunities for research are abundant . " When vast demand for a service is coupled with inadequate methods for satisfying the need , large numbers of self-styled experts grasp available opportunities and apply whatever techniques are at hand . Where problems of human welfare are involved , such irresponsible treatment must be condemned on ethical as well as practical grounds . In the last few years , clinical psychologists @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of all varieties . One of the most important questions faced by the Conference was the finding of adequate methods for training students in an area that offers so little scientific guidance , and that moreover inevitably involves the welfare and happiness of the persons being treated . Some truths can be expressed most briefly as platitudes . The following proposition was recognized as a platitude but one which , to a large extent , formed the keynote of the sessions devoted to psychotherapy . We recognize the need for vigorous research into the assumptions underlying training in psychotherapy and into the outcomes of therapeutic procedures . As could well have been predicted , the conclusions regarding psychotherapy apply but slightly to specific techniques of training and practice . Instead of seeking specific applications , therefore , the Conference concentrated upon evolving a sound statement of basic policy that might help to resolve many of the present conflicting issues and yet encourage independent thinking and research in the interest of both human welfare and scientific knowledge . Who should be trained for therapy ? So far as psychology is concerned , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ programs in clinical psychology should have training in the theory and practice of psychotherapy even though many will not become therapists . This training is viewed as only an introduction to psychotherapy ; true competence must depend upon supervised post-doctoral training . As in other matters relating to the question of uniformity , the Conference was practically unanimous in its policy of striving for a high level of training while at the same time exploiting the advantages to be gained by recognizing the reality of individual differences among students . There was little argument over the proposition that psychotherapy is only one specialty in the field of clinical psychology . Not all students are personally qualified or will wish to practice it . Nonetheless , training programs should uniformly include work in psychotherapy so that all clinical psychologists will have at least a general background in the problems and techniques of the field . That a general background must be supplemented by intensive experience under supervision was explicitly provided for iii the following statement : Except under unusual circumstances , it is expected that final competence in psychotherapy will be achieved @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ need for the development of better facilities than now exist for this more advanced kind of training . Although it might appear that postponement of proficiency in therapy beyond the doctorate was merely a confession of inadequate training methods , the reasoning behind the decision is somewhat more complex . The Conference was most insistent on the need to train clinical psychologists on a broad basis of both science and practice . A four-year period is insufficient to allow for thorough rounding in general psychology , research methodology , and diagostic procedures , as well as psychotherapy . There was no intention f devoting more time to the first three areas at the expense of treatment . Psychotherapy is a specialty involving risks and responsiilities ; it can not be trained for fully in one-fourth of a four-year iirriculum . Psychiatry , which has pioneered and to a large extent o wided whatever order there is in this field , requires a three-year  | residency beyond the medical internship ; in some psychoanalytic training centers a five-year period is required . The need for post-doctoral training in clinical psychology is not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ No graduate or professional school expects to turn out a finished researcher , an accomplished practitioner , or a mature professor at the commencement ceremony . That special emphasis should be given to training in therapy is due primarily to the responsibility for doing meaningful research in psychotherapy as well as to the responsibilities involved in its practice . Post-doctoral training in psychology in areas other than therapy can ordinarily be obtained with little risk to clients or patients . The general problem of providing for post-doctoral training on an organized basis is discussed in Chapter 17 . How should psychotherapy be taught ? In considering this question the Conference was forced to search for a working definition of psychotherapy . Agreement on a satisfactory definition has not yet been attained by workers in the field of psychotherapy . One participant reached the crux of many current issues in this statement : " Once psychotherapy is adequately defined and the psychological processes involved are understood , we can anticipate answers to the following questions : ( 1 ) who should practice psychotherapy ? ( 2 ) how should students be trained @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ definite statement about the therapeutic process , the group nonetheless agreed to the following proposition as a working definition . ( It was taken from the 1947 Report of the APA Committee on Training in Clinical Psychology . ) Psychotherapy is defined as a process involving interpersonal relationships between a therapist and one or more patients or clients by which the former employs psychological methods based on systematic knowledge of the human personality in attempting t improve the mental health of the latter . A number of eyebrows were raised at the clause " based or systematic knowledge of the human personality " ; but in a develop  | ing field of knowledge , pious hopes must sometimes fill gaps in acceptable theory . Such a working definition suggested a number of questions about areas of application . Is vocational counseling therapy ? Remedial education ? Speech correction ? Retraining of the physically handicapped ? In view of currently divergent definitions in the literature and in practice , there was surprisingly unanimous agreement that the basic principles of psychotherapy are probably applicable over the entire field of psychological disturbance and defect @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or defect presented , but the principles themselves should be fundamental in conception . Such a solution , of course , skirts the issues of whether persons engaged in vocational counseling or remedial reading should be qualified therapists in all areas and whether they should be called psychotherapists . Narrow concentration upon a particular kind of therapy or a particular kind of problem was generally disapproved , although again the realities of training situations were recognized . Since intensive training in therapy is reserved for post-doctoral experience , time alone precludes from the Ph.D . program the ( theoretically desirable ) acquaintance with all types of therapy and with all types of cases . Certain universities are in a position to concentrate on particular approaches and to have their students become highly experienced with a limited type of case . Since breadth was felt to be desirable , equal emphasis can be placed upon developing in doctoral students an appreciation for various therapeutic approaches , some competently supervised experience , and indoctrination in the ethical responsibilities of the practicing therapist . Conclusions in regard to general policies for training in psychotherapy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ applies to all training in clinical psychology : Integrated courses which reflect the basic principles of psychodynamics , supplemented by adequate and carefully supervised experience in the practical clinical situations , are preferable to a series of single , discrete technical courses .  | The practical implications of such a policy for training in therapy are readily apparent . The Conference disapproved of the frequent practice of offering course credits to students as a substitute for a carefully planned and organized program of training in therapy . Disapproved also was the practice of placing students in training agencies that engage in psychotherapy without previous attempts to expose the students to a series of supervised experiences , integrated with academic preparation . Qualifications of Supervisors . While an attempt was made to specify the qualifications necessary for supervisors of therapy , the practical problems faced by many of the training universities make it improbable that such specifications can be stated otherwise than in terms of general competence . Clinical psychologists with extensive training in psychotherapy and capable of teaching at the graduate level are not plentiful . Psychiatrists and psychiatric social workers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ possible . ( This policy , of course , forms part of the more general need to integrate the training of clinical psychologists , psychiatrists , and psychiatric social workers . ) That not all institutions are in a position to procure the services of competent personnel in other disciplines is a problem recognized by the other disciplines themselves . Thus the final recommendation in regard to such supervision can be stated only in terms of having supervisors who are themselves experienced in psychotherapy and are competent to train others . There seemed to be general agreement that the need for research in and systematization of psychotherapy is as important as the need for training for practice . The domain of theory was felt to exceed that of actual practice , particularly where critical examination , general principles , and research are concerned . Such a statement in no way implies that patients or clients should be treated by unskilled persons , nor does it relieve the university of the responsibility for providing competent supervisors of therapy . Self-Evaluation as Preparation for Psychotherapy . In some quarters a personal analysis or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ being an ethical issue . Requiring al ( ' '  | clinical psychology students to have personal therapy is related to the broader question of whether a therapist can be competent if he has not had therapy himself . On this score there were considerable differences expressed , differences that were largely recognized as opinion . Individual differences among students make such a generalization difficult to establish . The general consensus seemed to be that the effectiveness of personal therapy as a prerequisite for its practice has not as yet been demonstrated . The Conference was generally sympathetic toward the notion of personal therapy but felt that as a requirement for therapeutic services we have as yet too little evidence to require personal analyses in the doctoral training program . There was , however , considerable agreement that the entire training period should be utilized continuously as a means of developing self-awareness and self-evaluation . Experiences in selfevaluation can be made a part of training in the classroom as well as in supervised clinical work . Coursework in diagnosis may permit fewer opportunities for helping the student to examine his own @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ beginning of graduate work , should not be neglected . Ethics in Psychotherapy . One chapter ( Chapter 5 ) of this book is entirely devoted to the problem of professional ethics . Such problems loom largest , perhaps , where treatment is concerned . Ilere the Conference felt strongly that emphasis should be placed upon the following points : 1 . Clinical psychologists , as well as students in training , should be aware of their own skills and levels of competence , since adequate preparation in one approach or with one type of problem does not uccessarily signify competence in all areas of therapy . 2 . Recognition of one 's limitations is part of the therapist 's ethical obligations to a client or patient . 3 . Competence in therapy does not eliminate the need for oIlaboration with other specialists , but seems to intensify the rc ? , ilization of the need for referral and consultation when questions prrtinent to the patient 's welfare arise .  | 4 . Students should not be permitted to engage in unsupervised psychotherapy. 5 . Students should not be expected to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an obligation on the part of the , university or training agency to evaluate carefully the competence of each student at each level of training . 6 . The profession of clinical psychology has an ethical responsibility to the public to promote vigorous experimentation and research in various methods of psychotherapy as well as in training procedures for therapy . Relations with Other Professions . One of the most perplexing and difficult questions in regard to training clinical psychologists in psychotherapy relates to the problem of interprofessional relationships , particularly with psychiatry and psychiatric social work . Chapter 13 deals with the general problems of interprofessional relations . The Conference paid particular attention to Report No. 10 ( July , 1949 ) of the Group for the Advancement of Psychiatry , entitled " The Relation of Clinical Psychology to Psychiatry . " Several members were present from the Group for the Advancement of Psychiatry Committee as well as from the APA Committee on the Relation of Psychology to Psychiatry , which had met with its counterpart committee of the American Psychiatric Association . Both sources indicated that relations between the two @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ situations amicable working collaboration is in effect . However , many issues still remain as open questions , since the relative newness of clinical psychology as a profession has raised doubts of its adequacy in the clinical situation . There are even legal aspects , since the laws ( as well as the professions ) fail to define the limits of mental health or the methods of treatment that are controlled by law . Considerable confusion still remains on matters that call for definition . For example , the present Conference defined psychotherapy as applying to remedial work as well as to interview treatment of " sick " persons . The GAP Report No. 10 apparently differentiates between clinical psychology as a profession dealing with " counseling ,  | vocational guidance , and retraining " and as a profession related to psychiatry . Private practice of psychotherapy by clinical psychologists raises other problems . Licensing , with its associated responsibilities , now exists in only one state , Kentucky . Psychiatrists and other medical workers are frequently reluctant for a number of reasons to accept unlicensed clinical psychologists as psychotherapists ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the future , and the vital need in public and community agencies for a synchronized mental health team approach . Especially noticeable at the Conference was a very sizeable group that argued against clinical psychologists ' entering private practice . Their arguments were based on the need for post-doctoral training , especially in psychotherapy , the needs of agencies for clinical psychologists , and , finally , the difficulties in evaluating the competence of applicants for diplomate certification who have not spent several years in a recognized institution or agency . The issue of private practice is , of course , also related to the type of practice . Psychotherapy might be broadly defined to include all remediation , guidance , and treatment ; would the same objections as those listed above be raised against someone specializing in private remedial work or counseling ? Such questions will undoubtedly constitute one of the very important issues to be decided in the future . Fortunately , it is in only a few areas that such confusion persists . In medical settings there is no question about medical responsibility . In other settings @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the American Psychological Association at its Denver meeting in 1949 , probably best represents the majority view of the participants at Boulder : We are opposed to the practice of psychotherapy ( not to include remedial teaching , or vocational and educational counseling ) by psychologists that does not meet conditions of genuine collaboration with physicians most qualified to deal with the borderline problems which occur ( e.g. , differential diagnosis , intercurrent organic disease , psychosomatic problems ) .  | An alternate phrasing had been suggested in the GAP Report No. 10 , in which collaboration with psychiatrists was recommended . The Conference heartily endorsed the basic principles outlined in that report but felt that the term " psychiatric safeguards " was at present too ill-defined to permit broad application in matters of policy . Instead , the Conference preferred a policy based upon the competence of collaborating physicians , pointing out that many areas in the United States possess few if any psychiatrists . In certain types of work , such as work with behavior-problem children , the number of qualified psychiatrists is exceedingly small ; and pediatricians @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's difficulties . In essence there is little real difference among the conclusions reached . The GAP report , the APA Council action , and the conclusions arrived at by the Boulder Conference all emphasize the need for competence in relation to the ultimate goal of safeguarding the welfare of the individual client or patient . The apparent issue is an ethical one readily solved in principle . The underlying issues are vague matters of hesitating doubts and professional rivalries , which already seem to be well on the way to solution as the training of clinical psychologists undergoes steady improvement . Illustrative of such trends is the report of an informal survey made by one sub-group at the Conference : In order to provide a basis for defining appropriate areas and determining the extent of activities of psychologists in psychotherapy , the sub-group attempted a survey of current practices as noted by members of the group . The following conditions were noted : a ) With respect to types of patients treated by psychologists , the range is from persons with simple problems of adjustment to persons with major personality @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ With respect to medical liaison , the range in practice is great . In some situations , psychologists are permitted to do therapy only under closest psychiatric supervision . In other situations , psycholologists are doing psychotherapy independently , in liaison with physicians . In V.A . and state hospital internships , psychiatric supervision is the rule .  | c ) With respect to training , there appears to be an increasing willingness on the part of psychiatrists to assist in the training of psychologists as therapists , provided adequate safeguards are established . d ) With respect to attitudes of psychiatrists toward psychologists doing therapy , the range is from complete opposition to sympathetic support and active participation in supervision and training . In general , the trend appears to be toward the latter position .  | Field Training A lengthy period of closely supervised , practical experience in the clinical situation has long been a recognized part of the training of the clinical psychologist . A decade ago , when formal training in clinical work was poorly organized , students were frequently advised to " take a year off @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ completing the Ph.D . degree . Since the war , progress has been made in placing such training on a more formal basis , in which emphasis is placed upon utilizing the so-called " internship period " as a genuine training experience in which the student is offered a wide variety of experience rich in clinical material . Supervision by a well-trained clinical psychologist is generally accepted as a sine qua non . In many instances small salaries are paid for assistance rendered , and efforts are made to avoid exploitation in order that full advantage may be taken of the opportunities for training . Types of Field Work . The Conference recognized a need to clarify the terms used to describe the various forms of psychological field work ( or practicum ) experiences . Three levels of experience are recognized by the APA Committee on Training in Clinical Psychology ? laboratory experience , clerkships , and internships . Only the last two forms of experience can legitimately be considered acceptable field experience . These experiences are all part of a continuum of developing responsibility and skill . Yet each type @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as a discrete step in an integrated training program . The major objective for each step in field work training is described below :  | A. The laboratory experience serves the purpose of developing skills in a laboratory or pre-field-work setting for the primary purpose of developing a refinement in the use of basic tools and techniques . This should include practice in the role of participant observer as a first step in the teaching of the clinical attitude . Such experience , even though sometimes undertaken outside the university , is not for the purpose of teaching to the level of professional competence and responsibility . B. The clerkship experience serves the following purposes : 1 . Developing a feeling of responsibility for the client and a sensitivity to the clinician-client relationship . 2 . Developing of minimal competence in the use of psychological techniques in a clinical setting . 3 . Familiarization of students with a wider range of techniques . 4 . Teaching of the nature and meaning of service . 5 . Beginning of integration of university course content with the clinical viewpoint and with procedures in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to clinical problems ; learning to cooperate with colleagues of other disciplines . 7 . Applying professional ethics . 8 . Learning to communicate by the writing of case reports for clinical use . 9 . Providing a wide range of clinical contacts at a relatively superficial level through a variety of clerkships . C. The internship appears to be differentiated from the above in the following respects : 1 . Supplying intensive and long-term clinical experience ( especially through close follow-up of clinical courses ) . 2 . Developing a degree of professional competence at a level comparable to that of junior staff member . 3 . Providing intimate contact with clinical problems in which  | the interne 's activities have a bearing on the handling and disposition of a case . 4 . Developing responsibility in the management of a case through semi-independent handling of psychological examination and treatment . 5 . Developing confidence in operating in a service setting , particularly in the matter of assuming responsibility . 6 . Establishing close working relationships with trainees and staff members of other professions by working intensively as a member @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the interdisciplinary approach to clinical problems . 7 . Intensive training in the techniques of communicating clinical information to colleagues on the clinical team . 8 . Imbuing the student with the spirit and values of the field institution . 9 . A primary purpose of the internship is to provide a learning experience for the interne in a setting in which he contributes to service because competent and essential provision of service is one of the best contexts in which to learn . Terminology of Field Work . One of the most persistent problems encountered at the Conference was the lack of agreement on terms used to denote particular kinds of field experience . The term " clerkship " has found little general acceptance as yet in clinical psychology , although it is in common use in medical schools . Most of the current confusion seems to arise over the word " internship , " which at present is used to cover a variety of different types of experiences . In the V.A . cooperative training program , for example , some trainees spend up to half time on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as graduate students . Although their actual experiences during the first year are likely to be similar to those defined above under " Laboratory " and " Clerkship Training , " the assignments are frequently referred to as " internships . " In other instances , students may spend only half time in internship training  | during their third and fourth graduate years , the other half being devoted to completion of university requirements . To complicate matters , outside of psychology the word " internship " is most frequently encountered in medical training , although it is occasionally used to describe periods of practical training under supervision in non-medical areas , such as a year 's " internship in a government agency " for students expecting to enter governmental employ . In its medical usage , however , it always applies to a period following the standard four years of medical school and usually comes after the awarding of the M.D. degree . Thus in some training hospitals , first- or second-year graduate students in clinical psychology as well as second-year post-doctoral M.D. 's are referred to as " interns @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ practice in clinical psychology be altered to conform to the medical usage . These participants also asked that a fifth year of required training be instituted , similar to that in medical programs , this fifth year being a formal internship following the awarding of the Ph.D . degree . While this motion received little support ( most participants insisting upon the need for a pre-doctoral year of intensive experience and expressing a reluctance to extend the formal training beyond four years at the present time ) , there seemed to be a general consensus that the term " internship " was unfortunate and should not be applied to pre-doctoral training . Therefore , the following resolution was submitted and approved by about two-thirds of those present ; a sizeable minority was in c iisagreement . The term " practicum " should be used to designate pre-doctoral experience in clinical work on problems of actual clients or patients carried on under close and qualified professional supervision . Clinical work in a practicum should be done only after sufficient course and laboratory training has been given in clinical theory and methods to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the student is qualified for practicum work . The term " practicum " should be used to cover what has commonly been called " clerkship " and " internship. "  | The objections of the minority have considerable cogency . The word " practicum " in university parlance commonly designates any course that offers actual practice , even though it be carried out under laboratory conditions . Second , the minority argued that the word , in addition to being awkward , lacks sufficient meaning to cover the very intensive year 's training in which the student , though under supervision , is nevertheless given considerable latitude in his work , and is hardly operating under " practice " conditions . There was apparently little objection to eliminating the term " internship , " but rather a strong minority objection to assigning arbitrary definitions to words . In summarizing the present situation , it would seem that the argument over the word " internship " is a matter for broader consideration and should be referred to whatever committee is designated by the American Psychological Association for arriving at suitable definitions of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ disliked the present use of the word " internship " and preferred to substitute " practicum . " The objections of the minority indicated that strenuous disagreement is likely to arise on the grounds of general awkwardness , corruption of a now welldefined term , and general unsuitability . Standards for Field Training . In the formulation and establishment of standards for the most suitable types of field experience , clinical psychology encounters one of its more pressing practical problems . Other professions have made considerable progress in this direction . In social work and psychiatric nursing , the training university and the institution or agency enter into a contract covering , in considerable detail , the types of training the agency will supply and the responsibilities of university and agency in the supervisory program . Post-doctoral medical internships are usually not supervised by the training medical school , but certain hospitals are certified by the American Medical Association as being suitable for such advanced training . In clinical psychology , the very recency of formalized , intensive field work has precluded the establishment of generally-agreed-upon field work conditions . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ universities plunged into the rapid establishment of programs in cooperating agencies and institutions . There has been a wholesale invasion of hospitals , public welfare institutions , clinics , and social agencies ? in fact , all places where clinical material suitable for training students can be found . Institutions and agencies have generally been very cooperative in such undertakings despite the lack , in some instances , of immediate return for staff time and effort expended . In spite . of the very general cooperation experienced by the universities , shortages of trained supervisory personnel in field work centers have often made placements a difficult problem . Even when budgets have permitted the employment of clinical psychologists by a hospital or agency , the positions have.often gone unfilled because of the lack of applicants . As a result students have frequently been assigned to clinical field work without . adequate supervision by members of their own profession . In still other agencies , a similar shortage of psychiatrists , psychiatric social workers , and nurses has existed , and suitable experiences with other members of the mental health team have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ confused situation from deteriorating and reducing the quality of training in clinical psychology , the Boulder Conference recommended that : Since there is an immediate need for standards for internship agencies , we recommend that the American Psychological Association take steps to study the problem and to set up standards and procedures for evaluating internship training centers . It is obvious that this is a task which the individual universities can not and should not undertake. * Problems in Accrediting Field Work Agencies . There is little doubt that any committee engaged in establishing standards and in certifying agencies will have a difficult time . Completion of this task is probably a number of years in the future . In addition to the fact Footnote  | that it has never been done before in clinical psychology , so that considerable pioneering will be necessary to set up procedures , there also seems to be a difference of opinion on what kind of field training experiences are most desirable . Although the Committee on Training in Clinical Psychology 's report on recommended standards for educational programs in clinical psychology was aimed , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ high standards of doctoral training , and although this report did not attempt to establish standards for practicum training , it did emphasize the kind of training that may be given by well staffed psychiatric agencies whose chief purposes are research and training . This emphasis was due to the fact that such centers were better equipped at that time to give adequate supervision . Well staffed psychiatric centers are not found throughout the country ; furthermore all members of the Conference did not feel that such a center always provided the range of training deemed necessary in the programs of clinical psychology students . The greatest difference of opinion seemed to occur over the final goals of training in clinical psychology . There was frequent but not unanimous agreement that clinical psychologists need not always work or even be trained entirely in a medical or psychiatric setting . Clinical practice with relatively " normal " individuals , in perhaps a school or university program , was stoutly defended as a legitimate type of employment . To be sure , medical or psychiatric collaboration was felt to be of great importance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with need not always be " sick " persons . This group argued strongly that field work entirely limited to a psychiatric setting is not necessarily the best type of preparation for work with normal people . Too often , long experience with abnormal patients results in an oversensitization to abnormality and an undersensitivity to the real problems encountered by the relatively normal person . In the original wording of a proposition relating to standards for field training , there was reference to " close and continuous supervision by clinical psychologists , psychiatrists , and social workers " throughout the " internship " period . Following debate lasting over several days , a relatively satisfactory agreement was reached in re-  | gard to the need for internship experience in a psychiatric setting . The following proposition was approved 60 to 10 during the last days of the Conference : It is the responsibility of the Department of Psychology to make for each student a substantial field placement in an agency in which adequate supervision is provided and in which the staff consists of qualified clinical psychologists , psychiatrists , and social @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is , was not defined . There is no doubt , however , that the spirit of the resolution recognizes the importance of an " internship " experience in a psychiatric setting where intensive experience with the psychiatrically " sick " can be obtained . Even those students planning work primarily in educational or vocational settings presumably can not be excused from obtaining such experiences , even though another " substantial " portion of their field work is spent in school , vocational , or counseling settings . Despite the clear-cut acknowledgment of the necessity for close supervision during the " internship " period , opinion was divided over the necessity for intensive supervision during all field work at the expense of limiting the student 's acquaintance with clinical material . The following resolution found some agreement among forty of the participants , but was objected to by twenty-one : The choice of practicum agencies should be made primarily on the basis of the quality and amount of supervision available and secondarily on the basis of kinds of clinical experience . The objections raised were certainly not directed against the principle @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ need to restrict students during clerkships to well-qualified practicum agencies . Concretely , it was asked , should a student be kept from spending time in an institution for the mentally deficient if he has no opportunity for such contacts elsewhere ? Most institutions of that sort employ few psychologists , few qualified psychiatrists , and fewer social workers . Perhaps the institution and the university can provide only a bare minimum of supervision ; but it was felt by some that  | the opportunities for such experience should not be neglected if there is proper assurance that the patients or clients will not be harmed by such field work . If such placements take an undue amount of the student 's practicum experiences , exploitation of the student 's services at the expense of his training is likely to occur . Another related problem , not confined to the year of intensive experience , brought considerably more agreement . Considering field training as extending over the whole four-year period , although at different levels of competence and responsibility , there was a very evident desire on the part of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not be limited to the hospital environment . There were strong objections to training programs that concentrated solely on mental patients , even though students were legitimately planning a career as " medical psychologists . " Such students , it was recognized , could with profit spend all the " internship " period in intensive specialization in the psychology department of a mental hospital . Nonetheless , previous clerkships should insure their familiarity with the problems of children and with those of normal adults of both sexes . The problem , of course , is particularly acute with students in the V.A . training program , where the on-the-job work tends to be largely confined to male adults in hospitals or clinics . Although the planning of work with non-V.A. clients becomes difficult for such students , the Conference nonetheless agreed , with only three dissents , that : Field training should be so planned as to provide a variety of functions with persons of varied ages and socio-economic levels ? including normal individuals , the maladjusted , and persons of various degrees of psychopathology . When specialization is desirable for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ correspondingly reduced ; but such specialization should not be given before the third-year level of training . Thus on two issues the majority of the Conference was clearly in favor of encouraging the broad development of clinical psychology along lines that extend the field of practice from the frankly psychotic or mentally ill to the relatively normal clientele who need information , vocational counseling , and remedial work . Special-  | ization in any of these less clearly-defined branches has now become an open issue that must be faced sooner or later . Here we are not concerned particularly with the problem of specialization but rather with the problems that such a broad approach to pre-doctoral training poses for any committee attempting to accredit agencies for field training . A few psychiatric centers can probably qualify immediately for most of the full range of field work . There are also a number of social agencies and even a few school systems that provide adequately supervised experience with a clientele representing all varieties of problems except the hospitalized psychotic . Though such facilities exist in the large metropolitan centers , they can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . One possible solution to the problem lies in sending students to one or another of the fully qualified centers for their " internship " work . Unfortunately , such a logical solution fails to take into consideration the fact that there are now at least a thousand graduate students who are or soon will be in need of a year 's field work . Furthermore , even if the fully qualified centers were able to accommodate the large number of trainees , the problem of financing vast numbers of graduate students away from the universities must also be solved . Few graduate students can finance a four-year program of university training without some outside help . Pay for part-time work can usually be obtained in a university where the student is well known , but may be impossible to arrange in a distant institution where a student is serving an internship . Housing for married students with families creates an additional problem . Although student finances received but little attention at the Conference , it must be emphasized that this problem is one of the most acute and worrisome of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ clinical psychology . The Veterans Administration , the United States Public Health Service , and now the Department of the Army are making it possible for well qualified students to pursue such training . If these government-sponsored programs undergo serious retrenchment in the future , the universities and the profession will be faced with a serious problem .  | Organizing Field Work Placements . What are the relative responsibilities of the university and of the field work agency in the training of students ? As mentioned above , the practice varies with different professions , and clinical psychology has had too little experience to establish clear-cut relationships . Since the so-called " internship " period is part of the pre-doctoral training program , the universities feel a sense of responsibility for the activities in such a program . On the other hand , certain of the longer-established internship centers have highly developed training programs that have been integrated with the work of the institution in which they are located . Should universities sending students to such centers exercise directing influence over the particular type of training given to their own students @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In actuality the question is probably academic , since few university departments of psychology would raise questions about the programs of the widely recognized training centers . The problem becomes real when it is posed in regard to many of the newer field training centers that offer only a few of the opportunities provided by the centers of long standing . Since the question is intimately related to the problem of certifying or accrediting field work agencies , the solution probably lies in the standards that are set up in the future . Until that time , it is apparent that the program for the " internship " period must be worked out by mutual agreement between university and agency . The university can not relinquish its responsibility for insuring adequate standards of training and a suitable range of experiences . The field work agency is not in a position , always , to offer all the experiences deemed advisable by the university , nor can it always devote as much time to the supervision of students as the university might desire . The solution undoubtedly lies in the raising of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ must wait , in many localities , until the supply of qualified clinical psychologists , psychiatrists , and psychiatric social workers meets the demands of service agencies . At the second level of field work training , the clerkship , problems are somewhat more intense , as various participants at the Con-  | ference testified . Representatives from field work agencies and institutions reported that universities sometimes make exorbitant demands upon the agency in terms of the teaching of tests and other techniques that might well be the province of the university laboratory courses . Universities , on the other hand , reported that they have frequently encountered the difficulty that some supervising psychologists in the agencies expect students to be finished clinicians or , more specifically , to be well versed in the tests or interpretative techniques favored by the agency psychologists . Obviously , such problems can not be entirely solved , since they represent differences in personal viewpoints as well as difficulties arising from the practical situations in which the university and agency are separately involved . On one point it was possible to reach fairly clear-cut agreement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ administration , scoring , and elementary levels of interpretation of some tests for clinical use and of certifying to the practicum agency the student 's readiness for clinical practicum use of such tests . This clearly removes the agency from the responsibility of conducting clinical training from the ground up . It does not , however , release the university from all responsibility in supervision once the student has been certified as being capable of performing elementary clinical examinations . At the clerkship level , students spend only a day or two per week in a training agency , and the staff members receive relatively little help from the work of the students assigned to them . Anyone familiar with the intense pressures of clinical work in a service agency can realize the reluctance of their psychologists to take over the entire training responsibility from the university . Working out suitable divisions of responsibility again becomes a matter of negotiation between university and agency insofar as the details of the program are concerned . Length and Arrangement of the Internship . The final resolution on the organization of the " internship @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a future time when there has been  | opportunity for careful review of intensive field training . The resolution reads : Field placements on the third- and fourth-year levels of training should be at least nine months of full-time work or eighteen months of half-time work , thus providing continuous contact with clinical cases under study or treatment . Several participants objected to the nine-month period , expressing interest in a full calendar year , because of the wide variety of experiences and techniques to be mastered . It was agreed , however , that the internship should take place at some point during the last two years of graduate training . Another division of opinion occurred over whether it should be a full-time internship or half-time spread over two years . The case for a full-time period was based upon the arguments : that full-time internships were necessary to provide continuous , intensive experiences in the follow-up of patients ; that such full-time training was required for the development of a sense of clinical responsibility ; and that it permitted the student to take full advantage of the wide range @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ discussions provided by the training center . Additional advantages suggested were that only through full-time work could the interne be accepted fully by the resident staff as a working member of the clinical team , and that this plan also avoids problems involved in the divided loyalties and changing roles that part-time work tends to force upon the student . The advocates of the part-time internship stressed the need for continuing integration between university and field agency . Spreading the internship over two years takes advantage of the maturing process under way in the student . They also stressed the fact that , for clinical research , one year is generally too brief a period in which to formulate , develop , and complete a dissertation . The compromise agreement rested , therefore , upon realization that both forms of internship should be available so that the one best adapted to the capabilities of the individual student can be selected . Some mention should be made of discussion on the organization of the " internship " period on a rotational basis that would enable  | the student to move from one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ periods of time . Such a program is , of course , implicit in the content of the section entitled " Problems in Accrediting Field Work Agencies . " There it was seen that the Conference most definitely desired that students have experience with all types of clinical material . Furthermore , it is evident that in the usual internship there is a continuous progression from one type of case to another based upon the increasing capability of the student to handle more difficult cases . Such solutions , however , do not always provide as thorough training as might be desired . A basic dilemma exists ( for which no adequate solution is visible at present ) : prolonged experience in each individual setting is necessary to develop a sense of responsibility and to permit the student to observe the clinical course of patients ; yet a distribution of clinical experiences among an adequate number of settings is essential ? time is insufficient for satisfactory accomplishment of both goals . One suggestion given some consideration was that , since a children 's agency , an out-patient neuropsychiatric clinic , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the training program , a student might profitably divide six months between two of them on a part-time basis and devote another six months full-time to the third . It was hoped that some universities might find opportunities for testing out such variant plans in order to provide the field with data on all types of training programs . In conclusion , it should be pointed out that the organization and development of field training in clinical psychology has undergone very remarkable changes in the short period following the second World War . Both the universities and the training agencies have been subjecting their staff members to unduly heavy supervisory loads . Aside from the perplexing question of the amount of time to be spent in a psychiatric setting , the Conference found a remarkable degree of agreement on the need for a broad approach to field raining . Also apparent was an intensive interest in encouraging well-thought-out experimentation to discover optimal methods of organizing field work experiences .  | Selection and Evaluation of Students Since the second World War , which introduced so many drastic changes into the training @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ subject to a frequently embarrassing problem . With an extremely large number of applicants applying for admission to graduate work in psychology , how does one select those students who are most likely to achieve the goals set by the training program ? Despite the vast amount of work done on selection procedures during the past thirty years , there has been little secrecy about the difficulty of selecting on reasonably objective grounds those persons most suited for professional , scientific , or executive positions . Such work ordinarily involves a large number of complex capacities and skills in addition to sheer intellectual ability as measured by standardized scholastic aptitude tests . Personality characteristics such as ethical orientation , facility in interpersonal relations , and fundamental interest in the scientific or professional way of life have not , as yet , yielded very fully to objective analysis . The ratio of applicants to available openings in graduate programs of clinical psychology is encouraging from the standpoint of the future of the profession , but it poses problems to the applicant and to the university alike . One informal survey at the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ten to one in thirty of the persons applying . The most conservative guess would indicate that at present about one out of every ten students applying at approved universities is accepted for graduate training in clinical psychology . Under these conditions it would seem almost pointless to imple-  | ment the following resolution were it not for the fact that better publicizing of the requirements for clinical psychology may well serve to stave off many fruitless undergraduate preparations : A systematic effort should be made to inform undergraduate students of opportunities in the field of clinical psychology and of the requirements necessary to enter the field . An undergraduate major in psychology may have three purposes : it may prepare the student for professional training in psychology ; it may provide a field of concentration for persons desiring psychology for general cultural purposes ; or it may prepare students to enter other , related professions , such as personnel work , law , or medicine . The sudden enrichment of opportunities in psychology , plus the postwar increase in economic benefits , has attracted large numbers of undergraduates , many @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that college counselors and other vocational agencies should be well informed not only of the opportunities in psychology but also of the difficulty of gaining admission to graduate schools . One way of emphasizing the problems encountered by the prospective candidate and of helping vocational counselors in their tasks would be the dissemination of information on the actual requirements usually expected of successful candidates as well as on the goals of training for clinical psychology . On occasion , undergraduates have viewed clinical psychology as an easy path to becoming a psychiatrist without undergoing the rigors of the basic sciences and medical school preparation . Their discovery of the science requirements and research training deemed necessary by the training universities for clinical psychology often occurs too late for readjustment of their undergraduate programs into more suitable channels . Other undergraduates have viewed clinical psychology as a means of gratifying their consuming interest in humanitarian activities . Again the science and research requirements of the graduate schools have led to disillusionment . A third group of students have persevered in their hopes of entering the field of clinical psychology despite undergraduate records @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ years to come , it would appear  | that admission to an accredited graduate school in clinical psychology will require a distinctly superior undergraduate record . Excellence in undergraduate psychology courses without corresponding quality in other work undertaken has been found to be a relatively poor recommendation for successful completion of the Ph.D . degree . Social Factors in Selection . The type of student now admitted to training will to a certain extent determine the future characteristics of the profession . With the Conference strongly on record as favoring the twin goals of research and practice in the training of clinical psychologists , there was very little disagreement with the following proposition : Because of the great need for research and new knowledge in clinical psychology , graduate schools should give preference in admittance to those students with strong theoretical and social motivations rather than to those with primarily economic motives . In the meetings devoted to a consideration of professional ethics , it was pointed out that selection procedures would , to some extent , influence the kind of ethical problems the profession would continue to face . There @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ provoke ethical problems . There was , however , considerable feeling that because of the large number of applicants graduate schools now have an opportunity to select the kinds of students the profession wishes to train . It is inconceivable that all applicants for advanced degrees in clinical psychology would be admitted . Their very number would overwhelm the psychology departments of the country . In addition to the impossibility of admitting all applicants , there are further reasons for the development of satisfactory selection procedures . Wholesale admission would of necessity result in wholesale eliminations . Clinical psychologists can not be trained on a mass production basis . It was generally agreed at the Conference that the number of students in a training program must be limited by the number of staff members available for supervision of research and  | for supervision of clinical training . The exact ratio will , of course , vary from university to university depending upon many factors . Furthermore , the social waste involved in wholesale admissions is reason enough for curtailing such practices . At the end of the first year , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than those remaining from careful but not infallible selection procedures . Although this might benefit the profession , the large number of students eliminated would have suffered a most discouraging defeat and wasted a number of years of preparation for a nonexistent goal . A final reason for careful selection lies in the economic factor that attends the development of facilities in graduate or professional education . Most universities contribute a substantial part of the expense of graduate education over and above that paid by the student in tuition and fees . The already precarious financing of graduate education would become even more uncertain if selection procedures failed to provide a reasonably good group of candidates for advanced degrees . Thus the Conference disapproved of admission policies that fail to take into account the welfare of students applying for work in clinical psychology . Efforts should be aimed at proper initial selection rather than later elimination of the unfit . Universities should eliminate students who are unable to meet the necessary standards of training , but initial selection efforts should largely obviate the need for such dismissals . Other problems in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of this chapter . Apparently some state universities are handicapped by laws or regulations that compel them to accept all candidates who meet a minimum standard of high school or college achievement . Such laws rarely if ever apply to particular departments , almost never to graduate training programs . It was pointed out at the Conference that the Committee on Training in Clinical Psychology has sometimes been of assistance in strengthening psychology department requests for greater freedom in matters of admission and selection . It was recommended that departmental privileges in the selection of graduate students in psychology be used to the maximum .  | Artificial barriers to the admission of well qualified students were vigorously condemned at the Conference . Each of the sub-groups in its report to the Conference stressed the need to eliminate such barriers . With but minor exceptions the following resolution was heartily concurred in : Graduate students in clinical psychology should be selected solely on the basis of reasonably determined aptitudes for education and practice in the profession , without regard for economic status , race , creed , or sex . At present @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ war in the selection of students because of the large number of stipends available for graduate subsidy in clinical psychology . Race and religion may still play some part in selection procedures , although an impartial survey of graduate students now in training would probably attest to the profession-wide interest in selecting students on the basis of ability rather than on any artificial basis . One experience rather frequently reported is the relativescarcity of well prepared Negroes to do work in clinical psychology . One university actually discriminates in favor of Negroes , since it serves a region in which there is considerable need for Negro professional personnel . Oddly enough , sex discrimination seems to be the one barrier that still receives occasional public support . No one at the Conference intimated that women students were less capable than men students . The one point of objection to women seemed to rest upon the likelihood that they as a group tend to have shorter professional careers than men , largely because of the likelihood that marriage and children will interfere with their professional employment . The main objection to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is a shortage of opportunities for training , the students selected should be those most likely to continue in a professional career . Such a position in regard to women students received little support from the Conference . Selection Procedures . Considerable interest was expressed in a report by Dr. E. Lowell Kelly , Director of the University of Mich-  | igan project on the Selection of Students for Graduate Training in Psychology , sponsored . by the Veterans Administration . Only interim reports have been available to date , but on the basis of the data so far collected it would appear that most of the clinical procedures in common use for the selection of graduate students have relatively little value in prediction of academic achievement and clinical skills as measured by judgments of supervisors at the university and in the clinic , once an initial selection is made that eliminates students who do not possess the necessary capacity for graduate work . When completed , the Michigan study will undoubtedly be scrutinized most carefully for possible aids in the general selection process . To date , however , it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tests and records of students predicts success in graduate school work in clinical psychology as well as , if not better than , selection procedures involving projective techniques and interviews . Selection procedures now in use were discussed by the subgroups , with rather general agreement on the following items : 1 . Undergraduate Marks : Varied evidence indicates that undergraduate marks offer the most reliable single predictor of success in graduate and professional education . Such a conclusion refers to the marks received in all undergraduate work rather than to exceptionally good work in a single area such as undergraduate psychology courses . 2 . Interviews : The results of one study indicate that impressions gained in personal interviews with prospective students may actually lower the validity of selection predictions . It was suggested that research on interviews of a projective nature might result in better correlations . The ordinary employment interview of the direct question-and-answer type is likely to reveal only those characteristics a student believes to be highly qualifying . 3 . Objective Tests : No great confidence was expressed in any of the currently used objective tests @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ work . Nonetheless , such tests , it was pointed out , have considerable usefulness if a cutting score is used to indicate those applicants who fall below a  | given level of test achievement , and if the test results are used in conjunction with other personnel records . 4 . Autobiographies : There was divided sentiment on the use of autobiographies , although most participants apparently wanted some type of self-reporting from applicants . Autobiographies when submitted for selection purposes tend to be colored by the student 's efforts to appear to the best advantage . Their subsequent value for training purposes thus becomes much reduced . One university reported that answers to such questions as " Where do you want to be in clinical psychology ten years from now ? How do you evaluate your own assets and liabilities ? " had proved useful in their selection work . 5 . Letters of Appraisal : By common consent it was agreed that the term " letter of appraisal " should be substituted for the usual " letter of recommendation . " Such letters have come to receive a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ several participants expressed the opinion that letters from colleagues whom they knew quite well were likely to be of considerable help . It was noted that a really thoughtful and accurate letter of appraisal takes a long time to write . It was also suggested that the unreliability of such letters is due to uncertainty on the part of the writer and a desire to avoid possible injustice to the candidate . Problems Arising from Multiple Applications . Under present conditions of acceptance for graduate work in clinical psychology , any well informed student makes application at a number of graduate schools of his choice . This procedure is obviously expensive and time-consuming for both the applicants and the universities . Methods for avoiding such difficulties were discussed , but there appear to be no immediate prospects of relief . The obvious solution of having a central office that registers the official reports of tests , collects personnel data of a uniform nature , and forwards them to the universities designated by the student met with considerable approval in principle but seems to be difficult of achievement at the present time @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to maintain its activities on a nation-  | wide basis . If present conditions continue for any length of time , it is very likely that funds for such a clearing house will be sought with considerable persistence . As a direct outgrowth of the practice of multiple applications , there arise a number of problems that react to the confusion and detriment of both applicants and universities . Since universities do not announce their acceptances and appointments to stipends at the same time , successful applicants often wait until they have heard from all places to which they have applied before deciding upon a university . Such a procedure is obviously advantageous to some applicants , but it forces other applicants and universities to wait a considerable period of time before final acceptances are possible . Universities may , of course , put a two- or three-day time limit upon their initial notifications of acceptance , but such a procedure is sometimes unfair and may work to the disadvantage of the university . In medical education , the usual practices involve : ( a ) a central clearing house that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ schools , and ( b ) a required deposit when a medical school decides to consider the application credentials . There was very strong sentiment in favor of encouraging the university departments of psychology to agree upon a common ( late for announcing acceptances to graduate work in clinical psychology . No formal resolution was offered , but it is hoped that the American Psychological Association will take cognizance of the problem and arrange for deliberations aimed at finding a date agreeable to all universities . Selection for Clinical Ability . Present methods of selection seem to insure a relatively competent group of students insofar as intellectual capacity for graduate work is concerned . Singling out students who will demonstrate unusual creative performances or who will obtain the highest level of scholarly accomplishment is a much less certain procedure . The most vexing problem in selection , however , seemed to be encountered in finding students who will develop the clinical skills required in diagnosis and treatment . The problem of selecting students who will later develop into good diagnosticians and psychotherapists seems to be a desirable research  | problem of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Michigan and the Menninger Foundation ( both studies sponsored by the Veterans Administration ) may be of considerable interest along this line . The 1947 Report of the Committee on Training in Clinical Psychology lists a number of logically defensible personality requirements in clinical candidates . Various participants at the Conference listed a number of others , but the general consensus seemed to be that the necessary qualities may not be discernible under ordinary conditions of observation . On the negative side , participants reported certain traits that they had found from personal experience to be undesirable . Among these were rigidity and pronounced social prejudice . Also persons who had frequently switched from one course of study to another and those who seemed excessively concerned with helping people seemed to make poor clinicians . Unwillingness to admit students who have failed in psychology in another university or who have failed in other professional programs seemed , to some participants , unduly harsh as a generalized policy . Considerable discussion on this point did not , of course , enable the Conference to arrive at any general conclusions . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ risks in psychology . Others expressed a lack of certainty on this observation in view of personal acquaintance with graduate students who had failed at one university but who , after graduation from another , had become respected members of the profession . When entrance to training for most of the professions is so difficult to obtain , should a student be given a second opportunity after he has failed once ? Inevitably the discussion turned to the problem of assessing risks in admitting students rather than operating on single factors . Finally , it became apparent that the power to admit students to graduate work is firmly held by the individual university and that such discussions as these serve primarily to acquaint psychology departments with the experiences and problems of other training centers . Evaluation of Students . On the positive side the Conference  | quickly settled the problem of providing guidance to students in training . Each department should establish the standards of clinical competence expected at each stage of training , and should maintain a continuous evaluation of students in regard to these standards . Most department staffs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ field training staff are invited for the purpose of discussing each student . Formal reports from field agencies are also considered desirable , and prescllt sentiment seems to be in favor of developing a semi-standard reporting form for this purpose . Ordinarily such evaluation requires but little staff time for the majority of students , if self-evaluation is made a continuous part of the training program . Students doing satisfactory or outstanding work are in the majority and they make themselves known early in their graduate careers . Much more time is being spent on the small minority of students who do poor or borderline work . The question of when to eliminate such students is likely to be vexatious to both faculty and students ? particularly when the student has developed close , if not dependent , ties to the department , or if he has a family and has had to buy a house in order to enroll for graduate training . Early elimination seems to be the most humanitarian solution and the least disquieting to all concerned . The chief causes for separation reported at the Conference have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ personality deficiencies . The rate of separation , if V. A. trainee data can be taken as representative , seems to be in the neighborhood of 12 per ent of admissions , a figure closely approaching that of American medical schools . Discussion of the mechanics of separation resulted in suggestion of two generally desirable procedures . First it was felt that when separation becomes essential the necessary decision and subsequent , fiction should be taken by a responsible committee rather than an  | individual faculty member . Such group action not only protects one staff member from bearing the brunt of student dissatisfaction , but also , by making it clear to the student that the action taken was a departmental rather than individual decision , increases the likelihood of his accepting it in the proper spirit . The second suggestion seems to be generally followed : students , when separated , should be given , wherever possible , guidance relative to their future vocational careers . As a matter of possible future interest to the profession , it was mentioned that medical schools occasionally encounter persons who , having @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , or even change their names , and thus secure subsequent admission to another university . This problem does not seem to have arisen in clinical psychology but may require action if it does occur . One sub-group favored establishment of a central clearing house for such purposes , but the Conference voted it down for reasons discussed in Chapter 5 . Dismissal of students from training programs seems to loom largest as an uncomfortable personal problem rather than as an administrative matter of great import . One sub-group , recognizing the need to clarify such matters in order to maintain student morale , suggested : It is essential for the university to specify as precisely and explicitly as possible , the bases on which separation from the program shall be made . Those should be made known to all students early in their training . The bases should include : ( a ) inadequate academic progress ; ( b ) unsatisfactory clinical competence as judged by department and service staffs ; and ( c ) conduct not conforming to the ethics of the profession .  | Staff Tramang T he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at the Conference . Its importance was not overlooked , but the Conference was pnJnarily concerned with exploring policies and assessing the extent of agreement on basic issues in the training of clinical psychologists . Since 75 per cent of the members of the Division of Clinical and Abnormal Psychology of the APA list teaching as their primary or secondary professional activity , there is every reason to encourage the interchange of opinion and practice in regard to specific teaching techniques . Occasional journal articles outlining practices in teaching a specific subject matter are valuable . Papers and demonstrations at conventions or local meetings are also helpful . Nonetheless , it was urged that more systematic methods should be devised to provide for the exchange of practices at all levels of finical teaching . Special programs might well be arranged at American Psychological Association Conventions to stimulate interest in educational methods . In addition to the need for discovering new and better methods of teaching clinical psychology , there is also an extensive demand for ' raining of staff members in the techniques and subject matter that have appeared in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have developed since their own graduate work . In-service training is . i matter of concern to departmental administrators , university teachers , and service agencies . The next section discusses some of the pertinent problems and solutions raised in this connection , . ilthough the most comprehensive discussion of post-doctoral training is postponed to Chapter 17.  | In-Service Training . Where clinical teaching is concerned , there seemed to be no opposition at the Conference to the proposition that " teachers of clinical psychology should maintain their clinical skills by continuing some clinical practice . " Since the Conference set a double goal of research and practice for the training of clinical psychologists , it is only logical that those persons engaged in the teaching of clinical skills should also be constantly engaged in work of this sort . It was reported by many that using " live " case material not only is stimulating to the students of such an instructor , but also provides the instructor himself with frequent new problems and insights . At least one department has striven to formalize this necessary part of in-service training @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ program , a course load that routinely includes one large lecture course on basic subject matter , one seminar or other course with small enrollment on a subject in which the teacher is particularly interested , and one practicum course that provides continuous experience in actual clinical work . Variations of this arrangement can , of course , be worked out . One of the very real problems involved in providing for continuous clinical practice lies in educating university administrations as well as psychology departments in regard to the time-consuming nature of clinical teaching . Accounting for time spent in clinical work and supervision is a difficult task . Nothing is more exasperating to the clinical psychologist in practice than to be forced to report his accomplishments in terms of the number of tests given or the number of interviews held . Any clever clinician can objectively demonstrate his devotion to duty by simple statistics and an adroit use of a few odd hours giving tests in rapid succession to persons who do not need them . Adding to this the number of outgoing and incoming telephone calls makes a very @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ practice but also supervising students working on the same cases , the amount of time spent on a single individual or on one family may appear , to the administrator , fantastic . Discussing the interpretation of a Stanford-Binet or a Rorschach and integrating that interpretation with other clinical  | data can in itself consume several hours , regardless of the level of training of the student . A single counseling or psychotherapeutic contact lasting but one hour may , and probably should , take at least another hour of discussion , especially if the student is to gain necessary insight into his own motivations during the counseling session . Certain aspects of clinical training can be accomplished in groups ; but inevitably a clinical teacher is faced with the necessity of spending a large amount of time with a small number of students if only to read and criticize their clinical reports . If administrations are not convinced of the necessity of allotting adequate time to such clinical instruction , the teacher either works himself to the point of exhaustion or devises simple methods for decreasing the quality of his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it is quite probable that his students will resort to similar survival devices . The welfare of the clients or patients dealt with under such conditions is not likely to be materially iurthered . In considering the expensiveness of clinical teaching , members of the Conference also expressed their interest in improving its efficiency . Case presentations often involve long periods of oral reporting , and might better be accomplished by the use of typed or duplicated reports . Staff conferences often wander aimlessly because sufficient attention has not been paid to preparation and organization . Instructors may ' struggle to correct unclear clinical reports without realizing that much education can be gained by returning the report to the student with the suggestion that he rewrite it in English . Laboratory or practicum testing may be carried beyond the point of profitable returns to student or client . Other methods of promoting in-service training were discussed with particular reference to short-term institutes . The sabbatical v ear seems to have gone out of fashion , although occasionally some instructors can spend a full year at one or more institutions , obtaini @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not yet organized in clinical psychology , but informal arrangements for the same purpose can be made with little difficulty . To facilitate the acquisition of special clinical skills , it was suggested  | that some appropriate office or committee of the American Psychological Association maintain a register of those universities , clinics , and other agencies where post-doctoral training in various specialties might be obtained on a short- or long-term basis . General approval was voiced regarding the suggestion that university staff members should also consider the possibilities of accepting full-time clinical positions for a limited period of time , possibly exchanging duties with the staff members whom they replace . Such exchanges may present practical problems , but the benefits obtained would be well worth the effort . At the present time , the short-term institute of one or two weeks seems likely to provide the most feasible method of obtaining more formal in-service training . Such institutes have been attempted on a national basis during the past two or three years , often in connection with the annual psychological convention . Other institutes have been held under the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recognized authority was invited to lecture and conduct discussions for a week or ten days . Institutes of the same sort might be arranged on a regional or local basis , taking on , in some instances , the organizational features of a club , and in others , those of group support of an invited lecturer . In connection with institutes for in-service training , it should be noted that the Conference drew a sharp line between institutes that were arranged without reference to the composition of the participating groups and those specifying the qualifications necessary for enrollment . Considerable criticism was leveled at the practice of organizing small groups to learn a single technique regardless of the preparation or qualifications of the members . This practice has already produced for the profession certain difficulties involving persons who are " experts " in one particular technique but who lack adequate backgrounds in the general field of clinical psychology . Institutes that are limited to those with qualifications , either as accredited students or as qualified psychologists , constitute a legitimate method of disseminating skills and techniques . Some Effects of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ clinical psychology following the war has made depart-  | ments of psychology more acutely aware of the factors involved in good graduate teaching . The practice of having graduate students teach courses , usually on the technique level , was generally censured , although it was recognized that graduate students can make many worth-while contributions to the formal training program , particularly as laboratory or clinical assistants . Since , however , even technique courses should be taught with a broad theoretical and critical orientation , it was felt that all graduate courses should be given by a fully qualified staff member . Such a conclusion raised another question directly related to teacher shortages . Since many universities and also service agencies have been forced to assign important teaching duties to staff members who have just received the doctorate , what can be done to improve teaching skills among the less experienced ? This question was generalized further to include the more serious problem of the lack of attention paid to training graduate students in educational methods suitable for the level of teaching at which many of them expect to work @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Jbnfer pedagogical proficiency was held to be a matter of wishful rather than realistic thinking . Teaching at any level seems to require more than piecemeal presentation of a prescribed subject matter . Particularly at the graduate level , where education should aim for the development of critical and independent thinking , teaching skills are of singular importance . According to Detlev W. Bronk , President of Johns Hopkins University , * Only the wisest of teachers discard the easy methods of didactic instruction to follow as counselors at the heels of students who freely satisfy their curiosity . Even in the scientific laboratory the student 's curiosity is suppressed and the laboratory becomes a training ground for technical manipulation rather than a place for intellectual exploration . The present tendency to create an educational system which thus suppresses curiosity for the sake of " efficient " education robs modern civilization of the true scientists it needs . Footnote  | While one can not in all fairness expect graduate students to be trained to the level that Bronk suggests for good teachers , it would still seem but reasonable that graduate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for future teaching duties . The Conference suggested that graduate institutions should assume more responsibility for instructing graduate students in teaching skills . Since clinical psychologists will often be expected to train persons in the allied professions as well as in their own , even those students entering service agencies could profit by course and practicum work designed to familiarize them with teaching methods . Many universities provide informal opportunities for such training for students who are given appointments as teaching assistants during all or part of their graduate careers . Conferences held under staff supervision , in which teaching problems are discussed weekly , have in the past helped to disseminate throughout the profession of psychology a general acquaintance with good teaching methods . Since the war the great increase in the number of graduate students has decreased the likelihood that Ph.D . ' s in this field will almost routinely have had teaching experience at some point during their graduate work . In the case of students in clinical psychology teaching experience is likely to be the exception rather than the rule , although there is a clear demand @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ logical solution of establishing classes with course credit taught by persons qualified to impart instruction on teaching methods meets with a surprising amount of resistance , according to experiences reported by Conference participants . The graduate 's possession of knowledge rather than his ability to impart it seems to be too often the criterion for deciding who should teach a course . In the light of any known relationship between the educational value of any given course and the credits assigned thereto , the Conference apparently preferred to be skeptical about the usual arguments against recognizing teaching as a respectable subject matter in the graduate school ; and it suggested that the issue was important enough to merit formally organized course work with practicum wherever possible .  | A final result of the teacher shortage and the related increase in the student-staff ratio has forced many departments to scrutinize the presuppositions concerning optimum class size . Research studies , mostly directed at the undergraduate level , have generally failed to find any significant differences in course grades related to size of class . In view of the many criticisms that can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ particularly the one that class size makes no difference in educational efficiency , the Conference seemed to feel that the problem deserves much greater attention . It may well be that certain subject matter can be taught to large graduate classes without danger of lowering the level of instruction . On the other hand , too widespread use of large classes may militate against the development of those attitudes and skills which mark the finished scholar and the accomplished clinician . Both the amount of time required for supervision of clinical work and the desirability of close personal contact between teacher and student would seem to argue conclusively for maintaining small classes in the greater part of graduate instruction . Nonetheless , even more logical items of common sense have been cast aside as a result of empirical studies . The underlying factors in good instruction at the graduate level are too little known to warrant final decisions . Even in clinical instruction , the possibility of vastly improving graduate work by manipulating the amount of interaction among students was regarded by many as a subject worthy of investigation . Therefore @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that since the optimum size of the group in clinical instruction has not been determined by research , studies on this problem should be undertaken , particularly in view of the differences of opinion regarding " group " versus " individual " methods in clinical instruction . Evaluation of Instruction . Although there are many ways to evaluate teaching procedures , few of the approaches so far devised cast much light upon the effectiveness of teaching at the graduate level , where the acquisition of subject matter occupies a role almost secondary to the development of critical and creative thinking . Departments or committees can logically analyze the content of course  | syllabi ; theoretically , at least , objective measurement can be made of certain clinical skills , such as test administration and scoring . Yet the over-all effectiveness of teaching may be entirely overlooked if only these piecemeal techniques of evaluation are applied . The Conference was particularly interested in the use of questionnaire appraisals obtained from students . Several participants reported that formal or informal questionnaires distributed to students had helped in course reorganization and the improvement of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ evaluations lies in the possibility that the method may show popularity rather than proficiency of teachers . It was pointed out that students often are highly critical when first introduced to certain subjects or teaching methods , but after greater experience undergo a decided change of attitude . One suggestion was made that useful information might be obtained by having students evaluate their graduate school experiences several years after the awarding of the degree . Another suggestion , which seemed to meet with considerable approval , was to include students on departmental committees and to invite representatives to attend staff conferences that are considering curricular and course organization . Participants who have had experiences with such procedures felt that students were generally useful members of committees , but that quite often the students were as badly split on major issues as were the permanent staff . Teaching Aids . A need was expressed for better and more varied teaching aids . The following types of materials were thought to be of considerable usefulness in preparing students for clinical work : 1 . Verbatim sound recordings of clinical interviews and tests , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ There seems to be no reason why good sound recordings of this type could not be obtained in considerable quantity and made generally available on ordinary phonograph records . These could be used in class demonstrations , or students could , at their convenience , listen to them if adequate instructional material accompanied then . Several series suggested were : psychiatric examinations with various  | diagnostic types ; therapeutic interviews comparing different approaches ; expert handling of difficult Rorschach administrations , particularly in regard to the inquiry ; and play interviews with children . Motion-picture material with sound is apparently still too expensive to obtain and distribute , except for a limited number of topics . 2 . Typescripts of verbatim interviews , complete therapeutic series , and case histories : The literature is remarkably devoid , with a few exceptions , of the raw data with which a clinician actually works . Written records may omit a good portion of the data obtained in the face-to-face situation , but staff and students both apparently find considerable interest in such materials . The Uniersity of Chicago Department of Psychology and Counseling @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ example has not been widely followed elsewhere . 3 . Significant plots for use in role-playing techniques in psychodrama : Good plots are not easily discovered . Such materials with suggestions for their application should be published in the psychological journals and made generally available . As an outcome of this discussion , it was proposed that the Division of Clinical and Abnormal Psychology sponsor the development of rase materials suitable for analysis in clinical psychology courses . It was also urged that exploration be undertaken with new media involving a wide variety of cases . p A number of scattered suggestions were made in relation to staff problems which should at least be recorded for future discussions . Although the principles of having clinical teachers maintain ontinuous clinical practice seems generally accepted , several participants expressed concern over the tendency of clinical staff members to isolate themselves , voluntarily or otherwise , from the i ' eneral field of psychology . An opinion was expressed that such tendencies might be overcome by having the clinical staff teach iecasional courses in nonclinical areas . Departmental organization and operating procedures were also @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that democratic procedures were extremely helpful to morale , and that all  | staff members should be consulted about matters pertaining to educational policy . Some felt that we have much to learn on this score and that graduate students should be exposed to problems of " administrative mental hygiene . " It was suggested that undergraduate courses in abnormal psychology or psychopathology might well be taught by experienced clinicians . This procedure would offer a realistic approach to the subject and might help to counter the frequent psychiatric criticism that such courses are of little use in pre-medical preparation , since they so often lack any contact with clinical material . Finally , there was general agreement that at the present time there is considerable overemphasis on specific techniques , and that students are therefore likely to be helpless in situations where they can not administer a favored test or apply a particular approach to a client or patient . Teachers should stress general principles and employ a wide variety of approaches to avoid the all-too-real possibility of turning out technicians in clinical practice rather than adaptable , professionally trained @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ constantly operating in areas related to other professions , some of which have legal responsibilities , many of which operate through the sanctions of custom , and all of which may control in one fashion or another the extent and manner of the practice of clinical psychology or research activities . The Conference selected for particular discussion five major professions . with which clinical psychology deals . These were : ( 1 ) psychiatry and other medical groups ; ( 2 ) social work ( with emphasis on the psychiatric social worker ) ; ( 3 ) counseling and guidance ; ( 4 ) school psychology ; and ( 5 ) industrial psychology . The Conference was fortunate enough to have representatives from each of these professions in attendance throughout all sessions . One of the participants , a representative from psychiatric nursing , discussed this relatively new field during a general session . Relations with fields other than these were not included in the program because of time limitations . Most of this chapter is organized around the reports of the groups that considered relationships with the five allied professions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the representative from psychiatric nursing . The Conference gave explicit recognition and approval to the geed for a multiprofessional approach to the problems of human welfare . The following resolution testifies to the importance of professional interrelationships in the modern world . It is not lip service to an abstract principle of the need for cooperation ; it is , most decidedly , testimony to the imperative need for cooperative  | attack upon problems of human welfare in the service of the individual . The following resolution was adopted without dissent : Because of the extreme complexity and variety of problems presented for assistance , and the equally wide variety of skills and techniques required for the most effective service to the individual , and in view of the fact that the current training in any one profession can not possibly ensure mastery of all of these techniques , we urge clinical psychologists to adopt as a principle of practice the establishment and maintenance of active and effective liasion with members of allied professions in all service functions . The adoption of such a policy has important implications for many aspects @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , incorporate material on the principles and practices of the allied professions . Chapter 10 emphasizes that the provision of needed opportunities to work in close contact with other professions is one of the major purposes of the clerkship and internship experiences . Chapter 5 suggests the importance of acquainting students with the ethical codes of the other groups . Various chapters emphasize the need to include members of the related professions in the academic and field training of the clinical psychologist . The establishment of interdisciplinary seminars , in which students and staff of allied professions participate , constitutes a recommended portion of the formal curriculum . Thus the following resolution is no idle platitude , but a positive statement of a necessary procedure for implementing the more general policy embodied in the preceding resolution : Clinical psychologists should increase their contact with and information about the principles and practices of other professions that deal with personal and social problems . Several times during the course of the Conference questions arose concerning the degree of relationship most desirable between clinical psychology and one or another of the allied professions . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The psychological clinic of Lightner Witmer , established  | more than fifty years ago at the University of Pennsylvania , directed its efforts to the " whole child " but concentrated largely upon educational problems . Clinical psychologists have always worked closely with social workers , particularly where children 's problems were concerned , ever since the Stanford-Binet Psychological Examination established a rapid means for estimating the general potentialities of delinquent and neglected children . Of recent years the ties with psychiatry have become increasingly strong as the clinical psychologist has developed tools and concepts that have proven of some use in hospital or other medical settings . At the present time , certain clinical psychologists are very strongly identified with each of the three professions mentioned ? education , social work , and psychiatry ? and the concept of the " mental health team " has , despite numerous vicissitudes and lapses , played an important part in the training policies and practical applications of clinical psychology . Such relationships are particularly likely to direct the orientation of certain psychologists toward one area of application or another . After @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a whole , the majority of the group seemed to feel that in the clinical area , psychology could best serve the interests of the public by actively collaborating with all related professions , but at the same time maintaining its own position as an independent profession . This issue will probably be encountered again ; further discussion of it is found in Chapter 17 . At this point , it should be mentioned that such a decision adds to the difficulty of defining clinical psychology . The decision , if carried out in all respects , in reality continues the tradition of having some clinical psychologists interested primarily in children in educational or other settings , some devoting their time primarily to research , some highly trained and active in problems arising in medical settings , and some in each of t lie many related fields , such as remedial training , juvenile and adult delinquency , counseling , and vocational guidance . In the borderland between indulrial or personnel psychology and clinical work , Greening and selection procedures have often made use of clinical techniques and clinical psychologists in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ persons has been traditionally conceived to lie outside the clinical area . Nonetheless , as pointed out at the Conference , the clinical professions can not ignore the vital questions pertaining to preventive mental hygiene or the problems posed by the large proportion of the population suffering from all degrees of maladjustment . Many impartial observers believe that the mental health professions will find it necessary to discover and develop procedures for applying clinical knowledge on a mass scale , just as medicine found that major improvements in the health of the population had to come from large-scale public health projects , which by now are recognized as essential aspects of any program for the prevention and control of physical disease . In any such ventures in the mental health field , all the related professions mentioned in the present discussion plus many others will inevitably be involved . Preventive mental health at the present time represents a shadowy hope rather than a field of knowledge . Its mass application , once useful principles have been discovered , may well represent one of the great challenges of the present era . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ten years , clinical psychologists have established ever closer working relationships with psychiatry and other medical specialties . Much of the friction that was anticipated on both sides seems to have disappeared as actual working relationships were established on the personal level . At the 1948 Convention of the American Psychological Association , a committee of the Division of Clinical and Abnormal Psychology reported orally that there was surprisingly little friction on the local level , where members of both professions would usually unite in the attempt to help the patient . Furthermore , the brief and unofficial survey ( reported at the end of Chapter 9 ) of clinical psychologists ' relations with psychiatrists and psychoanalysts indicates , as regards training in therapy , a considerable willingness on the part of the psychiatric profession to contribute to the training of clinical psychologists .  | Relationships are not all perfect , but both professions have advanced to the point where representatives can meet amicably and discuss issues on a realistic basis . Dr. David Shakow , of the University of Illinois and the University of Chicago , published a comprehensive article @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ American journal of Orthopsychiatry entitled " Psychology and Psychiatry : A Dialogue . " Shakow 's use of the dialogue form permitted an extremely frank exposition of the issues at that time as they affected both professions . His keynote might well be found in his statement that most differences of opinion have arisen from " too many considerations based on the conscious and unconscious needs of the two professions and their professors , rather than on the needs of the patient or the fundamental needs of society . " Although differences between the professions of psychiatry and clinical psychology probably stem from multiple sources , a few of the differences are important enough to be singled out for special comment . Many of the present problems arise because the two professions deal with overlapping material ? the maladjusted and the mentally ill ? and because they also use some of the same methods ? interviews , clinical appraisals , and psychotherapy . Each profession , however , has certain methods of its own , the psychologists being the almost exclusive employers of standardized tests , the psychiatrists being the only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interpret medical examinations . The uncertainty resulting from overlapping functions and duties is aggravated by differing backgrounds and widely divergent training . Psychiatrists undergo many years of intense clinical training with people who are essentially sick , mentally or physically . Clinical psychologists have much less clinical experience with the mentally and physically ill during their training , although they do meet many more borderline cases as well as relatively " normal " children and adults . They also are broadly indoctrinated in the values and methods of nonclinical scientific investigation , values and methods that occasionally become opposed to the clinical orientation of the psychiatric prac ' itioner.  | To offset the divergences , the conference recommended two procedures in the form of general resolutions : There is an urgent need for accurate and comprehensive information concerning the various ways in which clinical psychologists are at present working in relation to psychiatrists and other physicians . Such information would be invaluable in preparing a curriculum for clinical psychology training that would include material designed more specifically for training psychologists who are likely to work largely in a medical setting . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with only five dissents : The training of the clinical psychologist must include supervised experience in a psychiatric center . To clarify the implications of the two preceding resolutions , the following proposition was discussed over several days , and finally received a vote of 58 in favor , two opposed : While this group recognizes the great value of a substantial amount of training in a medical setting , this does not imply that the practice of clinical psychology should always be in medical settings . It was agreed that functions overlapping those of psychiatry seldom cause misunderstandings in the area of research , and only occasionally in the area of diagnosis . It was pointed out , however , that the value of the psychologist 's contribution to psychiatric handling of patients has been limited by three primary factors : the nature of the psychologist 's tools ; his cross-sectional approach to diagnosis ; and his relatively short contact with the patient . To be sure , the psychologist is not necessarily confined to procedures that produce the above limitations , but in a hospital setting his functions sometimes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ This may have been as much the fault of the clinical psychologist as that of his colleagues in the medical profession . In the field of psychotherapy , misunderstandings have arisen because of the relatively recent entrance of the psychologist into this area and a consequent feeling on the part of some psychiatrists that  | psychologists have insufficient training , undeveloped ethical standards , and an inadequate feeling of responsibility for the patient . Report No. 10 of the Group for the Advancement of Psychiatry crystallized the doubts of psychiatrists over the welfare of the patient by referring to the necessity for " adequate psychiatric safeguards . " Recognizing the need for serious consideration of this problem , the Boulder Conference voted 55 to 7 in favor of the following reso-lution : This group recognizes the need for the clarification of what constitute adequate psychiatric safeguards in the practice of psychotherapy by psychologists , and recommends to the Committee on Relations with Psychiatry of the American Psychological Association the exploration of this matter with the corresponding Committee on Clinical Psychology of the American Psychiatric Association . The discussion regarding responsibility for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of responsibility : ( 1 ) moral ? this is shared by all professional persons in contact with the patient ; ( 2 ) administrative in medical settings responsibility is ordinarily assigned to medical ( often psychiatric ) personnel , in educational centers an educator normally exercises this responsibility , and in psychological service centers , a psychologist is usually in charge ; and ( 3 ) legal while the legal responsibility of the medical profession is better understood and established than that of other professional groups , there are a number of situations and states in which legal responsibility is assigned to psychologists . The exact roles that all clinical psychologists should play in relation to members of the psychiatric profession can not , of course , be defined . Local circumstances , variations in training and competence , and even conditions of employment predetermine relationships in specific settings . In general , however , the Conference felt that a collaborative role , rather than one in which one profession is clearly subservient to the other , although the two are working intimately together , was in the best interests @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ implications : ( 1 ) equality of status is recognized ; but ( 2 ) it is recognized in the context of  | differing fields of competence and responsibility . Joint discussion of the patient from admission to final disposition results in a more rounded view of the patient 's problems and is conducive to better treatment . The collaborative role is extensively practiced within the medical profession when referrals are made from one physician to another . Here , there are commonly accepted procedures in which the question of status rarely enters , since there is explicit recognition of the limitations on both sides . In collaborating with members of the psychiatric profession on psychiatric patients , it was agreed that a joint conference should formulate the questions that the psychologist would attempt to answer . However , it should be recognized that the psychologist , like the psychiatrist in his own field , is entitled to determine the specific psychological procedures relevant to working out the answers to the questions . The psychologist , with special training in these methods , is better able to serve the patient if @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ example , there are disadvantages as well as advantages to any of the current psychological testing procedures . These procedures are largely in the province of the psychologist . By asking questions , after a joint survey of the case material , the psychologist will have available all pertinent information and will , to a large extent , be able to exercise caution in the use of certain procedures that might have a traumatic effect upon certain patients . Relations with Other Branches of Medicine . In addition to psychiatrists , psychologists are most likely to work with pediatricians , neuro-surgeons , neurologists , internists , and industrial physicians . The problem of the clinical psychologist functioning in a medical clinic that has no associated psychiatrist was discussed along with the more general question of whether psychologists should always associate themselves with psychiatrists . It was agreed that the most reliable safeguard for the patient was a high standard of training for all professions , with emphasis on the ability to recognize problems requiring referral and consultation . ( Further discussion of this question can be found in the last section @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ clinical psychologist to medical school instruction was discussed . It was agreed that it was necessary  | for such a psychologist to be broadly grounded in psychiatry and organic disease , as well as psychology . It was pointed out that he should also be familiar with the goals of medical education and the operation of hospitals . The group felt that the psychologist could make contributions in the following ways : ( 1 ) by stressing psychological principles and sociological factors as they relate to problems of the medical patient ; ( 2 ) by presenting developmental psychology in relation to problems that express themselves somatically ; and ( 3 ) by contributing to courses already being given ( e.g. teaching about mental deficiency in a course on pediatrics ) rather than by teaching separate courses in psychology . The usual type of general psychology course work has met with a very cool reception in medical education . To be sure , many of the objections apply to psychology as it was taught twenty or thirty years ago , with extreme emphasis upon semiphilosophical and semi-neurological problems . Nonetheless , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ education preferred in the professional medical school demands a psychologist who is adaptable to the needs of the medical curriculum . In the in-service education of physicians in hospitals , it was suggested that medical residents might rotate through the psychology department of the hospital , as is done in some psychiatric training centers , and that the psychological staff should make special efforts to discuss the psychological aspects of patients referred to them . RELATIONS WITH COUNSELING AND GUIDANCE During July of 1949 , a conference on the training of personnel in the field of Counseling and Guidance was held at the University of Michigan , under the chairmanship of Dr. Edward Bordin . The Michigan Conference was also supported by the United States Public Health Service . Ten representatives of the Division of Counseling and Guidance , three clinical psychologists , and a representative from the National Institute of Mental Health attended . One of the major outcomes of these discussions seemed to be a common recognition that , at the Ph.D . level particularly , there was  | much in common between the two fields . It was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , with some additional emphasis upon problems of educational personnel , might serve for doctoral training in counseling and guidance . No decision was made on this suggestion , although it was to be discussed more completely at a later meeting of the group . At the Boulder Conference , the same trend of thought became immediately apparent in the session devoted to a consideration of relations with counseling and guidance . The tremendous overlap in the curricula of both fields ; the similarity of technique , theories , and goals ; and the advantages of establishing a broad field of professional opportunity rather than finely segmented specialties were all advanced as reasons for concluding that the two fields might consider an eventual merger . Arguments to the contrary seem to center around the notion that individuals in the counseling and guidance field deal primarily with normal people , whereas the clinical psychologist deals with the abnormal . As far as the Conference was concerned , this contention seemed questionable , since the Conference , with only two opposing votes , agreed that clinical psychology is not necessarily practiced in a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as strongly rooted in work with school children and college students as they are in hospital procedures with the grossly disordered . With this background , the Conference voted approval of the following proposition with only five dissenting votes : The American Psychological Association and its appropriate divisions should study the common and diverse problems and concepts in the fields of clinical psychology and counseling and guidance with a view to immediate interfield enrichment of knowledge and methods . Consideration should also be given to the possibility of eventual amalgamation of these two fields . It was pointed out that while such an amalgamation would involve serious problems , consideration given in the near future to these problems might be highly desirable if eventual amalgamation is actually contemplated . There are already several groups with  | entrenched interests on both sides . The American Board of Examiners in Professional Psychology is awarding a diploma in each field . There are two separate divisions in the American Psychological Association , although there is also a large overlap in membership . One suggestion was made that a " super " division of Clinical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ special areas of interest and practice . The marked similarities between the two fields led to considerable difficulty in defining the field of counseling and guidance as distinct from clinical psychology . The major differences brought out were as follows : ( 1 ) counseling and guidance workers usually deal with more limited objectives in educational and vocational adjustment , although the best guidance practice resembles the other mental health fields in advocating attention to the whole person ; ( 2 ) the preparation of counselors includes course work in areas not always covered in clinical psychology programs , such as job analysis methods , occupational information , and educational principles , policies , and practices ; ( 3 ) the present modal level of training in counseling seems to be one or two years of graduate study , although the Ph.D . and several years of experience are required for certification at the diplomate level ; and ( 4 ) counselors rarely obtain much field experience with the psychiatrically ill , although they are expected to have considerable familiarity with the detection and referral of such cases . The common @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to include : ( 1 ) a dynamically oriented psychology of personality ; ( 2 ) basic techniques of measurement and research ; and ( 3 ) interview and group methods of counseling or psychotherapy . The group agreed that clinical psychologists can gain from contact with concepts and procedures in the counseling field , and that all clinical psychology students should have some experience in educational and vocational counseling . Such a recommendation does not unduly extend the training period , since in reality it helps to implement the Conference 's resolution that students should have experience with normal people . More specific advantages to be found in closer contact would include : ( 1 ) a language of person-  | ality description that deals with the normal ; ( 2 ) attention to reality adjustment as well as to the so-called " deeper " areas of personality ; and ( 3 ) attention to the intellectual , cognitive processes , which are often ignored because of our more recent emphasis on the conative and affective . RELATIONS WITH SOCIAL WORK As members of a subdivision of the broader field @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a separate tradition that gives them a prominent place in work with the mentally and emotionally disturbed . One of the more interesting paradoxes of the present field of mental health lies in the fact that although psychiatry , psychiatric social work , and clinical psychology represent three quite separate fields as regards tradition and training procedures , their actual clinical functions often show marked overlap ; and their actual work in their routine activities in many clinics seems to be distinguished only by almost secondary functions of medical examination , case-history taking , and diagnostic testing . Mr. George E. Levinrew , representing the American Association of Psychiatric Social Workers at the Conference , presented a statement comparing the professions of clinical psychology and psychiatric social work . This is presented in summarized form below : Social work has progressed from a volunteer service , with its workers trained outside universities , to a graduate , professional level ; and research is included as part of its training programs . There is now a movement to train social workers to the doctoral level . The orientation of the social worker @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ social adjustment . Psychiatric social work is one of many social work fields . It is distinguished from the others by the fact that the psychiatric social worker has had a sequence of courses and field experience with psychiatric orientation , and works ( eventually ) in a psychiatric setting . The following tabulation presents on oversimplified but not inaccurate comparison of clinical psychology and psychiatric social work :  | Table The major differences between the psychiatric social worker and the clinical psychologist seem to be highlighted by the differences in attitude displayed in the clinical setting . The psychiatric social worker is trained to accept assumptions about human behavior whereas the clinical psychologist is taught to question almost any assumption . Such opposed attitudes could be expected to create frictions between the two groups in practical situations , although the experiences reported at the Conference contained little ground for believing that such friction is widespread . It would appear that psychologists in service positions generally agree that most service must be carried on using practical judgment rather than a questioning attitude . The psychologist must concede that the problems of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hallmark of the scientist . This means , essentially , that research in clinical settings must be adapted to the purposes of the agency or institution , although often the major policies of an agency can be modified without harming its work or its clients if the psychologist can demonstrate that he is engaged upon significant investigation , and if he can enlist the interest of his co-workers . Further discussion of the psychologist 's relation to social workers elicited three major criticisms that social workers frequently make in regard to psychologists : ( 1 ) the psychologist 's attitude toward the patient is too often similar to his attitude toward a laboratory subject ; ( 2 ) the psychologist on the mental health team is likely to play  | the role of critic and thus create tensions in the team relationship ; and ( 3 ) the broad field encompassed by the training program of the clinical psychologist creates a risk that he will be trained as a second-rate psychiatrist or second-rate social worker . Such criticisms , of course , are matters for serious inquiry rather than passionate denial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in planning the training programs of clinical psychologists . Although no one denied the fact that the three criticisms cited above are quite familiar to those working in close relationship with the other two professions , several participants suggested that professional stereotypes often persist as a matter of cultural lag . As more and more psychologists with interests common to members of the other professions enter the clinical field , such stereotypes are likely to disappear much as did the picture of the low-heeled , suffragette social worker or the piercing-eyed Svengali of a psychiatrist . Nonetheless , the presence of such attitudes seems to argue for greater attempts to obtain training for clinical psychologists in centers that also engage in the training of psychiatric and other social workers . The following recommendations were suggested by the Conference for consideration by the American Psychological Association 's Committee on Relations with the Social Work Profession . As a basis for insuring more satisfactory contact between the two professions , training staffs at the local level should work toward common understanding in regard to the following items : 1 . Selection of students @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ field training of psychiatric social work students . Definite efforts should be made to assist the students of both groups to work together at times other than formal staff conferences 3 . Possible routine assignment of clinical psychology students to social work departments in clinics or hospitals during periods of indoctrination into agency functions 4 . Interdisciplinary seminars held at field stations 5 . Overlapping courses and seminars , which could provide information and mutual training in interviewing , case work methods , community organizations , and community resources . ( The excel-  | lence of present methods of supervision of social work students in interviewing was frequently mentioned during the discussion ) PROFESSIONAL RELATIONS WITH EDUCATION The public schools , colleges , and universities represent potentially fertile areas for research work in mental hygiene and applied psychology . As centers providing convenient aggregations of most age groups up to the adult , schools and colleges have long provided willing subjects for research in psychology . A course in educational psychology is usually required in teacher preparation . Counseling and guidance movements in the schools seem to be the present manifestation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ psychological and educational tests , although theories of progressive education have undoubtedly played another major role in that movement . Despite the opportunities presented and the many and varied contacts with applied psychology that the school offers , clinical psychologists at the present time are expending a relatively small proportion of their efforts in school settings . The reasons behind the apparent lack of interest are partly semantic and partly economic . There is a separate division of School Psychology in the American Psychological Association , although the separation is more on the basis of sphere of activity and level of training than on the basis of differences in conceptual tools or matters of technique . In many school systems , the better-trained school psychologists are indistinguishable from the better-trained clinical psychologists except for the titles arbitrarily applied to them and the settings in which they work . Other differences may occur , of course , from the necessity of the school psychologist 's having to develop particular familiarity with educational principles and procedures ; but any applied psychologist is likely to take on some of the characteristics of the particular @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are now more influential in bringing about the present separation than they were before the war , when salaries for school psychologists were not particularly out of line with salaries offered clinical psychologists in other activities . Furthermore ,  | universities are now pressing for training at the Ph.D . level and the public schools , at least , are rarely able to pay salaries commensurate with such training except the large city school systems , the systems of more wealthy smaller communities ( usually suburbs ) , and such combined school systems as those in the state of Pennsylvania , where each county is required to employ a school psychologist . The picture of psychology in the schools is actually more complicated than the outline above would indicate . Educational psychologists with training in both disciplines are sometimes employed in schools . Counseling and guidance personnel may have been trained with particular emphasis on education , vocational counseling , general counseling , or clinical psychology . There is little doubt that the pattern of psychological service in the schools is going to remain confused for some time to come , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ courses to be part of their core curriculum . The question of what can be done for mental health in the schools has a number of fairly well accepted answers . The following list indicates a number of ways in which psychologists have contributed to school programs : 1 . Training teachers in problems of mental health . Present courses often leave much to be desired ; for while they often provide teachers with general principles of personality and information about maladjustment , they fail to give the teacher real tools that he can use in his day-to-day handling of children or students . 2 . Providing counseling or psychotherapy for teachers as a means of in-service training and of improving the efficiency of classroom teaching . One frequent objection to psychological or psychiatric service is its very great expense , if applied on an individual basis . By working with teachers , a large number of children could receive help inexpensively . The proportion of extreme deviates needing individual attention is relatively small . 3 . Diagnostic and treatment work with individual children . Practices vary widely over the country @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as part of the school 's responsibilities ;  | in other systems , efforts are made to have all such work performed by community agencies or private practitioners . Psychiatric collaboration is a necessity , although in many areas the nearest psychiatrist may be more than a hundred miles away . Social workers are also indispensable collaborators in such services , and , in fact , may sometimes carry on such services as employees of the school . 4 . Curriculum consultation for several purposes . ( a ) The curriculum as a means of forwarding mental health by including specific content or removing sources of tension from groups or individuals . ( b ) The curriculum from the standpoint of preferred educational procedures . ( c ) The curriculum from the standpoint of who shall teach particular subjects , or the relative effectiveness of particular personnel as a part of teacher evaluation . 5 . Consulting on the particular types of tests to be used in the school 's testing program . Such a service should demonstrate how tests can be used effectively and an educational program should be carried @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as liaison with community agencies , courts , physicians , pediatricians , and psychiatrists . This list could be greatly extended ; but even such an abbreviated list shows the possibilities for application of clinical psychology in the schools . The training of persons for psychological work in the schools produced more questions than were answered . Other groups are considering the same problem , and much of their work is presently being coordinated by the United States Office of Education . There was divergence of opinion at the Conference on whether the core curriculum suggested for the clinical psychologist is the best type of training for the school psychologist . There was complete accord with the statement that the psychologist in the schools must have considerable background in educational principles and practices , although whether such background should be acquired by the earning of a teaching certificate ( as required for employment in some states ) or by supervised practical experience in a school service found no commonly accepted answer .  | RELATIONS WITH INDUSTRIAL PSYCHOLOGY The discussion of relations with industrial psychology was in no sense definitive , since @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Conference , although a number of the participants had been active in that field . The sub-group that discussed this topic agreed that there is a common core in the training of both industrial and clinical psychologists , but also that each represents a specialization within psychology . Each has its specialized techniques and specialized applications . A clinical psychologist can not expect to move directly from his own field into the industrial field without further training and indoctrination . Within the industrial field there seems to be a need for two types of psychologists with quite different training . One is the psychologist with a major in industrial and a minor in clinical ; the other is the one with a major in clinical and a minor in industrial . At the present time the manifest need is greater for the former but the latent need for clinically trained men also exists . In general , clinical psychology is much more " client-oriented " than is industrial . As a consequence the clinical psychologist who works in the industrial field is frequently subjected to conflicts between his feelings of responsibility @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ employing him . These conflicts are no different from those felt by any clinical psychologist who has some administrative responsibility or who works in a somewhat restrictive framework , but they are apt to be intensified in the industrial situation . At the present time there are few , if any , industrial organizations having facilities that could be used for the field training of clinical psychologists . When such field training facilities are developed , they will probably provide opportunities for very effective internship experiences with relatively normal people . PSYCHIATRIC NURSING Miss Mary Schmitt , Acting Director , Department of Services to Schools of Nursing , National League of Nursing Education , was the  | representative to the Conference from psychiatric nursing . Since many clinical psychologists have had little opportunity to come into contact with the rather new profession of psychiatric nursing , a report made to the Conference by Miss Schmitt is reproduced here : To my knowledge , this is the first time there has been an official exchange of ideas between the psychiatric nursing profession and a representative group of clinical psychologists . At the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on an advisory basis . However , it is hoped that a continuing relationship may be set up in order to provide for the consideration of problems of mutual concern . At this stage , there seem to be common interests among the National League of Nursing Education , the National Organization for Public Health Nursing , and the Division of Clinical and Abnormal Psychology of the American Psychological Association . The American Nurses Association may be helpful in your current legislative activities . You may also wish to explore the functions of the National Nursing Accrediting Service , which came into being in January , 1949 and published the Manual of Accrediting Educational Programs in Nursing , July , 1949 . In keeping with the changing needs of society , the nursing profession engaged Esther Lucile Brown , Director of Studies , Russell Sage Foundation , to survey the profession of nursing . Her report , published in 1948 , Nursing for the Future , describes the direction in which professional nursing is now going . In 1947 , the general functions of the nurses were redefined , since we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ promoting health , a rapid development of health centers , and a recognition of the psychotherapeutic role of the nurse . Prior to the redefinition , nursing had begun to stress the importance of offering continuous nursing service ( community to hospital to community ) . The basic professional nursing curricula are being completely reoriented in order to prepare nurses to meet the new developments in health service . More and more , the family is becoming the unit for service . Some of our students are progressing from experience with the healthy to work with the ill , and thence to the re-education and rehabilitation of those who have been ill . Within the above framework , advanced programs in psychiatric nursing and mental hygiene for graduate nurses are being developed . Advanced psychiatric nursing programs have been in existence since 1943 ; the mental health programs for public health nurses since 1947 . Each of these programs leads to a Master 's degree . Nurses so  | trained are prepared to serve in many ways : to maintain and promote mental health ; to prevent mental disorder ; to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and rehabilitation . The accepted curricular objectives for all programs are the same , although the objectives of each are implemented in such ways as to train most effectively a nurse for each of the following goals : a teacher ; a director of nursing service ; a staff nurse ; or a mental health consultant . The general objectives are to develop skills as follows : 1 . Comprehensive understanding of the socio-psycho-dynamics of human ( normal and abnormal ) behavior and personality development . 2 . Greater appreciation and understanding of social and cultural influence upon human adjustments and social interaction . 3 . Increased understanding of self-motivation , which may be utilized in furthering nursing relationships . 4 . Greater skill in utilizing nursing methods and an understanding of dynamics of behavior in assisting persons to modify behavior in a way that will promote health and prevent illness . 5 . Greater understanding of the problems involved , and ability to plan , carry out , and direct comprehensive and continuous nursing care for and with persons in the hospital , or other community agencies , on state @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of members of the psychiatric team in preventing mental illness , providing remedial care , and rehabilitating persons , and the skill necessary in team cooperation . 7 . Ability to teach psychiatric nursing and mental hygiene . 8 . Moderate degree of skill in techniques and methods for investigating nursing problems and contributing to the body of knowledge of psychiatric nursing . Those interested in developing professional training in clinical psychology may find it helpful to consult with deans or directors of schools of nursing in their own or other universities , since a number of professional nursing schools have been organized within the last ten years . There are evidently many problems common to the two professions insofar as the organization of professional schools is concerned . An exchange of experiences between clinical psychologists and nurse educators in regard to length and variety of training for clinical practice and the evaluation of competence should prove to be mutually beneficial .  | The dynamics of adjustment and personality development are now taught in nursing schools by dynamically oriented psychiatrists . It seems reasonable to believe that nursing will also turn @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ once clinical psychologists become available . Psychiatric nursing , as a specialty , could probably advance more rapidly if collaborative research activities were undertaken with research-minded clinical psychologists . The literature contains very little in the way of suggestions for the psychological management of neurotic or psychotic patients during hospitalization . Such management is largely within the responsibility of the psychiatric nurse and varies in quality with the educational and professional experiences of the nurse . Interdisciplinary seminars now form a part of some of the advanced programs in psychiatric nursing and mental hygiene . Both fields might well benefit by better relationships between nursing schools and psychology departments so that such seminars would stem from joint educational planning within the universities , as well as from joint planning with the Schools of Social Work and Medicine . As clinical psychologists seek clinical experience for their students , it will be important for them to establish working relationships with hospital and clinic administrators and with nursing service directors , as well as with medical staffs . This may be especially advantageous in general hospitals where the staffs are not ordinarily familiar @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as clinical psychologists seek experience in community agencies , it should be borne in mind that well-baby clinics are largely under the direction of public health nurses . The same is true for the health supervision of the pre-school child . The American Journal of Nursing and Public Health Nursing will provide good samples of present-day activities in nursing for those clinical psychologists who are interested in learning more about the profession of nursing as it affects their own training and practice . Nursing as a whole , and more specifically , psychiatric nursing and psychiatrically prepared public health nurses , are looking forward to closer working relationships with clinical psychologists in the universities and in field agencies . The Conference was impressed with the need for closer collaboration with psychiatric nurses . As Miss Schmitt pointed out , there are many ways in which the two professions are experiencing  | the same organizational and educational problems , and many ways in which mutual explorations of common problems might benefit both professions as well as patients . It was recommended , therefore , that : An appropriate committee of the American @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nursing and explore methods for promoting closer understanding and mutual education .  | Relations With Government Agencies In more ways than one , the second World War , the Federal Government , and to a lesser degree , state and local governments , have exerted tremendous influence upon the recent development of training programs in clinical psychology . The Conference at Boulder served as an opportunity for universities to take stock of these influences , since more than two years had elapsed between the inception of formal government programs and the convening of the Conference in August , 1949 . A brief review of the programs should start with the general effects of the G.I. Bill and its educational benefits for veterans . The advantages of this Act have been so widespread , and its administration has been so intelligently applied , that the Conference members apparently accepted it as a matter of course ; only one mention of it occurs in the minutes of the meetings . True , the influence of the G.I. Bill is gradually diminishing as more and more graduate students use up their allotted time . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to begin , continue , and ( often ) complete their graduate education in clinical psychology , the G.I. Bill has been an uncelebrated event of vast professional importance . The Results of Governmental Influences . Other federal programs for increasing the number of trained clinical psychologists originally met with a certain amount of suspicion , despite the fact that each was adopted by many universities . Both the program of the Veterans administration to provide part-time employment for clinical psyhology trainees ( now numbering 700 students in 41 universities ) nd the training stipends and grants of the United States Public  | Health Service were initially questioned for their possible coercive influence on training programs . The Department of the Army also announced in 1949 a program for subsidizing clinical psychology students during their last two years of graduate work . What can be said after a two-year period about the fear of federal coercion of education , a fear that traditionally has exercised such a widespread influence on American education ? As far as clinical psychology is concerned , the following resolution , approved unanimously , seems to constitute @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the part of the universities , domination by the Federal Government through financial coercion appears up to this point to be at a minimum . Federal agencies are to be commended for their sincere efforts to avoid coercion or domination of educational programs . Lack of coercion does not mean lack of influence . Thus it was frankly recognized that federal programs have greatly influenced the field of clinical psychology , almost all such influence being on the credit side of the ledger . One sub-group reported that : Opportunities of great magnitude have been opened up by postwar developments in government agencies . These in combination with social need and professional readiness have produced an important effect upon the field of psychology . Succinctly , the postwar influence of government has enabled universities to improve the quality of their training of clinical psychologists as well as to increase the number of their students . The typical training program is now a minimum of four years in length , rather than three as formerly . One year of internship it generally required prior to granting of the doctorate . But while @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ help of government programs , the actual directions and specific trends have been charted by the professional group itself as seen in the work of the American Psychological Association Committee on Training in Clinical Psychology .  | Government Programs and the Future . Despite the widespread and freely spoken praise for the governmental programs as administered over the past two years , there was nonetheless considerable concern expressed over the need to maintain adequate standards in the future . There was no hesitation in recognizing that governmental programs exist in a political framework . Funds are appropriated by Congress and by state legislatures , whose complexions change from time to time . Budgets may be slashed arbitrarily and personnel levels may deteriorate . Since much of the current training of clinical psychologists is to some extent dependent upon federal grants to university departments and stipends to promising students , the following question was considered : " How can federal programs be kept at their present high level of administration and future domination avoided ? " The following suggestions were made : 1 . University representatives should continue to serve as consultants @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ representation may not only increase the stability of federal support but will also enable training centers better to anticipate future trends . 2 . Federally financed programs should continue to be conducted with adequate provision for cooperation between professional groups and federal personnel , and the practice of reaching important decisions on the basis of joint consideration by the profession and the government agencies should be maintained . At the request of participants from the public agencies present , this statement was further elaborated to remove any suspicion that the government agencies wish to control the policies of the training centers . Universities and government representatives agreed that the control of ( raining programs is and should remain in the hands of the universities . It was emphasized that representatives from professional groups were necessary to the planning of governmental policies , but hat representatives of government agencies should limit themselves ( o serving as consultants to universities and then only upon request I or such assistance . 3 . Clinical and other psychologists , as part of their responsibilities  | both as citizens and as members of a profession , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to insure that such psychology programs are consistent with the best interests of the public and of the profession . 4 . The universities and their staff members already exert considerable constructive influence on federal programs . It is important that this influence have the effect of helping the federal agencies to maintain their level of professional personnel by retaining competent persons now in responsible positions and by securing highly qualified persons for replacements and new appointments . 5 . As a concrete example of interest in federal programs , universities can continue to encourage good students to consider government service for employment . 6 . As one of the sciences , psychology should lend its influence to improving conditions for scientific workers in government service . 7 . Public acknowledgment of the excellent cooperation between the government and professional centers can , in itself , help to maintain the federal programs on a high level . In addition to means for maintaining federal support , the possibility of the withdrawal of such support in the future was discussed . This problem must be viewed in the light of current trends @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ schools , for example , are experiencing almost disastrous increases in the cost of educating medical students . Private universities , even those with multi-million-dollar endowments , are not receiving incomes adequate to their needs . State universities , supported in the main by legislative appropriation , are finding their resources seriously impaired by increasing diversion of taxes into new responsibilities . Thus while the demand for scientific and professional workers is reaching new highs , and their education is becoming more expensive , financial support for training programs is increasingly more difficult to obtain . While government programs have undoubtedly filled a great need in recent years , university administrators have not always been comfortable in accepting their financial aid . The federal budget is open to annual revision and state budgets are , for the most part ,  | appropriated biennially . Neither federal nor state agencies ordinarily can make commitments in advance of the period for which appropriations have been made . Thus universities frequently find themselves in the position of accepting much-needed financial support , but without assurances that long-range plans can be carried through or that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ honored once support is withdrawn . Academic tenure , provided by the majority of universities , often creates special difficulties . Thus the Conference reaffirmed a plea for a principle that has been vigorously supported by individual training centers in their negotiations with government agencies : The principle of " forward financing " of training and research grants is wholly desirable from the standpoints of the universities and the profession . The possibility of such forward financing is , of course , contingent upon Congressional action . In view of the uncertainty of present government financing of training programs , the question of long-term planning was examined . Most of the universities represented have built their programs on a reasonable amount of local self-support . However , since many universities have increased teaching staffs on the basis of federal funds , some curtailment of staff and decrease in number of students would have to be undertaken if federal grants-in-aid were sharply diminished within the immediate future . The solution of the problem obviously lay outside the realm of the Conference . Nonetheless , in order to minimize the dangers of forced @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ responsibility for developing its own program with primary reliance upon local funds And local authority . Diversified training to meet the needs of local , ituations is one means of acquiring and retaining local support . Thus while the Conference members were vocal in their approval of present federal programs , the problems of the future were criously considered . Recommendations were made for avoiding trends toward government domination of training programs . The  | financial difficulties of higher education were seen as important aspects of the development of training programs in clinical psychology . The need for maintaining local support of training programs was seen as a safeguard against sudden drops in federal grants . By maintaining strong local support , universities would be in a sound position to resist possible future encroachments upon self-determination . Finally , temporary grants from government can be used to develop new university programs which , after demonstrating their importance , can be taken over with local support when the grant is ended . The V.A . Training Program . Since the training program of the Veterans Administration directly affects all 41 of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ approximately 130 consultants from departments of psychology , an examination was made of current practices in V.A . training as they affect the training universities . Major concern was expressed over the question of the breadth of education of V.A . trainees . In view of the limiting of V.A . internships to hospitals and clinics working primarily with adult males , the question of advisability of specialization was debated . Although this topic is more thoroughly discussed in Chapter 3 , some of the conclusions as they apply to V.A . trainees should be reported here . There was general agreement that the training of V.A . students should be as broad as , and not essentially different from , the training of the non-V.A. clinical students . Among other things , this means that the training of all clinical students should include experience with a wide variety of agencies and with individuals ( if varying ages and types of problems . This point of view was heartily seconded by representatives of all government agencies , who pointed out that university training staffs have too often assumed that the requirements @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ content rather than in basic theory and methodology . The selection of V.A . trainees seems to involve a major problem in the appointment of first-year trainees without previous experience in graduate work or clinical psychology . There was some sentiment  | expressed for not appointing trainees until the end of the first graduate year in order that the student might devote full time to academic work during that year . Greater integration of V.A . staff members with university training departments was felt to be desirable . There seems to be relatively little friction between stations and universities at the present time . Rival recruiting of staff members constitutes a problem , but there seems to be no need for action on this point since the difficulty is rapidly diminishing as graduates of the training programs become available . Improved understanding , greater integration of training , and improved morale of trainees can probably be brought about by providing academic appointments for qualified members of local V.A . staffs . This practice already seems to be fairly widespread . Much discussion centered on the length of time being taken by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ these students receive financial support only while working in a V.A . station , there is a strong tendency for them to spend at least half time obtaining practical experience . This , plus the need for experience in other settings , has resulted in the lengthening of their programs so that many trainees may not finish the degree in four years . In view of the fact that this problem is not confined to V.A . students alone , the group felt that current problems should be handled administratively and the issue of optimum length of training period should await further experience by training centers . The United States Public Health Service Programs . There seemed to be few problems in connection with the utilization of the grantsin-aid and training stipends of the United States Public Health Service . The desirability of forward financing of such grants has been discussed above . While earlier notification of grants is certainly desirable from the universities ' point of view , the Public Health Service must administer its program under federal regulations . It was also pointed out that from the standpoint of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ future Congressional appropriations involves complication , since it may commit the agency to specific uses for all operating funds if appropriations decrease .  | There was a discussion of the relationship of Public Health Service training stipends to teaching assistantships , scholarships , and the like provided by university funds . It was generally agreed that both kinds of help for graduate students can be well utilized by universities at this time . It was also indicated by the Public Health Service representatives that it is highly desirable for their stipends to be uniform in size at each level of training throughout the country , even though the size of teaching assistantships and scholarships provided from the universities ' own funds may vary from one institution to another . Other questions were raised concerning the flexible use of Public Health stipends . Should the university continue to request such stipends for the same students from year to year if their work continues to be satisfactory , or can the stipends be reassigned by transferring such students to non-Public Health appointments ? The representatives from the Public Health Service in general favored @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ desired , but felt that it was the obligation of the universities to make their policies clear to students , so that false expectations might not be aroused . The question of fifth-year stipends and post-doctoral training was raised in connection with such stipends , but at present the topic seems to be an academic one . The Public Health Service has approved the general principle of supporting post-doctoral training in clinical psychology , but funds have so far not been available for this purpose , and the necessary policies for governing such training have not been finally determined . The problem of including overhead in grants to university departments was discussed in connection with the issue of university finances . The Public Health Service grants can not be considered as requests for contract training or research , but are attempts to help universities to meet their own objectives . The minimal overhead now allowed is to take care of incidentals , and should not be considered as a means of defraying all expenses involved in such grants . An entire morning was devoted to the presentation of the programs of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the  | Clinical Psychology Section of the Veterans Administration , discussed current problems and future trends in the training program of his agency . Dr. Joseph Bobbitt , Chief Psychologist , National Institute of Mental Health of the United States Public Health Service , outlined the over-all policies of the Public Health Service in relation to the training and utilization of clinical psychologists . Lt. Col. Charles Gersoni , Chief , Clinical Psychology Branch , Department of the Army , discussed the new training program the Army is establishing for the training of clinical psychologists for that service . Graduate students who have completed two years of work in clinical psychology ( or psychophysiology ) at an approved university , can apply to be commissioned as second lieutenants in the Army in order to complete the last two years of work for the Ph.D . degree . An internship year will be served at one of three Army general hospitals . Upon receipt of the doctor of philosophy degree , the graduates will be assigned to Army Medical Department activities as first lieutenants in the Regular Army .  | Accreditation of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and policies is sooner or later faced with the problem of determining the procedures appropriate for training new members . This , in essence , was the broad task faced by the members of the Conference . Their agreements and disagreements are the basis for the present report . When a group of fundamental policies finds general acceptance , the profession inevitably is called upon to make public its program for safeguarding the interests of society and of aspirants hoping to qualify as members of the profession . Licensing and certification are methods for providing such safeguards , since they entail a public statement of the qualifications necessary to become a member of the professional group . In addition , these methods also control the use of professional status in a given state or locality . Another method adopted by some professions is that of publicl certifying to the adequacy of training programs in particular training centers . This published approval is a highly limited type of professional recognition in that it certifies only to the adequacy of training facilities and makes no claim for the individual graduates of the accredited @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ training centers and , either explicitly or b simple failure to mention , exclude other training centers , accreditation at its inception normally may produce anxiety and resistance ; for those centers excluded may suffer loss of status , of students , and of financial support . Few psychologists are likely to be concerned over protests from institutions proposing to undertake the training of clinical psychologists with obviously inadequate staffs and training facilities . Everyone recognizes , however , that honest differences  | of opinion are bound to occur in regard to the borderline institutions that may form a sizeable proportion of the training centers being evaluated . The frictions that arise from such differences of opinion are intensified on both sides by the knowledge that lasting injustices may be perpetrated by a group sincerely trying to complete a necessary but largely thankless task . One of the great dangers commonly recognized by those concerned with accreditation lies in the possibility of failing to provide channels whereby new training centers can establish themselves in the face of the inevitable handicap of not already being accredited . Instructors and students alike are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not be accredited . Obtaining financial support for an " unrecognized " training program , whether from university or outside sources , requires a degree of salesmanship and pedagogical collateral that is , to say the least , rare . An additional hazard of the accrediting procedure lies in the possibility that it may be used to safeguard , not the public and would-be candidates , but the accumulated privileges of dominant groups within the profession or among the already approved training centers . Competition for good candidates and deliberate restrictions on the number of new members entering a given occupation are not unknown . These are not necessarily reprehensible tactics in professional training ; but when used for the benefit of entrenched interests and against the public welfare , such tactics must be condemned . Of more importance than condemnation , however , is the establishment of policies for preventing the occurrence of such abuses of accreditation . In considering accreditation for university departments engaged in training clinical psychologists , an additional danger of considerable magnitude is encountered . Without exception , the training of clinical psychologists is only one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Graduate degrees are also awarded for concentration in research or in general psychology , industrial psychology , physiological psychology , social psychology , educational psychology , and so on . There is no necessary relation  | between the department 's adequacy in training for clinical psychology and its facilities for training in other areas of psychology . In fact , certain universities well recognized for their graduate training have preferred to concentrate their energies in nonclinical fields and have no program for clinical psychology . These facts of academic organization are well known to psychologists , but are likely to be unknown to members of related professional groups and may not even be clearly recognized by university administrators , now that universities have enrollments up to forty thousand students . How can one insure that approval of one portion of a university psychology department , clinical psychology , is not misinterpreted as approval of the whole department ? The question , phrased in terms of clinical training programs that are not accredited , arouses even more possibilities of manifest injustice . These major hazards of a program for accreditation were frankly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was ( and is ) a very serious problem , one that almost makes the accreditation question a choice between two evils , particularly when special circumstances surrounding the present training of clinical psychologists are considered . There has been a marked if not desperate shortage of qualified instructors in the field ever since the end of the war . To a large extent , most training programs in clinical psychology have been initiated or have been forced to undergo reorganization within the last three years . Add to these difficulties what was thought to be a lack of generally accepted goals and training methods , and the prospect for accreditation becomes even more bleak . In spite of the very serious arguments against immediate accreditation , there seemed to be no real opposition at the Conference to the acceptance of accreditation in the future . What were some of the factors behind this acceptance ? In the first place , accreditation of training programs in clinical psychology had been going on for two years and was preceded by several years of preliminary investigation . The needs of the Veterans Administration @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the start of this program . In 1946 , the Veterans Administration  | requested the American Psychological Association to provide a list of universities approved for the training of clinical psychologists . Also in 1946 the Public Health Service requested the American Psychological Association to recommend a suitable program of training for clinical psychologists . The 1947 Report of the APA Committee on Training in Clinical Psychology ( Appendix A ) was a result , in part , of this request . The needs of the Veterans Administration for lists of approved training centers , and of the Public Health Service for all relevant information to assist staff and consultants in making the most effective allocation of training grant and stipend funds , have continued to emphasize the importance of the work of this APA Committee . The government agencies could not do for themselves what the American Psychological Association could do for them . Accordingly , the American Psychological Association , through the work of the Committee , evaluated university training programs in 1947 , 1948 , and 1949 . Parts of the 1947 evaluations were published ; the 1948 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the APA Board of Directors , the Council of Representatives , and votes of university department chairmen . The 1949 results also were left unpublished . It is thus apparent that self-evaluation by psychologists themselves became a necessity at a time thought by many to be inopportune . Yet at the same time still other forces were acting in the same direction to force consideration of accreditation . Members of the American Psychological Association set up the American Board of Examiners in Professional Psychology in September , 1946 , as a means of public certification for clinical psychologists , industrial psychologists , and counseling and guidance psychologists at the diplomate level . While ABEPP has no direct relationship to an accreditation program for training universities , the establishment of certification procedures by the psychological profession necessarily involves the problem of discriminating among certain institutions capable of engaging in the training of professional persons . Since clinical psychology is a profession that attracts many persons without adequate educational and personal qualifications , the problem of evaluating doctoral training programs  | is perhaps more acute in the clinical area than in industrial or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one of the forces pushing toward accreditation , it should be noted that certification by ABEPP does not necessarily depend upon the awarding of the Ph.D . by one of the currently accredited universities . Another impelling force toward accreditation stems from the very great influx of new students into the field of clinical psychology immediately after the second World War . The Conference believed that the profession of psychology has an ethical responsibility to answer as honestly as possible inquiries from students about centers where adequate training in clinical psychology can be obtained . To some extent , such requests for information may have resulted from the steps that had already been taken in accrediting . Nonetheless , the responsibility for providing such guidance is not dodged ordinarily even by those universities that have not been accredited . A certain amount of hindsight was also available at the Conference , since accrediting had been in effect for two years . Each of the four sub-groups that considered accreditation problems reported favorably on the desirability of the procedure . One of the subgroups voted unanimously that " the general effects of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have been salutary . " Standards have been raised ; departments have scrutinized their programs and incorporated many improvements ; and university administrations have become more aware of the problems of training clinical psychologists . Irritation at specific procedures and doubts of the omniscience of the Committee were freely expressed , but no sentiment to halt the accrediting of training programs in clinical psychology was discernible . Publication of Ratings . Although accreditation has been under way for two years and was endorsed by the Conference , the problem of publication of the results remains an unsolved issue . This problem was discussed from all angles and over several sessions of the Conference . Suggested publication times ranged from " immediately " to " after 1952 . " Suggested forms of accreditation ranged from the  | publication of a list with multiple categories , such as A , B , and C schools , to one list of approved schools only . The discussion finally boiled down to two major principles with which the majority seemed to agree . First , the Conference should recommend that publication should not occur until @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its ratings are adequate . Secondly , although the Committee was then in its third year of evaluating departments and sufficient confidence in its rating could be expected in the near future , the date of publication should be left for the Committee to decide . As a result of these decisions , the Conference framed a resolution that was submitted to the American Psychological Association and approved by the APA Council at the Denver meeting . The recommendation was as follows : Not earlier than 1950 and not later than 1952 , two lists should be published : an alphabetical list of accredited departments without differentiation or classification ; and a similar list of departments visited and regarded as in a promising stage of development . Accrediting Policies . Earlier sections of this discussion reviewed many of the hazards in the evaluation of professional training programs . The Conference considered various methods for safeguarding the general development of professional training , and also individual universities , against the possible disadvantages arising from the evaluating procedure . That accrediting is likely to crystallize the profession itself has been widely recognized by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It is often pointed out that clinical psychology is a rapidly developing field that has sought real professional stature only in the postwar years . If formal and public approval is given too early to a particular type of training program , progress is very likely to be impeded , particularly if either the schools or the evaluating Committee hold slavishly to set principles of training . Conference members were very outspoken in recommending both to universities and to the Committee that university departments should feel free to experiment resolutely and to follow  | their own convictions without adherence to either established objectives or published criteria . Although such public endorsement of the right of university departments to experiment with their programs is likely to increase the difficulties of any accrediting body , there can be little disagreement with the conviction that one of the major reasons for accrediting is to implement the desire of the profession to raise training standards as new and better methods of training become available . New and better methods are unlikely to be developed if the training universities do not feel free to engage in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they depart from those conventionally approved . Conference participants who had served or were serving on the evaluating Committee felt that this policy has been explicitly accepted by the Committee during its deliberations . The Conference also suggested that the Committee should routinely adopt two further procedures that might be difficult to administer , but that would help to insure objectivity in the rating process . The first procedure would make it incumbent upon the Committee to publish as explicitly as possible the criteria used in evaluating training departments . While no one suggested that matters pertaining to individual schools should be made public , the general policies upon which the Committee acts should be made available . The second procedure suggested was that a discussion of the results of the evaluation made by visitors of the Committee on Training in Clinical Psychology should be made at the time of the visit when requested by department chairmen . This latter procedure is already being followed to a large extent , and letters to department chairmen from the committee contain the final conclusions of the Committee in regard to the individual department @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the American Psychological Association rather than of the training universities , the appeal from Committee ratings can be made to the Board of Directors of the Association itself . Nonetheless , many participants were concerned over the threefold functions now entrusted to the Committee . It decides on standards to be followed  | in the accrediting process ; it visits the training centers and decides on the ratings to be made for individual schools ; and it provides advice to departments of psychology . To a large extent it acts as both judge and jury with only the right of appeal to the American Psychological Association and the influence of professional opinion as checks on its broad powers . While there was little criticism expressed of the way in which the Committee had exercised its powers to date , the problem of setting up policies that would help to insure the objectivity of its operations was discussed at considerable length . The obvious solution to the problem would involve the creation of two committees with separate functions . One committee would set up standards for approving universities ; the other committee @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has shown , however , that proliferation of committees is not the most efficient or the most workable method , nor does it necessarily insure objectivity . Communication between widely scattered members of a single committee is none too good even under the best conditions . Two groups with divided responsibilities might create more difficulties than would be solved . The problem is obviously one that requires considerable deliberation by psychologists in addition to those who were in attendance at the Conference . As a result of the discussion , the following resolution was decided upon : The APA Conference recommends that the APA consider the possible advantages of separating the two functions of establishing objectives and standards for training in psychology , on the one hand , and accreditation , on the other . While the Conference felt that the question of separation of functions in accrediting schools was a matter to be decided by the American Psychological Association , there was general agreement that accreditation might well be given too much consideration at the expense of the even more important task of encouraging the profession in its efforts to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and better ones . Accrediting committees almost always become engaged in practical matters that are  | likely to limit their vision and focus their energies upon their immediate duties . Furthermore , the present Committee on Training in Clinical Psychology has no authority to accredit in fields of graduate training other than clinical , although its actions indirectly affect training programs outside of clinical psychology . Conference participants felt that the American Psychological Association should have a committee concerned primarily with educational policies , a committee that is not limited to the problems of clinical psychology but is in a position to evaluate the actions of accrediting committees as they relate to desirable educational principles . The following resolution , directed to the American Psychological Association , aims at the establishment of such a committee : We urge the creation of a committee with broad powers to examine and review educational philosophy , methods , and standards beyond those serving as the foundation for accreditation in any one field of applied psychology , and with the power to review accreditation policies and practices . Many of the difficulties inherent in accrediting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ especially irksome problem of having psychology departments as a whole known on the basis of their rating in clinical psychology alone found no ready solution at the Conference . One suggestion made was that the American Psychological Association again publish an up-to-date description of the areas of interest of each psychology department training graduate students . The interests and training facilities should be furnished by the departments themselves as was done iii the 1947 report of the Sears Committee. * One other matter that related to general policies of training was considered by a sub-group that discussed a medical orientation in regard to accreditation . This group felt that although in the past training in clinical psychology seems to have been particularly good in medically oriented schools , accreditation is not , and should not be , withheld because a school has another basic orientation . Footnote  | In summary , the Conference viewed accreditation in clinical psychology as a somewhat mixed blessing . Its establishment as a general policy seems to be an accepted fact . The procedural details are still in the process of development and will require thoughtful @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Training in Clinical Psychology . There are many possible obstacles to be overcome , but frank recognition of the dangers , coupled with the development of reasonable safeguards , can avoid most of the anticipated problems .                     