@@774159

txt  | fathers of the Church . But nothing could correct the ancillary consequence of the error , which was to define sin as sensuality rather than as self-love and to construct a system of salvation in which ascetic spirituality became the path to redemption . The seat of sin was placed in the " belly " rather than in the self . ( Origen ) Thus the self was withdrawn from judgement . There is a corruption of every Biblical concept involved in this Platonism . The " goodness of creation " and the significance of the whole temporal and historical process is placed in question . The wholeness of man in body and soul is made dubious , and the evil he does is attributed to his finiteness rather than his freedom and is regarded as an inevitable consequence of that finiteness . Augustine arrested for a time this baneful absorption of a Biblical dramatic faith into an ontology . In him , the Biblical account of the self in its freedom and wholeness of body and soul triumphed over Neo-Platonic presuppositions . Perhaps it was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was Neo-Platonic rather than Platonic or Aristotelian . It therefore emphasized mystery beyond meaning rather than rational structure as the basis of meaning . There was more room for the elaboration of the significance of the meanings of the drama of Biblical revelation . Thus Augustine restored the Biblical accounts of creation , of selfhood , and of the sin and the grace in the dimension of human freedom . Augustine was not capable of refuting one other error which had crept into the interpretation of Biblical truth . That error was to eliminate the studied paradox of Biblical faith in its interpretation of redemption . For redemption was , on the one hand , the emancipation of the self from itself by its devotion to God . It was , on the other hand , the constant forgiveness and mercy of God toward all men , for even the most devoted among them would be involved in the sin of setting their will and interest against the divine , usually by assuming a too neat identity between the human and the divine will . Augustine elaborated a fairly complacent . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may he denominated perfect if we walk perfectly on the road to perfection . " This doctrine per-  | suaded Augustine to draw a sharp line between the civitas dei and the civitas terrena , between the saved and the lost ; and to lay the foundations or to offer the first example of the perennial inclination of the religious community to make itself odious by its pretensions of righteousness . The long history of medieval Christianity was the story of the gradual consolidation of the synthesis between Biblicaldramatic and Greek ontological modes of apprehending reality . The synthesis culminated in the thought of Thomas Aquinas , which became definitive for Catholic thought . In this synthesis the sense of structure derived from Aristotelian thought gradually took the place of the more Platonic and Neo-Platonic sense of a divine mystery above the observable structures . Since it is necessary to do justice both to the structural aspect of reality and to elements which appear in man and his history by reason of human- freedom above the structures , it would seem that the Thomistic synthesis was the most adequate method of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was inadequate because it did not fully recognize the degree to which historical freedom reached down into the structural aspects of life . The Aristotelianism of the Middle Ages was challenged progressively as the discoveries of historical development in both nature and history made the Aristotelian ontology otiose . The most serious consequence of the incorporation of classical ontology was in the field of ethics where the Biblical idea of love as the final norm of life was added as an extra " theological virtue " together with faith and hope upon an ethical system defined by the classical conception of " natural law . " The content of " natural law " was much too specific and the " intuitions " of reason which were drawn from it were much too inflexible to do justice to the ever new historical occasions which appear in history . The moral intuitions also failed to define the good adequately for man in the wholeness of body and soul . The most absurd consequence of this classical scheme was in the field of sex , in which a very negative attitude toward sex , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , was combined with an effort to define the  | function of sex from an analysis of " nature . " The consequence was the prohibition of sexual relations even in marriage except for the end " intended " by nature , namely procreation . The fact that a sexual partnership is also a comradeship between two persons who would express their love for each other in sexual terms , even beyond the obvious " intention " of " nature , " is thus negated . The whole system of classical ethics , as incorporated into the Biblical mode of thought about the providence of God in and over history , is highly dubious . Thomas ' assertion that God 's providence is expressed in an " eternal law " and that the " natural law " is the rational creature 's participation in " the eternal law " clearly substitutes rational ontology for the Biblical dramatic apprehension of the meaning of history . The rational " intuitions " of natural law are much too rigid and neat to give adequate moral guidance to men in the unique occasions of history @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the medieval synthesis is too rational on the one hand , it does not provide sufficient " rational " checks upon the religious imagination on the other hand . Thus the religious life of the Middle Ages had no protection against the growth of " superstition , " against the tendency of reducing concepts of grace to magic , and of using the ecclesiastical control of magic as a source of political power . Whatever errors were incorporated into the medieval synthesis were aggravated by the political supremacy which the Church established over the whole of the medieval culture . It is important to analyze the consequences of this supremacy fully because it had the most fateful consequences in the whole political and spiritual history of the Western world . It is always dangerous to establish any unchallenged human authority because human pretensions tend to grow when they are not subject to challenge . It is particularly dangerous to establish a priesthood in such an unchallenged position because religion lends itself particularly to the pretension of possessing absolute truth and virtue by finite and sinful men . The establishment of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and civilization is due to unrepeat-  | able historical contingencies . The disintegration of the Roman Empire left the Church as residuary legatee of this dying world and as tutor to the yet unformed European culture , making its way from barbarism to civilization partly by appropriating the cultural treasures of the civilization which it had vanquished . These events and facts gave the Church an initial advantage which it exploited , particularly by using its possession of the " keys of Heaven " in a religious age , to unlock the doors of power on earth . The establishment of papal supremacy was not possible without violating one of the cardinal tenets of Biblical faith which asserted that " in God 's sight is no man living justified , " and thus implied the ambiguity of all human virtues and achievements . The violation of this Biblical affirmation was made explicit in the claim of the Pope to be " Vicar of Christ " on earth and to govern the world in the name of Christ . Beginning with this claim , Christianity has been inferior to Hebraic prophetism in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the human , and not heeding the prophetic warning , " For as the heavens are higher than the earth , so are my ways higher than your ways , and my thoughts than your thoughts " ( Is. 55:9 ) . The effect of this pretension was manifold . Three facets of it deserve special consideration : ( A ) It made a religious experience of the ultimate , which must remain a matter of personal commitment and repentance , into an article of faith which could be enjoined by political authority . It thereby robbed the religious experience of its essential character and emptied it of both religious meaning and moral prestige . It was this facet against which the Reformation protested so vehemently . The corruption of religion was aggravated by the general tendency to reduce " grace " in the religious life to a power which could be magically transmitted . ( B ) The derivation of political power from the pretensions of sanctity was very effective in a religious age ; but it was bound to generate increasing resentments , which came to a head in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ even pious Catholics anticipated long before the sixteenth cen-  | tury , notably Marsilius of Padua and Dante . Dante , in De Monarchia , sought desperately to rescue Catholic universalism , the one virtue of papal absolutism , from the odium in which it was enveloped by religious pretension of the papal Church . ( C ) The papal authority over the whole of culture had the special effect of giving the concept of " dogma " in religion a very unfortunate connotation . For " dogma " was the expression of a religious authority against the growing desires of a culture to explore all human possibilities , including the possibilities of investigating every coherence and sequence in the natural world and history . The compound of Biblical religion with Aristotelianism was particularly unfortunate because it 7 accentuated the idea of a world of fixed and eternal essences / in which deductive rational processes could explore the unknown upon the basis of the known . Modern empirical science , beginning with Francis Bacon , was forced to insist on the right and the necessity of empirically examining " causes " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in history . Ironically the empiricism on which Bacon insisted and which became the basis for all the triumphs of modern science had to be asserted against the authority of a Christian Aristotelianism , though the idea that reality is not totally rational and that it is necessary to account for " the irrationality of the givenness of things " is derived from the Biblical doctrine of creation as contrasted with the classical idea of creation through the rational forming of the formless matter or the unformed stuff . But this idea of creation was corrupted so that a divine act becomes in each particular instance an explanation of an event , which obviates the necessity of finding a particular cause for it . Therefore Bacon protested against the effort to understand nature ex analogia hominis instead of looking for the laws and structures which actually determined actualization . He could hardly anticipate that the empirical method which he initiated would end by trying to understand man ex analogia naturae and that the empirical method which unlocked the mysteries of nature so well would become the basis of an implicit dogma @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  | We have sought to clarify the effect of the synthesis between the Biblical-dramatic forms of thought and the classical confidence in reason and its emphasis upon a rational ontology which entered into that synthesis . With the disintegration of that synthesis under the impact of the Renaissance and Reformation , one of the effects of the disintegration was that the Reformation re-emphasized the Biblical and dramatic approaches to the self and to God , while the Renaissance separated out the classical identification of the self and mind , of reason and reality and sharpened the tools of rational discrimination . This division had some very marked effects upon our culture . For the Renaissance initiated movements of culture which led to an even more extravagant confidence in reason as the source of human virtue than characterized either the classical or the medieval period . But , on the other hand , it initiated all the rational disciplines which have enriched our culture and which finally led to the modern triumphs of science in the knowledge of nature . The Reformation , on the other hand , in returning to a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " facts " about man which are only disclosed on the presupposition of the dramatic encounter between a divine and  | human self . These facts are validated continually by experience ; and their discovery places the Reformation in the unique position of contributing to the sum of human knowledge despite its lack of interest in the pursuit of knowledge and despite , or perhaps because of , its " fideism " that is its appeal to faith rather than reason , and its cavalier attitude toward the disciplines of culture , particularly toward philosophy . Among its contributions to the understanding of human selfhood are : the emphasis on the wholeness of the person in body and soul , derived from the Bible ( Luther 's totus homo ) ; the conception of the height of human freedom and of the encounter of the person with a personal God in this dimension of its existence ; the idea of the critical and total nature of this encounter , involving the whole of the person and shattering his pride and self-esteem . This idea , derived from Paul ( " I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ purges Christian piety of all the complexities introduced by ascetic ideals and mystic efforts at flight to the eternal . It places the religious emphasis upon the final encounter between man and God , upon the promise of a renewal of life , if human pretension is destroyed in that encounter ; and upon the paradox of a divine mercy and judgement of God which is met in that encounter . Thus the " Atonement " was seen to be the real content of the " Incarnation " and the relation between judgement and forgiveness is the real mystery in the divine which must be clarified . Finally , the Reformation insists that even the most radical shattering of the old self and the reconstruction in terms of a commitment beyond itself can not eliminate sin , that is self-love , in the life of the redeemed . The Reformation maxim justus et peccator simul , and its insistence that the redeemed are just as needy of forgiveness at the end as at the beginning of their striving because the righteous as well as the sinners are at variance with God @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which remained obscure throughout previous Christian history . It was in fact partially obscure in both prophetic and Pauline thought . It was obscure because the prophets insisted , on the one hand , that the judgement of God would fall with  | equal severity upon the " circumcized and uncircumcized " ( Jeremiah ) but , on the other hand , they had a lively sense of the difference between the righteous and the unrighteous . St. Paul was certain that " if any man be in Christ , he is a new creature " ( 2 Cor. 5:17 ) while he also insisted that all human righteousness was unavailing in God 's sight and that men would be in need of God 's mercy , no matter what their moral attainments might be . The Protestant Reformation may be said to have clarified the prophetic and the evangelical tradition by profiting from the ages of testimony on this perplexing ambiguity in Scripture and in life , The testimony proved that pretensions of perfection were new causes of sin and conflict in the world . This discovered or rediscovered truth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of truth . For it is an obvious truth to which every kind of experience bears witness . Yet it is a truth which can not be comprehended except on the basis of the particular presupposition of the Biblical faith ; and it is constantly obscured by the universal inclination of men to find some ground of either reason or faith , of piety or intellectual attainment , which will assure them of an unambiguous " righteousness " and of the opportunity to hold their fellow men , who do not share this ground , in moral contempt . The Reformation did not always exploit this knowledge about human nature to its full extent ; but that merely proves that even the final truth about man can not overcome the inclination of the human heart to misuse any truth for its pride or prestige . Nor was the Reformation conception about the wholeness of man in body and soul fully exploited . It did prompt the Reformation 's fierce anti-asceticism , its opposition to the effort to establish goodness by the suppression of physical desires , particularly sexual ones . But @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Calvin to rethink the whole Christian attitude toward man 's sexual problem . Luther could , when he thought unsystematically and expressed himself occasionally , rejoice in marriage as a source of grace and joy . But when he thought of the sexual problem theologically , his strong Paulinism prompted him to define marriage as " a hospital for  | sick souls , " emphasizing with Paul the purely negative advantages of a stable sexual partnership between man and woman . It fails to recognize the fact that a community in which mutual fidelity between husband and wife , and between parents and children , disciplines life has a more positive contribution to the achievement of grace than the mere channeling of sexual passion . The errors of the Reformation thus frequently derive from a lack of rigor in exploiting its own Biblical presuppositions . The truth which emerged in the Reformation was not dependent upon a literalistic interpretation of Scripture . It was , in fact , obscured by such interpretations . For they reduced to a miraculous historical fact , the fact of history which had to be discerned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and mercy , which would shatter the self in its self-esteem and renew to a more creative life . Luther , in contrast to Calvin , was not given to Bibliolatry but described the Bible as the " cradle of Christ , " thus emphasizing the central revelation which must be definitive for the Christian life . But it is fair to say that the whole Reformation in both its Lutheran and Calvinistic varieties , was Biblicist in comparison with Catholicism . This was an inevitable consequence , on the one hand , of its polemic against the authority of the Church , which could not be carried on without the undue exaltation of the authority of a Book ; and , on the other hand , it was due to the indifference of the Reformation to the disciplines of culture , to the scornful attitude of Luther toward " philosophy " and to problems of ontology , which re-enacted the old Hebraic indifference toward all speculations about the coherences and essences of life , and particularly of nature . The resulting obscurantism seemed to relegate Protestant faith to those portions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ developments in the various fields of culture and to give it the appearance of a remnant left over from a pre-scientific age . But it was not merely due to cultural backwardness . That is proved by the quality of Neo-Reformation thought , as in Karl Barth , for instance , which was able to combine a sophisticated knowledge of all the disciplines of modern cul-  | ture with a frantic effort to isolate the Christian faith from the allegedly debilitating effects of philosophical and scientific speculations . We must postpone for the moment the various honest and heroic efforts made by what is usually defined as " liberal Christianity " to establish contact with modern culture , and need only record now that these efforts did usually result in dissipating a part of the Biblical heritage and giving a version of the Christian faith which incorporated one or more of the modern illusions about the self or the dramas of history . These abortive efforts , together with the cultural obscurantism of orthodox Protestantism , fully reveal that the problem of doing justice to both the dramatic and the structural @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as when the debate between Hebraism and Hellenism first began . How difficult it is may be gathered by a consideration of the rather pathetic debate between modern science and Protestant orthodoxy on questions of human nature and destiny , initiated by the Darwinian discoveries in biology . In that debate , Darwinianism seemed to crown the whole structure of modern interpretations of a progressive history by proving natural forms to be as subject to development as historical structures . It also proved an historical relation between the human " animal " and its " mammalian " forebears . These were all " scientific " discoveries , consequent upon an empirical observation of historical and natural sequences . Modern culture drew some illicit , though seemingly plausible , conclusions about these discoveries . It concluded that man 's opinion of himself was too optimistic and that he was no doubt a part of " nature . " It also concluded that history was but an extension of the natural process so that evolution in biological forms was supposed to give the final proof for modern man 's confidence in historical progress @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ told a lot of little truths in the interest of a great lie . " The great lie was the belief that human freedom was not real and that man had no unique characteristics which would distinguish him markedly from the other animals . Orthodox Protestantism countered this great lie by " telling a lot of little  | lies in the interest of a great truth . " The truth was the unique character of man ; and the little lies were the pathetic efforts to refute undoubted scientific discoveries about biological evolution by illicit appeals to the Biblical doctrine of creation , as if it were an alternative to scientific analysis of causes rather than a reference to the mystery which lies beyond all causal sequences and prompts reverence for the emergence of any novelty in the temporal flux , particularly the emergence of such a novelty as the human being . This controversy was in a sense the pathetic climax of the long warfare between science and religion and seemed to prove that the warfare had finally ended in the complete victory of science over religion . All that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ modern naturalistic version of ontological structure a spurious triumph over the " empirical " reality which can be attested by any honest " experience . " That reality is the significant freedom of man expressing itself not only above the level of nature but above any conceivable ontological level whatsoever , and able by that freedom to elaborate various dramatic patterns of history . There can be no question about the futility of the effort to guard the idea of the uniqueness of the human person by resisting and defying the evidence of the biological scientists in regard to the evolution of natural forms . This is the more true since it is an accepted fact and truth that man is related to the natural order and is therefore in a sense an animal . But it is also true that Darwinian conclusions did materially influence the modern estimate of man 's nature so that it seemed impossible to conceive of man as a unique creature . This fact has persuaded a modern philosopher , Karl Jaspers , that it is necessary provisionally to question the validity of the evolutionary idea @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the evolutionary development in order to get a hearing from modern men about the thesis of the radical difference between man and the other creatures . In other words , a justified empiricism in regard to the natural order may become so dominated by ontological ( in this case , naturalistic ) presuppositions that it becomes impossible to be genuinely empirical  | about facts of a different order which do not fit into the ontological presuppositions . ) The fact that Christian obscurantism actually sought to guard an important " fact " about man , though with an abortive strategy , does not excuse the cultural obscurantism , the indifference to the task of tracing the causal relations in nature or in history . But it does prove that the History of the Warfare between Science and Religion ( Andrew White ) was not so simply the story of the triumph of science over religion as was generally supposed . It was certainly not a simple triumph of truth over error and superstition . A system of thought which was based upon a justified " fideism " and which became corrupted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the nature of man and his history . On the other hand , a scientific and rationalistic culture was blind to some obvious , not to say obtrusive , facts about the dimensions of selfhood and of history . Its prescriptions of inquiry contained some hidden ontological dogmas which blinded the culture to those facts which were incompatible with its dogmas . We must postpone for a moment a consideration of the long and tortuous process through which the culture of a free society winnowed the truth about the self and its dramas , contained in a Biblical faith , from the errors caused by its cultural obscurantism and at the same time extricated itself from the errors due to an uncritical reliance upon reason and the scientific method . For these dogmas betrayed it into the effort to comprehend history within the dimension of nature and to derive virtue from man 's reason . The political history of the Western world achieved triumphs of freedom and justice by winnowing truth from falsehood in both forms of faith . Footnote  | The Reformation restored the Biblical-dramatic modes of thought and reclaimed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by either the classicalmedieval ontology or the classical identification of the self with its mind . The Renaissance separated out the classical elements from the medieval synthesis . It therefore initiated all those forces and tendencies in modern thought which either equated mind with self and derived virtue from reason , or which tried to understand the self in the context of some ontological framework . Naturally the Renaissance also restored the capacities for rational discrimination which characterized a classical culture and which , expanded by modern scientific technics , have contributed so much to the modern man 's understanding of his world and of himself within the limits of the culture 's dogmas . However , the modern movement developed two characteristics which were not anticipated in the classical world view . The first is the idea of a temporal development of both nature and history . This progressive view had its rise in the optimism of the Renaissance which expected human reason to march to new triumphs , once reason escaped from the  | prison house of ecclesiastical authority . This optimism was fed by a multitude of real @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interpretation for the understanding of both nature and human nature . The discovery of the growth of historical forms , implied in the thought of the Roman Lucretius but not able to break through the cyclical dogma of the classical age , gave a great impetus to the idea of progress . It turned the cycles into spirals in early Renaissance historiography , thus transmuting the classical into the modern view of historical reality . The discovery of the development of historical forms was supplemented by the later discovery of development in biological structures . Darwin 's biology seemed to provide the final key for the understanding of the world . It also accentuated a second characteristic of modern culture , not evident in the classical world-view which it ostensibly restored . That was the interest in nature and the consequent or at least ancillary conviction that nature as a system is the ultimate reality to which man must orient himself . A naturalistic ontology was a subordinate element in classical culture . But Plato and Aristotle triumphed over the early naturalists or " atomists , " and naturalism never became @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ culture until the phenomenal triumphs of modern science and its conquest of nature seemed to make it plausible . Man was understood as a part of nature . Thus modern culture marched inexorably toward the understanding of nature and the misunderstanding of man . For it not only tried to contain human freedom within an ontological framework but it conceived that framework in naturalistic terms , which is to say , in terms which denied the freedom of the self and falsified the drama of history more consistently than any other ontology . A special ironic touch is given to this development by the fact that it was partly due to the " empirical " method of modern science which was intended to ascertain the " facts " by careful observation and to discount the " deductive " method which was based on confidence in the strict rationality of reality and upon the consequent validity of proceeding from the known to the unknown by rational deduction .  | In the words of Francis Bacon , the father of modern empiricism : " Our method is continually to dwell on things soberly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ union between the experimental and the rational faculty . . . . Those therefore who are determined , not to conjecture or guess , but to find out and know ; not to invent fables and romances of the world , but to look and dissect the nature of the real world must consult only things themselves . " 1 This empirical ambition , which is responsible for all the triumphs of the natural sciences , was directed equally by Bacon and his followers against both the Aristotelian rationalism and the Christian authoritarianism in the medieval synthesis . It gave modern culture a special animus against " dogma . " But unfortunately it was not prepared to deal with the hidden dogmas in the prescriptions of science itself . It was therefore not prepared for the illusions which spread in the name of " empiricism . " It is important to consult the evidence of " things themselves . " But inquiries can not be undertaken without presuppositions or what President Conant defines as " conceptual schemes . " These conceptual schemes are the hidden dogmas . They are usually the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Science , " declares President Conant , " is an interconnected series of concepts and conceptual schemes , which have developed as a result of observation and experimentation , and are fruitful of further experimentation and observation . " 2 Conant 's regard for the necessity of " conceptual schemes " reveals the impossibility of observing the " things themselves " without a frame of meaning for the inquiry . Among natural scientists these conceptual schemes are assumed to be limited and to be subject to constant re-examination in the light of empirical evidence ; for empirical observation may prove the tentative conceptual scheme to be at variance with the facts . Thus the first empirical science of the modern period , astronomy , invalidated the conceptual scheme underlying Ptolemaic and Aristotelian astronomy by the evidence of facts which pointed to a different astronomical order than had been as-Footnote  | sumed in the older pre-Copernican astronomy . From that day to this , it has been assumed that it is a fairly simple procedure to change conceptual schemes when the evidence of the " facts " discredits them . But an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the problem of wide , rather than specific , conceptual schemes , that is , with presuppositions of inquiry which referred not to a specific type of being under scrutiny , but with the very character of being itself . Ideally these conceptual schemes were subject to re-examination ; but practically they proved themselves powerful enough to determine the evidence by which they were supposed to be tested . Thus Professor John Dewey , the most typical of modern naturalistic philosophers , never tired of insisting that the " experimental method " must be rigorous enough to re-examine its own hypotheses . But it never occurred to him that his insistence that the " methods of science " could be transferred from the field of nature to that of history , and that only the intrusion of irrelevant religious and political authority prevented this consummation , rested upon an erroneous and , unexamined presupposition . That was the universally held belief of modern culture that the realm of history was essentially identical with the realm of nature . This belief reduced history to the realm of necessity and obscured the freedom @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Two figures dominated the thought of the seventeenth century and contrived between them in their diverse ways to develop Renaissance thought in the direction which finally resulted in modern culture . They were Thomas Hobbes and Rene Descartes . They had quite different views of human nature but both contrived to sow the seeds which flowered in later confusion about the character of the human self . Thomas Hobbes did not share the confidence of modernity in " reason " as the source of human virtue . In that respect he was not typically modern . His realism , not to say cynicism , probably established the difference between the realism of our political sciences in contrast to the more prevalent illusions about human nature in social sciences . " Reason " in Hobbes ' esteem was the servant of the egoistic self . It was not there-  | fore , as for all rationalists , the instrument of justice and the guarantor of universal , as contrasted with partial and parochial , values . It was " reason " which made the difference between the harmonies of nature and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ responsible for the inordinancy of all human desires . It justified men in following their interests with a consistency which made conflict with their fellow men inevitable and necessitated a tyrannical government in the interest of social harmony . We must postpone for the moment a consideration of the relation of realism with political conservatism in Hobbes , which has persuaded all typical children of the Enlightenment that it is necessary to encourage at least mild illusions about human nature for the purpose of validating democracy . Our present concern is with Hobbes ' empiricism , and with the ancillary naturalism , not to say , " materialism " in his thought . Hobbes was more rigorous than any eighteenth-century French materialist in reducing reality to corporeal dimensions and in dismissing every other type of reality as " fantasy . " He declares : " That a man is a living body , ' we mean not that man ' is one thing and ' living body ' another thing and ' is ' or ' being ' a third ; but that ' man ' and ' living body ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if he be a man he is a living body ' is a true consequence , signified by the word ' is ' ... Therefore ' to walk , ' ' to be speaking , ' ' to see ' ; also ' walking , ' ' speaking , ' ' sight , ' ' life ' and the like signify just the same and are the names of nothing . " 3 Hobbes ' polemic against " fantasies " includes every kind of abstract concept or generalization which describes any " fact " of nature and history above the level of sense object , or discrete event . It fully reveals the ontological implications of a rigorous empiricism . Naturally every aspect of selfhood beyond the dimension of the " living body " is excluded from his system . So , too , are all historic generalizations which describe some pattern of history . Descartes , the other and greater figure in the thought of the seventeenth century , was very conscious of that dimension of Footnote  | selfhood which rose above Hobbes ' " living body . " But @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fancies and credulities from the realm of knowledge . This he did by rigorously separating the mind from the body , assuming that the depth of selfhood which was not contained in a mechanically conceived body would be described in the definition of " res cogitans . " His " Cogito ergo sum " is obviously indebted to Augustine 's speculations about the certainty of self-knowledge . But the sum of Descartes ' thought comes out at a refurbishing of Aristotelian rationalism , in contrast to Hobbes ' rigorous anti-Aristotelianism . In his Passions of the Soul4 in which he distinguishes the passions which have their origin in " animal spirits " and those which are subject to the mind , he reveals the difficulty of destroying the idea of the unity of the self , inherited from Hebraic-Christian culture so that the mind may be fitted into a system of rational coherence and the body take its place in a mechanically conceived " nature . " Naturally there is little more awareness of an integral selfhood than in Hobbes , and the type of knowledge which Descartes insists upon for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , could not grasp historical realities any more than Hobbes ' empiricism . Descartes however was typical and generative of two characteristics of modern culture . His passion for exact knowledge laid the foundation for the achievements of modern science ; and his confidence in the mind 's control over " passions " restored the classical idea of reason as a source of virtue . " Even those who have the weakest souls , " he declares , " can acquire a very absolute empire over their passions , provided they employ sufficient skill in the management and guidance of them . " 5 The French Enlightenment managed to forget Hobbes ' realistic account of human self-interest , to adopt his materialism and to compound it with Cartesian rationalism . The result was a fanaticism in the name of " reason " and of " nature , " which was to offer indubitable proof that the worship of " reason " as the source of virtue and of order both within the individual Footnote  | and in the community was certainly not conducive to that " reasonableness , " which Montaigne @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Western history proves more conclusively that there is a great distinction between the use of reason for the sake of making discriminate judgements and the worship of " reason " as the source of virtue . Every error which infects a modern liberal culture in its estimate of the human situation ? and most of the errors which reached a tragic culmination in modern totalitarianism in the name of " science " ? were hatched in the French Enlightenment . History was simply equated with " nature " and regarded as subject to " nature 's laws . " These laws were regarded as fixed and inviolable as anything in nature ; and therefore subject to " reason 's " analysis . All the illusions of the type of social science which would destroy ideological taints in historical judgements by stricter scientific procedures , were anticipated in the Enlightenment . It had no awareness of the self 's capacity to influence the mind or of the inability of any mind to give a rationally compelling account of historical reality . Therefore it equated " reason " and " nature " sometimes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and sometimes because it believed it to be subject to the rational control of man . It was only necessary for reason to discern the laws of nature to accomplish this object . This confusion led inter alia to the economy of the physiocrats , who not only believed that the knowledge of the laws of nature would free men of all irrelevant political control , but also that an enlightened despot might be necessary to accomplish this emancipation . All these confusions led to what has been defined as " totalitarian democracy . " 6 The irony of the fact that the worship of reason resulted in Jacobin fanaticism and cruelty ; and that a nation which imagined itself emancipated from religious fanaticism should fall so quickly into a new fanaticism , informed by a very religious anti-religious rationalism , has not been fully appreciated by all post-revolutionary " liberalism . " It still adheres to absurd notions about the perfectability of man , chiefly of Footnote  | his reason . It refuses to admit the plain evidence of history , that democracy is necessary because man 's reason is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Therefore it is not possible to trust anyone with unchecked power or to allow any position in the community to remain unchallenged . The Enlightenment spawned every illusion which produced despotism in the name of liberty , civil war in the name of fraternity , and superstitious and uncritical politics in the name of reason . Thus Condorcet criticized the classical age for its " empiricism , " and rejected Montesquieu 's relativism as being based too much on geographic factors and neglecting the immutable conditions or " necessities " of human nature and the " rights " which were allegedly derived from them . Probably no era in modern history has been at once more insistent upon restoring the credos of a classical rationalism , and more engulfed in confusion about the nature of the human self and its dramas , than the period of the French Revolution . That is , among others , the reason why the promises of the French Revolution remain unfulfilled in France to the present day . The unhappy nation is still unable to find stability in the perpetual conflict between social forces which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rejects , and the other accepts , the doctrine of man 's perfectability . The one regards the Church , and the other holds reason , to be the fountain of truth . But neither is capable of that charity and accommodation to the other which makes community possible . So the French Revolution remains unresolved in France after more than a century of history . Evidently the abstract principles of the " dignity " of man and of his right to " liberty " are not as fruitful in creating a free society as the wisdom which recognizes the modicum of truth in error and the modicum of error in the truth of every political credo , and as the sense of community which overarches the political conflict in a healthy society and robs it of its venom . The nineteenth century added little to the wisdom of the contrasting types of naturalists who both regarded history as identical with the realm of nature , the one believing that men should not interfere with its laws and the other seeing in  | sociology the power of a " scientific " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ proponent of the one theory and Auguste Comte of the other . Darwinian biology gave rise to a " social Darwinism " which seemed to give an added scientific prestige to the physiocratic theory , with the difference however that men were warned against interference , not with the " harmonies " of nature but with the " struggle for survival . " In America , William Graham Sumner was the most prominent proponent of the theory of social Darwinism , warning that " the law of the survival of the fittest is not manmade , and can not be abrogated by man . " 7 Lester Ward , on the other hand , propounded the philosophy , or rather sociology , of Comte , with equally absurd conclusions . He was convinced that a proper engagement of " disinterested intelligence and scientific investigation " would enable " sociocracy " to replace monarchy , aristocracy and plutocracy . This rule of the " whole of the people , " to be distinguished from the " majority of the people , " which characterized conventional democracy , would be made possible by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ viewpoints . Both Sumner and Ward abjured metaphysics . Yet it is apparent that the " scientific method " played the same role as the guarantor of the absolute as the Aristotelian nous . Modern empiricism , whether it regarded man as merely the creature or as the creator of history , evidently understood little about the endless competitions of interest in the drama of history and the impossibility of resolving these conflicts by the application of " disinterested intelligence . " In short , it had learned nothing from the refutations by history of the illusions of the French Enlightenment . Decades were required to deliver our social sciences from the naivetes of this new empiricism , so ignorant of the real character of the human self and of the historical drama . The idealistic reaction to the naturalism of the Enlightenment in the nineteenth century supposedly cherished the unique spiritual qualities of man in its " idealistic " ontology . Footnote  | Hegel , particularly , dominated the thought of the nineteenth century . He managed to create a very imposing system of thought which combined elements of classical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ progressive history . Hegel 's early writings reveal some awareness of what Kierkegaard defined later as the " existing individual " ; his hopes , anxieties and frustrations . Furthermore , a deposit of BiblicalChristian awareness of selfhood , particularly of the uniqueness of the self 's self-consciousness , made it necessary for Hegel to go through considerable " dialectical " legerdemain before he could arrive at the identification of the self with its mind , a procedure which was accomplished without much ado in classical rationalism . The struggle within the self between its self-centeredness and its desire to commit itself beyond itself was transmuted into the tension between the self as particular object in nature and the self as subject and as potentially universal mind . This was an intellectual task , which , though difficult , offered no real difficulties to the intelligent man who could disavow the Christian ideas of " sin " and of " grace , " as it attempted self-redemption by rising above the " unhappy consciousness " of this tension to a serene attainment of its universal validity . Of course the real @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in this procedure . Hegel regarded Biblical religion as merely a crude and picturesque version of his scheme of redemption . He was blind to the fact that its dramatic forms revealed truths about the self and its history which would be obscured by a rationalism which sought to identify the self with its mind and to comprehend the drama of history in ontological terms . Hegel 's interpretation of history was even more imposing and absurd than his interpretation of selfhood . His philosophy of history was a grand theodicy in which he tried to justify the ways of God to man , or in this case to endow the drama with meaning from the standpoint of his faith in an ultimate . His ultimate was a God who required time to achieve divinity or to realize both the freedom and the order which are in the nature of the ultimate . The concept of God , requiring time to become truly God , thus combined Christian and modern  | religious feelings . But the classical motif was added by the fact that the impulse which created historical movement was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ logical or at least a rational process . Parmenides had been concerned , at the dawn of Greek philosophical speculation , with the logical impulse to posit the antithesis of a concept , so that , for instance , the concept of " being " posited the concept of " nonbeing . " But Parmenides could not regard anything as " being " which was touched by the flux of " becoming " in its passage from " non-being " to " being . " This passion for identifying " being " with a fixed structure , so that temporal events are cast into the category of " appearance " remains a permanent characteristic of the metaphysical mind . An eminent English philosopher of the nineteenth century , F. H. Bradley , living in an age intent upon finding " reality " in the temporal flux , could nevertheless insist that every aspect of reality , involved in flux , is only " appearance , " while " reality " can be affirmed only of the fixed rational structure of existence . It was Hegel 's genius that he placed logic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ idea that the motive power of the historical flux was provided by the very tension between opposites of which Parmenides spoke . This tension between being and " non-being " was responsible for " becoming . " But the force of temporal events was not circular as in classic thought , according to which all " motion " was created by the " coming to be and passing away " of particular entities , as they actualized their essential nature and then decayed . The temporal flux was logical in a different way . It moved from " thesis " through " antithesis , " to a synthesis of opposites ; which in turn became a new thesis for another " dialectical " advance . Everything , including God , the self and man 's history was driven by this dialectic motive power . Thus all of reality including history was thoroughly " rational . " It was an imposing structure of thought which had a few , but only a few , " empirical " facts to support it ; among these were the distinction between nature as a realm @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and necessity were compounded . There was also the tension between freedom  | and order in the life of cultures which Hegel used to construct a dialectical movement in history , beginning with primitive life , moving through the ancient empires and culminating in the perfect synthesis of the European ( more particularly Prussian ) synthesis of order and freedom of his day . There were some facts to give plausibility to the picture . But Hegel falsified or obscured every dramatic pattern and reality of history in order to preserve the unity and consistency of his picture of the world , the self and history . The real cause for its seeming plausibility was the modern man 's faith in consistency or coherence as a test of truth . He was willing to deny the reality of a " living God , " that is , of a God who was more than a dialectical process , and the reality of his own selfhood and the dramatic realities of his history , if only he could believe this vision of an absolute which incorporated time and history within it . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was possible to make only such portions of the Christian faith acceptable to the " intellectuals " as could be fitted into the Hegelian world picture or could plausibly be reinterpreted in terms of its outline . This was the triumph of the " rational " element in the Greek inheritance over the experimental modern element which Francis Bacon desired to compound with it . There were not however enough " facts " to support this structure . It was a great inflated balloon waiting for someone to puncture it . Feuerbach proceeded to supply the puncture , whereupon a swarm of " left wing " Hegelians tore up and redesigned the whole conception until Marx came up with a grand redesign . He managed to wed the materialism of the French Enlightenment to the Hegelian " dialectic . " Marx gave his philosophy a seeming relevance and social motive power by a dash of religious apocalypse dressed in the new " logic of history . " According to Marx , the Hegelian speculations could be dismissed as irrelevant except at one point . What " evidence " could support them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dialectic " in man 's social history ? Did not history begin with an original communal wholeness of man which represented his  | true " essence " ? Did not his primitive innocency disappear in the antithesis of a " class society " in which man was " alienated " from his " true essence " ? Did not this class society then proceed through various chapters of feudalism and bourgeois society until its " contradictions " reached a " climax " in modern capitalism ? Did not the injustices of this capitalism produce a disinherited class whose resentment would provide the antithetical thrust against it ? All that was necessary was to instruct the class of the disinherited , the " proletariat , " what the logic of history was , and that it had been marked out by that logic to accomplish the heroic task of not only emancipating men from injustice , but of changing the whole human situation so that man is no longer creature and creator in history but becomes unambiguously its master , not only " proposing but disposing . " Every religious reverence for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as no more than an outmoded remnant of a previous impotence . It is not surprising that this version of Hegelian logic should have become plausible enough to become the basis of a new world religion ; and one which fills the world with cruelty and with pretensions of world dominion in the name of world redemption . Instead of being involved in ambivalence between visions of an absolute God beyond the conditions of time and the impalse to conform the conditions of time to the vision of the absolute , it gives itself to the unambivalent ambition to bring every historic reality under the dominion of its vision , forgetting , of course , that all such visions are partial and parochial , and that they are therefore the source of evil in the application . The new religion harnessed the resentments to the hopes of the disinherited and gave them the pride of believing themselves prospective world emancipators . Furthermore , it wedded the rationalistic passion with the empirical interest so that it could pose as a " science , " the " Marxist-Leninist science " in modern communist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ idealists the chance to compound their idealism with their lust for power . They had to instruct the proletariat , ostensibly the saviors of the world , but unconscious of their destiny until instructed .  | Thus it provided the opportunity for secular prophets to become the atheistic theocrats or priest-kings of a utopian state . They could fulfill every unfulfilled dream and ambition of the eighteenth-century philosophers . The vision was so attractive that it held many intellectuals bound long after history had proved that this dream had turned into a nightmare of cruelty . A footnote must be added about the discredit to the cult of " reason " involved in this tragic history . The communist tyranny had been preceded by the fascist one . The fascists were corrupt romantics , trusting in their intuitions and in the glorification of the sub-rational vitalities of life , of " Blut and Boden . " Hence the devotees of the cult of reason warned the world about the danger of lack of confidence in reason . They conceded that reason might be , on occasion , weak or corrupt . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ argued , than to succumb to the flood of unreason ? They were right , of course , in emphasizing the creative function of rational discrimination . But they have not yet made their arguments relevant to the historic fact that communism has proved the cult of unreason not to be the sole source of tyranny . The other is an uncritical cult of reason , which manages to derive cruelty and tyranny from its scientific pretensions , thus proving how unreasonable a pretentious reason can be . We have two lessons in the limits and the corruptions of man 's reason , one in the French Revolution and one in modern communism . The latter is not " irrational " in the same sense as the Nazis were . It surveys the world with cool calculation . But it may bring a final disaster upon the world because its cool calculations are founded upon , or informed by , wholly illusory ideas of a " logic of history . " How can we prove that this " reason " is irrational ? We could of course prove that the presuppositions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the facts which the inquiry is supposed to ascertain ; that they are , in fact , rather like all the implicit dogmas of modern men , who may pride themselves upon their freedom from explicit dogma . The communist dogmas are rather more restrictive than some other dogmas ; and have proved to be so even when they are  | not supported by a police power which suppresses inconvenient evidence in conflict with them . Fortunately , the drama of history was more unpredictable and its facts less " logical " than either Hegel or Marx had believed . Therein lay the salvation of Western civilization , at least its avoidance of the prison which Marx 's logic ( as amended by Lenin ) had prepared for it . The class structure of a technical civilization became ever more complex rather than more simple . The government proved not to be simply the " executive committee " of the " ruling classes " as the theory averred . In fact , economic power was not as superior to political power as both classical liberalism and Marxism thought . The free @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ adjusting the disbalances of power which created them . The most advanced " capitalistic " national community , far from subjecting its industrial workers to the logic of " increasing misery , " actually allowed them to share a fabulous prosperity , which was indeed subject to serious fluctuations , but which increased rather than gave promise of moving toward a catastrophic climax . Most of these " facts , " which refuted the Marxist logic , were so obvious that they could not be denied . They changed the social and political history of the Western world into a destiny such as no Marxist had anticipated . Perhaps this proves that empirically ascertained facts have the power to refute even the most plausible dogma . On the other hand , a modicum of facts is able to sustain the prestige of even an implausible dogma . Consider , for instance , the prestige of the Marxist faith in that part of the world in which a decaying feudalism and the remnants of " imperialism " produce enough facts to sustain the dogma which has been refuted by obvious facts in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its logical promises were hoped to be fulfilled . In addition , the two countries of the Western world in which it still has prestige either have not completely overcome a traditional feudalism ( Italy ) ; or have a tired and corrupt capitalism ( France ) which produces some of the facts which seem to validate the Marxist dogma .  | Fortunately , the larger part of Western civilization was able to refute the logic and pseudo-empiricism of Marxism by developing a common life in which both freedom and justice were preserved , and in which the resentments of the poor did not prompt rebellion against its institutions . It is the fond illusion of a modern liberal culture that it vanquished this pseudo-empiricism by a more genuine empiricism which was thoroughly " scientific " and not quasi-philosophical and quasi-religious . Actually the wrong theory of Marxism was refuted by social and political facts , which were not intended by any of the various contestants in the cultural and political contests . To this development we must devote our concluding chapters . In this context it is important to observe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the West contains almost as many hidden dogmas as the empiricism of Marxism . Furthermore , these dogmas make our historical sciences blind to some obvious facts about human nature and history which simpler cultures apprehended by the wisdom of common sense . But the empirical method has been so successful in the understanding of nature that the prestige of the triumphs of the natural sciences could always be used to  | obscure or deny the obvious deficiencies in the understanding of man . Thus modern culture has moved toward an ironic climax of misunderstanding man by the same alleged methods which helped it to understand nature , and to cover up the significant failure in one field by a phenomenal success in another . If we make the charge that an empirical culture is blind to some very obvious " facts , " it is necessary to define what is meant by " facts . " We have seen that Hobbes could recognize only corporeal realities as " facts . " Traditional scientific empiricism recognizes only sense data as facts . But who would deny the validity of the concept @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the self 's freedom , the self-corruption of that freedom in self-concern , or the self 's " historical " character ? These are the kind of facts with which the average man must deal daily . ( A ) Common sense attests the reality of each one of these facts . When we say " the self 's freedom , " this " fact " is interpreted in common-sense terms as the self 's ability to determine its actions , despite the determining influences upon those actions in the environment , and despite the possible inhibiting forces in its own " sub-rational " nature upon the power of its will . Its freedom is never absolute ; but the common sense of all the ages , free of metaphysical subtleties , has agreed to define this freedom in terms of holding the self responsible for its actions . Despite all modern scientific or metaphysical deterministic theories , the jurisprudence of the world has never varied in assuming a responsible freedom of the self , though " insanity " may be recognized by law as limiting responsibility ; and presumably psychopathological @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ limiting responsibility , if not in law then certainly in popular opinion . Furthermore , a charitable survey of the determining influences upon the life and actions of a delinquent child , for instance , will qualify the severity with which responsibility is apportioned . But these qualifications do not seriously challenge the general assumption that the self is in possession of a responsible freedom .  | It is not only common sense and jurisprudence but the art of every culture which attest to this capacity of the self , for selfdetermination . The novels and dramas of every age have based their depiction of characters upon the assumption that human beings have the capacity of self-determination . Any other assumption would destroy art as surely as it would distort the realities with which the common man feels himself to be in touch . This free and responsible self is either denied or obscured in the prevailing theories of the psychological and social sciences of our day . Sometimes the strict naturalistic presuppositions obscure the reality to which common experience attests . Sometimes the methods of empirical science , drawn from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the self which can be known only through introspection and in dramatic encounter . Thus disciplines which have ostensibly disavowed all metaphysics are as unable as the more rigorously metaphysical disciplines to see the responsible self and its involvement in sin or its capacity for grace . The thought of an eminent psychologist , who is not governed by strictly naturalistic presuppositions , reveals how the methods of the natural sciences , applied to human realities , obscure the real self in its integrity and freedom . After analyzing all the intricacies of human personality , Gardner Murphy asks the question : " Should the student of personality , at the present stage of research , posit a non-empirical entity , distinct from both organism and its perceptual responses to forms and symbols , which are called a " self " ? He decides that " a tentatively negative answer to this question seems advisable . " 1 Mr. Murphy is too much of a realist to give more than a " tentatively negative " answer . But the standards of his science will not permit any but a negative answer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when " the present stage of inquiry " is more advanced . Actually no advance in the inquiry will ever enable his type of empiricism Footnote  | to find the free and responsible self . It may be known in introspection and in dramatic encounter but not by methods of empiricism which make the self an " object " of empirical inquiry . It is a " non-empirical entity " only in the sense that it can not be seen through the spectacles of an empiricism , derived from the natural sciences . It is of course not distinct from either its " organism " or its " perceptual responses , " i.e. , its mind ; but neither can it be equated with either . It is rather significant that this self , which Mr. Murphy can not find , is the same self upon which Descartes rests his final certainty in his famous dictum cogito , ergo sum , though it must be admitted that the self was obscured as quickly as discovered by Descartes ' definition of this self as res cogitans , as the thinking thing . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contradiction of implying the responsible self in some facets of their thought while they explicitly deny its reality in other facets . Freudianism explicitly denies the free self because it is so impressed by the power of the various sub-rational compulsions which destroy its freedom . It regards the emancipation of the self from both subrational and social compulsions as the object of therapy : " Where the id is there let the ego be " is the Freudian slogan . But the reality of a real ego is by no means unambiguously acknowledged . Freud was , of course , aware ( as aware as Samuel Johnson ) of the introspective testimony to the reality of free will . But he regarded this testimony as a " subjective feeling " which had no legitimacy beside the scientific evidence , which related every action to a previous cause . He was thus able to deny the reality of the real self more simply than Hegel , who had to engage in considerable dialectic subtlety before he transmuted the self into mind or " understanding . " Freud is reluctant to use @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ connotation of immortality which adheres to that word . But he is forced to reintroduce the banished word in terms of its Greek equivalent psyche . Furthermore , the banished freedom and responsibility are inadvertently acknowledged when a Freudian psychiatrist insists  | on the necessity of voluntary rather than compulsory submission to therapy . ( The co-operation of the unacknowledged self is important . ) Sometimes a warning is issued against the inclination of the unacknowledged self to use the technics and insights of psychiatry for purposes of self-deception or self-justification.2 The self is obscured in modern anthropological theory , even when extreme ( mechanistic ) forms of naturalism are disavowed . Thus Kluckhohn and Murray attribute the " extreme position of nineteenth century mechanism " to the reaction of modern psychology to their possessive mother , philosophy , and their dogmatic grandfather , theology . But the consistency of their own naturalism and the consequent obscuring of the free self , is evident in their conclusion that , " Personality must be located in nature , within some field where there is togetherness of all these processes or of representations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ state that personality is the organization of all the integrative processes in the brain . " 3 It is significantly the " brain " rather than " mind " which is defined as the source of the organization of integrative processes . Either the problem of the correlation between brain and mind , which has exercised the philosophers , has not been considered , or , having been considered , the " mind " was dismissed as not belonging to , or being located in , " nature . " When Neo-Freudians try to correct Freud 's lack of understanding for the self 's dependence upon others and elaborate a " cultural psychology " which emphasizes the dependence on the self for its security and self-esteem , upon the love and the esteem of others , particularly the " mothering one , " they only contrive to obscure the freedom of the self more absolutely , Footnote  | for they regard it as merely the product of its immediate social environment , particularly in its infancy.4 The " objective " psychologists are frequently as incapable of discerning a real self as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ schemes for " conditioning " persons for " socially approved " ends and are vague about the criteria which determine the legitimacy of these ends . Thus a psychologist 5 projects a psychologist 's vision of utopia in terms which betray both a lack of humor and any social wisdom . He would establish ideal communities , preferably not too large lest the passions and complexities of the larger community corrupt the ideal harmony of the " conditioned " community . In these communities men would be conditioned from childhood to live in frictionless harmony with their fellows . This harmony is made possible because the individuals have been purged of all jealousies and egoistic ambitions which would set them at variance with their fellows . They are significantly without any trace of dignity and nobility as well as of jealousy or competitive impulses . These conditioned persons of the psychological utopia are obviously not real selves , and are bereft of the indeterminate possibilities of good and evil , characteristic of free selves . Modern anthropology has lately developed a theory of cultural relativism 6 which makes the individual completely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the problem with which Socrates challenged the Sophists and have not enlightened us why it should be possible to learn anything about man in general , if men are completely relativized by their particular culture . They have hit upon an important truth in recognizing the historical character of man ; but the rigor of their cultural determinism has made them blind to the freedom of man over the culture of which he is obviously , in one sense , a creature . Footnote  | " In the man-culture system , " the anthropologist , Leslie White , informs us , " man is the dependent , and culture the independent variable . " Mr. White is certain that man 's dependence upon his culture makes it impossible for men to solve such conflicts as the present one between the free and the collectivist societies . He compares all efforts to guide historical destiny with the efforts of primitive magic workers to control the weather . Every significant difference between the realm of history and the realm of nature is obscured in the rigor of his determinism . " Why is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that if one employs the principle of cause and effect in physical phenomena , no one cries fatalism ' ; but the moment one employs the principle in cultural phenomena the accusation springs forth ? " T Mr. White has evidently never considered the historical complexities which arise from the ambiguity of man as both the creator and the creature of the cultural process ; nor asked himself the question why human cultures should ever have arisen and become distinguished from the animal society . ( B ) In addition to the contradiction between the wisdom of common sense and that of the academic empiricists on the question of the freedom and responsibility of the self , there is another contradiction between the two in the awareness of the one and the blindness of the other to the curious mixtures of egoism and creativity in human selves , manifesting itself on all levels of behavior . Since the eighteenth century there has been a good deal of speculation on the relation between " egoism " and " altruism , " and about the elimination of the one in favor of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with itself and its creative and responsible interests is infinitely varied . Children in their relation to their parents , soldiers dealing with their officers , workmen and office people seeking tolerable relations with their superiors , develop an almost instinctive method of appealing , on the one hand , to the sympathies of those who have greater power than they Footnote  | and , on the other hand , trying to satisfy the vanity or pride , the sense of power or the sense of importance of their superiors . The taint of egoism , both individual and collective , is taken for granted by all men of affairs in government and business . Common-sense wisdom also takes the infinite variety of the compounds of self-concern with creative energy for granted and is not surprised to find it on the highest as well as the lowest levels of character . Even the most perfectionist Christian sects and the most ascetic Christian monastics have practical ways of dealing with the vanities and jealousies of their bishops and abbots , which , according to their theories , are not supposed to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ observed by a modern poet , E. E. Cummings , who wisely does not seek to distinguish between harmless and harmful versions of it in bearing testimony to its universality . " Who , if I may be so inconsiderate to ask , is not egocentric ? " asks Mr. Cummings.8 " Half a century of time and several continents of space in addition to a healthily developed curiosity , have n't enabled me to locate a single peripherally situated ego . . . . My slight acquaintance with pickpockets and scientists leads me to believe that they are far from being unselfcentered . . . . So , I believe , are all honest educators . And so , I am convinced , are streetcleaners and deaf mutes , mothers , murderers , mountain climbers , cannibals , fairies , strong men , beautiful women , unborn babes , international spies , ghostwriters , bums , executives , out and out nuts , cranks , dopefiends , altruists ( above all ) , obstetricians , ambulance chasers , and lion tamers . " Mr. Cummings ' list is interesting primarily @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of his categories could be safely challenged ; that of " unborn babes . " The effort to discriminate between " harmless " and " harmful " types of egotism would probably lead to endless and inconclusive debates . It is fairly easy to refute the contention Footnote  | that egoistic ambition . is a necessary prerequisite of creativity ; but it is obvious that egoism is a fairly universal concomitant of creative efforts of all types . Sometimes it militates against the person 's usefulness ; but at other times it is a harmless excrescence . Artists are generally assumed to be " temperamental , " which is to say , vain . Their vanity usually feeds on their success . But only in extreme cases does it seriously affect their art . Eloquent preachers are under the same temptation as artists , and succumb to the temptation as frequently . Men of power are corrupted by the love of power and by pride in its possession . Powerless idealists , on the other hand , frequently reveal a great concern for their reputation as idealists ; and scholars are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prestige . It is one of the mysteries of commonsense reaction to this universal tendency that no one can define at what point egocentricity ceases to be a harmless foible and becomes a harmful vice . Yet there is a fairly consistent reaction which distinguishes the harmless from the vexatious egotism . Soldiers are wont to discount the human foibles of their commanders with gentle cynicism , but beyond a certain undefined point they react with hatred to this egotism . Politicians are expected to be ambitious ; and their ambition for personal advancement is not believed to militate against their capacity to serve the commonweal . Yet there is an undefined point which the politician must not exceed if the public is not to react cynically to his ambitions . Common sense , in short , takes human egotism for granted in all forms of human relations , and reacts with gentle or harsh cynicism to it according to its degree , its vexatiousness and possibly according to the degree of self-deception in the critic . For the illusion of freedom from a universal taint is very common and is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The wisdom of the " man in the street " never fails to comprehend the mixture of creativity and selfconcern in the behavior of all his fellows . This is the achievement of a genuine non-academic " empiricism . " In contrast , the academic wisdom deals abstractly with this  | mixture of motives in human behavior . The wisest understanding of the complexities is characteristic of those disciplines which are most genuinely related to the historical studies and those which pride themselves least on their empiricism . The discipline of economics was cradled in a physiocratic theory which assumed both the universality and the harmlessness of self-love . Classical economic theory also identified selfconcern too uncritically with the economic motive and regarded self-concern in too individualistic terms . But all these errors have been overcome as the discipline of economics developed and as it surveys economic behavior in the whole context of communal relations and in the mixture of motives in individual and collective man . It is still inclined to obscure the primacy of the power motive as distinct from the economic motive ; and it certainly has less @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ science , for instance . On the other hand , it was the achievement of classical economics that it harnessed self-interest in contrast to its moral and political suppression in the classical and medieval period , though the force of self-interest proved not to be as harmless as classical economists assumed . Democratic society found it necessary to equalize disproportions of economic power in the interest of justice , whereas the original theory assumed that economic forces alone would make for balances of power . The contribution of economic theory toward the growth of a free society was nevertheless considerable . It may not be possible to generalize about the attitudes toward self-interest by the diverse schools of political science , but it is not too hazardous to assert that political science is nearer to the discipline of historiography than any other social science and therefore is more likely to appreciate the power of self-interest as an historical phenomenon . Political scientists understand , better than the economists , the primacy of the power impulse in human egotism . And they have no difficulty in realizing the force of collective self-interest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to appreciate the mixture of motives in the behavior of nations as well as of individuals . Hence those who emphasize the power of collective self-interest are inclined to a too cynical interpretation of the facts . There is therefore a constant debate between the " idealists " and " realists " about the interpretation of man 's collective behavior , particularly that of the nation . The idealists do not understand the power and persistence of collective self-interest and invent various schemes for suppressing and transmuting it . The " realists , " on the other hand , frequently approach Thomas Hobbes ' cynicism in their emphasis upon the power of national self-interest and in their belief that no moral consideration can avail against it . The errors in modern culture in regard to the mixture of self-regard and creativity in human behavior occur particularly in those disciplines of our culture which pride themselves particularly on their methods of empirical observation . Whether they are betrayed by the limitations of these methods ( since they are not calculated to measure the complexities of " normal " human behavior ) or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dogmas of the Enlightenment , they have an almost universal attitude toward the problem of egotism . It consists in regarding self-interest as ordinate and harmless , provided it is not unduly frustrated by what Holbach defined as " bad rulers . " In the modern context this means any political , cultural or religious efforts to criticize , suppress or transmute egotism . They also look for specific causes of inordinate forms of egotism , which become in effect the causes of egotism in general , so that the progressive elimination or mitigation of the factor of self-regard is assumed in these analyses . Professor Dewey summarizes a great deal of modern sociological and psychological theory of human nature in his Human Nature and Conduct . He asserts : " Moralists are led , perhaps , to think of human nature as evil because of its reluctance to yield to control , its rebelliousness under the yoke . But this explanation only raises another question . Why did  | morality set up rules so foreign to human nature ? . . . We are forced therefore to consider the nature @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ morals has been occupied .... Control has been invested in an oligarchy . Indifference to regulations has grown in the gap which separates the rulers from the ruled . Parents , priests , chiefs , and social censors have supplied aims which were foreign to those upon whom they were imposed , the young , laymen , ordinary folk . A few have administered and given rules ; and the mass have with reluctance and in a passable fashion , obeyed . " Professor Dewey , following this diagnosis of the contradictions in which human beings are involved by reason of the fact that " there is a law in their members which wars against the law that is in their minds , " proceeds to prescribe a cure . It consists of a more " scientific " projection of rules and aims of human conduct , and would be formulated by more competent " rulers " than parents and priests . It would overcome the contradiction between man 's self-regard and his social impulses by a more scientific channeling of all the " drives " in human nature . Professor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " No matter how much men have turned moral rules into an agency of class supremacy , " he declares , " the theory which attributes the origin of rules to deliberate design is false . . . . Lack of understanding of human nature is the primary cause of the disregard of it ... . When men had no scientific understanding of nature they either passively submitted to it or sought to control it magically . " 9 Dewey naturally promises that the scientific knowledge of human nature will work all the transformations which the knowledge of nature accomplished . It will particularly provide more competent rules to which men will not be so reluctant to conform because they will be constructed in greater accordance with the potentialities of human nature . The most impressive modern psychological version of the Enlightenment theory of an essentially harmless self-regard , Footnote  | which becomes harmful only when frustrated , is given by the Neo-Freudian Erich Fromm , in his Man for Himself . He presents the thesis that men must first seek their own happiness , whereupon they may then love others @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ religion " interferes with this simple fact of human nature by confronting the selfish self with the " command " to love the neighbor . Naturally a contradiction is established between the natural desires of the self and the moral command . Fromm sees very clearly that love is not a simple command to be obeyed . It is truly a phenomenon of abundance . The self , which is engrossed with its own security or prestige , is not free to love . But Fromm does not see that the security of the self is furnished not by its own efforts at security , but by the love of others . He also does not realize that the desire for security or for prestige is , like all human desires , indeterminate . There is no point at which the self , seeking its own , can feel itself self-satisfied and free to consider others than itself . The concern for others is as indeterminate as the concern for itself . These concerns are not in the " id " on the one hand and the " super-ego " on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ picture of the " ego " as torn between the demands of the " id " and the " super-ego . " " The demand to love our neighbors as ourselves is the strongest defence against human aggressiveness and is a superlative example of the unpsychological attitude of the cultural super-ego , " declares Freud . " The command is impossible to fulfill . The enormous inflation of love can only lower its value and not remedy the evil . Civilization pays no heed to all of this . It merely prates that the harder to obey the more laudable the obedience . " 10 Actually there is no such tension between a pleasure-seeking " id " and a demanding " super-ego , " not to speak of a " cultural super-ego . " The ego is not an embarrassed broker between the two forces . The fact is that there are indeterminate de-Footnote  | sires within the self , both for self-aggrandisement and for self-giving . The failure to recognize this fact makes Freudianism , whether in its early or in its later and refined forms , quite irrelevant to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bewildering mixture of self-concern and creativity on all levels of community . There is no " empirical " evidence for Freud 's thesis that " aggressiveness " increases with the wider and wider demands upon the self with an ever-widening social organization . The evidence for this thesis is taken from neurotic individuals but is irrelevant to the behavior of " normal " individuals , who are involved in varied mixtures of ambition ( not " aggressiveness " ) and creative concern for family , community , nation and civilization . This miscalculation probably accounts for the difference between the therapeutic success of Freudianism in dealing with deranged persons or neurotic individuals , and its irrelevance to any political problem faced by modern men . It is significant that the professional jealousies which Freud encountered in his early life as he rose to success and the element of jealousy which entered into the friction between him and Jung in later years are not explained in any Freudian theory . Only one of the younger colleagues who were envious of his success was obviously neurotic . A Neo-Freudian of great insight and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Freud 's protest against the baneful effects of the demands of the " cultural superego. " 11 According to Miss Horney , human beings would grow naturally to fulfill their potentialities if the demand for the unconditioned and the perfect did not interfere with their nature . She wisely recognizes that the search for absolute power and for absolute goodness are generically alike ; and she proves that they may both lead to neuroses . She attributes the demand for absolute goodness to the influence of the religious demand " Be ye therefore perfect as your Father in Heaven is perfect . " But she does not realize that the same teacher who uttered Footnote  | this demand rigorously rejected the claim which men make of achieving perfection . The parable of the Pharisee and the Publican , in which the repentant sinner is " justified before the other , " namely , the Pharisee who thanked God that he " is not as other men , " is a clear refutation of the pretension which men make of standing upon some absolute ground , and which distinguishes them from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ human history . The desire for the absolute , whether for power or perfection , is not introduced by any particular doctrine or religion , but grows up spontaneously in human nature and creates many effects in human relations , even when the impulse does not create the neuroses which Miss Horney analyzes so effectively . An anthropologist , Professor Ashley Montagu , has a version of the rise of human selfishness which resembles the psychiatric theories of Harry Stack Sullivan.12 He recognizes that the security , which frees men to love their fellow men is provided by the love and esteem of their fellow men , or rather more particularly by the mother who guards the security of the infant ( or in Sullivan 's phrase the " mothering one , " that is , anyone who has chief responsibility for the infant 's security ) . Any undue self-concern is therefore due to a defect in love in the infancy of the child . " Science points the way to survival and happiness , " declares Professor Montagu , " through love and co-operation . Do what we will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ our drives toward breathing . " 13 Montagu derives defects in human character from defective securities in the life of the child , " particularly in the first six years . " All this is true , of course , upon its own level ; but hardly explores the possibilities of both good and evil above the biological level . It must also be observed that the theory places a rather heavy Footnote  | load upon the shoulders of the mothers because it can not conceive of egotism arising in the individual without specific cause . Montagu is not able to explore this dimension because he does not know the self in its depth of selfhood . " Free will the person does not have , " he declares . " The will that he has operates strictly within the limits determined by the pattern of the social group . What he has is the illusion of free will . " 14 It is this preoccupation with particular causes of particular forms of egotism which grows out of the denial of the self 's unique free selfhood . " Man is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an ' I ' complex or ' I persona , ' " writes a modern anthropologist in this vein of seeking for specific causes of a universal malady.15 " The result is a divisiveness of function , in which disassociation and conflict assume supremacy over the organisms , unity and centralization of function . " Mr. Burrow fails to state that this " dislocation " characterizes all human social organisms , as contrasted with the harmony of the ant-hill . ( C ) The naturalistic presuppositions of the modern behavioral sciences , particularly the strong influence of Freudian thought upon , not only psychology , but anthropology and sociology , creates a contradiction between their ' view and that of common-sense wisdom with reference to the dramatic essence of history . The determinists and voluntarists may quarrel on whether a man is the creature of his culture or whether a scientist is the potential master of it . But in any event , what they are talking about is not the tragic historical drama in which we are all involved , which we feel challenged to deflect from the most dire @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nevertheless no power to control and no omniscience to foretell even generally feared probabilities . The drama remains unpredictable . There is nothing in the behavioral Footnote  | sciences , for instance , which would prepare a nation like our own for the fate of being more impotent to control its destiny in the days of its seeming omnipotence than in the impotence and innocency of its infancy . Nor is there , for all the " cultural relativism " of our anthropologists , an appreciation of the genuinely historical difference between the cultures of , say , Britain , France and Germany . The tragedy of Germany must be analyzed in terms of a dozen complex historical factors , involving such geographic factors as its place in the heart of the European Continent ; such social factors as the political incompetence of its middle class and the military preoccupation of its aristocracy ; and such cultural factors as the political ineptness of a metaphysically gifted people . It certainly can not be explained as the consequence of defects in the toilet training which German mothers give their children . For @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have obviously more complex causes than the " anthropological " one of the rejection by American immigrants of their European " father . " 16 The tragic phenomenon of world-wide communism , with its Russian center and base , does not yield its secrets to an empiricism which draws comparisons between the present Russia and " Eastern Christendom , " nor to one which surveys the historic swaddling of infants in Russia as the alleged cause of the docility of a people . Communism is in fact a monstrous mergence of power impulses with utopian dreams for which the whole history of a Christian culture is required to explain . It is not too broad a generalization to say that the empiricism of the " free world " is pervaded almost as much by Freudian and quasi-Freudian thought as the culture of the tyrannies is dominated by Marxist thought . This Freudian psychology and anthropology is , however , therapeutically skillful in dealing with maladjusted individuals , irrelevant to all genuinely historic situations . It does not understand how the individual is creatively involved in the historic situations of Footnote  | @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is ambivalent toward the realities of cultural development . On the one hand , as , for instance , in his Civilization and Its Discontents , he is in the romantic tradition of pessimism toward the achievements of civilization and betrays a characteristic romantic preference for primitivism . Each elaboration of culture and civilization merely increases the almost intolerable tension between the pleasure seeking " id " and the ever more rigorous demands of the " cultural super-ego , " i.e. , the moral requirements of a complex civilization . The poor " ego " is caught in this tension ; and its frustrations create ever more dangerous increments of " aggressiveness . " On the other hand , Freud is a modern exponent of Enlightenment doctrine who believes that " our best hope of the future is that the intellect , the scientific spirit , should establish a dictatorship over the human mind . " 17 The one theory is as irrelevant to historic situations as the other because the self and its mind create ever new elaborations of culture ; and there is no increasing tension between the cultural @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other hand , the self and its mind are too involved in every historic situation to be simply redeemed from them by the " dictatorship " of the scientific spirit . In short , a " Freudian " empiricism is as incapable as Hegelian metaphysics to comprehend the self in its dramatic environment . For the self is at once the creator and the creature of every historic situation ; and it maintains the wholeness of its person in all these situations , whatever may be the tensions between its " mind and body " or its " id " and " superego . " We thus confront the ironic fact that a culture , intent upon understanding nature and boasting of ever more impressive achievements in the " conquest " of nature , has become involved in ever more serious misunderstandings of human nature , of the self in its uniqueness , and in its dramatic-historical environment . Footnote  | Part III DRAMATIC , ORGANIC AND CONTRACTUAL ELEMENTS OF THE SELF 'S EFFORTS TO BUILD COMMUNITIES . THE DIFFERENCE BETWEEN ORGANISM AND ARTIFACT DUE TO THE DISTINCTION BETWEEN THE SELF @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ INCREASING PROPORTION OF ARTIFACT IN MODERN COMMUNITIES . CAN THE WORLD COMMUNITY BE FASHIONED PURELY AS ARTIFACT ?  | THE RESOURCES OF THE CHRISTIAN FAITH IN A DYNAMIC CIVILIZATION AND AN EXPANDING SOCIETY Tie Christian faith undoubtedly survives in a so-called " modern " age in which scientific development is supposed to have invalidated it . It survives , in part , because all the testimonies of philosophers and scientists against it can not avail against the inner witness of the human self , that it is a real self , burdened with both responsibility and guilt ( burdened with the latter because it has not adequately fulfilled the former ) . Religious faith in both Catholic and Protestant versions of Christianity and in the Jewish version of Biblical faith survives most vitally in the backward " regions , " that is , in those sections of culture in which the failure of religion to come to terms with the undoubted truths disclosed by the disciplines of philosophy and the sciences is not found too embarrassing , and where the efforts to disabuse the self of its selfhood are not too @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Biblical faith merely to the backwaters of our culture . For men need not be too obviously simple to escape the baneful effects of a sophisticated culture , which erroneously regards faith as merely the remnant of man 's earlier impotence ( Marx ) or as the projection of infantile fantasies ( Freud ) .  | The persistence of the problem of selfhood and the inability to fit the self into any system of coherence which the wise men of this and other ages devise for it is not , of course , a proof of the validity of a faith which discerns , or thinks it discerns , another dimension of reality beyond the coherences of nature and reason , in which both the freedom and the guilt of the self are understood and in which the former meets judgement , and the salve of forgiveness is applied to the hurt of the latter . But even if the private relevance of faith be granted and it be understood that it is more than a source of comfort for individuals in the hours of their extremity ( that is , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) , it is not clear whether or how there is any resource in Biblical faith for the problems of the community , for aiding men in organizing and reorganizing their common life , particularly in a civilization , in which growingly powerful technics continually alter the conditions of human togetherness both by expanding the communities on all levels and by making the requirements of justice increasingly complex . The task of harnessing , deflecting and suppressing self-interest for the sake of the larger interest becomes ever more difficult , and the equilibria of social power upon which justice depends become ever more tentative in the shifting circumstance of a technical age . These communal problems require above all the application of discriminating intelligence , which knows how to distinguish between constant and variable factors in a social situation and which is informed by the empirical spirit , by a genuine " humility before the fact " in defiance of dogmas , whether of a religious or rationalistic variety . It would seem therefore that the modern prejudice , which looks to all the disciplines informed by the spirit of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the facts which a modern empiricism obscures because of its own hidden dogmas must be clearly seen if men are to solve the problems of their togetherness . Thus the seemingly irrelevant Biblical faith becomes relevant to the social situation . It was  | relevant even in the days when it seemed to have been permanently relegated to the status of ueberwundener Standpunkt . Insofar as modern men have solved their social problems and achieved communities in which the individual had a tolerable freedom and the community preserved a tolerable stability , and classes were related to each other in a tolerable justice , it will be found that both components of our culture , the Hebraic and the Hellenic , the Biblical and the classical made , if not equal , yet equally necessary contributions to the result . At its best the Biblical faith guarded the " facts " of freedom and responsibility and acknowledged the self-concern of the self , which a more pretentious empiricism denied . It also introduced a sense of the dramatic quality of history and the uniqueness of its various occasions which underlies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ alleged empiricism of the French Revolution . At its best , the Renaissance faith introduced the disciplines of rational discrimination which religious dogmas effaced or obscured . At their worst , the two forces of piety and rationalism introduced similar errors into the social situation in the very debate in which they polemicised against their respective errors . There is an ironic quality in the debate between the pious and the rationalistic exponents of freedom and justice . Each accuses the other of introducing false absolutes into the contingencies of history . For the pious , the absolute is the will of God ; and for the rationalists , it is the dictate of reason . Yet each side is guilty in its own way of the error of which it accuses the other . The pious conceive of the worship of God to be a guarantee against the worship of idols , that is , against undue reverence for , or loyalty to , contingent and finite values . Ideally the worship of the true God emancipates the soul from the worship of self , either individually or collectively . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fairly easy to claim identity between the absolute and the contingent value , and thus to claim divine validity for a  | " Christian " civilization despite all of its moral ambiguities , and to use the Christian faith as a weapon against the foe in all kinds of historic encounters . Reason , according to the faith of a rationalistic culture , will dissolve all these irrationalities and force men to claim for themselves only those privileges which will fit into a total scheme of coherence . Reason , argued Condorcet , would force the privileged to yield their privileges , and education would arm the simple with new weapons against the shrewd . Were not most injustices due as much to the shrewd taking advantage of the simple as of the strong taking advantage of the weak ? All class distinctions were , according to an anthropologist , Robert Briffault , due to religious prejudices , which would be dissolved by rational analysis . ' He forgot that it was Aristotle who gave the most plausible justification of slavery in rational terms when he declared the institution to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ men , of whom the intelligent were by nature destined to command while the unintelligent were by nature " tools . " The simple fact is that neither the classical , the medieval nor the modern rationalists recognized that it is as easy to identify the interest of the self with a universally acknowledged right or value as to identify it with the will of God . That is why we have had such an ironic conflict between the pious and the rationalists , each of them aware of the hypocrisy of the other but neither of them aware of the dishonesty in themselves . Ideally a Christian faith makes for humility and charity because it subjects both the claims and the pretensions of the self to an ultimate judgement . Actually religion makes for fanatic claims as frequently or more frequently than it generates charity for reasons already analyzed . Ideally the cultivation of reason makes for " reasonableness . " It moderates claims by weighing each claim against competing claims and by challenging traditionally estab-Footnote  | lished privileges with the question whether they are justified by social function or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ does no more than work out conclusions on the basis of the premises upon which the process is based . The logical man will not assert that all men are mortal because Socrates is mortal . He will assert that Socrates is mortal because all men are . But if we apply logic to human affairs , we readily see how the premises determine the conclusions and how interest determines the adoption of the premises . Kant tried to place logic in the service of morals by his dictum , " So act as to make thine action on the basis of universal law . " But if we begin with the not unjustified premise that special services to the community require special incentives and that special functions justify privileges related to the function , we can rationally claim every kind of special privilege for ourselves by the sanction of " universal law . " Therefore , the Enlightenment was not as successful in establishing " liberty and equality " as it had hoped . It failed not only because so many privileges and coercive restraints were more justified than it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ justify even unjustified privileges if it begins the logical process with premises which seem to justify them . Gradually , of course , a rational analysis of all the permanent and the contingent factors in a social situation will reveal liberty and equality to be the regulative principles of justice , and will discover how much these regulative principles must be compromised in practice in order to permit society to organize by the inevitable hierarchy of authority by which all communities are integrated . Ultimately , the two principles of liberty and equality , both of which were regarded as " selfevident " by the Enlightenment , proved to be in conflict with one another , the middle classes insisting on a preference for liberty , and the industrial classes for equality . These preferences were the occasion for the civil war which rent the unity of most Western societies . The preference for each value by the respective class was advanced the more fanatically  | because it was supposed to be rationally justified . Yet each preference was ideologically motivated . The middle classes preferred liberty because they wanted as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ activities . The industrial workers , on the other hand , having no significant social power of their own and being prompted by justified and unjustified resentments against the hierarchical structure of society , preferred equality to liberty . If the premises of communist logic are granted , namely , that " all history is the history of class struggles , " and that class distinctions are progressively heightened until they lead to the climax of a revolution , then everything in the communist conclusions proceeds in an inevitable manner from these premises . It is of course also " rational " to refute the premises of communist logic empirically , to prove that there are more complex class tensions than are assumed in the communist premises and that they are modified rather than heightened in a technical society , and that the institution of property is not the sole cause of social injustice . Thus it would seem that empirical reasoning is a safeguard against the fanaticism of abstract reasoning , which begins with premises not warranted by the facts of experience . But we have previously noted that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ impossible to refute even the most fanatic theory with absolutely compelling logic . It is significant that not only political arguments informed by obviously untrue presuppositions lead to erroneous results . Even non-communist political parties seek their ends by reasoning which is an offense to common sense . Thus , for instance , it has been a favorite argument of Republicans that during the Democratic Administration over a billion people in the world came under the yoke of communism . This argument was supposed to prove that any administration in America could , by a different policy , have prevented the course of events in the revolutionary ferments of Asia . The argument involved the logical fallacy of post hoc , ergo propter hoc and it assumed an American omnipotence in world affairs  | which was contrary to the obvious facts . But since America is very powerful and since our foreign policy is designed to prevent events unfavorable to our interests , the inherent absurdity of the political logic is not universally apparent . Political arguments are in fact both a proof of the inner necessity of men to reason @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ accord with universally valid values and of the inclination to bend reason more or less patently to their ends . Political arguments certainly prove that it is not possible to compel the self to abate its claims because a fault has been proved in the logic by which those claims are advanced . In short , reason may be as obedient a servant of particular interests as religion . Both are the more plausible servants because the presumption of truth , transcendent to interest , is implied in both faith and reason . This is why rational discrimination is necessary to weigh the claims made for the self in the name of both faith and reason . That would make the virtue of a scientific culture an antidote against the defects of both religious and rationalistic claims . But the insight of an historic faith is required to understand the self which is both able and inclined to use either religion or reason , or both , as the servants of its interests , even while it may honestly long for the absolute truth which one or the other allegedly guarantees @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the rationalists , each accusing the other of introducing partial interests into their vision of the truth , is exceeded by another irony in the modern debate . In that irony only the typically modern element in our culture is involved . It is created by the modern belief that traditional religion is too " other-worldly , " too interested or preoccupied with trans-historical consummations of life to be effective in establishing freedom and justice upon the earth . It believes that it is only necessary to disavow " heaven " and concentrate upon historical goals to achieve whatever summum bonum the imagination may suggest . Yet it is precisely this consistent this-worldliness which has introduced the final evils into contemporary history . For the  | claim of having realized the final consummation in history is certainly even more dangerous than the claim of having reached the final truth . The irony of modern utopian pretensions and illusions , which have corrupted our culture since the Renaissance and reached their climax in the French Enlightenment , has been heightened by the fact that these illusions of the absolute goal , being @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ culture which professed to be interested merely in the process of history , and thought that history was but a variation of the process of nature . Nothing could bear more telling testimony to the fact that man is more capable of betraying himself as a creature , worried about the absolute , than these inadvertent yearnings , even when he explicitly disavows any dimension of his life above the temporal process . Thus we have been involved in renouncing an incredible heaven only to build a more incredible , and much more dangerous , heaven on earth . To add to the depth of the irony , these utopian illusions have developed not only within the limits of a strict naturalism , but in the name of a rigorous empiricism . A culture which has prided itself on tracing the specific causes of specific evils either expected utopia when it had rid the world of all specific evils by improvements in government , education and psychiatric technics , or it came to the surprising conclusion that all evils were due to one specific cause , the institution of property , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ guarantee the creation of a heaven on earth . Unfortunately it occurred to none of these empiricists that each individual self might , in its radical freedom , be the fountain source of ever new evils in history , its destructiveness having the same root as its creativity . This failure of modern culture to solve the problem of the relation of the self and its history to the absolute or unconditioned is revealed not only in its disavowal of the transcendent goals of life . It is betrayed , too , in the lack of comprehension for the double truth which the Christian faith  | beholds in the Christ-drama . In classical versions of the Christian faith Christ significantly symbolizes both the indeterminate possibilities of historical achievement and also the divine mercy which understands the tension and contradiction between all forms of human virtue and achievement and the divine will . When this second dimension of the Christ-revelation is obscured ( as it is in both the Renaissance culture and in that portion of the Protestant faith which has absorbed the illusions of modern culture ) the cultural atmosphere becomes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ regarded liberty and equality , not as regulative principles of justice , but as simple possibilities of history . Liberal Christianity aggravated , rather than mitigated , these illusions by suggesting that love , which appears in history most tragically when it is most perfect , could be a simple historical possibility . Liberal Christianity therefore merely added to the general sentimentality of the age . The outstanding Protestant theologian of the nineteenth century , Albrecht Ritschl , whose influence extended throughout the world , illustrated this defect of liberal Christianity . He could treat of the central theme of Christian faith , namely , that " God was in Christ reconciling the world unto Himself " in a systematic treatment which combined Kantian and Lutheran elements . But the Kantian elements were obviously dominant because Ritschl believed that men needed to be reconciled to God only because of their ignorance . " Insofar as men are regarded as sinners , " he wrote , " both in their individual capacity and as a whole , they are objects of redemption and reconciliation , made possible by the love of God @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ final purpose of opposition to the known will of God but as ignorance . " 2 Thus the whole Biblical doctrine of the seriousness of sin and the necessity of forgiveness is emptied of its meaning and the view of the human situation is altered to conform to the prejudices of the Enlightenment . Footnote  | The form of interpreting the central revelation of the Christian faith is really the best indication of the ethos of an age . If the two facets of the revelation in Christ are not appreciated , and the figure of Christ is interpreted merely as a symbol and example of human virtue , all that is expressed in Biblical faith from the prophets to the final revelation which emphasizes the continued ambiguity in all historic achievements , is lost . Christianity , in that event , becomes merely another form of " idealism " in and through which men deceive themselves , believing that their actions and lives are as good as the ideals which they are able to entertain . In individual life this means that the love , which is the core of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ simple fruit of the human will . It thereby becomes impossible by the very confidence that it is a simple possibility . The " love of Christ , " according to the New Testament , is either forgiving or sacrificial love . It therefore depends upon humility and the knowledge of the common involvement of all men in sin on the one hand ; and upon " grace " beyond the capacity of anyone 's will on the other hand . In terms of social and political wisdom the destruction of the paradox contained in the concept of a crucified Savior means that there is no understanding of the fact that even the best social structures and schemes of justice may be in contradiction to the " Love of Christ . " The elements of selfregard and partial interest are not detected in their pretensions of universal validity . Consequently the enlarging sphere of social obligation and the greater perfection of communications , by which communities are integrated , are falsely interpreted as evidences of " progress " ; and the perennial contradictions in life to the felt moral imperative are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the wisdom of common sense and these illusions . For common sense never doubts that it must deal with the egotism of men on every level of community ; but the more sophisticated wisdom is constantly beguiled by the " progressive " elements in the historic situation to imagine that developing technics  | have permanently eliminated the powerful and persistent factors of self-interest or parochial interest which operate on every level of community in contradiction to the enlarging communities and systems of obligation . Thus a tolerable solution of modern man 's communal problem within terms , created by developing technics and shifting social circumstances , requires that we approach these problems armed by wisdom drawn from two sources . We must have the wisdom of rational discrimination and the sense of a developing historical situation on the one hand . We must , on the other hand , be conscious of the perennial factors which appear in ever new guises . This latter wisdom is , as we have recognized , supplied by " common sense . " But common sense is easily beguiled by pretentious and sophisticated wisdom if @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by a prophetic religious faith which knows that the wise , the mighty , the virtuous and the noble , that in fact all men and all cultures , stand under a more ultimate judgement than any of the judgements which they pass upon themselves and upon each other . Perhaps the chief cause of illusion in that part of our culture which prides itself upon its reason and its understanding of the flow of history is that it persists in regarding the root of man 's self-regard as the force of his immediate needs . It thinks of itself as very realistic if it recognizes the perennial necessities of survival , the hungers and thirst of men ; if it knows the economic competitions between groups within a nation , and the economic roots of nationalistic and imperialistic ambitions of the nations . This kind of realism fails to understand the power impulse as distinguished from the economic motive . It is equally blind to the fact that the desire for power and for prestige are curiously compounded . It understands man as a hungry animal ; and if it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ man as a " beast of prey . " At the heights of its realism it does not , however , understand that man is most dangerous when he pretends to be God or to have possession of some absolute stand-  | and of virtue or wisdom . If modern culture understands the nature of persecution it also misunderstands it because it attributes fanaticism purely to an outmoded religious belief , which a growing intelligence will dissolve . In short , it does not understand man at all as a creature of time who is troubled with visions of the absolute and is torn by the contradictory impulses to subject his finite life to someone or something greater than himself , but also to claim the possession of some unconditioned ground of virtue and wisdom from which he can survey his fellow men and hold them in contempt . Modern culture does not understand , above all , how closely related the two impulses are , and how inextricably the creativity and destructiveness of men are related , so that the capacity for evil rises with the historic elaborations of his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reside in some pleasure-seeking " id , " which the complexities of civilized life subject to more and more strain ; nor in some animal hunger which may be transmuted , satisfied and deflected until it ceases to be dangerous . It is always the whole man who is involved in both creativity and destructiveness , in both self-regard and the sense of obligation to his fellows . It is this whole man who rides the forward march of history and exhibits capacities for both good and evil on every level of culture and civilization . Therefore it is necessary to draw constantly on the insights of Biblical faith , particularly in an age in which human achievements are great ; and illusions threaten to be as great as the achievements . The obvious , and yet so hidden , dilemma of human creativity , must be clarified . This is why the Hebraic-Christian component of our culture is a necessary tool for the understanding of both our community and of ourselves , and remains perennially relevant even when it is relegated by the contemporary wise men to oblivion . This @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's deepest insights and become involved in fanaticisms for which a genuine faith ought to be the cure .  | But this relevance does not , of course , invalidate the genuine contributions which may be drawn from the culture which had its inception in the Renaissance . Among these contributions the capacity for rational discrimination in the analysis of historical causes and the sense of developing historical opportunities and obligations are most precious . The partially contrasting virtues and weaknesses of a Christian and a secular culture in estimating both the possibilities and the limits of human striving , and the partially identical illusions of both cultures , operating in the name of either " God " or " reason , " have made the achievement of community in the " Christian " world dependent upon the unplanned cooperation of these two facets of a common culture . In some situations the error in the truth of the one facet was corrected by the truth in the error of the other ; and on other occasions . the weakness of the one was compensated by the virtue of the other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ case , been better than either component had the wit or wisdom to realize . Modern Western history since the disintegration of the medieval synthesis has , in short , been a dramatic encounter between the Biblical-Hebraic and the Hellenic components of our culture in which the emergence of dynamic factors of a technical civilization gave a new dimension to the ancient encounter . The dialectical tension between the two components in our culture was rooted in the fact that each was capable of realizing some facts of human existence and tended to be blind to others . The Hebraic saw history as a drama and the Hellenic looked for the structures which underlie the flow of history . The Hebraic was conscious of the organic aspects of human community while the Hellenic discerned the elements of artifact which had been introduced into the community by human contrivance . The Hebraic had a sense of divine providence as ruling over history because it was conscious of the creatureliness of man in the process . Modernized Hellenism was so conscious of the role of man as creator that it became defective in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ determinism and an excessive voluntarism . It significantly always managed to put the determinism in the service of the voluntarism so that man always appeared to be , or to become , the master of historical destiny . In Marxist or liberal hopes this transformation from ambiguity to mastery was just about to take place . In corrupt Marxism ( Stalinism ) the claim is made that it has taken place . The similar corruptions of fanaticism in both piety and rationalism are particularly instructive . They both point to the tendency of finite and creaturely man to think more highly of himself than he ought to think . The problem of community is confused more by these absolutistic pretensions than by the hunger for bread and by the competition for the resources of the earth . The pious try to moderate the pretension by subjecting human pride to divine judgement . The rationalists seek to bring it under critical social scrutiny . Both methods of restraint are necessary , but both methods are also defective . One might claim that it is possible to realize why they are defective from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hellenic modern standpoint . But this understanding must not be regarded as eliminating the defect . The chief issue between the two components develops on the issue of the realization of the potentialities of history . The Biblical faith accepts the fact that historical meanings and fulfillments remain fragmentary to the end of history . It even anticipates the growth of both good and evil in history so that the ambiguities of meaning are heightened rather than diminished . Modern rationalism on this issue is not at all Hellenic . It has more confidence in history than the Greek philosophers had . It seeks to bring history to a rationally intelligible conclusion . Invariably these utopian dreams bring new evil into history because the proposed fulfillment of historical potentialities reveals itself to be but the pretension of some class , nation or group that its cherished values have a right to triumph over all competing values . We must therefore rely upon Biblical faith to encourage the modesty and patience which will prevent present tensions  | from becoming catastrophic because the contestants , either one or both , are trying to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the two components of our culture for the organic qualities of community on the one hand , and for the qualities of artifact on the other , would seem to stand in complete contradiction to their original presuppositions . The one begins by emphasizing the freedom of the self , while the other sees the self as either mind or as a part of nature . The effort to understand the self as a part of nature becomes more and more consistent , as we have seen . Yet this inclination in modern culture does not prevent , but actually encourages the most utopian conceptions of the possibility of community through the volitions of men . On the other hand , the component of the culture which is supposedly based upon an appreciation of the qualities of freedom in the self and of its capacities for dramatic elaborations , develops the most consistently organic forms of togetherness in which the freedom of the person is obscured and in which novelty and new emergences are feared , too consistently feared , as the breeders of anarchy . A portion of this preference @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to that lack of discrimination to which religious faith easily degenerated . But a portion must be attributed to the fact that religion , drawn from the Bible , is as conscious of man 's status as a creature as of his eminence as a creator . The concomitant of this knowledge of man 's finiteness is faith in an overruling providence which presides over a drama of such proportions that we can not fully discern its intent and meaning , and are certainly incapable of basically altering its meaning . But this religious conservatism is also partly drawn from the fear of man as destroyer of community , that is , the fear of his selfishness . Traditional forms of community are preferred because it is felt that it is better to restrain the ambitions of men by the established patterns of togetherness than to run the danger of anarchy by the removal of traditional habits and restraints . This fear of anarchy proved , as we shall see , to be excessive .  | It prevented modern communities from emancipating themselves from the tyranny of the older traditional forms @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the eighteenth century who imagined that it was only necessary for reason to dissolve traditional loyalties and to substitute the artifacts of man 's reason and will for the organic forms , found themselves confronting aggravated forms of ancient evils . They had not sufficiently guarded against perennial dangers to peace and order inherent in human egotism . These facts account in part for the strange contradiction that a faith which ostensibly believes in the freedom and responsibility of the self is used as an ally of conservative politics , while a faith which ostensibly believes man to be subject to nature usually becomes involved in utopian politics which have no appreciation of the limits set to human achievement either by man 's finiteness and creatureliness or by his sin . We must therefore trace the history of how the modern age found a tolerable solution for its problems of order and justice in the context of a technical civilization by correcting the error in the truth of one position by the truth in the error of the other position . We shall trace this history in terms of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the development of the social and economic strategies which perfected justice in the dynamics of a technical society by equalizing power in both the economic and political sphere . We must finally inquire what function each component of our culture serves in the pressing problem of establishing peace , order and justice in the nascent world community .  | ORGANISM AND ARTIFACT IN DEMOCRATIC GOVERNMENT Every human community is both organism and artifact . It is an organism insofar as it is integrated by loyalties , forms of cohesion and hierarchies of authority which have grown unconsciously with a minimum of conscious contrivance . The concept of " organism " is of course only roughly applicable to anything in history because historical developments , even in primitive communities , are never purely unconscious . The community and its authorities are artifacts insofar as the form of cohesion and the integration of the community have been consciously contrived . The early empires were artifacts rather than organisms insofar as the imperial cohesion , above the level of the city-states which were the components of empire , were contrived by the military @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ European one until the disintegration of the traditional society of the Middle Ages , were more nearly organisms than artifacts . Kings and their ministers did , of course , consciously manipulate the loyalties which furnished the bonds of community ; but no one thought of the possibility of forming a community or  | even a government purely by an act of the will . The " social contract " theory had not yet been conceived . The principle of legitimacy in dynastic rule was , in a sense , the symbol of the organic quality of traditional communities . It expressed the significance of continuity as a source of authority . The devotion to the principle was by no means simply proof of a lack of " enlightenment . " Hereditary continuity was so important for the order of the community because the policy of subjecting the question of succession to the choice of the people or the nobles would have exposed the community to the peril of anarchy . Rome , lacking a stable principle of succession , hastened its doom by the unsolved problem of transmitting the vast @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of course , no guarantee that an hereditary monarch would rule justly . In fact , his power was sufficiently absolute and irresponsible to make it quite certain that justice was not a virtue of hereditary monarchy . The preference of all traditional communities for hereditary dynasts is therefore a symbol of the price in injustice which a traditional community was willing to pay for the good order and peace of the community . The whole development toward democratic government in a technical society , which we must trace more carefully , is , in a sense , the story of trying to achieve justice without disturbing the order of the community . The long history of civil strife in modern society proves that the attempt was not always successful . Naturally the injustices of traditional governments increased when new emergents in the social structure ( modern commerce for instance ) challenged the " organic " or traditional way of preserving order . Our " modern " age had many beginnings . But in political history it had an obvious beginning in the revolt against traditional authorities , of which monarchial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and justified . Unfortunately it created the impression that it was necessary only to substitute the artifacts of order for the organisms of community to establish the de-  | sired justice and order . Thereby the permanent significance of the organic factors of community was obscured . An even more grievous miscalculation was that the permanent tension between order and justice was believed to have been eliminated . The symbol of modern man 's belief that both community and government are merely artifacts , that is , the creations of the human will and reason , is the social contract theory , which was propounded by such divergent theorists as the liberal democrat John Locke , the proponent of royal absolutism Thomas Hobbes , and the totalitarian democrat Rousseau . The theory assumed a mythical " state of nature " before the rise of civil society , to which the various theorists attributed contradictory virtues and vices . For Thomas Hobbes the state of nature meant the " war of all against all " ; for John Locke it was a state of imperfect order and harmony , suffering from the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a judge in his own case . " For Rousseau it was a state of unabridged freedom . None of these presuppositions , of course , remotely resembled the character of primitive society . Indeed the reality of primitive society , of organic communities which developed into more advanced civilizations proves the invalidity of the assumptions underlying the social contract theory . For the community is as primordial as the individual . The social contract theory was merely the expression of the individualism and voluntarism of the rising business community . It was beguiled by its possession of mobile and flexible instruments of power and by the disintegration of traditional society to assume that all men had the power not only to determine their own destiny but the destiny of their communities . This excessive voluntarism was of course accompanied by a confident rationalism . It was thought that men would only have to exercise their reason to conceive of more just social and political integrations . Both faith and tradition ( for religion was obviously a support of tradition ) were discredited . Were they not simply the " superstitions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ These uncritical approaches to the past flowered in the French Enlightenment , but they characterized the social viewpoints of modernity from the seventeenth to the nineteenth century . They were motivated by a strong desire for justice within the context of the emerging commercial and industrial community . But they were blind to the contributions which the traditional organs of community made to communal integration , failing to recognize that , even if the price in justice which they exacted was too high , they did serve as organs of integration . The organs of communal integration which were under criticism and which the modern community was forced to revise in the interest of justice were chiefly three : government , social hierarchy and property . Of these three , the social hierarchy , which provided for integration below the level of obvious government , was not so much an " institution " as a general social phenomenon . Symbolized by traditional aristocracy , it seemed the most useless of the three and its injustices were most obvious . Therefore , the kernel of usefulness for the community in this phenomenon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an instrument for making the authority and privilege of this social hierarchy hereditary . We must postpone for the moment the consideration of the problems occasioned by the phenomena of social hierarchy and property in order to consider the problem of government and the order of the community . Yet it is difficult to separate the three institutions , not only because they are interrelated but because we face the same moral problem in each one of them . They demand an excessive price of injustice for whatever services they perform in communal integration . The injustices of a traditional society were in fact so excessive that the chief victims of its injustice were in revolt against them in the various peasant revolts at the end of the Middle Ages , even before the disintegration of the traditional order set in through the rebellion of the middle classes . The peasants were driven by desperation but they lacked the social  | power to effect any considerable social change . That change waited upon the class , armed with sufficient social power to effect a radical reconstitution of social forces . Naturally @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Church made the supposition plausible that religion was the primary force of conservatism . Indeed religious authority did reinforce the general conservatism of traditional society . But the accusation does not take into account that both reason and faith were divided upon the issue of the legitimacy of inequality for the sake of integration . Rationalism expressed itself in terms of both Stoic equalitarianism and Aristotelian justifications of inequality . And the protests against medieval institutions in the name of equality and liberty came from both seventeenth-century Christian sectaries and eighteenth-century French philosophers . Each made the mistake of regarding both liberty and equality as simple possibilities of history rather than as regulative principles of justice because both were unconscious of the necessity for social integration of the institutions of government , social hierarchy and property . Naturally the critical attitude toward inequalities was more prevalent in the earlier than in the later period . The mark of this development was the gradual displacement by Aristotelianism of the earlier Stoicism as the rational component of Christian social ethics . For early Christianity the stoic idea of equality was the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ relations . Augustine regarded equality as God-ordained . " It is thus , " he declared , " that God created man . Let him , ' He said , have dominion over the fish of the sea , and over the fowl of the air . . . and over every creeping thing that creepeth upon the earth . ' He did not intend that His rational creature who was made in His image should have dominion over anything but the irrational creation . . . not man over man but man over the beasts . . . . And the righteous men in primitive times were shepherds of cattle rather than kings of men . " 1 Footnote  | This radical equalitarianism in early Christianity was of course balanced by the idea that government , property and social hierarchy were " remedies " for sin . It was understood , in other words , that the egotism of men made these coercive and unequal integrations necessary . The same Augustine could thus accept an extreme form of social hierarchy , slavery , with the excuse that , " It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ slave of sin . " The miscalculations of future ages in regard to the inequalities of feudalism are succinctly expressed in that phrase because slavery is more an accentuation of sin than a remedy for it . This indicated the path by which the Christian faith became the defender of the institutions of the status quo rather than their critic from a perspective of prophetic radicalism . This religious reverence is older than Christianity . Religious overtones in the establishment of order were explicit to the point of an idolatrous worship of the monarch in all ancient empires . These empires were created by transferring the religious reverence for the " sacred brotherhood " to the sacred ruler ; from the brotherhood of the primitive community to the ruler of the great empire which could not be imaginatively comprehended except through the symbol of the ruler . ' - This idolatrous worship of the ruler will seem irrational to modern men ; but it certainly did not err in one direction any more than the social contract theory erred in the other . For in one sense it was merely reverence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ beyond the wit and wisdom of any particular generation . It was therefore providentially established . The ruler was believed to have some kinship with the creator of the cosmic order . This religious attitude toward government made it difficult to realize that a government which did not have the explicit consent of its subjects was bound to be unjust . But the attitude was justified by the fact that government , purely by explicit consent , was , at least in that day , impossible . It Footnote  | may , much to the horror of our simpler idealists , be impossible today , which is why one of the greatest achievements of statecraft was to distinguish between the implicit consent which we give to an established government , if it is fairly tolerable , and a particular government , which is made and unmade by explicit consent . This is the ideal way of uniting the wisdom of traditional with that of voluntaristic societies . The religious reverence for established order is not created by priests , but it can be manipulated and corrupted by them . It springs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not have created . It is , in short , the chief ingredient of the state 's " majesty . " Majesty is certainly a more important source of authority than power , though no state can exist without the police power to suppress overt recalcitrance . But the possession of majesty spells the difference between legitimate and illegitimate government , that is , between the government which rules by implicit consent or that which rules by " force and fraud . " 3 The ingredients of majesty are chiefly three : ( a ) historic prestige , symbolized in the principle of legitimacy in all monarchies ; ( b ) the religious aura , derived either from the sense of the divinity of the monarch or ( within Christian terms ) his divine ordination to rule ; and ( c ) the moral prestige derived from the justice of his reign . Usurpation does not necessarily destroy this moral prestige of the ruler if his rule is just enough to overcome the original resentment against his conquest and to validate itself by the order achieved in the conquest . Most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ triumph of one city-state over the others . If there were enough forces of cohesion beside the pure force , the attained unity could validate itself without " force and fraud . " Though there may have been some fraud in the manipulation of religious texts by the priests of Heliopolis , Memphis or Babylon for the purpose of proving the God of the regnant city-state to be the supreme God of the world . Footnote  | The religious element of Western civilization was distinguished markedly in some respects , and less markedly in some others , from that of the ancient pagan empires . The idolatrous worship of the ruler was of course impossible within the rigorous monotheistic framework of Biblical religion . But the religious sanctity claimed for the papal ruler of the whole European culture was regarded by its imperial and other critics as idolatrous long before the Reformation levelled the shocking charge that the Pope was " anti-Christ . " The gradation of authority in the medieval system was in fact one of those peculiar historical configurations which may be endlessly justified by rational argument but for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It represents a quite novel co-operation between priest and soldier in the management of an imperium in which the priest was supreme , though Empire and Church were constant competitors for the primacy of power . The competition was partly responsible for the disintegration of the medieval system , the papacy ultimately requiring the help of the budding nations ( chiefly France ) as counterweight against the Empire . But the servant became the master of the Papacy , and a long schism resulted ( Captivity of Avignon ) . But the hazards of political maneuver were certainly not as responsible for the decline of the authority of the Papacy as the mounting resentment against the policy of using the " keys of heaven , " excommunication and interdict , to unlock the doors of temporal power . The devout Dante had expressed the growing resentment against this peculiar mixture of the spiritual and the political long before the Reformation . The universality of this resentment ( which incidentally still colors the political life of the Western world ) justifies the judgement that the decay of the authority of the medieval @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ decay was religious resentment , though it can not be denied that all the reformers and prereformers , Huss , Luther , Knox were national heroes ; and that the rising nations insinuated nationalistic resentments  | against imperial rule into the religious protest against the quality of that rule . It may be significant that competition for political authority made the Church more critical of political power than of the social stratification of society . " Kings have their dominion by perfidy and plunder , " said the first great Pope , Gregory I. But it would be unfair to attribute this critical attitude merely to political competition . To do so would miss the point which we are about to elaborate . That is that the Reformation , in its early stages at least , represented retrogression in political morality because of the uncritical reverence which it gave to historically and " providentially " established political authority . The creative relation of Protestantism to the emerging " free " society rests primarily on its challenge to the keystone of the arch of authority in the medieval structure , the Church @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ now considering : how to relate explicit to implicit consent and how to preserve reverence for order and yet be critical of the authority , which is at the basis of the order , we must admit that the Reformation destroyed , at least in its early phases , the impressive constitutionalism of the medieval Church . This was partly due to the fact that it relaxed the criticism of political institutions upon the basis of their conformity to natural law . This simply meant that order was not subjected to the criterion of its capacity for justice . Norms taken from Scripture were substituted for the natural law , but scriptural norms were frequently capricious . Certainly the Pauline admonition : " Let every soul be subject unto the higher powers . For there is no power but of God : the powers that be are ordained of God , " ( Romans 13:1 ) was given a most onesided emphasis in the whole of Reformation thought , and served to make the religious appreciation of providentially established order excessive to the point of prohibiting resistance to any established authority @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the duty of obedience even to unjust rulers . This attitude stands in sharp contrast to  | Aquinas ' justification of tyrannicide . A good deal of political history was made when John Knox extricated Calvinism from a too uncritical application of this single word of Scripture , which incidentally , taken alone , disturbs the scriptural " consensus " by eliminating all the critical words on the injustice of rulers from the prophets to Jesus . " The power in that place , " declared John Knox , " is not to be taken as the unjust commandments of men but as the just commandments of God . " When asked whether it was right for the people to judge the justice of the ruler he answered , " and what harm would a commonwealth receive if the corrupt affections of ignorant rulers were moderated and bridled by the wisdom and discretion of Godly subjects ? " Thus the camel 's nose of democracy entered the tent of the Reformation for the first time . The whole history of Europe might have been different had it not required three @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , found the same avenue of escape from the binding force of the Pauline admonition which Knox had found . It was the simple realization that only rulers " who are not a terror to good works but to evil " deserve obedience . It could not have been scriptural authority alone which would have created this excessive reverence for the state ( which incidentally was no more sharply defined by Luther than Obrigkeit ) . All the early Reformers had a great fear of anarchy , expressed rather hysterically by Luther against the pathetic peasants who had vainly tried to exploit the new religious freedom for social ends . The fear of anarchy was vividly expressed by Tyndale : " It is better , " he said , " to have a tyrant for a king than a shadow . . . for a tyrant , though he do wrong unto the good , yet he punisheth the evil and maketh all men obey . . . . A king who is soft as silk and effeminate . . . shall be more grievous to the realm than a right @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of resistance even to tyrants from the Scripture , though he does not define the specific source : " If we direct our attention to the word of God , " he writes in the Institutes , " it will ( persuade us ) even to submit to the government , not only of those princes who discharge their duties to us with becoming integrity and fidelity , but to all who possess sovereignty , even though they perform none of the duties of their function . For though the Lord testifies that the magistrate is an eminent gift of his liberality , to preserve the safety of men , and prescribes to magistrates themselves the extent of their duties , yet he at the same time declares that , whatever their characters , they have their government only from him ; that those who govern for the public good are true specimens and mirrors of his beneficence ; and that all who rule in an unjust and tyrannical manner are raised up by him to punish the iniquity of the people ; that all possess that sacred majesty with which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in speaking in God 's name with such confidence , and his suggestion that unjust rule may be justified as a punishment for the sins of the people , would seem to accentuate indiscriminate reverence for political authority at the precise moment in history where discriminate judgement became most necessary . In short , Luther and Calvin raised religious reverence for political authority to an absurd height . Thus the Reformation in its early stages purged Christian thought of its Catholic discriminations and set it at the opposite pole of the rationalists , who had no reverence for historically evolved integrations of authority at all , and propounded the equally absurd doctrine of the " social contract " which was born of the illusion that each generation had it in its power to make and unmake both communities and governments . Considerable history was required to close the gap between these two poles and to prove both attitudes , purged of their Footnote  | extremism , to be necessary for the creation of a community which would enjoy both stability and justice . The poles of early modernity were , in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ excused if they ask why it would not be well to consider the disintegration of the medieval synthesis a mistake and seek a return to the original unity . The answer to that question is that it is not possible for modern culture and civilization with all of its vitalities , economic and political and cultural , to find unity under clerical authoritarianism . Not only is the clericalism and the authoritarianism impossible , but the norms by which life was regulated are too inflexible . Whether it was the theory of a " just price " which defined the norm for economic life , or the concept of a " just prince " which outlawed tyranny , or the idea of a " just war " which gave the criteria for legitimate conflict , the standards were in every case too inflexible and simple to define the moral norm in the contingencies of history . The problem of modern culture is to recognize the contingencies but not despair of sensing the norms of justice , though they may not be defined with the precision which medieval " natural law " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and an excessive voluntarism , which imagined each generation to have the power to create order and justice in the community by a fiat of its own will , was most successfully overcome in the Calvinism of the seventeenth century . The right of resistance to unjust government was affirmed by the simple expedient of asserting that the rule of a prince assumed a " covenant " between the ruler and the ruled which was violated by injustice . " It is certain , " we read in the memorable anonymous Huguenot tract Vindiciae Contra Tyrannos , " that the people require a performance of covenants . The people ask the king whether he will rule justly . He promises he will . Then the people answer , and not before , that they will obey faithfully . The king promises , the which failing to be accomplished , the people are quit of their prom-  | ises . " Thus the idea of a mutual covenant , which could be violated by the injustice of the ruler and was therefore not violated in the first instance by resistance to injustice @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out the early Reformation idea of a binding covenant of obedience between God and the people , which enjoined obedience , or at least non-resistance , whether the ruler be evil or good . " There is an oath between the king and the people , " said the Scottish Calvinist constitutionalist Samuel Rutherford , in his memorable Lex , Rex , " laid on by a reciprocation of hands , mutual civil obligations , of the king to the people and the people to the king . " Rutherford simply expanded the opening , first proposed by John Knox to stop the fateful influence of Romans 13 . " If any cast off the nature of a king and become a tyrant , " he declared simply , " his office is not from God . " It would be interesting to examine how much wisdom of this later Calvinism was acquired by historical experience , and how the certainties about the God-ordained quality of all government evaporated in the conflict of Protestants with Catholic monarchs . However , the real achievement of later Calvinism was in distinguishing between the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of any generation to create out of hand , and a particular government , which rests upon explicit consent . " It is not in men 's free will to have government or no government , " declared Sam Rutherford , " or to obey or not to obey the acts of the court of nature which is God 's court . But we must distinguish between the power of government , and the power of government by magistracy . . . the latter the people must measure ounce by ounce-weights , no more and no less . " Providentially ordained government and political order neither ordains monarchy nor any one particular monarch . " The essence of government is kept safe in aristocracy or democracy , " declared Rutherford , " though there be no kings . " To the question , " whether this man or that man be crowned King , " Rutherford answered " the people have the power " to determine . Thus a balance was reached between proper reverence for  | the ordinance of government and affirmation of the principle of consent by which particular @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the community as an organism and as an artifact ; between the factors which are beyond the power , and those within the power of a given generation . This balance is also creative of a government with a maximum of stability and a maximum of justice . The former created by traditional forces and the latter by the workings of a democratic order in which the people measure out " ounce by ounce-weights " the power which they wish to entrust to a particular ruler . It is this balance which has made constitutional monarchy so serviceable an instrument of democracy in the healthier West European states long after the institution of monarchy was relegated to the scrap heap of history by the rationalistic idealists of the eighteenth century . The monarchy , shorn of its power , proved to be a very good symbol of the continuities of order and authority beyond the majesty of any particular governments . Our own nation has achieved stability without the use of this symbol , though we are frequently embarrassed by the fact that the symbolic head of the entire nation is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of party loyalties . Perhaps it is this defect in a symbol for the " organic " aspects of government which makes us so hysterical in our insistence that there shall be no disloyalty to our government . For one of the great achievements of democracy was certainly to have incorporated resistance to a particular government into the very structure of government itself . This does not of course preclude revolution whenever the tradition of government in a nation becomes so discredited by the actions of particular governments that the resentments , which generate revolutions , are aroused . But on the whole the democracies which had modified the power of the monarchy to some extent before the twentieth century were able to preserve the monarchial symbol for democratic purposes . Monarchies with absolutistic pretension , or vestigial remnants of absolution , on the other  | hand , perished in the First World War . Even constitutional monarchies , in which the monarch connived with totalitarian parties , succumbed in the Second World War . If there is to be an ideal fusion of freedom with stability , of justice with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is of course necessary that the symbols of stability should not be used as weapons of the parties of privilege to preserve a traditional privilege against the will of the majority . If the symbol is to remain untarnished as a symbol of the unity of the community above party conflict and of the continuing majesty of its government , any party in the community must have the confidence that it may , upon attaining a majority for its conception of justice , be able to speak through the royal symbol . This is to say that it achieves the right to speak for the whole community , though it is only a majority of the community . There must also be a corresponding respect by the majority of the rights of the minority . Otherwise a frustrated minority may become desperate and defy this attempt at national unity . In British history it is significant that constitutional monarchy which Edmund Burke extolled so eloquently as an instrument of justice in countering the illusions of the French Revolution 6 actually had more power in his day to frustrate the will of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ monarchy was gradually shorn of its power , not by revolution but by organic historical processes , that is to say , by the gradual extension of the logic inherent in the democratic idea . This process in British history was not complete until a very recent day when George V refused to create enough Peers to provide a conservative majority in the House of Lords for the purpose of defeating the ruling government . In our own nation the Constitution takes the place of the monarchy as the symbol of stability and continuing majesty of government . Though it does not have the advantages of combining flexibility with inflexibility , it is significant that there are evidences of an organic growth of Footnote  | extended democracy upon it . The most significant of these is the relegation of the Electoral College to powerlessness . It had been prompted by the fear of the founding fathers of the unmediated expression of the popular will , which proved to be unfounded . Perhaps the development of the party structures and party conventions , also not anticipated in the Constitution , hastened the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ archaic remnant . The fear of the founding fathers of the divisiveness of " factions , " i.e. , parties , also proved to be unfounded . It should be added that the institution of constitutional monarchy was itself a product of the " providential " force in history which it came to symbolize . It was not what the monarchists intended nor what the anti-monarchist democrats intended . But it incorporated a political wisdom , higher than the intentions of either party . It is thus a perfect illustration of the way that truth may come out of the competition of contrasting errors . In this case the truth was a fusion of the factors of stability and those of freedom and justice . If constitutional monarchy is a potent , though not a solitary , symbol of the wisdom which combines stability with freedom , we may assume that the nations of Western Europe , which have retained this type of monarchial institution , have some measure of this wisdom . They also required a considerable measure of historical good fortune to escape the hazards incident upon the disintegration @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , it can not be denied that Britain is the most exemplary exponent of the wisdom which combines reverence for historical integrations of community and authority with a rational and voluntaristic discrimination of the factors and forces which make for freedom and justice in the complexities of a technical society . Britain was able to absorb the bourgeois revolution into an essentially traditional society , to pour the new wine into the old wine skins without bursting them . It was able after that achievement to absorb the second democratic movement of the industrial workers , and to return to the conditions of a modified  | welfare state when the panacea of the socialization of property proved inadequate in overcoming the collective poverty of a war-impoverished nation and when it proved to be unnecessary in view of the measures of justice which had been accomplished without socialization . Such a measure of stability and freedom to experiment points to real treasuries of political wisdom . If we compare the British achievements with those of France and Germany , for instance , it may not be too hazardous to suggest that these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by Luther 's extravagant reverence for political authority and the other is the product of the illusions of the Enlightenment and of Rousseauistic romanticism . In either case , the one or the other ingredient of the compound of reverence for history and rational discrimination was lacking . George Santayana pays eloquent tribute to the British genius for establishing liberty within the framework of stability . " The slow co-operation of free men , this liberty in democracy , " he declares , " is wholly English . In its personal basis , its reserve , its tenacity , its empiricism , its public spirit and in the assurance of its own rightness it deserves to be called English , to whatever countries it may spread . " 7 The wisdom which combines the two approaches runs from Ireton through Edmund Burke to Winston Churchill . Ireton preferred the " rights of Englishmen " to the " rights of man . " That phrase incorporates an awareness that rationally conceived " rights " are not very secure , even if defined as " inalienable , " if they have not been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the ambitions of fellow men , which imperils our rights , are checked with more effect by historical habit than by appeals to reason . For each party is so intransigeant in its claims precisely because it regards them as " rational . " The capacity to absorb the ferment of democratic justice Footnote  | without bursting the wineskins of a traditional society may be partly due to the peculiar history of sectarian Christianity in England . The " Schwaermer , " the Anabaptist of the Continent , projected wholly perfectionist and fantastic goals for society . They were defeated by Protestant and Catholic conservatives and left no deposit in the life and thought of the Continent . All the radical sects on the left wing of Cromwell 's army were addicted to almost as fantastic perfectionism as the Anabaptists . They were also defeated . But their life and thought left a deposit which became the basis for subsequent democratic developments . Perhaps the difference was that while their ideas and ideals were extremist and perfectionist , they did not cease to be relevant . They provided the counterweight @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ authority . Richard Hooker , at the turn from the sixteenth to the seventeenth century , was able to mix this democratic ferment with the old wine with a balance which was superior even to that of the later Calvinists . He thus became the most expressive symbol of English political philosophy , the reflective exponent of a compromise between Protestant and Catholic forces , unreflectively achieved under Queen Elizabeth , and the potent source of the balanced thought which prevented the restoration after Cromwell 's adventure from being a mere return to the past . Hooker 's political genius was based on his awareness of the relation of implicit to explicit consent . He knew that government without consent means tyranny . But he also knew that the principle of the " consent of the governed " as propounded by the Christian , as later by the rationalistic , idealists was too simply conceived to do justice to the implicit consent which accrues to relatively just governments through historical achievement . " Laws there are not , which public approbation has not made so , " he declared . But @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ direct . " In many things , " he continued , " assent is given , they that give it , not imagining that they do so because the manner of their  | giving is not apparent . " 8 It is particularly important to justify the inheritance of good laws from previous generations . For , argued Hooker , " The act of public society , done five hundred years ago , standeth as theirs who are presently of the same society , because corporations are immortal . " It is a tribute to Hooker 's genius and to his representative character in British political thought , that both John Locke and Edmund Burke were indebted to him . Immediately the issue solved by Hooker and the later Calvinists is how to relate the freedom and justice of a democratic society to the organic stabilities of a more traditional society . This requires that new and more adequate equilibria of power be substituted for the disbalances which created injustice . It also requires replacing too conventional acceptance of traditional authority with discriminate judgement about the actual consequences of given policies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ considered , this political problem is merely a version of the more general problem of how man is to be aware of his status as both creator and creature in history . If he forgets that he is a creature and imagines himself purely a creator , he will lack reverence for the achievements of the past , which are beyond his competence , and for the mysterious providence under which an order has been established which blesses his life . Heedless of past achievements and unable to profit by past lessons , he will gaily build new societies only to find them subject to worse corruptions than the traditional ones . Thus the dreams of the seventeenthcentury Christian sectaries culminated in Cromwell 's dictatorship ; the dreams of the French Encyclopedists culminated in Napoleon 's adventures and despotism ; and the Marxist dreams turned into the nightmare of Stalinism . These miscalculations resulted from the failure to take account of the persistent impulses of self-interest which would express themselves in new historical configurations . It was Footnote  | also due to the fact that past injustices had obscured the positive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ norms and by setting limits to the inordinate ambitions of men . On the other hand , if man does not acknowledge his status as creator , his freedom over the historical flux , his right and duty to challenge the inherited traditions of the community , his obligation to exercise discriminate judgement in rearranging or reconstructing any scheme of togetherness which has been faulty in providing justice , he will merely become the victim of the past which accentuates its vices when it is studiedly preserved into the present . He will have an undue reverence which will be particularly obnoxious in a civilization in which the emergence of new factors and dynamics makes the extension and the preservation of justice dependent upon discriminate judgement . Freedom over the traditions of the past and discriminate judgement in weighing the relative factors and forces which effect the establishment of community and the attainment of justice become particularly important in the extension of community to global dimensions , the task which now confronts mankind , and in organizing the economic relations below the level of the minimal integration of the community . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ problem of government , but not to be identified with it . We must now consider it more specifically .  | PROPERTY , SOCIAL HIERARCHY AND THE PROBLEM OF JUSTICE W e have provisionally considered both property and social stratification as instruments , with government , of the integration of the community but have dismissed them provisionally in order to center our attention upon the problem of government and justice . We must now study these " institutions " more carefully , both in their relatedness and separately . The definition of " institution " is correct for property ; but it is dubious for describing the hierarchy of authority and the consequent social stratification below the level of government which characterizes all forms of communal integration . These phenomena are not so much institutions as aspects of the communal life . If we define them as " below the level of government , " we can do this only tentatively . For all subordination of life to leadership in the various activities of the community is in a sense " government , " though pluralistic and democratic communities have understood @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to state authority . The establishment of grades of authority inevitably leads to social stratification because grades of privilege invariably are related to grades of authority and power . Property is related to this stratification because it is the primary instrument for transmitting authority and  | privilege from generation to generation . It is this function of property which makes the institution morally so ambiguous . For property , as the consequence of mixing our labor with nature ( John Locke ) and property as the right of inheriting power and privilege , are certainly in different categories of moral legitimacy . But the fact is that not only property , but the two institutions of property and social stratification are in the same position of moral ambiguity . Both are necessary instruments of justice and order , and yet both are fruitful of injustice . Both have , no less than government , grown up organically in traditional civilizations in the sense that they were unconscious adaptations to the needs of justice and order . Both were , even as government , productive of injustice . The injustice is inevitable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tended to be in excess of the necessities of the function performed . Both institutions continued for millenia until the dissolution of the medieval order in Western Europe . The revolts against both of them by both the radical Christians and the radical secular idealists of the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries tended to be indiscriminate . This lack of discrimination expressed itself in the notion that liberty and equality were simple possibilities in history . We therefore have the task in a mobile and technically efficient society to come to terms with the necessities which have created both phenomena , for these necessities are indeed perennial ; but to apply the regulative principles of liberty and equality so that they will be more effective than in the older organic societies but will not be regarded as simple possibilities as the radical rebels against a traditional society regarded them . In performing this task we must be aware that the detailed adjustments between the necessities of subordination and leadership and the principles of equality and liberty are the product of historical growth and of adjustment to highly contingent power realities . A @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ situation in traditional civilization which generated  | the resentments expressed in so vehement a protest . It was a Christian civilization which suffered and nourished the social inequalities of feudal civilization . This culture was well aware that the principles of equality and liberty were regulative . Yet it was more , rather than less , complacent about them than it was about government , though the latter had a higher moral legitimacy , being more necessary to the order of the community . We have previously noted that political competition between the Church and the political authorities may have been the cause of this more rigorous criticism . ' But the religious imagination easily accepts a status quo as normative and tries merely to perfect the moral realities of the structure by personal love in individual relations . Therefore , the Medieval Church was not peculiar in its policy of accepting the hierarchical structure of medieval society . However it accentuated its vices by sanctifying its inequalities in terms of its principles of " natural law . " ' The inequalities seemed* to correspond exactly to the view of Aristotle @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Testament . It is significant however that the Medieval Church did not have the ethical insight of Hebrew prophetism , which castigated the injustice of the rulers of Israel so rigorously . Of course , the Christian was encouraged to be loving within and beyond the requirements of justice as established by the status quo . This counsel produced the sentimentalities of the " lady bountiful , " who issued from the castle periodically to give succour to the poor . On a much higher level it also created the tradition of noblesse oblige which has permanently influenced the ethos of the European aristocracy and given it a more humane outlook than that of the new commercial and industrial owners . These failures and accomplishments are significant for an understanding of the relation of love , the keystone and core of Christian morality , to the realities of social justice . The fact that love was frequently used to cover up and to excuse social injustice has given the very word " charity " a bad connotation in the lexicon of modernity . It proves indeed that love in its purest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or liberty to  | the issue of establishing justice within the social structures and traditions of the community . But if love means wanting the welfare of the neighbor , it can never be irrelevant to any social situation . If love is defined exclusively in terms of attitudes which can express themselves only in personal relations , as it is frequently defined by Christians ( and incidentally more consistently so by Protestants than by Catholics ) , it becomes irrelevant to any situation in which structures of justice must become instruments of love . Furthermore , love may easily be corrupted , so that a powerful man will use benevolence in personal relations as a substitute of granting justice in the basic organization of life . For in benevolence he displays his power with his goodness while justice challenges his power as incompatible with goodness . These facts are withheld from the wise but they are known by the " simple , " particularly if they should be the victims of the " benevolence " of the powerful . Resentment against these hypocrisies are the root of the laboring man @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not however obscure the fact that it is always possible for the love or the self-love of individuals to perfect or to spoil even the most ideal structure of justice . Though nothing could redeem slavery , or serfdom for that matter , as a structure of justice , yet this does not change the fact that it was a matter of life or death on occasion whether a slave or serf had a benevolent or cruel master . Medieval Christianity , in short , contributed to the social resentments which engulfed the social structure of feudalism by its complacency about social inequality . But in this , as in the instance of government , the Reformation initially worsened the situation . Luther was certainly as indiscriminate in dealing with the social desires of the peasants as he was in exalting political authority . This distinction had the fantastic effect of making suffering and sacrificial love the norm for the poor victim of injustice , while encouraging the beneficiaries of injustice to a rather cruel suppression in the name of order . " You will not bear that any one inflict @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be free and suffer only freedom  | and complete justice , " wrote Luther to the revolting peasants . He argued with them that their resistance to injustice was not in conformity with their " rights " as Christians , for Christ had enjoined complete non-resistance in the Sermon on the Mount . In other words he made a perfectionist ethic completely irrelevant to the struggle for justice . Samuel Rutherford corrected the logic of this perfectionism a century later with the simple affirmation : " Resistance is in the children of God an innocent act of self-preservation , no less than is patient suffering . " Luther 's admonition of non-resistance for the poor peasants was in striking contrast to his intemperate advice to the princes to beat down the peasant rebellion : " Stab , hit , kill here whoever you can , " he said , " for nothing can be more poisonous , deadly and devilish than a revolutionary . . . It does not help the peasants that they claim Genesis I and II that all things were created free and common and that all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ counts for nothing , but there stands our Master Christ and casts us with body and possessions under Caesar 's and the worldly law , when he says give unto Caesar the things that are Caesar 's . ' " This rather violent dualism which gives the feudal lord the benefit of an ethic of order bereft of a sense of justice , and enforces an ethic of love upon the poor peasant equally bereft of a demand for justice was , of course , part of the radical dualism implied in the doctrine of the " two realms . " In the history of social thought it is significant only in revealing how rigorously the early Reformation attempted to preserve the medieval structure despite , or probably because , it challenged the keystone of its arch of authority . In the history of Christianity it is significant because it reveals a permanent embarrassment of Christian thought in making the final insights into the destiny of the individual relevant to the problems of ordering the life of the community with tolerable justice . Luther was as wrong in making love completely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ liberal Christianity was in holding love to be a simple historical and social possibility . If Luther accentuated the problem of establishing justice within the organic and traditional hierarchies of the community , the general tendency upon the dissolution of the medieval culture was to condemn these hierarchies completely because they violated the law of love and the principles of liberty and equality . The radical Christian sects , the Anabaptists of the sixteenth century against whom Luther fulminated , the left-wing sectaries of Cromwell 's army in the seventeenth century , and the philosophers of pre-revolutionary France were of one voice in their moral condemnation of the hierarchical structure of medieval society , and in their belief that freedom and equality were simple historical possibilities . They have therefore created an ethos in modern culture which does not know how to come to terms with the facts and the moral necessities involved in the organic growth of social hierarchies . " Men and women , " declared the Leveller leader John Lilburne , " are by nature equal and alike in power , dignity , authority and majesty , none @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ magisterial power , one over and above the other . Neither have they or can exercise any but merely by institution or donation , that is to say by mutual agreement and consent , given , derived or assumed for the good benefit and comfort of each other and not for the hurt , damage or mischief of any . " 2 The embryo of the later social contract theory of community is obviously in this reasoning . It is a Christian version of Rousseau 's dictum that " Men are born free but are now everywhere in chains . " These rebels against traditional social hierarchies were right in condemning the injustices of a feudal order . They were wrong in supposing that it would be possible to organize society without a social hierarchy . Edmund Burke spoke eloquently about the effects of this rigorous equalitarianism in the French Revolution . They were Footnote  | identical in his opinion with the devastation wrought by a cruel conqueror . " Acting as conquerors , " he wrote , " they have imitated the policy of the harshest of that harsh race @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ properties for auction ; to crush their princes , nobles and pontiffs ; to lay low everything that had lifted its head above the level , or which could serve to combine or rally a people in their distresses . ... They have made France free in the same manner in which those sincere friends of the rights of mankind , the Romans , had freed Greece , Macedon and other nations . " 3 This observation by one who resisted the abstract dogmas of the idealists because he had discerned the wisdom in the organic developments of history , astutely describes the devastating effect upon a community of the dogmas of idealistic revolutionists . They " lay low everything that has lifted up his head . " In other words , they destroy the organic integrations of community in the fierce resolve to conform the order of the community to standards of justice . The Russian Revolution must be regarded as a kind of second chapter of the French Revolution , which logically completed some issues toward which the French Revolution had vague or ambiguous attitudes . It had exactly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inequalities which developed in the new society , grown upon the debris left by the destruction of the old society , proved to be more insufferable than those of the old because the balances of power were even more defective than those of the traditional society . ( Igor Gouzenko gives a devastating account of the moral realities embodied in the new Russian oligarchy in his Fall of a Titan . ) If we take Luther 's complete rejection of the relevancy of the pinnacles of the Christian ethic of love to any social situation , involving permanent structures , on the one hand , and , on the other , the conviction of liberal Christianity that love is a simple norm for communal integration and the similar conviction of the French , and subsequently of the Footnote  | Russian Revolution , that liberty or equality , either or both , are simply attainable norms for society , we have the moral predicament of Western Christian civilization about the integration of its communities in a nutshell . Its norms taken not as ultimately regulative , but as immediately relevant , destroy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which a community organizes its life . On the other hand , an unreflective and complacent attitude toward these forms of social hierarchy causes their injustices to reach monstrous proportions . We have been tentatively tolerant toward the vehemence expressed in revolutionary resentments because we believed that resentments against injustice were justified , as indeed they were . But we failed to recognize the fact that these resentments generated quite untenable social philosophies , blind to the problem of social integration . These philosophies preserved nihilistic social policies long after the original revolutionary vehemence had abated . This miscalculation contributed to the original tolerance of the " liberal " world to the excesses of the Russian Revolution . Was it not destroying injustices about which all " liberals " had a sensitive conscience ; and would it not begin to be creative after it had broken all the eggs which must be broken to make an omelette ? These miscalculations are understandable enough . But meanwhile there are some very obtrusive evidences of the perennial nature of these social hierarchies in our daily life which we might have heeded with more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the demands of " nature , " of " reason " and of " love . " Beginning with the family , we know of integrations of the community in which power and competence are the levers of authority to subordinate some men to others . Conservatives have generally derived explicit analogies from the authority of the father in order to justify monarchy . John Locke spent most of his polemic fire upon this analogy in his Two Essays on Civil Government . But the conservatives were certainly in closer accord with history than the social contract  | theorists who posited a wholly mythical " state of nature . " The family is indeed the embryo of all social integration . Love and power are more coordinate in its organization than in any other . One might sentimentally define our whole social problem as an effort to reconstitute the co-ordination of love and power in the larger communities which obtained in the family . In this sense the various myths of the " Fall " as identical with the rise of civilization are expressive . Of course the family does not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wait upon the independent economic power given them by a technical civilization before they could challenge the unjust dominance of the male in traditional society . Most children feel the power of the parents to be unjust when they reach the rebellion of adolescence . They may be right or wrong in their several rebellions , depending upon the character of their parents . But they are usually more right than their parents can realize in suspecting that power impulses have been subtly compounded with love in the motives of their parents , and that the justice which their parents mete out is least sufferable if the parents are wholly unconscious of this mixture of motives . Above the level of the family we meet the pattern of integration and co-ordination of life through subordination on every hand ; schools with more than one teacher have a " principal " ; and school systems with more than one school have a " superintendent " ; churches are supervised by a bishop . The extreme congregational polity of sectarian Churches , which is the counterpart in the religious community of the libertarianism @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' experience ; and the modification was obscured by giving the effective bishops the title of " superintendent . " The industrial life of the nation is integrated from factory foreman to superintendent , to manager to owner . We must speak about the significance of the authority of the owner presently though it is relevant immediately to observe that the owner is not so potent and the manager more potent than Marxist theory assumed .  | In every sphere of life this integration of the community through social hierarchy proved necessary and inevitable , however much the Christian conscience , in either its traditional or secularized variety , protested against it . And in every case these hierarchies of authority tended to be unjust , power and authority tending to arrogate more privilege to itself than its functions warranted . Thus the criticisms which frequently resulted in the abolitions seemed to be justified . But the abolitions were never justified . If we have gained a tolerable justice in modern society despite these confusions , it is because the wisdom proceeding from common experience and from the welter of social @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who justified both social hierarchy and its unjust privileges , and the radicals who sought to abolish both . To justify this thesis it will be necessary to examine two correlations which we have presented rather uncritically : the correlations between liberty and equality and between property and social hierarchy . In both seventeenth-century English sectarianism and in eighteenth-century rationalism there was a confused identification between liberty and equality , and an equally confused supposition that the primary cause of inequality was property . In England the " Levellers " and " Diggers " were equally libertarian and equalitarian . But it was the Digger leader Gerrard Winstanley who anticipated modern Marxism in calling for a socialization of property . Unlike Marx , he attributed property to government rather than attributing the rise of government to the motive of safeguarding property , which was the thesis in Marx 's thought . " The oppression of kingly governments has made this age to desire commonwealth government , " he wrote , " and the removal of kings , for the spirit of light in man loves freedom and hates bondage. " 4 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ toration of a supposedly primeval common ownership . " When the earth becomes a common treasury again as it must , the enmity of all lands will cease . For no one shall dare to seek dominion over others ; neither shall any dare to kill another or desire more of the earth than another . " 6 Winstanley in his more orthodox moods ascribed the beginning of evil to the rise of " particular love , " to supplant the " universal love " of primitive innocency . But as a preMarxist ( a development which even non-Marxists hail as progress in reason ) he attributes sin to property , and hopes that the abolition of an institution will change the character of men . The whole modern radical error of attributing injustice to the social institutions , which were the main instruments of inequality and domination , is contained as a seed in Winstanley 's thought . The French Revolution was notoriously ambiguous toward the problem of property . The Jacobins attempted to cover this confusion by the expedient of dispossessing the enemies of the Revolution and conferring the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with communism in the thought of the most rigorous equalitarians . Malby , for instance , believed that equality was one of " nature 's " laws . " You will easily see , " he declared , " how important it is to study the natural law . . . the law of equality among men . ... Without such study morality without certain principles would run the risk of erring at every step . " The discovery of the transcendent principle of justice and equality in " nature " was of course characteristic of all of the thought of the Enlightenment , and we find an echo of it in our Declaration of Independence . The rigorously collectivist and equalitarian tendencies of the Revolution , having been lost in the ambiguities of the early Revolution , tried to gain a triumph and were defeated in the Paris Commune . This attempt and defeat inspired Marx 's resolutions and expectations . Why was the Revo-Footnote  | lution in France so ambiguous ? In answering this question , we shall come upon many of the secrets of the wisdom of history @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ men . For through the lack of the expected correlation between liberty and equality it was possible for modern society to elaborate a communal justice with a tolerable equality and liberty which was better than the justice of traditional society , and which negated the abstract notions of the idealists who upset the old order for good cause ; but with mistaken notions about the perennial factors in the anatomy of the community . The vague identification of liberty and equality in both seventeenth-century sectarianism and the French Enlightenment undoubtedly derived from the eschatalogical views of the sectaries and the Enlightenment 's views of " nature . " Both the kingdom of God and " nature " were supposed to present the norms of equality and liberty . The similarity of the norms is eloquent testimony of the Christian inheritance in the conceptions of those who ostensibly defied and despised this inheritance . The two norms were vaguely identified because it was believed that an elimination of traditional political coercions automatically would make for equality . That was the physiocratic theory which Adam Smith was to elaborate and upon which our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ identified with inequality , but not consistently so . This lack of consistency was undoubtedly due to the composition of the revolutionary forces of the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries . They consisted of peasants and commercial classes in the first instance , and of commercial classes and industrial workers in its later stages . Of these three , the middle classes were the only ones who possessed property . Moreover , they possessed a very dynamic form of property , which was soon to prove a more potent social power than landed property . That left only the agrarian and the industrial poor who had ideological reasons for believing property to be the chief cause of injustice ; and among the agrarian poor there were a small number of free-holders who had a more personal attachment to their property in the soil than  | any of the bourgeoisie . This is why the Marxist dogma was too slow in taking root , and why it could take root only in decadent feudal societies of Asia where the monstrous injustices , too tardily corrected , could create the revolutionary resentments which would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ desperation . The middle classes which were originally ambiguously involved in the attack upon the traditional order came , in time , to be the most assiduous defenders of the rights of property , and the class which was most blind to the abuses of economic power . These same middle classes were convinced that equality and liberty were not only compatible , but that equality flowed from liberty , that is , from the liberty to exercise one 's own initiative without traditional restraints . One of the most ironic facts in modern history is that the middle classes which elaborated modern culture first supported liberty under the illusion that it would make for equality , and subsequently supported the idea because they were convinced that it would not . For they had meanwhile secured their equality with the aristocracy ; and they were not anxious to share it with the industrial workers , who incidentally had no such potent force as dynamic property to enforce their demands for equality . Thus the middle classes were as assiduous in protecting their liberty against the political power dominated by the poor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ power dominated by the aristocrats . In the one case , it was done to achieve equal justice and in the other case to prevent more equal justice ( particularly by that body of rigorous libertarians who opposed the " welfare state " ) . This is how the civil war began between the two classes , the bourgeoisie and industrial workers , who were once comrades-in-arms in a common struggle against an aristocratic feudal society . This is how the tension between liberty and equality as norms of justice became apparent . The original chapter in this war , which almost wrecked the whole of Western society , seemed wholly to justify the Marxist creed by which the industrial workers ultimately  | became armed . Industrialism in its earlier stages certainly seemed to justify the Marxist polemic against " capitalism . " Economic freedom did not make for equality and justice . The theorists had neglected to observe that the market place , that alleged equalizer of everything , would not be capable of an equal bargain for two bargainers of unequal power , the employer and worker , for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ utilitarians proved to be an equally frail reed for justice to rely upon . For self-interest proved itself too powerful to bow to the persuasion of enlightenment . The inequalities of an agrarian society became dynamic . Social realities seemed to justify even Marxist catastrophism according to which the bourgeois civilization , boasting of " liberty and equality , " would hasten the " class struggle " to a climax of injustice and would brush out all the poetic veils for injustice which a feudal society cultivated , thus leaving the " cash Nexus " open and exposed , and curing the victims of social injustice of their long illusions . What happened to change this grim picture and expectation ? Why has the Marxist creed , designed for the ripe and over-ripe period of " capitalism , " failed to take root there and has been relevant instead to the decadent feudal societies , particularly in Asia ? What happened was an analogy of the organic adaptations of traditional societies within the new conditions of a technical society . Social forces not too conscious of themselves , or at least @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fend off particular forms of injustice . The workers were individually weak in bargaining with the employer . They could redress some of the balance by collective action . Thus the trade unions were born and nourished by the workers , while the intellectuals elaborated schemes of redemption which were to prove ultimately to be the root of modern tyranny . The workers never acquired the social power of the middle classes , even when skilled and even when acting collectively . A theory was never developed which would determine just how much privilege would be justified by special social function or power or for the purpose of pro-  | viding incentives for the performance of function . But the steps which were taken to prevent inordinate inequalities of privilege from arising ? chiefly by preventing inordinate disbalances of power from developing ? proved adequate to save modern society from revolution and disintegration . It saved at least the healthiest members of modern civilization . Among those less healthy it is significant that a typically bourgeois nation ( France ) and one with remnants of traditional feudal injustice ( Italy ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them either agrarian or industrial poor have become desperate . The flexible instruments of justice , designed for equilibrating power , do not seem to work in their case . It became apparent , incidentally , that an exact definition of how much injustice may be allowed for the integration of society is not as important as an " open " situation in which the hope for improvement of one 's lot is never snuffed out . Ultimately , of course , the workers became aware that equalization of economic power was not enough to establish justice . The class that , manipulated political power and set the rules for the game had an undue advantage . The workers therefore organized political as well as economic power . Despite the fact that the commercial classes were established in the seats of political power , the political liberty which they had established was serviceable to other classes . In Europe the industrial workers have their own parties , informed by a quasi-Marxist creed . But in our own nation the absence of any rigorous Marxist movement has not prevented a comparable party @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by political power in the interest of justice and security and those who resist the encroachment of political authority upon the economic sphere because they possess either enough property or personal skill to enjoy security and dislike any control upon their initiative . In any case , both political power and economic power have been sufficiently balanced to prevent grave injustice . The process has been accomplished by exploiting the political freedom beyond the ideological intent in the motives of the  | first proponents of liberty . This effect in the field of social and economic life is analogous to the establishment of liberty in the cultural and religious sphere . It is enjoyed by all , though the original proponents of religious liberty were less interested in liberty as such than in their own emancipation from oppressive majorities . In either case , a free society derives general profit from the interested desires of particular groups , each group leaving a deposit of virtue in the community beyond its intentions and interests . The health and justice of the community is preserved , not so much by the discriminate judgement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ criticism in moderating the pretensions of every group and by the weight of competing power in balancing power which might become inordinate and oppressive . Democracy in short is not a method which is effective only among virtuous men . It is a method which prevents interested men from following their interests to the detriment of the community . There must of course be a minimal inclination for justice to furnish a base of community . For if groups and individuals merely pursue their interests without a measure of self-restraint , no political restraint , short of a tyrannical and oppressive one , could preserve the unity of the community . Hobbes ' proposals for order through despotism are mistaken in assuming a consistency of self-interest which is not apparent in human history . Men do not follow their own interests consistently in defiance of the community . They do however interpret the interests of the community with a reason tainted by considerations of their own interests . All modern nations are engaged in political debate on the question how much or how little economic life shall be regulated . There @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It will probably remain inconclusive for a long while , both because the contestants are fairly equal in strength and because the consequences from their proposals are ambiguous . Complete economic liberty obviously makes for injustice because forces in the economic process itself lead to centralization of power . Healthy free societies have therefore used the broadly based  | political power ( universal suffrage ) to equalize the inequalities of economic power , to establish minimal standards of security and justice , and to assure the community some services which the market does not find it profitable to supply . These are the general and minimal accomplishments of the " welfare state " which develop in healthy nations , whether their original orientation was " capitalistic " or " socialistic . " The development confounds the Marxist theory which regards government as merely the " executive committee " of the property holders . Thus the development of the trade unions and the growth of the welfare state have negated the historical " logic " which , according to the Marxists , made a climax of injustice and revolution inevitable in a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ might well ask why it would not be right to increase the consistency of the logic which produced these effects . But such a view does not consider the genuine virtue in the philosophy of a free economy . The proponents of " free enterprise " guaranteed that equality would flow inevitably from the release of all economic vitalities . They were wrong . But they were not wrong in Adam Smith 's contention that we must secure the assistance of our fellow men by " engaging their self-interest rather than their benevolence . " A free economy may have been in danger of substituting the " law of supply and demand " for the moral law . But it has meanwhile released energies for production which no moral or political control of economic activity ever released . It has , in short , harnessed rather than suppressed self-interest . It has created a vast system of mutual services through a competition of interests . The claim that it has done this perfectly is ideologically tainted and must be resisted . But it can not be denied that the market place @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mutual services of highly specialized skills , a counterpart of the unconscious adjustments to community which made traditional society organic . Therefore every effort to restrict freedom in the interest  | of justice has its limits , even as the effort to secure justice from the effects of freedom is limited . There is a certain danger in modern democracies that the balance of political forces and the limits of the proposals for justice of each party may create a " dead center , " making further progress impossible . But ideally we have merely approached a situation in Western political history in which we have discovered , by tortuous experience , that liberty and equality are strictly compatible only in the heart of perfect love . They are partly contradictory in the political order . For politics is an effort to establish tolerable community , the sinfulness of men presupposed . The tension between competing interests makes authority , contradicting equality , necessary . The interests of the " rulers " make this authority dangerous to justice . The sentimentalities of the Enlightenment about liberty and equality were the consequence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ even now , failed to solve theoretically the problem how much privilege special function requires ; and how much power is necessary to maintain order . We have however reached moderately satisfactory practical solutions of these problems , not by disinterested intelligence but by the balance of interested wisdom . We know that the integration of community requires not only the authority of government but various subordinate authorities in economic life . We know that authority means power ; and that power usually arrogates more privilege to itself than a pure wisdom or conscience could justify . We have learned how to moderate these excesses by balancing power as much as possible . But we realize that the balancing of power can not reach a consistency which would destroy the integration of the community . For the community is integrated by centers of authority which defy the abstract principle of equality . These discoveries of common experience have refuted the presuppositions of the Enlightenment to which we in America are still consciously committed . They have justified Luther 's definition of the political or civic realm as an " empire of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ real insight which Luther tended to discredit by his lack of discrimination . It is an insight without which modern idealists will forever try to rid communities of the instruments of community , government , hierarchy of authority and property because these produce byproducts of injustice , but fail to recognize that they are also instruments of justice and order . The recognition of the moral ambiguities of these instruments is tantamount to the discovery why the " kingdom of God " is relevant to every historic situation but can never be realized in history , and why the love which creates community must be tentatively violated to give the community the bones of authority for the flesh of its brotherhood . Perhaps it is necessary to add that we in America have achieved a tolerable solution for these problems in actual experience without penetrating to the heart of the mystery of community because of some very favorable circumstances . The wide and open continent , the wealth and productiveness of our industry and the shattering of the class distinctions and resentments of the European society mitigated the class struggle and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of opportunity , and provided for a sufficiently generous social fund to permit a faulty distribution of the fund without resentment . For when everyone is gaining in wealth or welfare , the questions of justice are not asked too anxiously , and injustices in distribution of privileges are not the cause of vehement resentments . As a nation , we therefore belong to the healthier nations of the Western world who have reached a tolerable solution of the problem of justice within the conditions set by a dynamic civilization . But the favorable circumstances which aided us in finding practical solutions prevented us from discovering the principles which underlie such a solution . This fact is rather unfortunate in view of the power which we have in the process of integrating an embryo world community . To this problem we must now devote our attention .  | THE INTEGRATION OF THE WORLD COMMUNITY The United Nations is not exactly the " Parliament of Mankind and Federation of the World " which the nineteenth century fondly believed to be the " one far-off divine event , to which the whole creation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was true in the illusions of the previous century . It shows how man 's communal problem develops toward global proportions . The ambiguities of the United Nations however refute the error in these hopes . The hopes erroneously implied that historical development would , in a sense , guarantee the solution of problems , the dimensions of which were constantly extended . The most vivid proof that this was an error is given by two contemporary facts which were not at all anticipated . The one is the attempt of communism to organize the whole world upon the basis of its utopian vision . The other is the development of atomic weapons which , in a breathlessly brief t time , has confronted us with the dread possibilities of destruction through the hydrogen bomb . The one development has divided the world into two camps . The other has filled the enmity between the two with the awful possibility of mutual  | annihilation . Both developments are reminders that every historical advance is fraught with possibilities of good and evil . Human history would seem to remain ambiguous , if @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ present moment . Thus we face the problem of integrating the world community under unanticipated hazards . For the fulfillment of our task it is obvious that we require all the instruments of rational discrimination which our various social and historical sciences are able to develop . The social conditions of community have shifted so rapidly and the factors to be taken into consideration are so endlessly varied that it would seem that the primary necessity is a development of all the social and political sciences with a particular view of overcoming the " cultural lag . " This favorite diagnosis for all our ills seems to have acquired new relevance today . M ; tst we not help people to meet the new situations which they confront by measures appropriate to the situation ? Must we not establish educational programs to impress upon the new generation the responsibilities and perils of " one world " ? Must we not help Americans , living in a paradise of luxury in comparison with world standards , to recognize the problems of peoples emerging from a primitive economy and possibly from colonial tutelage @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , make technical instruments and skills available to them to overcome their poverty ? Having done that , must we not be wise enough to send cultural anthropologists along with our technicians in recognition of the fact that " raising living standards " is not a simple procedure ? It involves breaking the mold of organic societies and exposing communities to the peril of social disintegration . In all these problems a greater knowledge of all the factors involved and a larger perspective upon the total situation is certainly a primary necessity for the kind of statesmanship which will guide the nations toward a political and moral integration . But perhaps this is another instance in which the presuppositions , from the standpoint of which we gather the facts ,  | are as important as the diligence and honesty with which we try to ascertain the facts . The most diligent elaboration of social and political skills seems not to have challenged the basic presuppositions of our culture in regard to the problem which we confront . That presupposition is that the forces of history are tractable if we only amass @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the most complex problems may be solved if we approach them with sufficient knowledge and resolution . In short , we approach them as potential managers of our own and other people 's destiny . It has seemingly not dawned upon us that we have only limited competence in deflecting historical destinies in the drama of history in which we are creatures as well as creators and in which we meet competitive creators who have contrasting ideas of our common destiny . The immediate consequence of these exaggerated notions of man 's competence as an historical creator is that our idealists project all kinds of programs for integrating the world community purely by artifact and conscious contrivance . Our realists follow contrasting , but essentially similar pretentious , schemes of community . The one dream of world government ; the other would establish the supremacy of our nation in the world community purely by the affirmation of our technical power . Both the idealists and the realists propose to solve the problems of the world community by a display of wisdom or of power , by an extension of the artifacts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Both tend to disregard the possibility of unpredictable emergences in the drama of history . This disregard of the organic growths of the past and of the unpredictable emergences of the future , this emphasis on artifact and contrivance would seem to be plausible enough at first blush . Every extension of community does indeed imply a greater reliance on artifact and less reliance on organic factors . The nascent world community certainly possesses few or-  | ganic factors of cohesion . It lacks a common language and a common culture . The common element in its diverse moral systems is probably the single idea that order is to be preferred to chaos . Its means of communication are growing , but they have not grown enough to establish the sense of an integral community . Economic interdependence is as frequently the cause of friction as of accord . The world community is bereft of not only those organic factors which are closest to " nature , " but also organic historical factors such as memories of a comradeship in meeting a common danger . It is however significant that this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ world by the enmity between the two halves . There is of course no prospect of peace in these new historical factors on both sides . For the integration of each power bloc increases the tension between the two . But before dismissing this possibility of integration , we must examine the historical forces at work more carefully . They may offer more hope than the explicit contrivances of world community . There are indications that these historical factors are certainly more potent in forming community in the socalled " free " world than all the constitutional arrangements , except as the latter serve the community whose unity has been forged by the fires of present emergencies . The organization of the free world is an historic product with absolutely unforeseen perils and promises . It exists through the organization of various ad hoc defensive arrangements under the aegis of the United Nations . The United Nations itself can not of course be a final security against the war between the two blocs . It was organized on the basis of the idea of unanimity between the great powers . This @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the great powers . This idea betrays , on the one hand , the illusions of the past decade that the free world could establish community with communism . The intransigeance of this political movement was not correctly estimated . But the veto right has another justification beside the one furnished by this illusion . It is based upon a shrewd  | insight which the idealists who would abolish the veto do not understand . This insight is that the world community is not sufficiently integrated to permit a majority to be victorious over a minority in the councils of the nations . For in that case the minority , having the power and the inclination , would merely challenge the majority by the arbitrament of war . The grant of the right of veto is based upon the understanding that the world community has not yet reached a degree of integration in which minorities trust majorities . Yet this trust is a basic requirement of the constitutional instruments of which we are so fond . Thus the United Nations , incapable of serving its original purposes , serves the very @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ realities permit . On the one hand , it is a minimal bridge across the chasm between Russia and the West . On the other hand , it furnishes the meeting ground for the free nations , the aegis for its various ad hoc arrangements for defensive communities ; and an assembly of peoples in which world opinion serves to check the policies of the most powerful nations in the alliance . These are quite important and yet unintended services to the process of integration . It is one of the interesting revelations of the charm of historical surprises that all these factors of cohesion would probably not have had a chance to become established if the framers of the original United Nations charter had not been beguiled from their justified fears by an unjustified hope . The loyalties and mutual trusts which are forming in these ad hoc arrangements such as " NATO " are certainly more potent than any possible explicit contractual commitments , though as the loyalties grow , they will presumably avail themselves of more adequate institutional arrangements . In addition to these nascent forms of " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ loyalties , the free world is being integrated by another " organic " factor , which is less obviously moral but no less necessary . That is the integration through differentiation of authority , chiefly by power . A hierarchy of power and authority has been furnished for the  | world community by historical " accidents , " chiefly the wholly unanticipated rise of American power and the sudden transformation of an isolationist nation , content with continental security , to the hegemonous power among the free nations . It goes without saying that the American leadership has not been established by explicit consent , though it must deserve the implicit consent of the community to survive . It is also obvious that the preponderance of American power is as valuable for the unity of the free world as it is dangerous to justice . In this , the situation does not differ very much from the creative and perilous factors in all such hegemonous situations in past imperial integrations . Perhaps the Greek city-states could not achieve unity because Athens and Sparta were too equally balanced in power . About @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ responsibilities and about other peculiar rather than perennial hazards in this American possession of preponderant power , we must speak presently . At present , it is necessary merely to call attention to the fact that the integration of at least half of the world community has proceeded through forces and factors which were less under the conscious control of men than our philosophies would find tolerable . Yet they have been provisionally more successful that the more obvious artifacts . All this integration leaves us , of course , with the two embattled power blocs and the peril of atomic destruction through a possible conflict between them . If we are to escape disaster , both sides would have to be sufficiently aware of this peril to be more than ordinarily hesitant to take any step which would lead to general conflict . If we are to escape unification of the world through tyrannical power , the loose organization of the free world would have to outlast the monolithic unity of the tyrannical world , and it would also have to be more successful than communism in bidding for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ present growths might yet contribute to the ultimate integration of the world community . Such an eventuality would of course be possible only if the tyrannical power , having  | served the purpose of providing the danger which prompted the free nations to integrate their efforts and communities , would gradually lose its power to challenge the world . It is not probable that it will cease to exist as a potent secular religion . But it could well continue to exist without the power to challenge the world . Such a loss of historical dynamic is not unprecedented . Mohammedanism was once a dynamic politico-religious movement . It has not ceased to exist , but it now lacks the power to challenge any established unity . The hoped for loss of historical dynamism of the now so powerful a movement could come about through the disillusionment of the world in the truth of the communist dogma . There are so many facts of experience which refute the dogma that there is some hope that the dogma will not always hold its sway over the conscience and consciousness of men . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ instruments or inclinations in its dogmas and strategies for the accommodation of divergent interests , without which it is not possible to integrate a great alliance of power . According to its simple creed , every divergence of interest or conviction seems to be a threat of treason to the basic loyalty . In the long run , the Russian dominated alliance is therefore likely to disintegrate . Naturally many hazards must be overcome for the culmination of this solution of our world problems . Of these , two deserve special mention . The one hazard is the attractive power of the communist creed in the non-technical civilizations , chiefly in Asia . The other is the dubious endowment of our own nation for the leadership which historical events have thrust upon us in this world crisis . Both hazards deserve mention because they are both related to the theme of the relation of organic factors in community building to the contrivances of statecraft . Communism is found attractive by the Asian nations for exactly the same reasons that the revolutionary creeds succeeded in France of the eighteenth century and Russia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ economy , correspond more nearly to the Marxist diagnosis than any of the facts of the technical world , particularly after that world has corrected tile original injustices of its economic and political life . The injustices of such a world are the obvious consequences of the disbalances of power in the traditional structure . They are naturally attributed to the character of that structure . It does not occur to anyone that he may be dealing with perennial factors which might be aggravated under the disbalances of a contrived revolutionary social system . The illusions from which Asia suffers are therefore almost identical to those , from which it required Western civilization generations to be emancipated . Furthermore , the modern Asian nations have an additional reason for their illusions . The first impact of the European technically equipped nations upon them was " imperialistic . " They were reduced in that encounter to colonial status , to political and economic dependence . They cherish profound resentments against this dependence which are effective now even if the injustices remain only as memories , the independence of many having been won @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ present European civilization as " imperialistic " and to derive the imperialism from the " capitalism " for the imagination of the Asian world . It is even possible to hide the new imperialistic impulses of Russian hegemony . For according to the communist creed , Russia is but the holy land of an emancipating political faith . All these illusions are possible ; and the resulting embarrassment to us is aggravated by the fact that the Western system of justice preserves liberties which are not as dear as we imagine to peoples who were buried until recently in the organic cohesions of a feudal society . Furthermore , the delicate balance of power by which justice is preserved and extended in modern technical societies is the product of a long history of trial and error . It is therefore probably beyond the competence , as it is certainly beyond the comprehension , of these awakened peoples . In short , our " way of life " does not have  | the persuasive power which we attribute to it . It is perfectly possible for the nations of Asia to slip @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ new tyranny under the illusion that the new system is better , and not worse . We must therefore expect many a defeat in Asia before the tragic facts , gradually disclosed to the Western world in the past decades of experience , are revealed to the Asian nations . Every defeat increases the danger of a desperate defensive gesture by the defeated party , a gesture which might start the atomic conflict which it is so necessary to avoid . It can easily be understood why European nations have come to the conclusion that the danger of stumbling into the war is greater on our side than on the side of communism . We must admit that communism is not primarily a military movement . It avails itself of revolutionary pressures and conspiratorial technic in the first instance though it is not adverse to the use of military weapons when it can do so without risk of a general war . It certainly will not wittingly begin such a war so long as its other methods and weapons continue in their present success . An American must speak with regret @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ undertaking requiring great coolness as the whole world negotiates its differences on the edge of the abyss of atomic destruction . For that hazard is the lack in our own nation of those qualities and competencies , required for the word leadership which historical destiny has thrust upon us . Certainly the rise of America to world leadership is as surprising an eventuality as the atomic age itself . American world leadership was not quite unanticipated . Alexis de Tocqueville writing in 1835 had this remarkable prescient prophecy about both America and Russia : " There are at the present time two great nations in the world , which started from different points , but seem to tend towards the same end . I allude to the Russians and the Americans . Both of them have grown up unnoticed ; and while the attention of mankind was directed elsewhere , they have suddenly placed themselves in the front rank among the nations , and the world learned their existence and their greatness at almost the same time .  | " All other nations seem to have nearly reached their natural limits @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but these are still in the act of growth . All others have stopped , or continue to advance with extreme difficulty ; these alone are proceeding with ease arid celerity along a path to which no limit can be perceived . The American struggles against the obstacles that nature opposes to him ; the adversaries of the Russian are men . The former combats the wilderness and savage life ; the latter civilization with all its arms . The conquests of the American are therefore gained by the plowshare ; those of the Russian by the sword . The AngloAmerican relies upon personal interest to accomplish his ends and gives free scope to the unguided strength and common sense of the people ; the Russian centers all the authority of society in a single arm . The principal instrument of the former is freedom ; of the latter , servitude . Their starting point is different and their courses are not the same ; yet each of them seems marked out by the will of Heaven to sway the destinies of half the globe . " 1 Our most obvious @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so great a task , though it would have been fortunate if responsibilities of such enormity had not been thrust upon us so soon after we were thrown out of the cradle of our continental security and bidden to negotiate the tricky currents of world politics . Our deficiencies are also not due , in the first instance , to our pride of power . All powerful individuals and nations have exhibited a like corruption . Our friends have given us credit for the virtue of having achieved so great an eminence without having lusted for it . We are in the unusual position , in fact , of having been very reluctant to acknowledge both the power and the responsibilities which we now bear . This virtue is of course not a clear gain . For the absence of lust for power grants no immunity against pride in its possession . We may , in fact , aggravate that pride by the pretension that we do not have it . But sensible men are usually patient with these corruptions , as they were patient with the arrogance of kings Footnote @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the traditions by which the arrogance of kings was veiled and transfigured in the imagination of their subjects . These traditions probably would not avail in any event to hide the vices of collective kings . Yet these unique deficiencies of inexperience and perennial vices of the corruption of power are not our chief problem ? or the world 's chief problem with us . The chief problem arises from our inclination to accentuate all the errors and illusions of Western civilization in regard to man 's mastery of historical destiny . We are tempted by various factors in our history to the error of imagining historical destiny to be under the dominion of man . Only yesterday we seemed in complete control of our own destiny within the limits of our continental security . We are not yet accustomed to the fact that we are more powerless in our larger world scene in the day of our seeming omnipotence than we were in the days of our innocent impotence . The power which gives us such eminence on the world scene is drawn from our technical competence and our economic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ loyalties and trusts , the allegiances and habits of adherence which are compounded in the larger communal integrations . We are , essentially , children of the Enlightenment . The ideas of the Enlightenment seemed to achieve special revelance in our history because our nation came into being by the covenant of our Constitution . This fact obscured the organic factors which entered into the forming of our nation : the comradeship in arms against a common foe , the common language and culture , the propinquity of a virgin continent . It is therefore not surprising that we should believe communities to be the fruit of simple contrivances of the human will . These convictions make us impatient with historical frustrations and unprepared for the experience of defeat . It is not surprising that our European allies suspect us of heedlessness and desperation in moments of frustration , and are afraid that our desperation because of disappointments , particularly in Asia ,  | may tempt us into taking the fateful steps which lead to a global war . These fears are incidentally responsible for the threats to our alliance with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not remedy the weakness in our alliance , for power , though necessary , can not supplant the mutual trust which must be the primary cement of political cohesion . Our impatience thus tends to destroy organic growths of community which are very precious because they are beyond conscious contrivance . Our moral weaknesses are aggravated by the fact that our idealists are not as active in resisting our impatience and pride as in projecting more ideal constitutional arrangements for world community which must remain irrelevant to our present emergencies . For these constitutional instruments can only perfect that which the slow processes of common experience have formed . The immediate issue between ourselves and our allies is the question of " co-existence " with communism . Despite the fact that we dread the alternative of war as much as they , we do not seem really to believe in the possibility of coexistence . Our lack of confidence is prompted partly by our belief that communism will always have the same power and venom as it now displays . We might well grant that the venom compounded of power lusts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may not be consistently menacing for reasons previously considered . In any event , our attitude reveals a pretension of omniscience toward the future . This is almost as grievous a mistake as the pretension of omnipotence . A wise statesmanship naturally rests upon a modest disinclination to penetrate , or to seem to penetrate , the veil of the future any further than immediate foresight makes necessary . It is better in fact for the statesman to be completely sceptical about the meaning of history and to regard its drama as a " series of emergencies " than to have too confident a philosophy of history . The statesmanlike slogan should be " sufficient unto the day are the evils thereof . " That slogan is particularly appropriate in a day in which the evil of tomorrow might be  | atomic destruction . It goes without saying that the resistance to the spread of tyranny by all appropriate measures is a necessary part of such statesmanship . Naturally , the world will , despite the perils of war , finally choose this dread alternative if it were the only means @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the world which has known and cherishes freedom would make such a choice . And it is idle for idealists to persuade that part of the freedom loving world that slavery might be preferable to death and that there are prospects of the gradual relaxation of its terror . Winston Churchill of all contemporary statesmen is the most perfect embodiment of such wisdom . His attitudes reveal that his modesty in regard to man 's capacity to foresee the future is not incompatible with rigorous action in averting present dangers . The same man who seeks to persuade to give " co-existence a good try " is the man who warned our heedless statesmen a decade ago not to trust communist intention too naively.2 Mr. Churchill 's embodiment of this wisdom is significant for many reasons . We have assumed such wisdom to be the final fruit of a Biblical faith . But Mr. Churchill is not an explicitly pious man though a wartime colleague of his has testified that Churchill 's religion consists primarily of " a strong sense of providence . " Thus it is uncertain from what @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ must be confessed that , though highly individual , it also expresses the typical reactions of a whole European culture . The " common sense " of the European nations , especially as contrasted with our own seeming heedlessness , may well be the fruit of long experience rather than specifically Christian insights . We have previously observed the coincidence between the wisdom of common sense and the characteristic insights of Biblical faith . That coincidence is due to their common acceptance of the fragmentary and inconclusive Footnote  | nature of the various themes and dramas which fill the human story . We have all learned to accept this fragmentariness for our individual life , whether it leads to despair or the tremendous adventure of faith , that our fragmentary lives and projects are ultimately purged and completed in a divine design beyond our comprehension . But what has been accepted by individual selves does not readily lend itself to transference to the collective national self , which is bound to find the idea irksome , that it is powerless either to discern , or to fulfill what it discerns , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of our nation , this temptation is particularly great because our power is very great , our experience with the frustration of history is limited , and our culture is informed by strains of perfectionist and utopian illusions stemming from the Enlightenment on the one hand and from sectarian Christianity on the other . Thus w ' are in danger of bringing human history to a premature conclusion ( its " end " as " finis " ) because we imagine that we have discerned the true end of history ( " end " as final purpose ) . A touch of irony is added to this situation because we imagine the defeat of communism to be history 's true end , and we have forgotten that some of the evils of communism are derived from the fact that it regarded " capitalism " as the final form of evil and therefore proposed to grasp the summum bonum of history by the destruction of capitalism . It is certainly significant that so much evil is born of these frantic graspings after the final end of history . The idea of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of history than either of these conceptions of fulfillment through victory over a hated foe . But it is certainly significant that two less attractive alternatives are more probable than this ideal . The one is global destruction through atomic conflict . This alternative is not really as probable as those would persuade us who believe the dread possibility might scare the nascent world community into virtue , if not into existence . But it remains a possibility . The other alternative is a period of development in which destruc-  | tive conflict will be avoided , but in which no neat world order will be achieved . This alternative is , of all possibilities , most probable . It would not change the international situation from the status of partial order and partial anarchy of the past centuries very radically . It would merely heighten the perils of anarchy and increase the potency of community . If we are patient enough we could cultivate the gradually growing organic factors of world community and perfect them at opportune moments by the constitutional contrivances which always express and perfect what the forces @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be able to contribute to these developments , as it is purged of its illusions by the experiences of history . It will be purged as surely as old men have accepted the limits of human striving more definitely than young men . It is natural that young men and young nations should be concerned primarily to extend the limits of human power and explore the resources in every human potentiality . It is as natural for old men and nations to be persuaded by frustrations and common experiences that there are limits for both individuals and nations , as indeed for all human striving . When the fragmentariness of all human existence , both individual and collective , is fully realized , and human creativity is content to operate within this fragmentariness , it achieves a new possibility of creating without the threat of disaster . We can only hope that we will be mercifully saved from the fate of bringing our own and a very great common enterprise to a premature and violent conclusion so that we may have the chance of being purged of our illusions and , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and virtues to the building of a tolerable world community .  | INDIVIDUAL AND COLLECTIVE DESTINIES IN THE CONTEMPORARY SITUATION The engagement of sensitive individuals , or for that matter of any individuals , in the perplexities and perils of nations , cultures , and even of the whole enterprise of civilization , which we discussed in the previous chapter , does not annul any private hopes or ambitions or simplify the drama of any individual life . Our contemporary situation is therefore a vivid reminder of the fact that while history constantly enlarges the scope of the collective drama which becomes the basis of all individual destinies , it does not obviate any of the problems which the single self faces in its involvement in , and transcendence over , its collective destinies . The individual may become involved in responsibilities for the security of a world-wide community ; and the perennial fear of death may appear in the new dimension of the fear of mutual annihilation through atomic destruction . But these wider responsibilities and more terrible dangers do not change the situation of the self essentially . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which are partly related to , and are partly independent of , the collective drama . It still faces the grandeur and the misery of its existence . Its grandeur or  | dignity is still derived from its ability to transcend the temporal flux and to touch the fringes of the eternal . Its misery I is still compounded of both " death and sin , " that is , of both the essential brevity of a life concerned with such ultimate matters ; and of the evil into which it falls by attempting to avoid or obscure the brevity and insignificance of its life . In the words of Augustine , it " falls into sin , which it could avoid , by attempting to escape death which it can not avoid . " Even if the collective fulfillments of the meaning of life , promised to this generation , had not proved to be illusory , any individual , living at any particular locus of the sweep of history , would have been justified in the poignant cry of the Fourth Ezra : " What doth it profit us @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) whereas we perish so miserably in futility ? " Even the most perfect community can not overcome the fragmentary nature of the self 's life or still its uneasy conscience , either because it did not conform to the community 's standards or because it failed to rise above them sufficiently . It is bound to suffer from the latter form of uneasiness because it always has some source of norms and standards higher than those of the community . Furthermore , even the most impressive collective enterprise can not obscure the weakness and impotence of the single self which " brings its years to an end like a tale that is told . " Modern culture , in addition to the difficulties in comprehending the nature of human selfhood previously discussed , finds it practically impossible to conceive a frame of meaning which will do justice to both the private and the collective drama in which human beings are involved . The reason obviously is that it tries to comprehend them both in terms of some fairly simple scheme of rational intelligibility . And the dramas are so disparate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one or the other is unduly subordinated to the other . Every system of intelligibility must begin with a starting point and have a terminus of meaning . Lacking a frame of meaning which is high and broad enough  | to comprehend both the pathos of individual existence and the meaning of the total human enterprise , the culture is forced to treat the historical drama in terms which make either the individual or the collective enterprise the keystone of meaning . In the one case , history is interpreted as the story of the gradual emergence of the individual from every collective enterprise to become a self-justifying existence . In the other case , history is regarded as the record of the community 's gradual triumph over the recalcitrant individual . In both cases the freedom of man is not sufficiently appreciated , particularly the freedom to pursue particular , as against common , or universal , ends . Therefore the historical drama is falsely presented in terms of moral progress , whether individual liberty or social harmony is regarded as the moral norm . For reasons previously discussed , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ created by the commercial classes , while the agrarian classes were more given to the traditional organic sense of community , and the industrial workers were attracted by the newer Marxist-inspired collectivism . But the individualism of bourgeois culture could not prevent the emergence of subordinate interpretations which gave meaning to the drama in terms of subordinating the individual to the community . Sometimes this was done by promising the individual fulfillment for his fragmentary life in the community . Sometimes it was done by pretentious scientists who imagined themselves the master of historical destiny and regarded ordinary mortals as merely the stuff of history which would have to be " managed " toward " socially approved ends . " But these subordinate and tentative collectivist solutions of the problem have not changed the dominant note of individualism in bourgeois life . This individualistic creed imagined the individual self capable of creating communities by an act of the will , and justified the communities merely in terms of their support of the individual . The individualism of the liberal society was prompted by a moral error ; and the technical developments @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @               