@@773443

txt Chapter XRIX Egypt EGYPTIAN HISTORY and culture have been subjected to highly specialized research for over a century . A number of excellent books dealing with them are available in most libraries , and this discussion will be largely limited to those aspects of Egyptian civilization which have had significance for cultural developments in the world outside Egypt . Egypt 's Asiatic neighbors and even the Greeks borrowed from her unashamedly , but they took mainly what they could see without having to understand . Although Egyptian culture had its foundations in the same Southwestern Asiatic Neolithic which fathered the civilizations of Eurasia , it developed into something profoundly alien . A modern student feels this , and the classical writers , who were able to observe Egyptians in their daily life , had the same reaction . Herodotus wrote that the Egyptians were the strangest of human beings and did everything by opposites . They even retired indoors to perform their excretory functions instead of using the street like civilized people , i.e. , the Greeks . Why there should have been such divergence is an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ civilization undoubtedly absorbed many elements from the pre-Neolithic inhabitants of the region , but this in itself can hardly account for most of the pccnliarities . Some of these were certainly a result of the local geographic conditions . The land of Egypt was nothing more nor less than the v ; iIle v of the Nile , an elongated oasis extending for 675 miles from the First Cataract to the sea , and as far east and west as the Nile 's water spread in flood . Outside this everything was desolation , the realm of Set , the enemy of the life-giving god Osiris . For the first 500 miles the valley was a canyon , never more than twelve miles wide ; for the last 175 miles , a spreading , fan of swamps through which the river wandered sliiggislily in many branches . The Nile , unlike nearly all other rivers of historle a00 // significance , flows from south to north , and Upper Egypt lies south of Lower Egypt . The flood water evaporated rapidly , and although early Egyptian records mention occasional rains in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be carried on without irrigation . Governments capable of organizing the mass labor necessary for the digging of canals and building dams , and with power to settle the inevitable disputes over water rights , came into existence long before the dawn of history . It seems probable that these took shape first in the delta region , where drainage as well as irrigation was required , but the interdependence of the various provinces , all of which drew their water from the same river , must have provided a strong incentive for unification into larger and larger states . Egypt is the ideal territory for the historic archeologist . There are endless inscriptions and even numerous manuscripts . The dry climate has preserved delicate and perishable materials intact , and the Egyptian 's unquestioning belief in a future life much like the present , and his attempts to equip the dead for it , have resulted in the preservation of an almost complete inventory of objects of daily use . Unfortunately , the situation for the prehistoric archeologist is much less satisfactory . The annual deposition of Nile mud has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that Upper Paleolithic and even Neolithic settlements on the valley floor are now buried under many feet of accumulated silt . Most Of our information on the prehistoric periods comes from sites around the edges of the valley , and especially from the cemeteries , where the dead were buried beyond the borders of the arable land and out of reach of the Nile floods . Although the earliest record is gradually coming to light , there are still many points that remain unsettled . In the previous chapter African prehistory was discussed in terms of the entire continent . In Egypt the hand-axe culture was followed by a flake culture , the Aterian , reminiscent in certain ways of the Middle Paleolithic of Europe . This in turn gave place to the Sebilian , a Microlithic culture much like those which survived until comparatively recent times throughout the African plateau . In about 6000 B.C. Asiatic migrants brought in domestic plants and animals and Neolithic technology . In the delta , the Merimdeans cultivated wheat and barley and kept cattle , sheep , and goats . They reaped their grain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , hired it iii mat silos . They were a sedentary people , living in stockaded villages of oval wooden-framed huts . They had pottery of two types , simple undecorated cooking pots and a fine red and black ware . They 402 Part Eight : AFRICA were excellent stone workers . Their products included slate palettes , upon which paint for body decoration was ground and mixed , polished stone axes , and extraordinarily well-made knives and projectile points of chipped flint . They also made fishhooks and piercers of bone . About 4500 B.C. they began to use some copper . In Upper Egypt a different and less advanced type of Neolithic culture ( Tasian ) appeared slightly later . These Tasians seem to have been semi-nomadic , or at least they lived in open camps and had shelters so flimsy that they have left few traces . Aside from this , their technology was much like that of the Merimdeans . The most important difference was in their pottery , which consisted of black tulip vases encrusted with white patterns . While the ancestors of both these groups @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ probably crossed at the Isthmus of Sinai , while the Tasians ' ancestors seem to have reached Upper Egypt from the direction of the Red Sea , coming overland rather than up the Nile . Lower Egypt was united under a single ruler by 4500 B.C. and conquered Upper Egypt about 250 years later . The date can be set with considerable accuracy on the basis of the Egyptian calendar , which had as one of its units the Sothic cycle of 146o years . The first of these cycles , based on observations made at Memphis and Heliopolis on the borders of Upper Egypt , began at this time . The northern conquest was shortlived , and by 4000 B.C. the two regions were once more independent . From this time until the beginning of the Dynastic period , 3300 B.C. , little is known of Lower Egyptian culture . However , a rich culture , the Badarian , was flourishing in Upper Egypt . This is the best known of all the predynastic cultures . It was vigorous and dynamic and seems to have been stimulated by repeated Asiatic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ apparently coincided with an actual invasion of Asiatics which introduced a round-headed element into the previously long-headed population . The invaders seem to have come overland from the Red Sea rather than up the Nile . It was during this 700 years of independence that the foundations of the later Egyptian civilization were laid . The people still lived in oval huts like the Merimdean ones and had not discovered how to build in permanent materials , but they had learned how to weave linen , how to smelt and cast copper , and how to make blue-green faience and enamels of pounded rock crystal . These techniques were the precursors of glassmaking , a later Egyptian invention . They made a red pottery with black edges , the two colors being produced by differential firing . Work in bone and ivory was highly developed , and graves frequently contained small figurines of nude women carved from these materials . The slate palettes of the earlier period became increasingly elaborate and showed // in their decoration the unmistakable beginnings of the later Egyptian artistic conventions . The dead were carried beyond @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ oval pits with elaborate grave furniture . The bodies were laid on their sides in a flexed position and covered with mats . The warm and completely dry sand , which soon packed itself about the body , mummified it more successfully than any of the later and more elaborate processes , and there can be little doubt that it was from this that the later Egyptians got their ideas of body preservation . By 3300 B.C. each of the two Egypts had its king and court , its royal symbols , and its national gods . Upper Egypt had the white crown , was under the guardianship of the vulture goddess , Nekhebet , and had as its emblem the sedge . Lower Egypt had the red crown , was under the protection of the cobra goddess , Buto , and had as its emblem the bee . The differences between north and south survived throughout the whole period of Egyptian history and went deeper than mere political organization . One can see certain parallels in the case of the Scots and the English . The up-river Egyptians were hardy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the Egyptian point of view , puritanical . The delta Egyptians were gay , clever , pleasure-loving , and eager for novelties , but preferred battles of wits to those of arms . They regarded the Upper Egyptians as barbarians and poked fun at their harsh dialect and crude ways . Even when the two kingdoms were united under Menes , the Upper Egyptian conqueror , he found it politic not to try to consolidate their governments completely . Instead he ruled as king of Lower Egypt and again as king of Upper Egypt , much as in Europe the same individual was emperor of Austria and king of Hungary . Pharaoh had a palace and an independent bureaucracy in Lower and in Upper Egypt , and functioned sometimes as king of one and sometimes as king of the other , his status at the moment being shown by his wearing of either the red or the white crown . The period immediately following the unification of the two Egypts was one of tremendously rapid cultural advance . From 3300 to 2563 B.C. Egypt was the scene of one of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ problems still to be solved by the investigators of culture dynamics . During the first 500 years of this period Egyptian technology achieved its final form in everything but architecture . Specialized craftsmen supported by the ruling group were producing vases carved from the hardest decorative stone , a wealth of beautifully wrought copper vessels , and ornaments of gold , lapis lazuli , and turquoise . More practically , the beginning of the dynastic era saw the introduction of the plow . Wo do not know whether this was a local invention or an Asiatic horrowing , but in any case it lightened the labor of agriculture considerXXIX . Egypt 405 ably and released for use on national projects manpower which had hitherto been tied to the fields . Hieroglyphic writing was perfected ( see Chap . IX , p. 112 ) and so firmly integrated into religious and governmental practice that it underwent no significant changes after this time . There seems to have been an outburst of all sorts of intellectual activity . The first scientifically conceived treatises on the diagnosis and treatment of disease and injuries date @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rituals of temple and court were crystallized . Lastly , the ruling group developed one of the most thoroughly organized and politically centralized systems of government the world has seen . Toward the close of this period the great pyramids of Giza were built . How extraordinary these structures were can be appreciated if one realizes that the first , largest , and best constructed was erected less than two hundred years after the Egyptians first essayed to use stone in any sort of construction . The pyramids were built with the simplest appliances : ramps , rollers , and levers . Even the pulley was unknown . They represent a triumph of sheer manpower and persistence . To organize and supply the tremendous labor force which worked on them year after year was an administrative accomplishment of the first magnitude . It has been said that the common Egyptians were enthusiastic about the work , since they believed that they were building the dwelling of a god on whom the future well-being of the nation would depend . Nevertheless , they had little choice in the matter . The Egyptian @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and organized in army-like units under overseers whose positions were like those of non-commissioned officers . They were subject to draft for public work , quarry labor , and military campaigns , and apparently regarded all three of these occupations as very much on a par . The last two dynasties of the Old Kingdom period became obsessed with the desire to conquer Nubia and waged constant war with the Negroes there . This , and the unproductive labor expended in pyramid and temple building , finally overtaxed the patience of the peasants and exhausted the land 's resources . The Old Kingdom period ended , about 2300 B.C. , in political breakdown and confusion . When effective central government once more emerged in 2065 B.C. , the common people had won their freedom from serfdom , and , although they were still subject to royal tax collectors , and more often than not tenants upon the royal or temple lands , they possessed and thereafter retained much greater freedon i . Above all , it was possible for individuals to rise in the world . Many a high official boasted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , son of a middle-class or even peasant family . Advancement depended nlmu a combination of abilities . The ambitions official had to be able not only to perform his office successfully but also to ingratiate him406 Part Eight : AFRICA self with superiors . All wealth and honors were distributed downward and were the outpourings of Pharaoh 's splendor . Egypt 's most significant contributions to the growth of world civilization were in the two fields of technology and religion . Its governmental forms were too rigid and too permeated with theocratic patterns to be acceptable outside the Nile Valley . A peasantry which is accustomed to defending itself against outside attacks can not be expected to grovel before innumerable priests and officials . The relative safety of Egypt , fortified by its deserts , made possible a degree of absolutism which could not be enforced elsewhere . The Egyptians were by far the cleverest craftsmen of the pre-classical world . By 1500 B.C. they had learned to mix their copper with tin to produce bronze . The introduction of bellows at about the same time facilitated the work of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ metals used today . Iron was rare before about moo B.C. , and even then was mainly obtained in trade . The Egyptian hieroglyph for it , meaning star metal , shows that they realized the meteoric origin for their early supplies . Gold was more plentiful in Egypt than in any other ancient civilization . It was pounded out of veins of gold-bearing quartz which threaded the local granite and was also sent from Nubia as tribute . A natural alloy of gold and silver , electrum , was much prized , while silver itself was exceedingly rare , so much so that its value exceeded that of gold . The work of the Egyptian jewelers can hardly be bettered today . They were familiar with all the modern techniques of gold working with the exception of electroplating . Their enamel work was superb . They had discovered how to make colored glass in many different shades , but used it mainly for beads and inlays . The techniques of glass blowing seem to have been developed outside Egypt , probably in Syria . Wood had been rare in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Old Kingdom it was being imported from Syria and the Lebanon . The scarcity of the material and the need for utilizing , even scraps led to a surprising development of joinery and cabinetwork . All the various joints used by modern cabinetmakers were known , and the Egyptians also were experts at marquetry work and veneer . They were the first to realize the aesthetic possibilities of ebony and to utilize this hard and brittle wood ; they also developed the art of ivory and pearl inlay to a high point . They were the first people to bark-tan leather , inventing the techniques still in use throughout most of the world . They also seem to have been the first to tool their leather with designs , and the modern saddlers ' knife is still made on an Egyptian model . In textiles they wove linen cloth as fine as any which can be produced by modern looms . Wool was known and used sparingly , but its non-Egyptian 4o8 Part Eight : AFrcA origin was attested by the prohibition against bringing it into temples . Cotton and silk @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mention . The Egyptians were as much devoted to artificial beauty aids as modern Americans , and physicians regarded the provision of these as a legitimate part of their activities . Medical papyri include recipes for removing wrinkles and darkening gray hair . Kohl was used for lengthening the eyebrows and lining the outer corners of the eyes . Eye shadow was of two sorts : green , made from malachite , and gray , made from lead ore ( galena ) . Red ocher was used for rouge , but heavy rouging was not fashionable . The nails , the palms of the hands , and the soles of the feet were dyed with henna . Wigs made of human hair over which melted beeswax had been poured were worn by both sexes , and members of the upper classes kept a number of wigs suitable for different occasions . Women wore the wig over their natural hair , but men shaved both hair and beard . Both sexes removed all body hair . Ladies who wished to be in the height of fashion gilded their breasts and painted their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the process of making oil perfumes , still practiced in the Middle East , and both sexes kept their skins soft by oil rubs . At banquets it was customary for the host to place upon each guest 's head a cone of scented unguent which , in the heat of the banquet hall , gradually melted and ran down over the guest 's face and body . Both sexes wore many ornaments , the most important being heavy collars made from rows of beads of different colors , and huge earrings . The Egyptian artificers expended their best skill on luxury objects , and the great demand for these , created by the custom of burying them with the dead , had a curious by-product . The tombs of the Pharaohs and their nobles were filled with treasures of gold and precious stones , and , although tomb robbers returned much of this to circulation , the supply could not keep up with the demand . The dead are not hard to deceive , and the Egyptian craftsmen soon began to produce imitation gold work in which the metal was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ base metal look like gold . It was in these efforts to imitate precious materials and to find substitutes for them that the science of alchemy , ancestor of our own chemistry , originated . The earliest alchemic texts , which come from Ptolemaic Egypt but probably embody much older material , are , with few exceptions , recipes for making alloys or giving surface finishes which will look like gold . It is significant that the same texts include recipes for making a dye which would imitate the costly Tyrian purple . Alchemy thus began in a search for cheap substitutes , and became confused and transformed into a mystic search for the // philosopher 's stone only after the Neo-Platonic philosophers had captured it from the craftsmen . To the modern Westerner , reared in the tradition of Greek logic and of constant sequences of cause and effect , Egyptian religion appears quite incomprehensible . According to his personal predilections , he will interpret its recorded content either as childish nonsense or as hints of an esoteric knowledge revealed only to initiates . As a matter of fact , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ summed up his people 's relation to the supernatural by saying , " We do not believe , we fear . " The Egyptian might have summed up his with , " We do not believe , we manipulate . " The names of at least 2000 Egyptian gods are known to us , yet there were none of these whom their worshippers regarded with real affection or before whom they felt genuinely powerless . Every deity could be circumvented and controlled if one could only learn the words of power . The Egyptian deities could not be categorized as good or bad . Even Set , slayer of his brother Osiris and lord of the desert , was by no means the equivalent of a Christian devil . He was the ancient patron of nomes ( provinces ) in both Upper and Lower Egypt , and as such was assured of worship by their inhabitants . He also held an honored place among the warriors of Ra , the Sun God , and was himself worshipped as a war god . The aid of deities could be invoked quite as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rituals which were performed in the temples were as much incantations as acts of worship . The Egyptian was interested in the methods by which his deities could be controlled and their powers used for his own benefit or for that of the community . He was essentially uninterested in problems of deities ' origins or their exact nature . For this reason he never developed a coherent theology , and even the Egyptian mythology was totally illogical and inconsistent . It would seem that the Egyptians actually preferred a half-dozen myths explaining the same phenomenon to a single myth . While this lack of logical consistency reflected a pattern of thinking , historic factors also contributed . In the whole of Egypt there were 42 nomes which had originally been politically independent groups and which always retained minor cultural differences . In the beginning , each nome had had its own pantheon of deities , one or more of whom served as the nome 's special guardian and received the bulk of its worship . Even after the political consolidation of Egypt , these nome gods retained the special devotion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ upon much the same lines , with series of deities who performed similar functions . This made easy the process of theocrasia , i.e. , fusion of several deities into one . However , in this process the Egyptians were unwilliug to surrender any of the stories which had adhered 410 Part Eight : AFRICA to the various local gods . As a result , a dozen different and frequently conflicting stories might be told about the same Being . In the same way , items of local ritual would continue to be practiced locally . All this led to endless contradictions and inconsistencies . The importance of deities rose and fell with that of their cities or districts . However , there were certain centers whose gods retained their influence throughout Egyptian history . Thus the oldest of the great principal gods was Ra , Atum , or Ra-Atum , god of Heliopolis . He was a sun god , a world creator always depicted in human form . Below him in the doctrine of Heliopolis were a series of eight other gods , including Osiris and Isis . Their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but in good Egyptian fashion he was specifically identified with RaAtum under the name of Harakhte and was known as the son of Ra . More concretely , Horus was personified as the rising sun , Ra as the midday sun , and Atum as the setting sun , represented as a tired old man . At Hermopolis the principal deity was Thoth , pictured as a man with the head of an ibis . He controlled the seasons , the moon and the stars , and had invented hieroglyphic writing , mathematics , the keeping of accounts , languages , magic , law , and even the game of chess . He was also prime minister and scribe of the gods . Like Ra-Atum , he had created the world , but by a different method . He and his associated deities were central to the doctrine of Hermopolis . During the early period both these doctrines found themselves in competition with a third , the doctrine of Memphis , which had as its principal figure Ptah , the god of that city . According to this doctrine , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ created Ra-Atum by means of a profound effort of the mind . All gods and men were projections of his intellect . The falcon god , Horus , was his heart , and Thoth , the god of wisdom , his tongue . He was the special patron of artists , artificers , and men of letters , but the doctrine in which his worship was embodied was too abstract to win general support from the concreteminded Egyptians . In the contest between these doctrines that of Heliopolis was finally victorious , largely because it could be adapted most readily to the doctrine of Pharaonic divinity , in which the dead Pharaohs were equated with Osiris and the living one with Horus . The last of the great national gods was Amon-Ra , the god of Thebes . Originally an insignificant god of the Scepter nome and not even its principal guardian , he rose to power under the Theban Pharaohs , and , after these had gained control of Egypt , his cult grew steadily until his high priests became the real rulers of the nation . It was against @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and lost his battle for religions reform . The doctrine of Osiris differed in several respects from the other // great doctrines . His legend falls into two parts which seem only incidentally related . In the first , he ruled in Egypt together with his queen-sister Isis . His brother Set desired her and , by a trick , murdered Osiris and set the body afloat in a chest which drifted to Byblus in Syria . Isis followed and brought it back to Egypt , where the god Anubis mummified it under her direction . The soul of Osiris then descended to the underworld , where he became ruler of the dead . Isis took the mummy to a hiding place in the marshes of Lower Egypt , where she contrived to get herself impregnated by it . ( The inconsistency might be resolved by the Ka belief see p. 413 , but the Egyptians themselves probably were not troubled by it . ) In due course of time she gave birth to a son , Horus . Set also had been searching for his brother 's body . He @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , dismembered it , and scattered the pieces throughout the length of Egypt . Isis sought them out and reassembled them . When Horus grew to manhood he set out to avenge his father 's murder on Set . An epic but inconclusive battle ensued . In the end the quarrel was submitted to the arbitration of the earth god , Geb , who first awarded Lower Egypt to Horus and Upper Egypt to Set but later placed both kingdoms beneath the sway of Horus . In the first half of this legend Osiris appears as a typical Near Eastern vegetation god . Many of the incidents resemble those told of Adonis of Byblus and Tammuz of Mesopotamia . Like them , Osiris was killed , dismembered , buried and resurrected , a cycle annually reenacted in the reaping and threshing of the grain , and the planting and growth of the new crop . The second part of the legend is an allegory of Egyptian history providing divine sanction for the rule of Pharaoh . Isis was the ideal queen-sister and loyal wife , and Horus the perfect son who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The initial division of Egypt between Horus and Set is a folk memory of the actual division of Egypt in prehistoric times , while the final assignment of the whole of Egypt to Horus commemorated the first unification of Egypt , which took place under Lower Egyptian rule . Osiris , as benevolent Pharaoh and a ruler in the land of the dead who was willing to share his immortality with all his subjects , became the most popular deity in Egypt . Where the gods of the other doctrines were worshipped mainly by the upper classes , the Osirian trinity was worshipped by all classes , from Pharaoh to the peasants . At his great shrine at Abydos , the incidents of his life , death , and resurrection were reenacted in a sort of passion play which continued for many days . The import ; uet roles were assigned by the king to high officers of state , the port of I fortis , the ideal son , being regarded as a special honor . The local population and the thousands of pilgrims who came to the celebration @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ extras . The ceremony culminated in an epic battle between forces representing the armies of Horus and those of Set , Osiris ' murderer , during which no one was killed but many eyes were blacked and heads were broken . Last but by no means least among the Egyptian deities was Pharaoh himself . At his coronation Pharaoh became the god Horus and at his death was transformed into Osiris . His spiritual potency , on which the well-being of the land depended , was increased by the purity of his royal blood , and for this reason the Pharaoh was married in childhood to the most suitable of his small sisters or half-sisters . When he became a man he was permitted to take as many additional wives and mistresses as he desired , but it was desirable for his heir to possess the strongest possible strain of royal blood . To insure this , Pharaohs not infrequently married their own daughters . Pharaoh 's palace was constructed in the form of a temple and was actually regarded as such . He himself was both a high priest and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he performed rendered efficacious the liturgies celebrated everywhere else in Egypt . As Horus , his acts and costumes were regulated throughout the day by long-established rules . He maintained two complete establishments , one in Upper and one in Lower Egypt , and was supposed to divide his time equally between them so that both lands might participate in the supernatural benefits of his presence . Even after his death the king 's influence continued . He became a national guardian , and his pyramid city or mortuary chapel was staffed by hereditary priests who remained in his service for many generations . There were hundreds of other gods of which we know little more than the names and the shapes in which they were represented . The Egyptians had a penchant for showing their gods in part animal , part human form and , in later days , worshipped animals as divine incarnations . Many of the nomes also had as their symbols particular animals which they were forbidden to kill or use . The whole arrangement is very suggestive of totemism . There are two curious aspects of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' culture was largely Asiatic in its origins , the wild animals represented are all African ; at the same time , two most impressive African animals , the elephant and the rhinoceros , are conspicuous by their absence . The most important ritual associated with the worship of all gods was that known as the " Rite of the House of the Morning . " Pharaoh or the high priest of any temple , acting as his substitute , was first bathed with water brought from a sacred pool , part of the ritual equipment of every temple and palace . Ile was then anointed and in Vu stud with the insignia of his office by two priests wearing the masks of Thoth and // Horus . The importance of masks in Egyptian ritual is very rarely mentioned in popular accounts of Egyptian religion , but they were used in numerous rites , an interesting link between Egyptian and later African cultures . Following this investiture the two priests took the officiant by the hand and led him into the sanctuary , where there was an image of the god @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seal which held the doors of the shrine together , threw them back , prostrated himself before the deity , and woke the god by reciting the hymn of morning worship . The priest then took out the image , purified it , went through the motions of feeding it , robed it in colored cloths , rouged its face , and adorned it with its appropriate emblems . He then replaced the image in the shrine and sealed the doors . He walked backwards as he left the sanctuary and swept out his footprints with a palm branch . Any special requests addressed to the Egyptian gods were accompanied by offerings , but they very rarely required human sacrifices , and even the slaughter of any large number of animals seems to have been discouraged . In line with the semi-magical attitudes of the Egyptians toward their deities , the exact performance of elaborate rituals was more important than the making of offerings . The Egyptian concepts of the spiritual element in man and its fate after death were as disorganized and non-logical as the rest of their religious beliefs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which some of these concepts underwent in the course of Egyptian history . The predynastic Egyptians certainly believed in individual survival for all classes , for they provided all their dead with tomb furniture , varying in amount and quality with the resources of the family . The Old Kingdom centralization of power deprived the common people not only of freedom but even of the hope of immortality . For a time at least the only individuals to enjoy life after death were the Pharaoh and the nobles to whom he communicated certain magical formulae , and whom he allowed to be buried near him , thus sharing a portion of his divine life-force . We do not know whether the commoners concurred in this opinion or not , but that they never lost their desire for immortality is proved by the rapid development of the cult of Osiris , Isis , and Horus after the Old Kingdom collapsed . The Egyptians believed in the existence of at least two and possibly more spiritual entities connected with the individual . The most clearly defined of these was the Ka , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that in the earliest times this was equated with the placenta . The Ka was born with the individual , maintained a separate existence during his lifetime , and was reunited with his body at the instant of death . If the body was seriously damaged or destroyed , the ha would perish , hence the practice of mummiification and the custom of lacing 414 Part Eight : AFRICA in the tomb an image of the deceased which the Ka could occupy if the body was destroyed . The Ka lived in the tomb , feeding upon the offerings , and the elaborate tomb furnishings and wall carvings were for its benefit . Every Egyptian attempted to assure his Ka not only of shelter but of a steadily renewed food supply . The worship of the dead by their descendants was obligatory , since the dead were able to control the destinies of the living . The sacrifices in connection with the ancestor cult were much more numerous than those given to the gods and included animals and libations of blood , milk , and wine . Certain passages in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the individual 's death to assure him proper service in the next world . The relation between ancestor and descendant was a reciprocal one . While the ancestor could bring his descendant good or bad fortune , the descendant , by withholding his sacrifices , could make the ancestor exceedingly uncomfortable . There are frequent records of a disappointed worshipper threatening a dead relative with suspension of his sacrifices if a particular request was not granted . The presence of ancestor worship of even a truncated sort in a society without clans or lineages is unique . Like certain other aspects of the culture , it strongly suggests that the earliest Egyptian pattern of social organization included localized enduring kin groups like those still common in Negro Africa . The elaborate provision which individuals made for their own comfort in the next world suggests that they realized the probability of their line becoming extinct or its members indifferent , features which do not have to be anticipated where there is a functional clan organization . Beliefs regarding other aspects of the personality were much less precise . The individual was believed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the moment of death . In the hieroglyphics this is represented as a stork or as a bird with a bearded human head and a lamp , the latter referring to a very ancient belief that the Ba became a star . However , it could also return to earth as a ghost in the form of the dead man , or assume the body of a bird , an animal , or a fish . Whether it was the Ba which underwent the judgment of the dead and found happiness in the underworld under the rule of Osiris , or whether it was still another entity , is not clear . The soul as it wandered through the Elysian fields was often referred to as the Akh , the effective spirit , and was supposed to be a radiant counterpart of the body as it was when alive . Lastly , the vital essence ( life force ? ) of the individual was sometimes referred to as the Sekhem . After the rise of the Osirian cult , Pharaoh still went to his heaven in the sky , but the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the Nile Valley and partly beneath it . This Underworld was separated from Egypt by a mountain range , with a narrow gorge // through which the sun and the spirits of the dead could enter . The spirit passed first through a dark and fearful region haunted by fiends and monsters . It also had to pass through a series of gates which opened to it only when it gave the proper password . At the end of this journey the soul arrived at the realm of Osiris but still had to undergo a last hazard : the Judgment of the Dead . The trial was presided over by a company of forty-two gods or demons , each of whom was associated with a particular offense , and the deceased had to be able either to declare his innocence of each delict or to repeat the magical formula which would restrain the particular being from speaking against him . As a form of accident insurance , those who could afford it were provided with a scroll , the Book of the Dead , which contained directions for proper behavior @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ words of power to be used whenever the soul was guilty . It is an interesting commentary on Egyptian business morality that these scrolls not infrequently were incomplete . Only the first few feet of the scroll were inscribed , the seller acting on the assumption that the buyer would not trouble to unroll it all . At the end of his negative confession , the dead man 's heart was weighed against a feather while he stood near it and begged it not to inform against him . A fierce monster with the head of a crocodile , the forepart of a lion , and the hindpart of a hippopotamus waited to devour the soul if the judgment went against it . If it was declared worthy of immortality , the judgment was written down by Thoth , and Horus took the soul by the hand and conducted it into the presence of Osiris . It should be noted that , although this Egyptian judgment of the dead has often been considered the origin of the Christian belief in the last judgment , the resemblances are rather superficial . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ neither Osiris nor Horus acted as Savior . Moreover , the forty-two " sins " had to do for the most part with infractions of taboos or offenses against property . Very few of them involved what we would consider ethical issues . The Osirian realm was also much more like Egypt than it was like the Christian heaven . It consisted of two fields comparable to Upper and Lower Egypt . These were located in the western corner of the Underworld . In them the soul was reunited with its dead relatives and enjoyed all the pleasures of the flesh . It was also subject to various human disabilities , one of the more onerous being forced labor . A number of little figures were placed in the tomb to substitute for the dead man . When he was ordered to do something one of the figures would promptly call out , " I 'm doing this , " and hasten to obey the command . Before leaving the subject of Egyptian religion , it is only just to make some mention of the Heretic King , Akhematou , whose @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has been so frequently applauded by modern writers . He has often been referred to as the first individual in history , and has been praised as a sort of John the Baptist of monotheism . Actually , contemporary evidence would seem to place him in a less exalted role . Akhenaton 's father , Amenophis III , was one of the most powerful and autocratic rulers of the 18th Dynasty , the royal house whose kings made Egypt a world military power for the first time in its history . He fell in love with a woman who was " impossible " from the point of view of the Egyptian nobility , since she was both a Semite and a member of a middle-class family , and he had the arrogance to make her his chief wife and queen . The reaction of the priests of Amon was not unlike that of the British clergy under somewhat similar circumstances , and even the usually obsequious courtiers seem to have snubbed her . The king countered by compelling them to wear huge scarabs inscribed with the queen 's name and titles @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ union , originally named Amenophis after his father , was not a legitimate heir by priestly reckoning and had every reason to hate the established religion . Aton , the sun disc , was a Semitic deity who had been known in Egypt for some time , but who was worshipped mainly by commoners of Semitic origin . It is highly probable that the young Pharaoh 's mother was one of his devotees . The Pharaoh changed his own name to Akhenaton , thus honoring Aton , and set up Aton 's worship as the state religion . In this he followed a pattern already familiar in Egypt , in which the founder of a new dynasty would usually make the god of his home district the center of the national worship . While Akhenaton insisted on the preeminence of Aton , it is highly improbable that he was a monotheist in the sense of denying the existence or even the power of other deities . At least he continued to go through the rituals which , as Pharaoh , he was obligated to perform for the good of the land @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ priests of Amon , Akhenaton built a new capitol and tried to usher in a new era in art and ritual . Egyptian art had become highly conventionalized , and the statues and pictures , in spite of high aesthetic quality , had come to represent offices rather than real persons . However , side by side with this conventional art there had emerged a livelier style of carving and painting which bore much the same relation to it that our own comic strips bear to our fine arts . Artists , decorating tombs with the endless friezes of food , furniture , and servants at work depicted there for the benefit of the Ka , amused themselves by making humorously realistic details which they tucked away in odd corners . The same sort of free , unconventional ( hawing appears in various papyri made with humorous or pornographic intent . Akhenaton turned to this free style and attempted to // develop it in opposition to the priestly style . He himself was physically deformed , and he insisted that his deformity be shown in his portraits . He also had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his courtiers , so that his artists could have exact models from which to work . Fortunately , his sister-wife , Nefertiti , was a worthy subject , and her head , carved by some emancipated sculptor of the period , is one of the world 's great pieces of portrait art . Aton was a god of " peace on earth and good will to men . " Akhenaton took these doctrine seriously , and , in an attempt to implement them , he sent out letters to the kings of neighboring states indicating his eagerness to make peace with all of them . Unfortunately , he did not wait for proof of their good intentions before reducing his military forces . As a result , the Egyptian empire , which had extended to the Euphrates and far into Asia Minor in the days of his father , was completely wiped out . The last king of the tottering dynasty was Tutankhamen , whose very unimportance may have helped to save his tomb for the modern world . He was forgotten so quickly that a slightly later Pharaoh built living @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ effectively concealing Tutankhamen 's resting place from robbers . Although most of the splendid furniture of Tutankhamen 's tomb was of the sort placed with any Pharaoh , there were some unusual features . Tutankhamen died of tuberculosis when he was only sixteen . Even during his brief reign the priests of Amon had recovered their power and were vigorously trying to re-establish the old order . They even forced him to change his name from the original Tutankhaton to Tutankhamen . Apparently the royal family realized that the dynasty was coming to an end , and placed in the tomb foreign gifts which had been made to Pharaohs of the dynasty in the time of its greatness , along with numerous articles which were family heirlooms or were closely associated with the Aton cult . Since the tombs of Pharaoh 's were sacred , this was the best method for keeping such objects from falling into the hands of the priests of Amon . The social and political organization of Egypt is less well known than one might anticipate . Personal documents and court records which might illustrate social relations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ institutions too much for granted to think of describing them in inscriptions . The basic social unit seems to have been a simple nuclear family much like our own . No lineages or clans were present during historic times . No bride price was paid , and it appears that the first marriages , at least , were usually love matches . There seems to have been a considerable number of women who elected not to marry , and these were allowed to administer their own property and to distribute their favors as they wished . The position of women was 418 Part Eight : AFRICA high , married women controlling their own fortunes and taking charge of their husband 's businesses in their absence . However , polygyny was the preferred form of marriage . There was always a head wife , the other women being secondary wives or concubines . The more women in a man 's establishment the higher his social prestige . The royal marriages of brother and sister have already been mentioned , and , after the fall of the Old Kingdom , this practice , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . We do not know whether it was taken up by the artisans and peasantry . In funeral inscriptions men of all ranks , if rich enough to afford such memorials , frequently referred to their head wife as " sister . " However , we know that this was a term of endearment as well as a relationship term , so the question of how widely the practice spread must remain unanswered for the present . Various classical writers state that the Egyptians traced descent through the mother , but there are few indications of this in their inscriptions . It seems more probable that descent was actually bilateral , as among ourselves , property and office being inherited through either parent . Such a system would have appeared extraordinary to the highly patrilineal Greeks and Romans . It may be added that the Classical explanation for Egyptian matrilineal descent was that the Egyptian women were so much addicted to adultery that the paternity of their children was always doubtful . The next organized social unit above the family was the nome or province . In historic times the nomes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a nome united in the worship of a nome deity , had their cases tried in the courts of a hereditary nomarch who also supervised local public works , and felt considerable local pride and hostility toward persons from other nomes . It seems probable that during the oldest period , when the forty-two nomes were politically independent , they were endogamous localized kin groups of the sort still widespread in Negro agricultural Africa . In historic times Egyptian society was class-organized , but with considerable opportunity for vertical nobility . In the Old Kingdom there were actually only two classes , royalty and commoners , all important offices in both the governmental bureaucracy and the priesthood being filled by royal relatives . The large harems maintained by men of the royal group insured an extensive supply of these . As time went on , the society was differentiated into a peasantry , a middle-class of craftsmen and professional soldiers , and an aristocratic group of nobles , administrators , and priests . Above them all towered the Pharaoh , whose divinity set him beyond classification as a mere human @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the list just given , since they were never important in the Egyptian economry . Criminals // and prisoners of war were either drafted into the army or sent to the quarries , where their life expectation was short . A few slaves , particularly slave women , were employed in domestic service , but these were regarded more as family retainers than as property . As always , in countries where a huge supply of free labor existed on the level of bare subsistence , it was uneconomical to employ slaves for ordinary work . It was cheaper to hire men when they were needed than to incur the lasting obligations that went with ownership . The virtual enslavement of the peasants in the Old Kingdom times has already been mentioned , as has the collapse of the system at the end of the 6th dynasty . In later times the Egyptian peasant was no longer a serf . He was assigned land , sometimes in freehold , sometimes on one of the royal or temple estates . In either case the holding was inalienable and descended to his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his produce , as well as rent to the owner , and long custom decreed what crops should be raised in particular districts . Although the peasant was no longer tied to his holding by law , he was tied to it by economic necessity , since all land had long since been allocated , and if he left his hold-. ing his only recourse would be to become an unskilled laborer . Craftsmen were concentrated in the cities , where all the workers in one craft commonly lived together in a particular quarter . Each establishment was a combined workshop and store , and the craftsmen were organized into guilds much like those of medieval Europe . We have no way of estimating the income of the skilled craftsmen , but their lot was certainly better than that of the peasants . There were few professional soldiers in the Old Kingdom days , but as time passed the military establishment became more and more important and permanent . The men of Upper Egypt were much better soldiers than those of Lower Egypt , but even they had no great love @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ use foreigners in their forces . These were drawn at first from Nubia and Syria , while the Shardana , the " Men of the Isles , " had a high reputation for courage and were frequently used for Pharaoh 's personal bodyguard . Although some of the foreigners were volunteers , many of them were actually slaves . We know that , during the 18th dynasty , campaigns in Nubia were often preceded by raids into Syria to get soldiers , and vice-versa . Needless to say , such forces could not be used successfully against their own tribesmen , but in distant campaigns slave soldiers had definite advantages . They were , so to speak , on life enlistment and had no civil rights which had to be regarded . They could be subjected to the strictest discipline , and , since their civilian ties had been broken at the time of their capture , homesickness would never lead to mutiny . From the slave 's point of view , war , with its excitement and opportunities to loot , was vastly // preferable to labor in a quarry @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thus established survived in Islamic countries until exceedingly late times . Outstanding examples are the previously mentioned Janisseries in Turkey and the Mamelukes of later Egypt . Beginning in the 8th century B.C. the Egyptians employed more and more Greeks , who proved themselves superior mercenaries . From the 19th dynasty on soldiers played an increasingly important role in politics . The peasantry were powerless and politically indifferent , and rival claimants to the throne or founders of new dynasties relied upon the Libyan , Nubian , or Greek mercenaries for support , while rulers in power had to placate them with gifts . By the time of Herodotus there were nearly one and a half million professional soldiers in the delta alone , all either holding grants of land or receiving generous rations of grain , beef , and wine . One of the curious incidents of the later period was the mutiny of 4,000 Gauls in the army of Ptolemy Philadelphos . They planned to seize the government and did succeed in looting the treasury . When their coup failed , they retreated to an island in the Sebennytic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ suicide , a Gaulish pattern comparable to Japanese hara-kiri . It may have been noticed that in the enumerations of middle-class groups no merchants were mentioned . Egyptian internal trade was nearly all carried on locally in the city markets and by a system of barter . Although standard weights and measures were in early use , there was no fixed standard of value until the 12th century , B.c . Prior to that time there were elaborate tables in which the value of one commodity was established in terms of half a dozen other commodities . After the 12th century , ring-money of gold , silver , and copper came into use but had to be weighed at each transaction . Coins were introduced at the time of the Persian conquest . Since taxes , rents , and tithes were collected in kind , both the temples and government were deeply involved in business . Such foreign trades as existed seems to have been largely in their hands . In the case of the Pharaoh , trading was phrased in terms of tribute or royal gift exchanges . As a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of wealthy merchants or bankers comparable to those of Mesopotamia . On the borderline between the middle and upper classes stood the scribes . The old saying that knowledge is power was nowhere truer than in Egypt . It required years of assiduous study to master the intricacies of the hieroglyphic writing , but the scribe 's training by no means ended there . He was expected to know the ancient literature and also to have mastered enough mathematics and engineering to be able to cast accounts , design buildings , and supervise public works . His royal master might even call upon him to lead a military expedition . The biographies // which some successful scribes have left in their funeral inscriptions suggest a versatility like that of Leonardo da Vinci . Since an aspirant 's family had to be able to support him during several years of study , there were economic prerequisites which debarred the sons of most peasants and craftsmen . However , once the skills had been acquired , any scribe might hope to attain any post in the government , even that of vizier . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the central power , the greater the tendency for Pharaoh to make administrative positions appointive rather than hereditary and to fill them with commoners whose loyalty could be counted on because of their dependence on his favor . Since appointments were given by favor , advancement depended as much upon absolute obedience to the royal will and ingenious flattery as upon ability . Not only royal gifts , but also donations from individuals seeking various sorts of favors , made it possible for the holders of administrative positions to acquire wealth , intermarry with the hereditary nobility , and have their descendants acquire full noble status . The Egyptian upper class consisted of government officials , hereditary nobility , and the priesthood . As just noted , officials might be of either common or noble origin , but the higher positions in the priesthood were normally held by nobles . The situation was not unlike that of the medieval church in Europe . The officials were divided into the administrators and the court group , who were particularly concerned with the care of the Pharaoh 's person and establishment . At @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who took over all the routine secular duties pertaining to Pharaoh 's office . These duties were heavy . The Vizier acted as a supreme court and had to hear all cases referred to him from lower courts . Great stress was laid on his expeditious handling of cases . He superintended public works and , three times a year , received reports on conditions in the various nomes . Tax authorities sent their accounts to him and he issued receipts from the royal storehouses . He also recruited the Pharaoh 's bodyguard and took care of all the arrangements when he traveled . Every morning the Vizier went to the palace , met the Pharaoh , inquired after his health , and then reported to him on the state of the nation . Closely associated with the Vizier was a second great minister known as the Director of the Seal . He was in charge of the financial affairs of the kingdom . It was he who assessed taxes and saw to their collection . Since the taxes were paid in kind , not cash , he was further responsible @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in later times , for their conversion into stoney . Healso managed the incredibly complicated affairs of the funerary foundation and temple estates . Lastly , he had to fix wage scales for labor on the royal and temple estates , which 422 Part Eight : AFRICA thus set a general standard for the kingdom . During most of Egyptian history , there were a single Vizier and a single Director of the Seal , but , by the New Kingdom , administration had become too complex to be handled in this way , and there were separate Viziers and Keepers of the Seal for Upper and Lower Egypt . The office of Vice-roy of Nubia was created in the 18th dynasty . Because of the distance of his province and the necessity for quick action in case of attack , the Vice-roy had practically royal powers and headed his own separate court and administration closely modeled on those of the Pharaoh . All these officials were surrounded by a numerous corps of scribes . Below this level administration was handled independently in the various nomes , the nomarch being held @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which repeated on a smaller scale those of the Vizier . The palace officials were exceedingly numerous . Closest to the king 's person were a group of intimate advisors known as the Honored Ones . This group automatically included members of the royal family but was primarily made up of men who had proved their worth by many years of administrative service . The Honored Ones were maintained at court at the king 's expense , but their most prized privileges were the provision which the king made for their splendid burials and his permission to be laid out to rest near his own person . Individual Honored Ones were also assigned posts connected with the operation of the court and the care of Pharaoh 's person . These posts carried honorary titles such as " Lordship of the Secret of the Royal House , " i.e. , custodian of the crown jewels . Court protocol was exceedingly elaborate . The king 's person was attended by a Director of the King 's Dress , under whom were a Valet of the Hands , a Director of the Oils and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and many others . The queen and ladies of the royal harem had even more elaborate personal staffs . Even the staff of the royal kitchen was organized in a rising order of precedence . The three royal meat carvers preceded the cake maker , who in turn preceded the souffle maker , who in turn preceded the jam maker . The most important group in the hereditary nobility was composed of the nomarchs and their relatives . These were the descendants of the kings who had ruled over the various nomes before the unification of Egypt . Although every strong dynasty tried to limit their power and minimize their importance , they retained the devotion of the nome members and , whenever the central power weakened , functioned as petty kings . The nomarch was really a sort of Vice-roy in his province , combining administrative duties with religious functions as high priest of the none god . The hereditary nobility were in general supported by // estates which had been granted to the family in the past by Pharaoh . Although many of the noble families boasted long descent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and become the founders of noble houses . It is interesting to note that the Egyptian nobility was not primarily a warrior caste . Although a few of the great families produced able generals through several generations , many others concerned themselves mainly with religious or administrative activities or were simply courtiers . The priesthood was one of the most important elements in Egyptian society . In addition to the observance of the daily rites and the annual festival of the god , which often lasted for weeks , the priests gave oracles and presented individual requests to the god in return for suitable fees . Unfortunately , our knowledge of the staffing of the temples is limited to the names of the various officials . The priests as a whole were divided into two classes , consisting of prophets and ordinary Priests . No matter what the duties of these two groups may have been in historic times , this division is highly suggestive of the well-nigh universal one between the inspirational priest , who goes into a trance state and permits the deity to speak through his mouth , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ proper performance of the formal rites . Every temple was staffed with a Chief Prophet , Deputy Prophet , Priest , Deputy Priest , and so forth . Priestesses were ranged in a hierarchy of their own , but were much less significant in religious exercises than the priests . Their principal duties consisted in providing music and dancing on religions occasions . Sacred concubines and sacred prostitutes were attached to the temples of most gods . A separate group of priests supervised the worship and offerings in the royal mortuary temples . Lastly , most of the schools in which advanced education was given were associated with temples , and it was customary for Egyptian professional men , doctors , and lawyers to take orders and to be nominally connected with some temple establishment . A similar arrangement was common in Europe during the Middle Ages . The study of Egyptian culture leaves one with the feeling that the Egyptians were a clever and ingenious people whose progress was stultified by the development of one of the most rigid and highly centralized governmental systems which the world has seen . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with a correspondingly complete control of the subjects ' bodies and minds . Such systems can function successfully only through a rigid maintenance of the status quo . The Egyptian inventions which eventually became incorporated into the general stream of developing I ? urasiatic civilization were almost all made ( luring the first Soo'j'ears of Egyptian history . It is even doubtful whether the Egyp4241 Part Eight : AFRICA tian contributions outside the field of technology were not a result of the classical misinterpretation of Egyptian beliefs and rituals rather than an authentic diffusion of Egyptian elements . With respect to the African cultures , particularly the African civilizations , the situation is quite different . While it is exceedingly difficult to find exact parallels between Egyptian civilization and those of the great Central and West African kingdoms , nevertheless one feels a basic similarity . This will become evident in subsequent chapters . Chapter XXX Historic African Peoples THROUGHOUT the entire historic period Africa has been divided racially and culturally by the Sahara desert . North of this tremendous waste the African population has been predominantly Caucasic , and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Islamic civilization . South of the Sahara the population has been predominantly Negroid and its cultures , in spite of occasional accretions from outside sources , have remained distinctive . It will not be necessary to record the cultures of the North African peasants and city dwellers . Apparently the local populations have conformed readily enough to the patterns set by their successive rulers , Phoenicians , Greeks , Romans , Byzantines , and Arabs . In the Atlas and at those points in the Sahara where a scanty rainfall permitted pastoral occupation , elements of the older culture survived through all these vicissitudes , but the information which we have on these from either archeological or classical sources is negligible . With the Islamic conquest most of the distinctive North African culture survivals were eliminated . The North African environment was so similar to that of the Arabian regions in which Islam had its source that the Islamic culture patterns could be introduced almost in toto . In addition , whole tribes of pastoral Arabs moved into the North African interior and , backed by the prestige of Islam , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ population . In historic times only one group in the Sahara had kept a distinctive culture derived from the pre-Islamic period . These were the Tuareg , a Berber people who occupied the Western Sahara . Although nominally 11islin , , tlic ? v had , many practices which were highly unorthodox . The position of women was extraordinarily high . Descent was traced in the female line and women were the guardians of the intellectual and artistic 426 Part Eight : AFRICA activities of the tribe . They were usually literate , while the men rarely were , and there were women poets and musicians who were nationally famous . Women were never secluded . Girls and young men were allowed to indulge in petting parties reminiscent of American college undergraduates , while friendships between married women and men were taken as a matter of course . The men spent their time in camel breeding and raiding . During the time between engagement and marriage a prospective bridegroom was expected to steal from enemy groups the camels needed for the bride price , and , since the larger the bride @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ marriages were often delayed until middle age . Women did not veil but all men wore veils of heavy cloth which were never removed , even when eating or sleeping . Women frequently embroidered their fiances ' or men friends ' veils with appropriate mottoes . The Tuareg themselves explained male veiling as simply a defense against flies and sun . Since the nobles were of almost pure Caucasoid stock and were frequently light-skinned and grey-eyed , this was probably correct . Political organization was a loose confederacy in which a few aristocratic clans dominated a more numerous servile population . While the noble clans were Caucasoid , the servile ones had a heavy admixture of Negro blood . They were the descendants of slaves and small aboriginal Negro groups who had assumed Tuareg culture and had finally been admitted to Tuareg tribal membership . Since it was customary for men of noble clans to take mistresses from the servile clans during the long period before marriage , there was a constant infiltration of Caucasoid genes into the servile clans , with little penetration of Negro genes into the upper classes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ also kept sheep and goats and the servile clans also practiced agriculture where possible . Much of their regular income was derived from policing the caravan routes and robbing caravans which had not paid " protection . " They were ferocious warriors who extended their conquests as far as Timbuctu on the Niger River . Northeast Africa east and south of Egypt forms a distinct province both racially and culturally . The local population , generally referred to as the People of the Horn , have physical characteristics which place them in an intermediate position between the Negroid and Caucasoid stocks . They combine exceedingly dark pigmentation with Caucasic features . Their hair is quite different from that of typical Negroes , being coarse and closely crimped , so that when allowed to grow long it stands out from the head in a bush . The origins of this type are uncertain . Although it is generally regarded as the result of an ancient mixture between Negroes and Caucasics , the mixture has become so thoroughly XXX . Historic African Peoples 427 stabilized , if this is the case , that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ region is one of intense heat and violent sun , heavy pigmentation is advantageous and might have become fixed as a result of natural selection . Three distinct cultures were represented in the region , two in the lowlands and one in the Abyssinian highlands . Both of the lowland cultures were based on animal economies . One , that of the Somali , followed in most respects the familiar Semitic pastoral pattern . Its economic emphasis was on camels , sheep , and goats , with cattle few and incidental . The other domestic animal culture , characteristic of the Galla , was a dairying culture of distinctively African type with cattle as the most important animals . The Abyssinian culture was based on a mixed agricultural and domestic animal economy but with agriculture paramount . Since the Abyssinians had been Christianized in the 3rd century and had maintained contact with other Christian and later Muslim societies all through the historic period , this civilization was less African than Near Eastern . It showed strong Byzantine and Arab influence , and the governmental institutions were essentially of Semitic type . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Eastern Sudan to far South Africa , where one encountered the some4z8 Part Eight : AFRICA what divergent Khoisan , i.e. , Bushman-Hottentot physical type and cultures . In spite of numerous local variations , certain features were present throughout this entire region , making it appear probable that the various cultures shared a remote common origin . The diversity was most marked in the fields of technology and economic organization , aspects of culture which are most readily affected by differences in natural environment and by foreign contacts . There were also marked differences in the size and patterns of organization of political groups . Certain social patterns were present everywhere in Negro Africa . Polygyny was universal and was correlated with an equally universal surplus of women , due partly to the more dangerous activities of men and partly to a strong tendency for females to exceed males in both birth and survival ratios . Payment of a bride price was practically universal . This payment was construed primarily as reimbursement to the woman 's family for the loss of her services and those of her potential children @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ husband 's chattels , and it did not prevent her from dissolving the union under sufficient provocation . Although both matrilineal and patrilineal descent were present , marriages were nearly everywhere patrilocal . The normal family establishment was a compound in which each of the multiple wives and her children had a separate dwelling . There was a strong tendency for a man 's sons and grandsons to form a joint family , i.e. , to continue living in a single compound , holding property as a corporation and cooperating under the direction of a hereditary male head . Men who could afford the necessary outlay preferred to break away , establish their own compounds , and thus become the founders of new joint families . Several families which had been formed in this way and still recognized their kinship constituted a sub-clan , and several sub-clans a clan . Outside the region of large kingdoms , clans were usually localized territorial units . Sub-clans were , almost without exception , exogamous . Clans were usually exogamous when they formed part of larger political units , endogamous when they were politically @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who derived much of his power from his role in ancestor worship . Clans and even sub-clans often distinguished their members by special details of costume , scarification , and so forth . Totems , i.e. , animals , plants , or objects which stood in a special relation to a human group , were very common at the clan level . Clan members were commonly forbidden to kill or use their own totem but had no objection to members of other clans doing so . There was . usually a myth explaining the relationship , but belief in actual descent from the totem was lacking in most cases . Societies were class-organized , with a threefold division of chiefs , XXX . Historic African Peoples 429 free commoners , and slaves . The relations of inferiors to superiors were strongly autocratic . This began in the family , where children were expected to show exaggerated respect to their parents and young people to their elders . Similar attitudes were reflected in the behavior of subclan and clan members toward the heads of these units and of all lower orders toward @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ government were completely lacking . All political offices were either hereditary or appointive . Democracy existed only at the village level where , as in villages everywhere in the world , policies were decided through informal discussion among the natural leaders of the community . Chiefs had counselors , but they selected them themselves and allowed them only advisory activities . In spite of these autocratic institutions , concepts of law strikingly similar to the European one were present in all the agricultural and most of the dairying societies . The chief was allowed to exercise his autocratic powers only within clearly understood limits . Law codes were no less valid because they were transmitted verbally . One of the main functions of chiefs was to act as magistrate . Cases were pleaded before him , evidence taken , frequently on oath , and precedents were cited . The chief was expected to show his wisdom and fitness for office by the skill with which he disentangled conflicting evidence and made the punishment fit the crime . When there was a hierarchy of officials , cases could be appealed from lower @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ even the king himself . Trial by ordeal was universally allowed , but was resorted to only when the evidence was so inconclusive that no decision could be reached . Puberty rites were universal . Groups of boys and girls were initiated separately , frequently in camps established at some distance from the regular settlement . Here they were kept under the watchful care of adults , never their own parents , who hazed them in various ways and finally gave them sex instruction and , frequently , esoteric religious knowledge . Mutilations of various sorts were often inflicted at this time . Boys were circumcised , girls had the clitoris removed and , in regions where scarification was practiced , both sexes received their clan or tribal marks . The basic , universal religion of Negro Africa was ancestor worship This was directed primarily toward founders of kin groups and heroes whose exploits were remembered . It was firmly believed that the dead took a lively interest in the doings of their descendants , that they were ahle to help or harm them , and that they could be influenced @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ basic assumptions numerous local heliels and practices had been developed . In addition to the ancestral 430 Part Eight : AFRICA spirits there were non-human deities , but their number and importance varied greatly in different parts of the area , Outside a few of the great kingdoms , god cults were less important than the ancestor cults . There was a lively belief in magic of all sorts , and the medicine men , its practitioners , held an honored position . Professional priests were in charge of the shrines of various gods and directed their worship . Supervision of ancestor worship was normally a function of the head of the kin group . There were also professional diviners who practiced no other type of magic ; medicine men 's activities were directed mainly toward the healing of disease . The medicine man was usually an individual with hysteric tendencies , and , since the post was socially important and financially rewarding , such tendencies were watched for in children and encouraged , their expressions being shaped to the culturally approved forms . Contrary to popular belief , the medicine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be a successful practitioner required a firm grasp of reality and superior intelligence . At the same time , the average medicine man was not a charlatan . He believed in his own powers and frequently possessed abilities in what is now called extra-sensory perception . He was also , in most cases , an excellent psychotherapist , and possessed a knowledge of genuine and quite non-magical remedies for common ailments . There can be no doubt that a study of African materia medica and healing practices would contribute significantly to our own medical knowledge . The medicine man knew magic of all sorts and could kill as well as heal . He was ready to provide evil charms and directions for their use quite as a modern pharmacist carries poisons . However , this was a very minor feature of his activities . The medicine man must not be confused with the malevolent sorcerers , also found everywhere in Negro Africa . The sorcerer was a constant practitioner of malevolent magic , an allround virulent enemy of the community devoted to evil for its own sake . Sorcerer 's attacks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ general , and they were killed without mercy whenever discovered . It was believed that the condition of being a sorcerer was frequently involuntary and , indeed , unconscious . It was thought to be due to the presence in the body of a " witch substance , " described as a white gelatinous material somewhat like phlegm . This substance might be acquired in various ways or might even be inherited . It was quite possible for an individual to be a malevolent sorcerer without knowing it . Since all members of the community shared in these beliefs , persons who were detected and accused of sorcery by the medicine men would usually confess and submit to execution without protest . While medicine men operated individually , except for observance of professional etiXXX . Historic African Peoples 431 quette , sorcerers were often believed to be organized in groups which met secretly and planned campaigns . One of the most important activities of the medicine man was the making of fetishes . It is difficult to convey to Europeans the exact nature of these objects . They were not inhabited @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ yet they were regarded as sentient Beings . They were strengthened by offerings , could hear and respond to prayers , and were able to bring good or evil fortune . They owed their power to having been compounded in certain ways of certain materials . Most of these materials were taken from plants or animals , but many of the more powerful fetishes included human blood , bones , or organs . The concept was , after all , not unlike our own attitude toward such a material as gunpowder . Sulfur , charcoal , and saltpeter , each of which is innocuous in itself , have astonishing potentialities when combined in certain proportions and in a certain way . The cattle brought to Africa by Neolithic settlers could flourish in regions where the crops which they had brought could be grown with difficulty , if at all . The result was the development of an African dairying culture similar in some respects to the Eurasian one already described in Chapter XIX . In historic times , at least , the bearers of the African dairying cultures were almost exclusively @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ admixture . The center for the development of the dairying complex seems to have been in the Eastern Sudan , and it was here that in later times it showed its most distinctive characteristics . Although it was presumably developed out of the domestic animal half of the original Neolithic economy , there can be little question that it was sometimes taken over directly by groups of hunters and food-gatherers who had never known agriculture . It seems impossible to explain the Hottentot situation on any other basis , and we know that similar shifts from a hunting to a domestic animal economy were made rapidly and easily by tribes in other parts of the world . All the African dairying cultures centered their economy around cattle . Other animals , especially sheep , were usually kept in small numbers , but their cultural significance was slight . In historic times most of the dairying societies other than the Hottentots practiced a little agriculture where climatic conditions made this possible . Their original crops were probably the African ones previously mentioned , but from the 17th century on these were supplemented @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , particularly maize , peanuts , manioc , and pumpkins . The introduction of these plants , which were well suited to the African plateau environment , may have resulted in a heavier reliance by the dairying peoples upon agriculture . 432 Part Eight : AFRICA Cattle were the emotional and cultural center of native life . All work with them was pre-empted by the men , and all cultures having this economy were strongly patriarchal and patrilineal . The bride price was always paid in cattle , and in some tribes sex relations between two persons whose mothers had been bought by cattle from the same herd were considered incestuous . In others , a wife who had been purchased with cattle which a man had acquired for himself , instead of having received from his kindred , became a " hill " and the founder of a new genealogical line . Wealth was reckoned in terms of the size of a man 's herd , exclusive of quality , an attitude which in modern times has resulted in both inferior stock and bad overgrazing of native reserves . A @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ owners of several hundred head knew every animal belonging to them . Cattle were penned at night and grazed during the day with boys as herders . They were milked morning and night and also bled , the bleeding being done with a miniature bow and arrow which was driven suddenly into one of the neck veins . A quart or two of blood was drawn off and the wound closed . To judge from the animal 's behavior , the operation caused little pain . This technique does not seem to have been practiced by the Egyptians , and , in view of the negative attitudes of all Semitic peoples toward the use of blood in any form , it is a strong argument for the Negro origin of the African cattle complex . It also suggests the presence of a hunting component among the originators of the complex , since all people who XXX . Historic African Peoples 433 live by hunting regard blood as an important article of diet , and the arrow is primarily a hunter 's weapon . Although most of the historic dairying societies conducted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rarely hunted for meat . Since game was abundant everywhere in the plateau , this neglect of a significant natural resource seems curious . In several cases the dairying tribes shared their territory with hunting tribes of inferior social status , from whom they obtained the skins of antelopes and other wild animals which they used for clothing . Technology was rather poorly developed in all the dairying cultures . Iron was in universal use for tools , weapons , and even ornaments . The metal seems to have been most plentiful and most skillfully worked in the northern part of the plateau . Smiths everywhere formed a distinct caste of low social status . This may indicate that the iron-working technique was introduced by foreign craftsmen . Mats were woven but the true loom was unknown . Costume was fragmentary , many of the northern dairying people going completely nude except for ornaments . Farther south both sexes wore small aprons . Blankets , made from skins of antelope or other wild animals , were a constant item of clothing throughout the entire area . Most utensils were of wood @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made by many tribes . Art was rudimentary , being limited to simple geometric designs frequently burned on utensils . In sharp contrast with West Africa , there was an almost complete absence of sculptured figures , masks , and other ceremonial equipment . This was no doubt related to the simple and relatively unorganized character of religion in the area . Economic organization was simple . Aside from smiths , there were no specialized craftsmen . Markets , important elsewhere in Negro Africa , were not characteristic of the dairying cultures , and , where they occurred , could usually be traced to foreign influence . In the dairying tribes religious beliefs and practices were exceedingly simple . There were no doctrines regarding the nature of the soul , and beliefs concerning conditions in the next world were vague . Attitudes toward individual survival were rather neutral even in the most warlike groups , where the individual 's life expectation was low . Some of the northern dairying tribes agreed with Goethe that a soul was not a gift but an accomplishment , and limited survival to chiefs , medicine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recognized a supreme Being and a few other deities , but the elaborate and highly organized pantheons found among some of the agricultural people were notably lacking . In general , neither gods nor ancestors received worship except in ties of emergency , and rituals were simple . Animal sacrifices were offered on occasion , but human sacrifice was very rare . 434 ) Part Eight : AFRICA Dairying itself imposes certain patterns of settlement ( see Chap . X1X , p. 258 ) . The African groups who shared this economy normally lived in small , widely distributed kraals , each occupied by a joint family . The houses of the various wives , sons and their wives , and so forth , were usually arranged around a central cattle pen . Since the cattle were a constant temptation to raids , most of the African dairying groups were exceedingly warlike , a characteristic which stood them in good stead in their contacts with their less aggressive agricultural neighbors and led eventually to the establishment , along the margins of the cattle area , of numerous states in which a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ feature of these states was that many of those along the southern edge of the Sudan were of quite recent origin , having been set up as a result of an eastward movement of the Fullah . This group , who are difficult to place ethnically , since they show a stabilized mixture of Negroid and Caucasic traits , seem to have originated in Senegal , and , after their conversion to Islam , began a rapid eastward expansion . Wherever they went they successfully dominated the Negroes and even today , and in regions where they do not hold formal rule , they succeed in controlling the agricultural Negro populations . Outside the areas where they ruled as conquerors , the political organization of the Sudanese and East African cattle people was rudimentary . The usual pattern was a federation of clans and sub-clans organized in a prestige hierarchy . Slavery was economically unimportant and frequently lacking . Such political control as existed was usually vested in clan chiefs or hereditary medicine men whose main function was that of making rain . Legal patterns were less developed than in agricultural @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ emphasis upon male age-groupings . All the males of a particular age group were initiated into manhood at the same time and circumcised with the same knife , thus establishing a bond of blood brotherhood . Such a group served as a unit in the army , and its members had strong reciprocal rights and duties , extending in some cases to wife-lending . Most of the plateau from Kenya south was occupied by Bantuspeaking tribes who were comparatively recent arrivals in the region . Although cattle dominated their economy at the time they were first encountered by Europeans , they depended much more heavily on agriculture than did the Sudanic and East African dairying tribes . This tendency may have been increased by the fact that they were already in possession of American crops at the time when Europeans first visited this region . There can be little doubt that before their entrance into the plateau the culture of these Bantu invaders was much like that of the West African agricultural villagers . They seem to have brought with XXX . Historic African Peoples 435 them more advanced patterns for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ centuries a number of ephemeral empires were developed in this region , each one centering about some great leader and military organizer . None of these empires developed the professional administrators who gave the agricultural kingdoms their continuity . The most famous of these empires was that of the Zulu , created by Tschaka . In far South Africa a highly aberrant version of the dairying culture was carried on by the Hottentots , closely related to the Bushmen in both physical type and language . There can be little doubt that they originally had a culture of Bushman type ( see Chap . XII , p. 15.7 ) which was modified by contact with some dairying group . Before the invasion of the plateau by Bantu-speaking people , the Hottentot range extended much farther north , perhaps even to the borders of Kenya . Their principle domestic animals were cattle and fat-tailed sheep , both of which were milked . Milking was done by women , and cattle were used as pack animals , practices which the other African dairying peoples regarded as little short of sacrilegious . Instead of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in temporary camps and moved frequently . There was a heavy dependence on hunting , carried on by men . The basis of social organization was the localized , exogamous , patrilineal group , but there were numerous traces of a matrilineal , or at least bilateral , reckoning of descent . Characteristic social features were the extreme respect , amounting to avoidance , which brothers were expected to pay to sisters , and the strong ties between a man and his maternal uncle . Political organization was negligible . Although each band had a head man , such leaders exercised no real authority . Religion was an unformalized ancestor worship . The moon figured prominently in the mythology , but only three other supernatural beings were regarded as more important than the ordinary ghosts of the dead , and even they were believed to be of human origin . The most important religious ceremony was an annual rain-making ritual held in November or December , when the summer rains were due . In Africa the line between farming cultures and dairying cultures was closely related to rainfall . From the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Western and Central Sudan until one reached the humid tropics of the coastal lowlands and the Congo basin . The transition was gradual enough so that farming and dairying cultures were able to co-exist over a fairly wide strip of territory running east and west . Although some tribes practiced both herding and , agriculture , the dominant pattern was a symbiotic relationship , dairymen and farmers operating side by side and exchanging their products . However , political dominance of the dairying people over the farmers wass the usual pattern . Along the western edge of the great Afri-436 Part Eight : AFRICA can plateau , on the other hand , the climatic transition was abrupt , and the frontier between the dairying and farming economies closely followed the line of forty-inch rainfall . Where the precipitation was more than this , the presence of the tsetse fly , which carried a disease deadly to cattle , made dairying unprofitable . The farming economy provided a basis for the development of great and relatively permanent kingdoms which , by all tests except that of literacy , fully merit the title @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the next chapter , were most numerous and most highly developed in regions immediately south of the Sudan . Although the imperial patterns also penetrated into the Congo , most of the states set up there lacked the elaborate organization of the more northerly ones and certainly represented a less advanced stage of development . Still further south , political centralization disappeared , leaving autonomous communities or small groups of villages recognizing only local chiefs . The patterns of peasant life were so similar throughout the whole area in which the main economic dependence was on agriculture that one is forced to conclude that there was an older cultural sub-stratum , upon which centralizing political institutions had been superimposed in various regions without greatly altering the daily life of the common people . In the regions of heaviest rainfall the only domestic animals were goats , chickens , and dogs , with rare and sporadic pig culture . Toward the margins of the farming area a few cattle were kept , but there was a strong tendency toward specialization in this as in other economic activities . Cattle-keeping tribes interlocked @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The principal crops of the heavy rainfall area were banana , yam , and taro , the last usually referred to in the literature as bull yarn . Banana and taro were of Southeast Asiatic origin and must have been introduced into Africa from across the Indian Ocean . At least one of the yam species grown was also Southeast Asiatic . The main agents in the introduction of these crops were presumably the same Malayo-Polynesian voyagers who settled Madagascar . Since , except for yams , none of the economically significant crops raised in the humid African tropics were of African origin , it is probable that these regions were left to primitive hunting and collecting tribes until a comparatively late date . In the regions of less heavy rainfall , maize , manioc , various millets , sorghum , peanuts , and ground nuts were raised , but it should be noted that here also most of the historic staple crops were not of African origin . It seems safe to assume that anything like intensive agriculture , making possible dense and non-migratory populations , was a relatively @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Historic African Peoples 437 states can not exist without such populations , the Negro civilizations must also be of relatively recent origin . Most of the territory now occupied by the farming cultures was originally forested , while such areas as the lower Congo basin and coastal lowlands of West Africa were covered with heavy jungle . There was thus an abundance of hardwood and other forest products , making possible the development of an elaborate and well-balanced technology , although one whose content was largely perishable . It follows that the archeologist working in this region finds himself confronted with a situation somewhat like that in Southeast Asia . After the introduction of metal , stone-working of any sort seems to have been abandoned , while wooden objects , which must have been numerous at all periods , have succumbed to the ravages of termites and tropical climate . In recent years the value attached to antiquity per se has led Europeans to ascribe considerable age to many West African art objects . However , none of the wooden sculpture now extant can be more than two , or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it is rarely safe to ascribe even a hundred years to any object which is not known to have been taken out of Africa before 1900 . Basketry and mat weaving were well developed throughout the entire agricultural region . The weaving of cloth , on the other hand , was most highly developed in the northwestern part of the area , suggesting that it may have been introduced as part of the Neolithic complex which seems to have reached this region from the Mediterranean . In the eastern and southern parts of the farming area , woven cloth was largely replaced by bark cloth . This , like the Southeast Asiatic bark cloth , was made from trees of the ficus family , but certain details of manufacture suggest an independent origin . Pottery was made throughout the entire area , but the rarity of ornamental pottery or painted wares suggests that it was primarily a cooking appliance . Eating utensils were uniformly made of wood or gourd shells . Houses were made of wood and thatch , appropriate to the climate , but the construction was usually excellent , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Iron-working , including the smelting of local ores , was present throughout the region . In addition , casting brass and gold by the lost wax ( see p. 1o6 ) process was a highly developed art . These metals were employed for ornaments and ceremonial objects . Bronze was unknown . The Negro metalworkers did not know how to produce alloys . Gold was worked as it came from alluvial mines and brass was obtained by trade . The Ilse of the wheel in any form was unknown , a curious lack in view of the Ion trans-Saharan contact . // In contrast to the dairying cultures , most of the farming cultures produced wood carvings of considerable aesthetic merit . Practically all the objects to be seen in modern exhibits of African art were made by tribes having this economy . Artistic production reached its high point in the great kingdoms of West Africa and in the Cameroons , Gabun , and the Congo Basin . In the great kingdoms the concentrated economic surplus of subject populations made it possible for the ruling class to support professional artists , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It must be emphasized that , even in the regions where there was no such concentration of wealth , the artists were , with very few exceptions , professionals . The term " primitive " is emphatically a misnomer when applied to African sculpture and any attempt to compare it to the work of children or the insane is nothing short of ridiculous . The different emphases embodied in African abstraction , and the peculiarities of presentation to be seen in African art , are the direct result of long-established traditions . Although some of the African work may appear naive in terms of a European value system , it was no more primitive than any other highly stylized art such as the Byzantine . One of the most outstanding features of African art was the high development of masks . These were intended , not only to disguise the wearer , but also to temporarily confer upon him the qualities of the Being which the mask represented . In many cases masks were in themselves fetishes , and as such had to receive periodic sacrifices in order to maintain their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mainly for ornaments and charms , and was carved with great skill , the small masks and grotesque figures of the Warega tribe and the huge carved tusks which formed part of the Benin altar arrangements representing the high points in this craft . Ornamental metal work was also highly developed in West Africa . Although some tribes did elaborate iron forging , the principal medium was brass , an imported material which was cast by the lost wax method ( see Chap . IX , p. io6 ) . The finest examples of the craft are the portrait heads of iith century kings of Ife , which , in both conception and technical perfection , compare favorably with the finest Egyptian portraiture . The Ashanti are still famous for their small brass figures , sometimes arranged in intricate groups illustrating proverbs , and for their cast gold work . The artistic excellence of the life-size , conventionalized bronze heads and intricately cast plaques from Benin have received universal recognition . In the division of labor men habitually worked in wood and metal . They also made bark cloth , a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as potters and weavers in most areas where these crafts were highly developed . In agriculture they cleared the land but XXX . Historic African Peoples 439 usually left the planting and cultivation of crops to women . There were some exceptions to this in the West African civilizations , but farm work for men was generally considered degrading and was left to slaves when possible . Wherever there was a mixed agricultural-domestic animal economy , men cared for the animals . Whatever time women had left over from farm work , housekeeping , and baby tending was devoted to making utility pottery and baskets or , in the more advanced cultures , was spent in trade . The small business of the markets was almost entirely in their hands . Every woman tried to produce some food surplus , and the profit from this became her property . There was a strong tendency toward professionalism in all the agricultural tribes . This reached its highest development in the civilizations , where most crafts were carried on by hereditary groups . Local specialization based on availability of particular materials or knowledge @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were carried on in many regions , while markets were almost universally present . These reached their highest development in the civilizations , where sales taxes and duties formed an important part of the royal revenue . Trade was facilitated by the use of numerous local currencies in which blocks of salt , copper ingots , standardized iron tools and weapons , and so forth , served as media of exchange . Over most of agricultural Africa the standard unit of value was a cowrie shell which came originally from the Maldive Islands , off the coast of India . Millions of these shells were in circulation even in West Africa when the first Europeans arrived . They must have been traded clear across the continent , and their presence indicates the extent of African trade connections even under aboriginal conditions . Farming methods were relatively primitive . Plows were unknown , the favorite agricultural implement being a short-handled hoe whose user had to bend almost double . Fertilizers and crop rotation were rarely used . The staple crops of various regions had a strong influence on settlement patterns . Land @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but the crops habitually raised , yam , taro , and banana , depleted the soil slowly and made possible long-continued occupation of the same sites . In drier territory land could only be used for two or three years after clearing , and then had to be allowed to lie fallow for ten to twenty years . This cycle seems to have been due less to soil exhaustion than to the growth of weeds on the cleared land . Native farmers could not cope with this , and found it easier to abandon the field until the return of larger growth had smothered out the weeds . Under this system villages had to nerve every twenty or thirty years , and land ownership , except on a broad territorial basis , became correspondingly less important . The larger the local unit , the sooner it would have to move , and there was a 440 Part Eight : AFRICA tendency for villages to break up into scattered compounds wherever the existence of a strong central authority made this safe . Since the clearing of new land could be done most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ labor organizations were a frequent feature of the agricultural societies . In spite of the limitations imposed by the pattern of shifting agriculture , many regions in West Africa contained cities of considerable size . These cities served as royal residences , religious centers , and trading centers , much like the early cities of the Near East . They were made possible by the high development of trade which insured their supply of food and raw materials . Polygyny was thoroughly approved by both sexes . Women preferred it because it reduced their labor , while men had other reasons . In many tribes sex relations with a wife were prohibited during the time that she was nursing an infant , and , since nursing was normally continued until the second or even third year , the husband of only one wife was seriously deprived . Because of their economic importance , the status of women was exceedingly high . The rights of plural wives were guarded by elaborate regulations . The first wife , or the one of the highest social rank , functioned as head of the women @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ joint activities . The husband was expected to divide his time equally among his wives , usually a specified number of days with each in fixed succession . During this period the wife had exclusive rights to the husband and frequently was entitled to a share of any profits he might make . The arrangement was actually not unlike monogamy in installments . In general , the selection of a new wife was subject to review by all the previous wives , and it was not uncommon for a man 's wives to urge him to marry a particular woman whom they found congenial and would like as a working partner . In a well-organized family , each wife would devote her period with the husband to intensive domesticity , cooking and child-tending for the group and thus releasing the other wives for work in the field or for other economic activities , such as selling in the markets . Strange as such a system seems to European values , one must admit that it provided one of the best solutions so far discovered for the feminine problem of how to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in control of the family , but only an exceedingly courageous man would defy his wives when they presented a united front . The tie between mother and son was exceedingly close throughout life . The relation lx ' - tween father and son was distant , and little love was lost between brothers , especially those by different wives . Matrilineal and patrilincal descent were both present among the XXX . Historic African Peoples 441 agricultural peoples . Even in many of the strongly patrilineal societies , there were various institutions which suggested an earlier matrilineal condition . The inconsistency between matrilineal descent and patrilineal residence was resolved in matrilineal tribes by sending sons back to their mother 's sub-clan shortly after they were weaned . There they would be reared by one of her real or classificatory brothers , and in due course of time would marry and function as members of his joint family . Another interesting development frequently found in these cultures was the presence of simultaneous matrilineal and patrilineal descent groups , each of which had its own prescribed social or religious functions . Every individual @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ members of either was usually prohibited . The descent regulations of the farming societies , taken as a whole , strongly suggest that the original descent pattern in the region was matrilineal . An alternative explanation might be an early pattern of localized endogamous kin groups like those of Oceania . Within such groups the tracing of descent tends to be bilateral , and , with a shift to exogamy , either patrilineal or matrilineal institutions may develop . Society was class-organized , with three levels : chiefs , who were normally hereditary ; commoners ; and slaves . Although the institution of slavery was greatly stimulated by European contact from the lath to the early 19th centuries , there can be no doubt that it was old . In general , two types of slaves were recognized : recently captured enemies , who were considered on a par with any other domestic animals ; and slaves who were members of long-established slave families or were fellow tribesmen enslaved for debt or minor offenses . Slave families were often associated with the same free family for generations , and the sale @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the slave and to his owner , since it indicated that both had failed in a legitimate social relationship . Debt slaves and petty criminals could be sold within the tribe , but their sale outside was forbidden or at least strongly disapproved . The relations of slave and master were covered by long-established patterns which guaranteed all but the enemy captives a considerable degree of justice and freedom of action . Owners were responsible for their slaves , and the hereditary slave of a chiefly family actually enjoyed a better position in many respects than a poor freeman . Within the stratified society , the clan and sub-clan chiefs occupied in important position . The office was normally hereditary in a particular faiuily , the one which was regarded as standing closest to the direct line of descent from the common ancestor of the kin group . The chief was ( ( Inos ( sTI Irons among the sons in this family , usually on the basis of ability rather tlIan hit ordW'r . Ile was regarded as an embodiment of the spiritual force or genius of the kin @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in all rituals intended to promote its well being . At the secular level he acted as director of the group 's activities and functioned as a judge . All the societies who shared the farming economy had well-developed law codes and formal systems of legal procedure . Laws were precisely stated and legal precedence carried heavy weight . Witnesses were called to testify under oath , professional pleaders were employed by both sides , and the whole procedure was strikingly like the European one . Also , as in medieval Europe , trial by ordeal was resorted to in those cases where the evidence was so conflicting that the judge could not arrive at a decision , or in trials for malevolent magic where the actual practice was usually impossible to prove . Poison ordeals were common and far from uniformly fatal to the accused . Religion in general was much more important among the farming than among the dairying societies . The ancestors were regarded as everpresent , and not only aided their descendants but also disciplined them for any moral slips . The male ancestors in particular were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may be noted that in many cases conversion to Christianity , with the consequent relegation to limbo of XXX . Historic African Peoples 443 these invisible guardians of the status quo , has resulted in a distinct breakdown in native mores . In addition to the ancestors , there were often regular pantheons of deities , usually organized on the model of the human kin groups . These deities were , for the most part , associated with forces of nature , but the greater ones were often provided with supernatural messengers and servants who operated as intermediaries in the deity 's dealings with humans . The good will of these was often sought more earnestly than that of their divine superiors . As might be anticipated , the god cults reached their highest development in the great kingdoms . For the average villager the gods were little more than literary deities , Beings who were the subject of fascinating myths , but with whom one had little dealing . Aside from the ever-present ancestral spirits , interest centered in the village fetish . This was prepared by a medicine man @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ carried to the new site whenever the village moved . It was usually kept in a house either in or just outside the village , and it assured the health and good fortune of the community . It had to be propitiated with sacrifices and was treated like a deity . In addition to the village fetish , there were usually other community fetishes designed to give aid in specialized activities such as hunting , fishing , and agriculture . Each of these had to be strengthened by periodic ceremonies and sacrifices . Lastly , each individual possessed personal fetishes , some of which were worn , others kept in his house . Some of these were for general good fortune , others for aid in specific activities such as hunting or money-getting . Lastly , mention should be made of the men 's secret societies , which were widespread among the farming tribes . Curiously enough , they seem never to have been adopted by the dairying peoples . The origin of these societies is obscure . It has been suggested that they were developed in imitation of the Marabout @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have been developed out of the puberty initiations universally present . In any case , they were one of the most striking features of the African agricultural cultures . The societies were in part cult groups , but were also organizations for mutual aid , for social control , and not infrequently , for blackmail . Each society had its masks and characteristic costumes and gave occasional public performances at which these were displayed . Women , children , and any men who were not members were supposed to believe that the masked dancers were supernatural Beings , and anyone who discovered their real identity was killed . The societies had regular recognition signs and passwords , and members were pledged to mutual aid much as in Freemasonry . The societies thus provided a unifying factor in regions where large political units were lacking , and enabled their members to travel out4441 Part Eight : AFRICA side their home territory with reasonable safety . Where political control was strong , they were often quite understandably regarded with disfavor by authorities , and in Dahomey they were forbidden on pain of death @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of their main functions seems to have been the enforcement of local mores . " Uppity " wives and other non-conformists were likely to be severely beaten or even killed by masked members . The resemblance between the Ku Klux Klan and these West African societies is striking , and may well be more than coincidental . In addition to these socially approved secret organizations , there were others whose activities were unqualifiedly anti-social . The witch-societies , previously mentioned , may not have existed in fact , but there was a Leopard Society , whose members regularly practiced murder and cannibalism , apparently as accompaniments to black magic . Chapter XXXI African Civilizations FEW AMERICANS realize how rich and complex the cultures of many African societies were at the time of the first European contact . In the regions from which most of the American Negroes ' ancestors were drawn , there were a series of strong and enduring kingdoms which deserved the name of civilizations on every count except that of literacy . In their arts and crafts these societies were little , if at all , inferior to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ political organization and the skill with which social institutions were utilized to lend stability to the political structure , they far exceeded anything in Europe prior to the 16th century . It is not too much to say that in their home territory the African Negroes have shown a genius for state-building unsurpassed by any other people , except possibly the Incas of Peru . Every civilization has drawn into itself elements from many sources , and those of Negro Africa are no exception . Contacts between them and the civilizations of Egypt and the Mediterranean littoral have existed since ancient times . Egypt is known to have traded and fought with the Negro tribes of the Upper Nile since at least 3000 B.C. During the 18th dynasty ( 1580 ? 1320 B.C. ) Nubia was conquered and occupied by the Egyptians and a vice-roy established there . The Nubians seem to have been overawed by Egyptian civilization and accepted it enthusiastically . They became devout worshippers of the Egyptian Amon-Ra , and close tics grew up between his holy city of Thebes and the Nubian capital at Napata . When @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Theban priests fled to Napata and continued the work of acculturation . In 730 B.C. the Nubians conquered Egypt itself , but by this time they hail become more Egyptian than the Egyptians . During the brief period of ' their power they attempted to restore rites which had already become moribund even iii this unchanging laud , and ( hiring the later 445 // years of Assyrian and Persian domination they welcomed Egyptian refugees . Nubia retained its independence under the Ptolemies and Romans , and during the first six centuries after Christ developed an independent civilization in which Egyptian , Greek , and Roman elements were combined with considerable originality . In the 6th century the Nubians were converted to Christianity and were able to beat off successive Muslim attacks until the middle of the 14th century , when the Christian kingdom of Dongala fell to the Funj , Arabized Negroes from the Blue Nile . From that time on Nubia participated in Islamic civilization . It can be seen that there was abundant opportunity for Egyptian , Near Eastern , Greek , and Roman influences to reach Negro @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ these contributed to the foundation of the Negro civilizations lying to the south and west it is difficult to say . One might expect to find the oldest borrowed elements , i.e. , those of Egyptian origin , surviving around the margins of the area to which they had been diffused , and there actually are a number of items in some of the more advanced Negro cultures which are strongly reminiscent of Egypt . The widespread idea of a sacred king upon whose vigor the national welfare depends would be a case in point . Still more suggestive is the institution of the queen-sister , found in many central African kingdoms . In this the queen , with duties , privileges , and an establishment closely paralleling those of the king is always his sister . It may be remembered that in Egypt she was both sister and wife , and even this practice was followed by the Bahima , a Uganda tribe . Yoruba and Ashanti religions , with their elaborate priesthoods , numerous gods as objects of individual cults , and sacred animals , are also suggestive of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ double which visited the tomb after death , and it was for this that offerings were provided , quite as the Egyptians furnished their tombs for the comfort of the ka . To complete the picture , the Ashanti double was called a kra . These and other features suggestive of Egypt show such an irregular distribution that it is hard to explain them on the basis of Egyptian diffusion . It seems more probable that their presence in both Egypt and Negro Africa was a result of independent development from a common basis in an ancient Hamitic culture . We know that Hamitic tribes not only settled the Nile Valley , but also extended their occupation over most of the Sahara at a time when the climate there was more benevolent than it is at present . Everything indicates that the Caucasic Hamites began infiltrating the Negro peoples to the south in Neolithic times it not before . The Berbers , who were the historic descendants of the Saharan Hamites , continued this process . Their conversion to Islam , which gave this southward penetration the sanctions of a crusade @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a long-established pattern . By the 9th century A.D. , Berbers , with some slight Arab admixture , were already establishing a chain of kingdoms throughout the Western Sudan . The most important of these were Songhai and Ghana , in the region of the Niger . In the 14th century the Mandingo kingdom of Melle conquered the entire Western Sudan . Berbers and Negroes mingled their blood freely , and even the ruling dynasties of these Sudanese kingdoms were predominantly Negro . However , they were self-consciously Islamic in culture , and their political organization followed regular Islamic lines . It has generally been assumed that the pagan Negro kingdoms which arose still farther south derived from those of the Sudan . However , the structure of the pagan kingdoms differed so much from the Islamic patterns that only some sort of stimulus diffusion seems possible . The pagans far exceeded the Islamic peoples in the complexity of their political organization and in the skill with which they utilized existing institutions to strengthen royal power . As examples of these pagan kingdoms we may take Uganda ( the civilization of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at the eastern end of the whole line of pagan kingdoms and had received minimal Islamic influence . Dahomey , toward the western end of the line , was a much more recent creation . There had been numerous earlier kingdoms in the same region and these , in turn , had had extensive contacts with the Islamic kingdoms about the Niger . The West African coastal region had had still other civilized contacts . Although the expedition of Hano , the Carthaginian , is the only one of which a record has survived , there can be little doubt that other and less official voyages occurred both before and after his attempt at planned colonization . The gold and ivory of the West coast , which have given their names to two of the regions ' modern political divisions , must have been a strong lure , and the Carthaginians were noted for their skill and courage in pursuit of profit . Dahomey also was in the , region which received the first impact of modern European penetration . Although it is impossible to say how far this contact modified @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , shifting the emphasis from ordinary agricultural production to the slave trade and to wars for profit . The kingdom of Uganda lies northwest of Lake Victoria . It includes n considerable stretch of shore line protected by outlying islands , so that coastwise traffic was easy . Although the Baganda never developed sails or any craft more elaborate than large plank canoes , the high level of their technological development was reflected in the excellence of these . Canoes were used ill war expeditions against neighboring tribes , and the // admiral of the canoe fleet was an important officer . More prosaically , fishing was a main source of protein food . Fish were dried and distributed throughout the whole kingdom in trade . According to the native tradition , the organization of the Baganda kingdom was begun by Hamitic dairying people who invaded the region about 500 years ago and founded the dynasty which still rules . By the time of European contact these invaders had been completely absorbed both physically and culturally . Due to constant intermarriage , royalty and commoners were of the same Negroid type @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ population was on agriculture . Some cattle were kept but they had become essentially luxury objects . The commonest domestic animal was the goat , and a commoner who was so fortunate as to own cattle normally kept them with the herd of his chief . Herding was done by a hereditary group , the Hima , who did not occupy a particularly high social position . While a variety of crops were raised , the main sources of food were bananas and plantains . These were rarely eaten raw , being by preference steamed and mashed to a pulp . Banana mash was the bulk staple of the native diet , comparable to rice in the Orient , and although other foods were eaten with it , they were regarded as incidental and desirable mainly because of the flavor and variety they gave the meal . It may be noted that milk of either cattle or goats was very little used . In addition to various food crops , a species of fig was planted to provide bark for the bark cloth of which the native costume was originally made @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ production , settlement , and social organization . The banana plants , once established , would continue to send up new shoots and produce fruit for twenty-five or thirty years . This made possible relatively permanent settlements . Moreover , the yield was so heavy that a dense population could be maintained , even though women did all the agriculture . It is said that one woman could care for enough banana trees to feed four men . At the same time losses in males through war and through the huge human sacrifices required on various occasions were so heavy that the population contained three women for every man . The result was a society in which there was a very considerable surplus of time and energy , with possibilities for the development of correspondingly excellent manufacturies and complicated rituals . The technology was essentially the same as that already described in the generalized account of agricultural tribes . However , the Baganda differed from most African peoples in their insistence on complete clothing . Although before puberty boys went naked and girls wore only a girdle with a fringe of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wraparound garment reaching from the armpits to the feet . // Men were even more heavily dressed , with a loin cloth , a kilt , and a toga . All garments were originally made of bark cloth , and the manufacture of this cloth was one of the men 's main industries . The peasantry lived in widely spaced compounds rather than in villages . The compound was surrounded by its banana plantations , and both compound and plantation were fenced . Houses were circular conical structures completely covered with thatch . The doorway was protected by a small inset porch or vestibule . The establishments of chiefs and even of the king himself followed essentially the same pattern , except for their much greater size and the larger number of their occupants . Thus the royal compound , which stood on a hill near Lake Victoria , was a mile and a half long and half a mile wide . Between the king 's house and the main entrance lay the establishments of hundreds of officials and guards as well as slaves , while on the roads outside the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ An unusual feature of the Baganda kingdom , and one which no doubt contributed to the successful functioning of its centralized government , was an extraordinarily good network of roads . These were frequently as much as twelve feet wide , hard surfaced , and with causeways running across swampy ground . The chief of each district had as one of his duties the maintenance of a road between the king 's establishment and his compound , while each of the nobles in a district had to maintain a road between his compound and that of the paramount chief . The road system made possible rapid troop movements and an extensive exchange of manufactured goods . There were numerous markets to which both professional craftsmen and local peasantry brought their products . Markets within easy walking distance of each other were usually held on different days , forming a cycle , so that itinerant merchants , at the close of one market , could pack up their wares and move on to the next . Each market was in charge of an official who was responsible for maintaining order and punishing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sales tax . The social and political organization of the Baganda bore out their traditions of the origins of the state . There were only three hereditary classes : slaves , commoners , and members of the royal family . Since povgyny was the rule and the kings were expected to exceed their subjects in the number of wives , as in all other symbols of prestige , the royal group was fairly numerous . However , as a preventative of civil war , it was customary to kill most of a reigning king 's brothers when he came to the throne , and to kill any of his daughters who married or bore a child . As a result the royal group was largely reconstituted in each generation . Below the numbers of the royal family , who were debarred from // holding administrative offices , there were numerous officials who functioned as administrators . This group bore a superficial resemblance to the European feudal nobility . However , all of them were appointed by the king and owed allegiance directly to him . Since every appointment automatically terminated at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for office , these administrators never developed into a distinct hereditary class . Slaves were , for the most part , prisoners of war or their descendants , although there were also Baganda slaves , children who had been pledged as security for debt and whose labor provided the creditor with interest on his loan . Slaves were in general well treated . Women became concubines and were freed as soon as they bore a child to their masters . The main disadvantage of slavery for men was their immediate eligibility for the numerous human sacrifices required by Baganda ritual . Commoners were originally grouped in thirty-six patrilineal exogamous clans , but by the time of the first European contact six of these had almost lost their identity through fusion with other clans . Each clan had its chief , selected by a council of the clan elders . Upon his accession , the clan chief took the name of the clan founder and was regarded as in some degree his reincarnation . Each clan had two totems , usually animals , and took its name from the more important of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their totems , but had no objection to members of other clans doing so . A clan divided into a series of subclans . The central feature of a sub-clan 's territory was a graveyard for its members . After it had been in use for three generations this graveyard , with the plantations about it , became the inalienable property of the sub-clan , not subject to royal seizure . Each sub-clan had its chief and usually a temple in which its founder or some clan deity was worshipped . The organization of clans and localized sub-clans was certainly older than the Baganda state . The Hamitic invaders superimposed the administrative framework of the state upon it and were careful to keep the two severely separated . Clan and sub-clan chiefs were in general debarred from participation in the national government , and officials were rarely appointed to rule over their own clansmen . At the same time , through the ascription to the various clans of numerous more or less honorary offices , the clan loyalty was used to bind the subjects to the central government . To cite @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ custodian of the royal tombs was hereditary in the Monkey Clan , the king 's guard was drawn from the Rat Clan , the men who carried the king on their shoulders whenever he went outside the royal compound were recruited from the Buffalo Clan , the royal gatekeepers came from the Mushroom Clan , and the royal drummers from the lHippopotamous                     