@@774300

txt  | they even lack the possibility of obtaining a sustained-yield unit . As time passes , the onus of waste is resting more and more heavily upon these small owners . Being financially incapable of applying technological advances to their operations , they continue to generate outright waste or to utilize residues at a very low level , long after higher economic uses have been developed . The situation is not hopeless , even for these small operators , but its correction will require new thinking and aggressive action . Research is one of the answers , not only in the development of new processes , but also in the improvement of existing practices . Among the problems requiring immediate consideration are ( 1 ) improvement in sawmill machinery and handling techniques , ( 2 ) improvements in the quality of lumber itself , ( 3 ) adoption of production-control methods used in other industries , ( 4 ) development of building techniques that will utilize lumber more efficiently , and ( 5 ) application of modern market-survey techniques . Such research could easily be provided by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ much as 10 per cent of total sales value for research , but 2 to 3 per cent probably approaches the average . It is doubtful if the lumber industry , as a whole , spent more than 0.2 to 0.5 per cent for research prior to the Second World War , and the average has not increased appreciably since that time . Not all woad-using industries have suffered from lack of research . Pulp companies have been aggressive in sponsoring research , not only in the technology of the chemical processes involved , but in harvesting methods , cut-up mill and barking practices , the utilization of new species , waste reduction , and sustained-yield forest management . Their technical laboratory ' is one of the finest research institutions in the country , and the industry has sponsored much academic and public research . The same has been true to a lesser extent in the fiberboard field . The research activities of the Masonite Corporation are an outstanding example . The lumber industry could well follow the lead of these closely allied industries . Residue- and waste-utilization plants sometimes work @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the nation . Though originally planned for the utilization of residues , some plants of this type become so large that they compete with sawmills for sawlogs in the race for sufficient raw materials to maintain themselves . The hardwood dimension-stock industry offers another example . Numerous mills , originally designed to produce dimension stock from sawmill residues , now find it more profitable to use lumber as their raw material . The same thing has been true of pulp mills in some regions . It is poor national economy to use sawlogs capable of producing structural materials for low-quality fiberboard and for paper pulp that can be made from tops or from inferior species . Here , again , classification of raw materials is essential to the balanced production of all commodities stemming from wood . Without intelligent planning , the goals of forestry and the general welfare of the wood-using industries may suffer . The goals of forestry and wood utilization are identical in basic principle , a fact often forgotten by lumbermen and foresters alike . The aim of foresters should he the sustained-yield management of all forests @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as possible , together with enough other wood to supply the needs of all the wood-consuming industries that complete the pattern of integrated utilization . The aims of the wood-using industries should be much closer utilization , more intensive remanufacture , greater diversification , and more complete integration , all of which will reduce waste to a minimum . If these aims can be achieved , the future of the lumber industry can be assured and uncertainty can be replaced by stable and permanent production and employment . As Watts has pointed out : " About the turn of the century the motivating influence ( in forest products utilization research ) was to conserve the forests ; today we study wise and efficient use of wood to conserve manpower and capital and to promote more intensive management of the forest . " Utilization of wood residues must be justified on the basis of sound economic practice . Gruen " made the economic case for utilizing more wood residues in the following terms : 1 . The greater use of wood residues would have the effect of bringing down the prices of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the by products , or through processors and stumpage owners passing on some of the benefits in order to expand their markets . 2 . The greater use of wood residues would have the effect of creating more wealth and useful employment through expansion of the total production of goods and through more intensive management of the forest ? without increasing the commodity drain on the forest . It is hoped that this chapter will impress on all students of wood utilizaI ion , if nothing else , the great need that exists in the lumber industry for progressive leadership , imagination ( in both management and research ) , ind intelligent nationwide planning . Only in this way will it emerge from is present status of a low-value raw-material industry to become the highly diversified and specialized industry that it could and should be . I. SOURCES OF RESIDUAL AND WASTE WOOD The major sources of residual and waste wood are ( 1 ) wood left in the Iorest after logging , and ( 2 ) residual and waste wood generated in the manuI acture of primary products such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ include secondary manufacturing operations of all , kinds , planing mills , materials unutilized during building construction , and many minor , urces . Bark is not usually included in estimates of residues , but perhaps i should be . The bark of some species appears to offer just as great potenialities for utilization as some forms of residual wood . The sum of wood esidues and wood actually converted to salable products is called the commodity drain on the nation 's forests . An added drain , called the noncomln xlity drain , results from fire , decay , and insects . In 1944 the noncommodity . ii ; tin was approximately 12 per cent of the commodity drain .  | A. Logging Residual wood generated in logging consists of trees not cut because of poor form , mechanical defects , and decay ; tops and limbs ; trees damaged or destroyed in logging ; and residual trees destroyed during slash disposal . The amount of wood destroyed or unused after logging depends on species , age and composition of the stand , logging methods used , type of terrain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , distance of the producing area from its principal markets , size and location of conversion plants , and many other factors . Hooker , ' ' after studying logging residues in the hardwood forests of northern Michigan , stated as a rule of thumb that 75 cu ft of residue might reasonably be expected for each 1,000 bd ft ( Scribner Decimal C ) of logs harvested . Jenkins , ' in reporting on studies made by the Ottawa Forest Products Laboratory , stated : On selected sawlog operations in Ontario , Quebec , and the Maritime Provinces . . . the four principal sources of logging waste are wood left in the form of ( a ) high stumps ; ( b ) long butts , including felled trees left on the ground ; ( c ) sound wood left in uncut defective trees of merchantable diameter ; and ( d ) merchantable wood left in large tops . The results of these studies indicate that more than twice the volume of merchantable wood is left in the form of large tops than from the other three sources combined @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ volume of the stand is left as waste after logging . Approximately 13 percent represents the waste contained in large tops . There remained after logging , from stands averaging about 2300 cubic feet per acre , 430 cubic feet per acre of merchantable wood material . According to the U.S. Forest Service , ' in 1952 , 52 per cent of the nation 's logging residues occurred in the South , where they constituted 14 per cent of the volume of timber cut . In the same year the North accounted for 15 per cent of the total logging residues , with a ratio of residue to timber cut of 11 per cent , and the West supplied 33 per cent of the logging residues which constituted 12 per cent of the timber harvested in that region . California , with a ratio of residue to total timber cut of 18 per cent , had the highest proportion in the country . In comparing its 1944 and 1952 data the Forest Service observed that there appeared to have been little improvement in the utilization of logging residues during this period @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in each year was 1.1 per cent . The South showed a modest improvement in this respect from 16 to 14 per cent . The West , on the other hand , showed a marked improvement from 34 to 12 per cent. * footnote * According to the Forest Service some portion of the difference between the 1944 and 1952 figures reflects changes in method of computing residues . But even allowing for this , a substantial improvement in utilization is apparent .  | B. Primary Manufacture The most commonly accepted classification of wood residues produced in the manufacture of primary products is as follows : " Primary manufacturing waste includes : ( 1 ) Coarse materials like slabs , edgings , and trimmings from sawmills , cores and trimmings from veneer mills , and culled stave bolts from cooperage stock mills ; ( 2 ) fine materials such as sawdust and shavings from sawmills and other plants ; ( 3 ) fibers and chemical components lost in making pulp and paper . " ' The last category is not always included in such a classification , although it seems unable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ waste in those cases where no profitable uses exist . The amount of residual wood at primary conversion plants is slightly greater than the amount left in the woods if pulping losses and the sawdust and other products sold for fuel are included , and about one-half as much if they are not included . According to " Timber Resources for America 's Future , " " plant residues in 1952 totaled 3.4 billion cubic feet . This represented about 38 per cent of raw material entering the plants in roundwood form . Approximately half of these residues were in coarse form such as slabs , edgings , trimmings , miscuts , cull pieces , veneer cores , and other material suitable for remanufacture or chipping . The remaining 50 per cent consisted of fine residues ( too small for chipping ) such as sawdust , shavings , wood substance lost in barking , chipper rejects at pulp mills , and veneer clippings . Each primary industry has its own type of wood residues . Coarse materials found at sawmills include slabs , edgings , trimmings , and planer ends . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1957 study of the Canadian redcedar lumber industry , the Forest Products Laboratories of Canada found that 18.3 per cent of the cubic foot volume of wood entering the mill became residue . Rotary veneer plants generate log trim and sawdust , peeler cores , spur trim at the lathe , roundup , green and dry clippings , breakage , and the like . In some hardwood-veneer plants green residues commonly amount to 1 ton per thousand board feet of log scale , Doyle rule . Shingle mills generate residual wood in the form of log trim and waste in producing shingle blocks , " spalts , " shingle tow , and so forth . The Canadian Forest Products Laboratory study of the redcedar industry indicated that residues in the manufacture of 18-in. perfection shingles accounted for 59.8 per cent of the cubic foot volume of logs used . Even in producing round commodities , such as poles , there are unused butts and tops that are removed to improve grade , fine sapwood material removed in barking poles on the recently de%eloped pole-shaving machines , and saw kerf and other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ residues in the manufacture of blanks , billets . and cut-up stock for a host of small manufacturing plants . A significant development leading to appreciable reduction in the amount of unused mill residue is the growing practice of barking logs before sawing . In 1958 an equivalent of more than 5 million cords of pulpwood , or about 15 per cent of the total pulpwood used , was from chips developed largely  | from slabs obtained from barked logs . ( For further information see Chap . 17 , p. 336 . ) C. Secondary Manufacture The residual wood from primary plants is fairly well concentrated in large manufacturing centers or adjacent to large sawmills , but countless secondary figure manufacturing plants are widely scattered in every part of the country . These vary in size , nature of product , and nature of raw material over a wide range from large furniture factories to small specialty plants . It is virtually impossible to determine the amount of wood residues they produce . Since the Second World War there has been a spectacular development of plants manufacturing dry-formed particle hoard @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lank utilize the residues to produce panels that : ire ulliniatei ) incorporated into the furniture . It is not um ? oiuiuun in Oro furniture industry for 40 per cent of the lumber introduced into the rough mill to be discarded as residue . Other residues result from veneer trim . Despite the favorable development of particle-board plants to use residues from secondary manufacture , the amount so used is still a very small fraction of the total produced . There is no great immediate possibility of utilizing the bulk of the remainder , except locally for fuel . It requires a large secondary manufacturing plant to produce enough residue to maintain a particle-board plant . The cost of concentrating residues from widely scattered plants is great . D. Chemical Industries Wood losses in the chemical industries take two forms : ( 1 ) wood lost in harvesting and preparing the wood for chemical conversion , and ( 2 ) losses of lignin and fiber , and dissolved cellulose , hemicelluloses , and extractives . The pulp and paper industry is the principal source of these losses . It is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is unique in that it uses essentially all its raw-material input and develops very small quantities of residue . According to " Timber Resources for America 's Future , " prechemical residues consisted of ( 1 ) from 2.5 to 6 per cent loss of wood substance due to decay in storage , ( 2 ) from 1 to 5 per cent rejects of fines in screening chips , and ( 3 ) from 1 to 2 per cent of wood substance lost in barking . In addition to these losses , it was estimated that " an additional 40 per cent of the wood used by all processes of pulping in 1952 was dissolved in the various pulping liquors or the water used for washing and conveying the pulp . " About 80 per cent of this is recovered , and some high-value products are obtained , but the bulk of it is used for fuel . In discussing the problem Pearl 26 states : For many years , the chemical pulping industry has been utilizing essentially only half the tree as pulp , and has been discarding the other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the recovery of soda . Pressures for the abatement of pollutional effluents , the need for conservation to meet expanding requirements for our raw materials , and the urge for more economical production in the face of higher operating costs were responsible for initiating research on the utilization of the other half of the tree . The total wood residues generated in distillation and extraction are small in comparison with those of the pulp and paper industry . For the most part , 1hese processes utilize less valuable species or residues of other primary industries . Nevertheless , they generate some residues and in some instances utilize wood at a low economic level . Either no provisions are made to reeover acetic acid , methanol , and acetone in many charcoal operations , or the recovery methods are primitive. * Spent chips from the steam and solvent process are an excellent source of fiber for insulating boards , but they are often burned as fuel .  | E. Fiberboard The extent of losses in the manufacture of fiberboard varies with the process . If a chemical cook is used , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lost in harking , and some fines escape in the white water . Most fiberboard plants utilize slabs and other residues from sawmills . Some , however , use young second-growth trees and sawlogs . In some instances this is true waste , because the trees are either harvested prior to attaining their maximum growth potential or diverted from a higher use . II . WOOD RESIDUES AND WASTE WOOD IN THE UNITED STATES The literature on the amount of residual and waste wood developed in the United States is meager . While intensive surveys have been made of individual primary industries in some producing areas , information on a national basis is limited , for the most part , to statistics collected and published by the U.S. Forest Service . These figures , though admittedly based to a large extent on estimates , are of substantial value to all who are interested in developing means of utilizing wood at the highest possible economic level . Complete data on the amounts of wood residues generated in logging and manufacture , by commodities and by regions , are available in a U.S. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ selected data are presented in Tables 2-1 through 2-4 . The reader is urged to study thoroughly the original work . figure A knowledge of the amount of wood residues generated , their character , and where they occur is the first step toward an understanding of the problem of more complete utilization . III . BETTER WOOD UTILIZATION For practical purposes . the means of improving wood utilization should be divided into two categories : lung-range possibilities . and methods that  | figure // figure figure figure  | have good prospects of succeeding under conditions existing at present and in the immediate future . Long-range planning should include ( 1 ) basic research on entirely new concepts of wood as a raw material , ( 2 ) studies aimed at devising the best means of integrating wood-using industries to obtain the highest economic return and the best balance between essential uses , and ( 3 ) research to discover entirely new techniques for the more efficient utilization of wood . Such efforts are one of the primary responsibilities of Federal and other research agencies that are not entirely dependent on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ research activities . Obviously , it is impossible to draw a fine line of responsibility for research , but individual wood producers can not be expected to assume a large share of basic research costs . All research agencies share the responsibility of applying new developments to the reduction or elimination of residues and waste , and each wood user , whether he has research facilities or not , must adopt all technological advancements that will reduce residues and waste to a minimum . The adoption of new methods is usually slow in an industry made up largely of small enterprises , but in view of the ever-increasing inroads of competition , it seems inevitable that only those operators who obtain the maximum return from the raw material will survive . Under a system of free enterprise , it is axiomatic that industry will adopt without delay any new developments that promise a fair return under existing economic conditions . The problem , then , is balanced research to provide practical solutions for the immediate reduction of hulk residues , and fundamental research that will pave the way to the complete @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can be produced on the forest lands of the nation . A. Long-range Research Goals in the Utilization of Wood Residues When the wood-using industries have attempted to develop uses for wood residues , too frequently these efforts have been empirical rather than sci entific . They have consisted of trial-and-error programs designed to convert wood residues into substitutes for other products . It is axiomatic that wood residues can be converted into substitutes for hundreds of existing products . The problem is that it usually costs more to manufacture these items from wood by-products than from raw material currently used and furthermore that the new product rarely exhibits favorable properties that would justify the costs . The really great opportunities for increasing the portion of the tree converted into useful and valuable products lie in achieving a much greater knowledge of the fundamental structure and properties of wood . Many of the wood residues are in the form of small particles , such as sawdust and shavings , that can be reassembled into conventional wood products only at great cost. * In the long run the value of these residues @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ raw material . They will be converted into useful products only when the fundamental chemical nature of wood is understood much better than it is today . At that time wood residues will be recognized for the real storehouses of useful products that they are .  | Examples of the long-range problems requiring solution are numerous , and a few of them will be discussed . One of the more far-reaching research objectives of the U.S. Forest Products Laboratory at Madison , Wisconsin , is the conversion of wood into a liquid source of chemical raw materials through hydrogenation or other processes . This would have obvious advantages , particularly if plants using the process could be located adjacent to large concentrations of timber and waste materials . Logs are costly to ship for any distance , but a liquid raw material can be piped or shipped by tank car to any part of the country for conversion . A statement " concerning this development is as follows , under the heading Hydrogenation of Wood : It has been shown from pioneer research and work now in progress at the Forest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in water can be made to react with hydrogen gas at elevated temperatures and pressures in the presence of various metallic catalysts . Among the products of the reaction are several new cyclic alcohols that had never been previously described in the literature . These show promise as plastic solvents , antiknock agents for motor fuel , and toxic agents . By varying the hydrogenation conditions , phenolic compounds are obtained that may find uses in plastics and complex neutral oils , together with a plastic-like residue . Wood waste or chips can also be hydrogenated in aqueous suspension to produce soluble lignin decomposition compounds and a cellulose pulp residue . This is a possible new pulping process that will be studied further by the Forest Products Laboratory . Under more severe hydrogenation conditions the cellulose can be converted to glycerine and sugars . In this case the entire wood is converted to liquid products . Lignin is still an enigma to the wood chemist and to most of the chemical industries that use wood as a raw material . Finding profitable uses for this - ihstance is one of the major @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1960 much basic research was accomplished leading to a better understanding of the nature of lignin a precursor to increasing its utilization . As a result of this research some breakthroughs have been made in the utilization of lignin residue , and many others can he projected . Processes have been developed by Rayonier Incorporated which permit the production of polyester-type fibers from spent sulfite liquor vanillin . The Crown-ZellerCorporation has developed manufacturing facilities for the production of dimethyl sulfoxide , dimethyl sulfide , and methyl mercaptan from spent ' ulfite liquors . Other research has developed uses of lignin and lignin deriva1ites for soil-improvement materials , resins and adhesives , and components of rubber and cement products . The destructive distillation of wood yields products such as tars. acetic a , id , and methanol. * In general , less than half the dry weight of wood is Te ? covered as charcoal and salable distillate . The cellulose and hemicelluloses at broken down , and only a small part is recovered . If the lignin is separated tram the carbohydrate portion , its distillation produces nearly the entire tit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ charcoal . It is evident hat the process is wasteful of the cellulose and hemicelluloses . ? See Chap . 19.  | There is a clear-cut need for research to devise less wasteful means of obtaining the products now derived from destructive distillation . The tars also merit attention , particularly when softwood is the raw material . They have little value at the present time , yet it seems likely that careful research might disclose values that are not now apparent . There is a tremendous need for an inexpensive adhesive having properties comparable to the better present-day synthetic resins that will set rapidly at room temperatures . Such a discovery would extend the benefits of gluing techniques to many small enterprises , because initial investments in gluing equipment would be so greatly reduced . The lamination of rafters , beams , and numerous other structural members would become a relatively simple matter . This would result in great savings of raw material , since it would make possible the low-cost fabrication of laminated products from small pieces of residual wood from a variety of primary industries . Even laminated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would be greatly simplified and costs reduced . Major adhesives manufacturers are engaged in active research in this field , but all wood-research agencies should contribute to this important project . Until new adhesives of the type described above are developed , there will be a continued need for information on radio-frequency dielectric heating . This method is particularly useful in gluing certain types of curved veneer products and laminated beams that are too thick to be glued in conventional hot presses . It is also useful for gluing up furniture core stock , box ends , and other built-up products from small pieces of residual wood . Although costly for many applications , this process is gaining increased attention from wood-fabrication industries and deserves a place in the list of projects requiring research attention . The microbiological utilization of wood waste also deserves long-range research consideration . McElhanney 23 states the problem as follows : Investigations have already shown that thermophilic bacteria are capable of attacking cellulose with the formation of valuable organic chemicals such as formic , acetic , lactic , and butyric acids . Microbiological methods have the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and can be carried out on a large scale . This field seems worthy of further investigation . Attempts should be made to isolate organisms from the digestive tracts of wood-eating insects and the rumen of animals capable of digesting cellulose . In addition to bacteria , protozoa might be worthy of investigation . All of these organisms are of interest not only in relation to the formation of valuable chemicals from cellulose , but also because of their high protein content . It is conceivable that sufficient protein material could be produced in the fermentation of wood waste to act as a binder for the conversion of wood waste into structural boards . Hajny , ' 6 in discussing the microbiological utilization of wood sugars , points out that " in the 75 million tons of plant and logging waste . there are upwards of 40 million tons of carbohydrate material . Since the annual world production of raw sugar for the ears 195 ( 1 to 1955 amounted to 36 to .12 million Ions . it can be readily appreciated that wood is potentially one of the  | most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that ethyl alcohol and fodder yeast are now commercially produced from spent sulfite liquor or hydrolyzed wood , but that many more chemical compounds can be produced by microbiological means from wood sugars . He argues though that if " further microbiological utilization of wood residues is to be economical , profitable uses must be also found for the two other major components of wood , lignin and hemicellulose . " While having only an indirect influence on reductions of residues , seasoning and the practice of wood preservation have a salutary effect in lessening the drain on forest resources . Continued fundamental research in these fields is , therefore , justified and desirable . Research is also needed to find uses for wood containing decay , which is present in large quantities in some regions , particularly in the overmature stands of the Pacific Northwest . Exploratory work is needed to determine the constituents of the bark and wood of all species , including those not now utilized for lumber and other products . The cork in Douglas-fir bark , as a possible substitute for imported cork , offers one example @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of extracting useful resins from wood chips prior to pulping and fiber manufacture , and many other prospective extraction processes , also merit consideration . It has long been recognized that wood residues have a potential value as a soil conditioner and mulch . However , usually they must be treated to be effective . As Wilde 3 ' has pointed out : Sawdust includes tannins and phenolic compounds injurious to plants and soil microbes , and it has a high content of cellulose and , consequently , a high carbon-nitrogen ratio , a property that invariably leads to the impoverishment of soil in nitrates and ammonia consumed by carbohydrate decomposing organisms . The only fraction of sawdust that is valuable in the maintenance of soil fertility is lignin . The carboxyl groups of this high-molecular aromatic compound have an ability to part with hydrogen and retain absorbed ions of ammonia , calcium , magnesium , potassium , and other bases . In this manner lignin acts as a storehouse of soil nutrients that are preserved from leaching and yet are available to plants through exchange reactions . A number of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wood residues and to eliminate or minimize their disadvantages . Where raw sawdust has been used , nitrogenous fertilizers such as ammonium sulfate have been added in the order of about 200 lb per ton of sawdust to compensate for the nitrogen deficiency that develops when the soil microorganisms consume nitrogen while breaking down the carbohydrate fraction of the %ood . The use of rotted sawdust reduces this problem , since in normal decomposition the cellulose breaks down first . Composting with organic maIcrials like animal manures as inoculants has proved effective . Farber and Iliad " report on a successful commercial procedure for condensing the wood carbohydrates into lignin-like materials by heating the wood in the presence of mineral acids under controlled conditions . The Pope and Talbott Company is thus producing a soil conditioner snider the trade name Fersolin.  | A fruitful area for further research in the use of residues is the study of bark utilization . Me pulp and paper industry , since it has traditionally barked its wood prior to use , has been conducting research in this area for a long time . With increasing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ important residue of the veneer industry , this type of research is increasing in importance . Bark varies in its properties considerably from species to species , and accordingly the use potential varies with species . Bark has value as a soil conditioner , probably in excess of raw wood , since its lignin content is usually much higher and its carbohydrate fraction lower . Some barks contain valuable extractives . Hemlock bark was , of course . once a primary source of tannin . Dihydroquercetin , a flavonoid , has been extra ( tedfrom Douglas-fir bark and has potential uses in quantity in the preparation of pharmaceuticals . Lignins from barks have potential as fillers and extenders for plastics . Effective insulation materials have been manufactured from Douglas-fir and redwood bark . These same barks have been used in the formulation of drilling mud for the oil industry . " ' " It is encouraging that research in long-range potentialities has increased substantially since the Second World War . It is hoped that the lumber industry will avail itself of the results of these efforts to a far greater extent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Known Methods Research aimed at the reduction of residues through the application of existing knowledge is an outright challenge to the wood-using industries . Although wood research has been meager in comparison with the research efforts of many other industries , it is still far ahead of the capacity of the lumber industry to apply known improvements . As pointed out previously in this chapter , this condition stems from the lack of industry-owned applied research facilities capable of converting the results of basic findings to product and process development . This is the general situation ; there are some examples of progressive enterprises , large and small , that have taken advantage of research to improve utilization , increase profits , and perpetuate their operations by decreasing the drain on their supply of raw material . The rest of the industry must follow these examples . It is not a case of the complete dissolution of the lumber industry if this is not done , but it is one of elevating it from a one-product raw-material industry , earning low returns , to a multiple-product manufacturing industry that obtains @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not possible to generalize on residue-utilization methods , because the amount , character , and location of residues and waste vary too much with species , regions , primary products . types of conversion plants , distances to markets , and many other factors . Each case requires separate analysis in the light of some or all of these variables . The possibilities of improvement on the basis of present knowledge are numerous , and a fery examples will he given to illustrate some of the more obvious avenues of approach . footnote * For further r I i iil. of bark utilirntiom . re ( : hale. 25.  | 1 . Wood Now Left in the Forests . The greatest opportunities for reducing the amount of wood left in the forests are found in the Pacific Northwest and in the South , where large sawmills are still found . Both of these regions afford the stability of wood ' ' supplies required for the establishment of chemical utilization enterprises . Pulp and paper mills are taking much more material from the forests than formerly . Portable chippers , designed to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ experimental stage . Chemical utilization offers the best ultimate possibilities , but other steps are being taken to reduce residues accumulating during logging . In the Pacific Northwest , the ever-increasing replacement of high-lead logging by tractors has resulted in material reductions in losses from broken and damaged trees . Lighter yarding equipment has made it possible to harvest economically small material that was , too costly to remove with the heavier equipment formerly used . " Prelogging " and " relogging , " encouraged by high log prices in recent years , have aided in reducing the amount of material left in the woods in the Pacific Northwest . Portable mills , designed to utilize trees and logs left by conventional logging methods , have had the same effect . Considerable research is in progress in the Pacific Northwest and at the U.S. Forest Products Laboratory to find profitable uses for wood containing decay and logging residues and to devise cheaper and more efficient harvesting and transportation methods . Much progress is being made in the South along lines of integrated utilization , particularly on large holdings , and many @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Efforts to increase the utilization of wood left in the forests should not be limited to the foregoing regions . Although concentrations of residues are smaller in other regions , they should not be neglected . Many small but permanent wood-using enterprises now leaving wood on the ground in the forests could well give consideration to integrated operations . There are numerous opportunities for small-scale plant expansions that will reduce residues and increase profits . The Northeast Wood Utilization Council , New laven , Connecticut , is making excellent progress in this field . 2 . Residual Wood at Manufacturing Plants . Of all the sources of residual and waste wood , the manufacture of lumber offers the most promising opportunities for immediate utilization at a higher level . Perhaps the reatest waste in the lumber industry is the practice of producing full-length lumber , only to be cut up into small products , when thousands of tons of tear pieces in the form of slabs , cuts from crooked logs , trim , and edgings are used for fuel or burned outright . There are countless articles that can be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than the lumber tself . The main thing that is needed is a new outlook , an outlook that enisions products other than lumber as the final product of a sawmill . Some enterprising individuals are making substantial profits from the manufacture f broom handles , garden and surveyor 's stakes , chair spindles , oak wedges , adding-machine-tape rolls , toys , ladder rungs , tool handles , mouse traps , molding. door rails , and an endless list of such products from sawmill residues . But the number of companies so engaged is too small , and the amount r1f such material being burned is too great . Supplying secondary remanufac-  | turing plants with blanks and dimension stock offers another large outlet for wood residues . The edge-gluing of sawmill residues to produce furniture and door cores , kitchenware , chair bottoms , box ends . ironing boards , and numerous similar items also offers great possibilities . This use is increasing , but there is room for much greater expansion . Much wood suitable for this form of utilization is being burned daily in the waste burners @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this field or at least furnish the raw material to remanufacturing plants . The box-and-crate industry is one of the largest consumers of wood in this country , and much of the raw material it uses comes from full-length boards and cants . Much wood that is now hogged for fuel or destroyed could be used for this purpose . The Wooden Box Institute , San Francisco , California , has been more alert to this possibility than has the lumber industry and is engaged in constructive research along these lines . High-speed slicers that produce box-shook veneer from short lengths of wood have been introduced recently and have already contributed to the reduction of residues at some western sawmills . The building industry has accepted lumber as produced for years without contributing significant advances in the use of wood for construction purposes . There is evidence to indicate that many wood structures are overdesigned and that substantial savings of wood could he effected by improvements in present designs . The same applies to lumber grades . Excessively high quality is often demanded where lower grades would serve just as well @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ quantities of lowgrade lumber in the woods , because such Imnber is often produced at a loss . Revisions of grade standards would provide increased outlets for this maNO ' y%'v ' a tt figure  | figure figure  | terial . Improved design would no doubt permit the increased use of shorter lengths , as well . The lumber industry can not depend on architects and construction engineers for improvements in design . Fabricators of competitive building materials have been exceedingly active in this field , and they supply complete data on design factors for their products . The lumber industry , as a whole , has too long neglected this type of selling activity , though it offers potentially lucrative dividends . The production of fiber products from sawmill residues also offers immediate prospects for reducing wood residues . Much wood , not usable for any other purpose , can be reduced to fiber to produce the filler for asphalt roofing materials and for the manufacture of insulating and hard-pressed fiberboards . The volume of fiberboards from all sources has increased phenomenally during the past 10 years , and there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ raw material for a large part of this output . Barking of sawlogs now practiced at many mills , especially in the South and West , has opened an important outlet for utilization of mill residues for pulp chips ( see Chap . 17 , p. 336 ) . High concentrations of residual wood at sawmills offer a cheaper source than corn and sugar-cane stalks now used extensively for these products . The problem of residues in most primary wood-using industries is comparable to that in sawmills , although the character of residues may differ somewhat . Cores constitute a rather large proportion of the residues at veneer plants . Much of the volume of the cores left by standard production lathes can be salvaged by the installation of " pony " lathes to cut the cores to the smallest possible diameter . If no pony lathe is available , the cores from the larger lathes can be cut into 8-ft lumber ; yet much of this material is cut into short lengths for fuel wood . Clipper waste can be reduced to fiber , but little of it has been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ operations could easily be used for fiber cores in products not requiring high strength . This would extend supplies of veneer for more exacting uses and lengthen the life of plywood and veneer operations . The foregoing examples are only illustrations of the many challenging opportunities of utilizing residues at primary manufacturing plants by known methods . It can not be repeated too often that greatly accelerated research and a conscientious effort on the part of the lumber industry are needed to put the utilization of large quantities of unused wood on a practical and profitable basis . 3 . Wood Lost in Chemical Processes . Chemical utilization offers the greatest promise for the future conversion of wood residues into useful products , but prospects for immediate savings are less spectacular . In the pulp and paper field , some improvements can be made in present pulping practices , and steps can be taken to reduce losses in harvesting pulpwood . Research is showing the way to the use of inferior species for pulp . The use of sawmill residues and even wood containing decay is on the increase , particularly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ chippers are reducing residues , and many pulp mills are remodeling their wood rooms to aeeonunodale shorter logs and smaller material . Ina few instances . v ? ? od from thinnilTs anal iniprot in itt cutlinrs is being  | utilized . The practice of segregating logs for various grades of paper is resulting in better utilization . Losses of cellulose can be reduced by milder chemical treatments and by semichemical pulping . All these developments should be adopted as widely as possible throughout the entire industry . The conversion of the wood sugars in sulfite waste liquors to ethyl alcohol or yeast should also be practiced to the full economic limit . The wood-distillation and steam-and-solvent extraction processes are in need of intensive and extensive research . Some immediate improvements can be made in the former by increasing the recovery of condensable materials and in the latter by finding more profitable uses for spent chips . Increased demands for charcoal may accelerate activities of the distillation industry , but competitive factors indicate a decline unless entirely new principles are evolved . IV . SUMMARY The steps required to reduce wood @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ problems that must be solved . The responsibilities for the necessary action will also be discussed . Of primary importance is the assumption of responsibility by the lumber industry for the applied research necessary to assure that the industry keeps pace with technological developments in all fields of science . Federal , state , and educational agencies should continue and even accelerate their present research activities , in both fundamental and applied fields , but the principal responsibility of applying fundamental results and of developing new products and processes rests squarely upon the lumber industry . The plastics and metal industries do not depend on the results of outside agencies when they develop new products that compete with wood . They do the research themselves . The manufacturers of steel joists and door frames do not wait for architects to suggest new uses for the materials they manufacture . They design them and provide architects and builders with specifications and dealers with advertising information , and they are selling their products at the expense of wood . No one should know the properties and potentialities of wood better than the people @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to them to launch an applied research program , to support the constructive efforts of all wood-research agencies , and to see that public funds cornmensurate with the importance of the industry are expended for woodutilization and forestry research . Such research should include market and economic surveys , customer acceptance tests , and cost analyses , as well as searches for new techniques and improvements in present equipment and manufacturing methods . Some liaison is needed between public and industrial research , and means should be provided to disseminate technical knowledge as widely as possible to all wood-using industries . If the wood-using industries provide sufficient research facilities of their own , there is little doubt that they will be well informed of all research that can be applied to advantage to practical problems . Another factor of great importance is the more complete integration of all wood-using industries . This is a complex problem requiring action on a  | national as well as a regional basis . It is closely associated with the sustainedyield management of forest lands , the management policies of Federal agencies having jurisdiction over forest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the various types of wood-consuming industries . The pattern of integration is increased efficiency , the reduction of residues through the proper segregation and allotment of raw materials to the highest use , and provision of sufficient raw materials for balanced production to all interdependent units . Large companies having sufficient timber to establish sustained-yield units are already making rapid progress in this direction . Not only do they have the permanence provided by a continuing supply of raw material , but also they have the resources to provide new processes , some of them very costly , that make more complete utilization possible . The problem is not so simple in the case of small enterprises . Many of them have no prospects whatever of obtaining sustained-yield holdings . Without such backlogs of timber , the large investments required for fiberboard and chemical utilization units can not be justified . Yet integration is more important to these small enterprises than it is to large companies with assured futures . Without it , many of them will be eliminated by the competition of the more efficient integrated organizations . Cooperative pooling @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the most efficient and profitable use would help in some localities . Research , again , is the answer for isolated sawmills and other woodworking industries that lack full opportunities for integration . Many residue-using processes often cost more than the unit producing the residue . Research should , therefore , be directed toward methods of utilizing small accumulations of residues . Some progress is being made along these lines , but more effort is needed . Increased activity in forest management and related research is just as important as improving the standards of utilization . Economically sound sustained-yield units should he expanded materially , and there is an acute need for bringing all forest lands of the nation into the highest possible state of productivity . Certainly the waste of unproductive forest lands is just as great , if not greater , than the waste now found in the manufacture of forest products . Farm woodlands , on the whole , are badly in need of regeneration , and every effort should be made by all agencies involved to increase the yield of wood from this large source of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only factor . Forest management should aim for balanced production , with sufficient supplies for all uses . Particular emphasis should be given to supplying the high-quality logs required by lumber , veneer , and other important primary industries . Above all , solving the problem of wood residues demands a realistic approach , combined with the marshaling of all technological resources available to the wood-using industries and to the agencies interested in their welfare . All possible advances must be analyzed in the light of existing economic conditions . It would be folly to put complete reliance on one process to solve the problem . If all the 108.9 million tons of waste and residual wood generated in logging and manufacturing in the Ihilted States  | in 1944 were converted to alcohol at 55 gal per ton , the total would be nearly 6 billion gallons of alcohol ; nearly 10 times the peak wartime production year . Obviously , it would be impossible to convert all residues to alcohol , but the example serves to indicate the need for thinking in terms of balanced utilization of residues . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all sources of residues and the adoption by industry of as many diversified methods and end uses as have chances of success under existing economic conditions . SELECTED REFERENCES 1 . Bethel , J. S. , and W. B. Woodrum . Increased Lumber Core Yields with a Patched Strip Core . Forest Prod . Jour. , 5(3) : 165-167. 1955. 2 . Brauns , F. E. Lignin and Its Possible Chemurgic Significance . Chemurgic Papers , No. 483. 1946 Ser. 3 . Burkhart , R. L. Interior Trim from Wood Waste . Proceedings , Forest Products Research Society . 1948. 4 . Burton , R. E. Bark as a Trickling-filter Media . Forest Prod . Jour. , 9(4) : 19A-22A. 1959. 5 . Colucci , G. Special Machines for Utilization of Waste Slabs for Glued Core Stock . Proceedings , Forest Products Research Society . 1948. 6 . Dosker , C. D. Lumber 's Future Depends on Research . Address delivered at the annual meeting of National Lumber Manufacturers Association and Timber Engineering Company , New Orleans , Nov. 7 , 1946 . Timber Engineering Company , Washington , D.C. 7 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and W. T. Henerey . Alkali and Thio Lignins from Pine Barks . Forest Prod . Jour. , 6(11) : 476-478. 1956. 8 . Dunn , S. , and J. D. Emery . Wood Waste in Composts . Forest Prod . Jour. , 9(8) : 277-281. 1959. 9 . Farber , E. , and R. R. Hind . Sawdust into Fertilizer . Forest Prod . Jour. , 9(10) : 340  - -  344. 1959. 10 . Gardner , J. A. F. , and G. M. Barton . The Distribution of Dihydroquercetin in Douglasfir and Western Larch . Forest Prod . Jour. , 10(3) : 171-173. 1960. 11 . Garratt , G. A. Postwar Opportunities in Wood Utilization . Chemurgic Papers , No. 447. 1946 Ser. 2 . Grantham , J. B. Salvage Operations in the Douglas-fir Region : Their Present and Future . Oreg . Forest Prod . Lab. , Inform . Cir. 1 . August , 1947. 13 . Gregory , A. S. , D. L. Brink , L. E. Dowd , and A. S. Ryan . Douglas-fir Bark as a Source of Quercetin . Forest Prod . Jour. , 7(4) : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Residue Utilization . Jour . Forest Prod . Res . Soc. , 3(3):46-50. 1953. 5 . Guthrie , John A. , and C. B. Armstrong . Western Forest Industry . Johns Hopkins Press , Baltimore . 1961. 6 . Hajny , G. J. Microbiological Utilization of Wood Sugars . Forest Prod . Jour. , 9(5):153-157. 1959. 17 . Hall , J. A. Integrated Utilization-research Task . Report presented at the national meeting of the Forest Products Research Society , Chicago , Ill. , Oct. 31-Nov. 1 , 1947. 8 . Hooker , L. W. Utilization of Hardwood Logging Residue . Forest Prod . Jour. , 8 ( 1 ) : 1-5. 1958. 19 . Jenkins , J. H. The Utilization of Wood Waste in Eastern Canada . Jour . Forest Prod . Res . Soc. , 3 ( 2 ) : 7 9. 1953.  | 20 . Marquis , R. W. Science and Forestry Coals . Northwest Sci. , 21(2) . May , 1947. 21 . Matson , E. E. , and J. B. Grantham . Salvage Logging in the Douglas-fir Region of Oregon and Washington . Oreg . Forest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1947. 22 . McBride , C. F. Western Red Cedar Mills . Forest Prod . Jour. , 9(9) : 313-316. 1959. 23 . McElhanney , T. A. Conservation by Better Utilization . Paper presented to Fifth British Empire Forestry Conference , held in Britain , 1947 . Ottawa , Canada . 1947. 24 . McElhanney , T. A. Forest Products Research in Canada . Paper presented to Fifth British Empire Forestry Conference , held in Britain , 1947 . Ottawa , Canada . 1947. 25 . Miller , R. W. , and W. G. Van Beckum . Bark and Fiber Products for Oil Well Drilling . Forest Prod . Jour. , 10(4) : 193-195. 1960. 26 . Pearl , I. A. Present Status of Chemical Utilization of Lignin . Forest Prod . Jour. , 7(12) : 427-432. 1957. .27 . Schrader , O. H. , Jr . Integrated Forest Utilization in the Pacific Northwest . Contributed by the Wood Industries Division for presentation at the annual meeting , Atlantic City , Dec. 1-5 , 1947 . Paper No. 47-A-45 . The American Society of Mechanical Engineers . 1948. 28 . Sloan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Forest Resources of British Columbia . Province of British Columbia , Victoria . 1957. 29 . U.S. Department of Agriculture , Forest Service . Outlets for Wood Waste . A General Statement of Actual and Potential Uses of Various Kinds of Wood Waste , No . R64 . Revised August , 1945. 30 . U.S. Department of Agriculture , Forest Service . Proceedings , Conference on State and Federal Forest Products Research . 1946. 31 . U.S. Department of Agriculture , Forest Service . Wood Waste in the United States . Report 4 from A Reappraisal of the Forest Situation . Report prepared by Robert K. Winters , Gardner H. Chidester , and J. Alfred Hall . 1947. 32 . U.S. Department of Agriculture , Forest Service . Timber Resources for America 's Future . Forest Resource Report No. 14. 1958. 33 . Voorhies , G. An Inventory of Sawmill Waste in Oregon . Oreg . Engin . Expt . Sta. , Bull . Ser. 17 . July , 1942. 34 . Watts , L. F. Utilization : Keystone of Intensive Forest Management . Jour . Forest Prod . Res @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ A. Marketable Sawdust Composts . Forest Prod . Jour. , 8(11) : 323-326. 1958. 36 . Wilson , S. A. Sawmill " Waste " Developed , Used and Not Used , in Oregon and Washington in 1944 . Pacific Northwest Forest and Range Experiment Station , Portland , Oreg. , mimeo . January , 1946.  | RELATION OF THE PROPERTIES OF WOOD TO WOOD UTILIZATION Wood is known to have been used for structural and numerous other purposes since the early recorded history of man . It has served him faithfully and well down through the centuries , and even in modern times it is one of the most versatile and universally employed of engineering and industrial raw materials . It is true , however , that during the past several decades markets for wood products have been successfully invaded by diverse commodities made at lower cost using substitute materials . In fact , there are those in authority who aver that further market losses are inevitable unless management of the threatened industries can maintain a competitive position by matching the technological progress and more exacting mass-production methods achieved by its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is being reflected in several woodworking plants , where new and improved technological procedures and product and process developments are replacing older and archaic manufacturing practices . The implementation of these newer techniques has been made possible by the application of the results of much fruitful research that has marked the past I ( ) to 20 years . In the last analysis , however , wood will continue to lose some of its present markets to competitive materials and products , but the total demand for wood and wood products will continue to rise , and by the year 2000 there seems little doubt but that the nation 's forests , even with improved management practices , will be hard pressed to provide the wood requirements of an exploding population . Wood is the principal product of the metabolism of a tree and is indeed a variable and complex material . In fact , with the several thousand commercial species in the world to choose from , it is no small wonder that the interrelationships which exist among the anatomical , chemical , and physical properties of each species are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the unsatisfactory performance of a wood or wood product may be due not to the inherent characteristics of that wood but rather to factors involving a dearth of information concerning its properties , errors of judgment , workmanship . or all three . Included here are such common Al  | blunders as selection of the wrong wood to perform a specific task ; use of timbers in improper dimensions or in inappropriate grades , inefficient designs , poor construction or fabrication ; disregard for the effects of changing atmospheric conditions upon dimensional changes and stability ; and failure to provide adequate protection against decay , insects , weathering , and other destructive and/or deteriorating agents . The choice of a wood for a specific use first of all presupposes that a careful appraisal has been made of the requirements for that use . It is only after these have been delineated that a species of timber possessing the properties desired may be selected . Not infrequently more than one species may be found that would fulfill the stipulated specifications , in which instance the choice becomes a matter of availability and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the technical properties of wood are admittedly difficult . The measurable values of many specific properties often range between rather broad limits , not only among different species , but also within the same species , and even among boards or pieces of timber from different parts of the same log . Thus , efficient utilization of a given wood requires a thorough knowledge of ( 1 ) properties which , within broad limits , are common to all woods regardless of origin ; ( 2 ) specific properties which characterize a certain species and which not infrequently dictate its use for a particular purpose ; and ( 3 ) the degree of variability which may be expected to be present within a species , and the extent to which such variations limit use for specific applications . A. Properties Common to All Woods Timber , unlike minerals , is a renewable resource . There are also a number of other pertinent characteristics and properties that are common to all commercial woods . Several of these are responsible for wide acceptance of wood in the construction field and in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ militate against its general use in other product areas . Summarized below are those properties and characteristics which within broad limits are common to all woods : 1 . Wood as it comes from the standing tree is more or less saturated with water . Wet wood has little or no utility ; veneer , lumber , dimension stock , and timber must be seasoned adequately after manufacture before further processing . Some moisture must also be removed from poles , posts , crossties , and similar products to assure acceptance of satisfactory amounts of preservative . 2 . Wood that has been properly seasoned is light in weight in comparison with most materials of construction and fabrication , is easily handled , and may be transported for long distances at reasonable cost . 3 . The influence of temperature extremes upon the expansion or contraction of wood is of little importance . In fact , the effect is usually  | obscured by much greater dimensional changes due to changes in moisture content . 4 . Wood is a poor transmitter of sound , heat , and electricity , properties highly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be easily and securely fastened together with glues , nails , screws , or bolts to provide good strong joints . 6 . The porous-fibrous nature of wood facilitates the holding of paint , lacquer , varnish , and other finishing materials and films . 7 . Wood may be worked into intricate shapes using simple tools . 8 . Wood absorbs shock loads and vibrations better than most competitive materials . 9 . Wood does not rust . Neither does it corrode in the presence of sea water . It is also chemically resistant to most cold dilute alkalies and acids. 10 . Wood neither crystallizes nor becomes embrittled , like many metals subjected to repeated stress reversals . 11 . Wood , unlike concrete , retains its cohesive characteristics when exposed to exceedingly low temperatures for protracted lengths of time . 12 . Defects in wood generally can be detected by visual means . Thus unsatisfactory material can be eliminated in the raw material stage . 13 . Wood is highly hygroscopic . During periods of high humidity , seasoned wood will absorb appreciable quantities of moisture , which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the atmosphere . These gains and losses in moisture are accompanied by unequal dimensional changes . In normal wood there is very little shrinking or swelling in the direction of the grain , but considerable across it , and then 11/z to rarely 3 times more in the tangential direction than in the radial plane . 14 . The mechanical and other physical properties can not be satisfactorily altered or improved by heat treatments of the sort employed in metallurgical work . 15 . Wood can not be extruded or rolled into new shapes . An extension of any dimension of a wood member can be accomplished only by attaching a second piece to the original one using glue or metal fastenings. 16 . Wood is limited in its hardness . There are as yet no commercial means by which hardness can be improved without adversely affecting one or more other physical properties . 17 . Wood is an organic material and as such is often subject to the ravages of decay and wood-boring insects when used in environments favorable to the activities of these organisms . When such agents pose @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ impregnated with a suitable toxic . 18 . Wood is a combustible material . Once ignited it gives off inflammable gases which further abet combustion even after the original heat source has been removed . It will also ignite spontaneously at 275 ? C. On the other hand , when the surfaces of large timbers such  | as beams , columns , and girders are exposed to fire , they become heavily charred , and the char , acting as an insulation to the inner recesses of the member , effectively reduces the continuing rate of destruction . It is a well-established fact that property losses from fire in buildings erected with large wooden structural members are often less than in those where the structural components were fabricated with steel . This is due almost entirely to the fact that in an intense fire steel quickly loses its strength , and total collapse of the figure imposed loads is inevitable , while wooden members during the same interval are only partially destroyed and still capable of supporting a part of the original loads after the fire has been suppressed ( Fig. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and is usually from 4 to 15 times stronger along the grain than across it , 20 . Wood is variable in strength . Not only do different species vary from one another , but great variations in strength also exist within the same species , and even for pieces cut from different parts of the same log . It should also be noted here that wood is an important raw material for many chemical industries . Be ( atise of its fibrous nature and chemical coutposition it ran he rrdured h ) vela , iv ( ly simple means into pulp . which tnn ) //  | then be formed into paper or converted into plastics , rayon , transparent films , and similar products . B. Characteristic Properties of Different Species The basic properties of wood discussed in the preceding paragraphs are not possessed in an equal degree by all species ; in fact , there is a tremendous variation among timbers in both their appearance and their properties . Colorwise , they range from white through shades of yellow , orange , red , brown , purple , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is uniformly distributed ; in others it is largely concentrated in bands or stripes , or in irregular splotches to give a surface a variegated appearance . Some woods are essentially figureless and of little value for decorative purposes ; others exhibit many pleasing patterns traceable to pigmentation , distribution and arrangement of the various cell types , alignment of the cells along the grain , or combinations thereof . There is also great variation among woods with respect to weight ; hardness ; strength ; degree of shrinkage ; penetrability ; ease of working with hand and power tools ; ability to hold nails , screws , and other fastenings ; compatibility with paints , lacquers , and other finishing materials and glues ; and reaction to pulping agents . Equally notable are chemical and anatomical differences which not infrequently dictate specific uses . As previously indicated , in the utilization of wood the choice of a species must be based upon a combination of the properties desired . This can best be illustrated by citing a few examples . As a case in point , both red and white @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that recommend them for use as bridge stringers or crossties . If the wood is not to be given a preservative treatment , white oak is preferred , in fact recommended , because it is characterized by a natural durability not possessed by red oak . If , on the other hand , a preservative t reatment is contemplated , red oak is the more desirable , as it is much more pervious to liquids , owing to the few tyloses present in the large springwood pores . The heartwood of both these timbers is also used in the manufacture of tight cooperage . In this instance , however , the impervious nature of white oak is a desirable quality of the wood , since white oak staves , unlike those made of red oak , do not have to be treated with a sealer to prevent leakage . Ash and hickory combine strength with the good bending qualities which make these woods outstanding for bent work ; at the same time , they possess the required toughness and good finishing characteristics which account for their extensive use in the manufacture @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and uniform texture of mahogany , combined with strength , durability , dimensional stability , and good finishing qualities , have made it a favorite furniture wood , either in solid or in veneer construction . Uniform texture and hardness , responsible for the ability of persimmon and dogwood to remain smooth under constant wear , are reasons for selecting these woods for shuttles and bobbins . Softness , low shrinkage , and uniform texture , combined with adequate strength and ease of working with tools , account for the extensive use of white pine for pattern stock ,  | Douglas-fir is widely used for structural purposes because it combines strength with durability and is available in large sizes . Good gluing properties and fairly low shrinkage are important considerations in the choice of yellow-poplar , cottonwood , and red alder for core stock , while the acidresistant quality of Port-Orford white-cedar was one of the reasons why it was the principal species used in the manufacture of battery separators , when sufficient supplies of this wood were available . Good screw- and nail-holding ability is a prerequisite of wood @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for shipping containers should also be strong , light-colored , light in weight , and free from objectionable odors , tastes , and stains . Ease of working , combined with satisfactory finishing characteristics and the ability to take paint or other finishing materials , are important considerations in selecting wood for interior trim . Appearance and finishing qualities of woods dominate the choice of species for exposed parts in furniture ; while ability to stay in place , and gluing and nail- and screw-holding characteristics are the deciding factors in selection of woods for concealed parts . The long , strong fibers from such conifers as the southern yellow pines , spruce , hemlock , and balsam firs are preferred in pulp manufacture ; differences in the resin content of the woods , however , determine the method of pulping and the appearance and quality of the resulting pulp . C. Variability of Properties within a Species Not infrequently too much emphasis is placed on relatively small differences among species , while the variability in properties of wood of the same species is largely ignored . Although lack of uniformity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a greater range of variability than other structural materials . Thus it is essential that not only the extent and the significance of variability in wood properties of the same species be known but also the possible limits of variation within the bole of a single tree . It is well recognized that variations within a species are largely traceable to environmental influences affecting the growth of trees , such as climate , soil , moisture , and growing space . Undoubtedly heredity also plays a dominant role . The most readily recognizable instances of variability within a species are differences of appearance and weight , while differences in strength properties and workability , although more difficult to recognize , are frequently of much greater practical significance . Fortunately , however , strength properties of normal wood can quite often be closely correlated with specific gravity and with such easily observable factors as the rate of growth and the relative proportion of springwood and summerwood within a growth increment . The correlation of strength properties with the above-noted factors ( particularly with specific gravity of normal wood ) allows a fairly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ given use when strength is a factor of major consideration . The variability of wood properties within it species is also rrrall affected by differences in Ilie moisture 1 ' 11011 ' 111 anal b the kind , nuuibrr , t ' 11 ' 01 , and  | location of defects . The effect of moisture on the strength properties of wood , as well as on shrinkage and swelling , general workability , and the nailing , gluing , and finishing qualities of wood , is so great that the satisfactory use of wood depends on a precise understanding of the altered behavior of wood accompanying changes in its moisture content . Although detailed discussion of this topic is outside the scope of this text , it may be noted in passing that as a general rule wood should be dried to a moisture content commensurate with the expected service requirements ; i.e. , wood should be dried to approximately the moisture content which it will attain in actual service . If the moisture content of wood is so great that a considerable amount of moisture is lost after the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ warping , and other drying phenomena must be expected ; wood dried to a much lower moisture content than necessary will pick up additional moisture from the atmosphere , with accompanying swelling and some loss of strength . The extent to which various defects , such as knots , decay , cross grain , shakes , checks , splits , and sap stain , affect utility is considered in grading lumber . Grading is largely designed to cope with the effects of variability in the properties of wood of the same species . The underlying principles on which these grading rules are based , as well as the proper use of the grades , presupposes a thorough understanding of the nature of defects and their specific effect on the properties of a wood for given purposes . It is important to recognize also that a considerable equalization of the properties of wood can be achieved by the design of an article and treatment of the wood . Not infrequently better service can be obtained from a welldesigned article made of an inferior wood than from a poorly constructed item made of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can be compensated for by preservative treatments or by protecting wood against moisture . Adjustments in the speed of machinery or a change in the cutting angle of knives may assist materially in the production of acceptable stock from species with less desirable working characteristics . Substitution of glue for nails or screws may result in a stronger joint with a species of poor nail- or screw-holding ability . Good design and corrective treatments , therefore , may extend considerably the number of species that can be employed for all but the most exacting uses . I ) . Chemical Properties of Wood Utilization of wood frequently involves treatments which affect some or all of its chemical constituents . The chemical utilization of wood may be grouped under several headings : ( 1 ) pulping ; ( 2 ) extraction ; ( 3 ) hydrolysis , i.e. , conversion of carbohydrates to sugars ; ( 4 ) destructive distillation ; and ( 5 ) various chemical treatments designed to improve the properties of wood . A general understanding of wood chemistry is essential to full appreciation of the basic principles underlying @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which follows is offered merely for the purpose of acquainting the reader with a few of the basic principles of wood chemistry .  | Each wood cell consists of a cavity surrounded by a rigid wall . This wall contains two morphologically distinct layers : the primary wall on the outside and the inner , secondary wall . All cells are cemented together by a common layer , the intercellular substance , also called the true middle lamella. * The entire cell wall , including the intercellular layer , consists principally of cellulose , lignin , and hemicelluloses . The bulk of cellulose is found in the secondary wall , while lignin occurs largely in the intercellular layer and primary wall . Hemicelluloses are thought to be intimately associated with microscopic cellulose units ( called fibrils ) , of which the hulk of the secondary wall is built . Some hemicelluloses are also found in spaces between the fibrils . In addition to these three major chemical components , a number of extractable substances may also be present . Extractives reside largely in the cell cavities and may be removed with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the residual wall . Extractable materials include , among others , tannins , dyes , resins , essential oils , fats , nitrogenous organic compounds , and traces of organic acids and their salts . When burned , wood yields a small amount of mineral residue , called ash . No exact figures indicating the composition of wood in terms of its different chemical constituents can be given . Such data as are available vary within wide limits . This is owing in no small measure to the methods of analysis employed and the interpretation of analytical data by individual investigators . The composition of wood , however , based on its ovendry weight , is approximately as follows : cellulose , 40 to 55 per cent ; lignin , 17 to 35 per cent ; hemicelluloses , 15 to 30 per cent ; water extractives , from less than 1 per cent in aspen to more than 10 per cent in redwood ; ash , about 1 per cent . Much of the chemical utilization of wood involves delignification , i.e. , the disintegration of the middle lamella through removal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ materials . Wood pulp thus prepared forms an important raw material for the manufacture of paper , paperboards , and other wood-pulp products , while specially purified forms of pulp are used extensively in the manufacture of rayon and transparent films , and to a lesser extent in paints , lacquers , and similar products . The carbohydrates in wood may be converted into sugars when hydrolyzed with dilute solutions of several mineral acids , and most of the resulting sugars can be fermented to ethyl alcohol . When decomposed by heat in the absence of air , a treatment called destructive distillation , wood will give rise to numerous chemical products , chief of which are methyl alcohol , acetic acid , tar products , and residual charcoal . Oils , wood turpentine , pine tar , and pitch are products of resinous-softwood distillation . The industrial uses of wood noted above are based primarily on the utilization of the chemical components of the cell wall or their derivatives . An entirely different type of chemical utilization of wood involves removal of extractives such as tannins , essential oils , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of tannin from wood of chestnut or the recovery of wood rosin and turpentine from the stmnp wood of wnlihern pines footnote *Less technically . IIi term middle I//me//n is applied to the interrel/u/u , . +uLshrnee. or the middle hrrnelhr proper , ; tart Ilie runrhiul , or /I imen ( , walls eomhineol.  | by steam distillation . In both instances the extractive-free wood is frequently converted into wood pulp . In the majority of cases , however , no attempt is made to utilize the residual wood for anything but fuel . 1 . Cellulose . Pure cellulose is a complex carbohydrate whose empirical formula is expressed as ( C6HICO5 ) , , . Cellulose is insoluble in water and in the ordinary solvents such as alcohol or ether . It is very resistant to the action of alkalies but can be completely dissolved by strong acids. * The purest form of cellulose known in nature is obtained from the seed hairs of the cotton plant , Gossypium spp. , more than 90 per cent of which by weight is pure cellulose , or alpha-cellulose . In wood @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other components , chief of which are lignin and hemicelluloses . Moreover , wood cellulose is not all alpha-cellulose , but has considerable admixtures of other cellulose-like materials , termed beta- and gamma-celluloses . These differ from alpha-cellulose mainly in being soluble in alkaline reagents . When unpurified wood cellulose is treated with a reagent such as 17.5 per cent sodium hydroxide , the cellulose swells and a part of it dissolves . The dissolved portion contains the beta- and gammacelluloses.t Wood cellulose prepared by commercial methods of pulping may lose as much as 10 to 20 per cent by weight when treated with an alkali , owing to removal of the beta and gamma fractions . The purity of wood cellulose is judged by its alpha-cellulose content , and for many uses , e.g. , in the manufacture of rayon , wood cellulose is carefully refined with alkalies to remove its nonresistant portions . 2 . Hemicelluloses . This is a term applied to a group of cell-wall carbohydrates found in more or less intimate association with cellulose and lignin . Technically , the hemicelluloses may be loosely defined as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ water , can be removed from the cell wall with either hot or cold dilute alkalies or readily hydrolyzed to constitute sugars or sugar acids by means of hot dilute acids . Theoretically , when hemicelluloses are thus removed from delignified cell walls , only cellulose is left behind . Actually , however , some of the hemicelluloses are watersoluble , 1 : and not all of them are extracted from the cell wall by alkali treatments . In chemical pulping , hemicelluloses are largely removed from the pulp . If acid cooking liquors are employed , the hemicelluloses are converted into sugars ( such as galactose , mannose , and others ) , which remain in solution in the cooking liquor . Approximately 60 to 75 per cent of these sugars could be fermented into alcohol . ? If alkalies are used for pulping , the hemi- footnote * Another well-known cellulose solvent is Schweizer 's cuprammonium reagent. t Beta- and gamma-celluloses can be separated by treating the alkaline solution with acetic acid ; the beta-cellulose will then form a precipitate , while gamma-cellulose will remain in solution . Some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1 A polysaccharide , galactan , found in the wood of western larch ( to the extent of 8 to 25 per cent of the dry weight of the wood ) may be considered one of these . The galactan , extracted with water from the wood , can be hydrolyzed into a sugar ? galactose - and this , in turn , can be oxidized to mucic acid , which is used in the manufacture of baking powder . ? Another sugar , xylose , is converted in the course of acid cooking into furfural , which ordinarily escapes with the steam . However , under suitable conditions it could be  | celluloses are converted into acids ( largely glucuronic and galacturonic ) . The function of hemicelluloses in nature is not yet understood , although a theory has been advanced suggesting that they may be the precursors of lignin , i.e. , substances from which lignin is formed . 3 . Lignin . This is the third important constituent of the woody cell wall . Its exact chemical composition is still unknown . It can be obtained from wood either @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ removing the lignin and some of the more soluble carbohydrates and leaving the resistant cellulose behind and then separating lignin from the resulting solution . Still another method calls for dissolving all constituents of wood in a mixture of formaldehyde and sulfuric acid and then precipitating lignin by diluting the acid solution with water . In any case , it requires very drastic treatment to extract lignin from wood , and there is no certainty that the lignin in its extracted form is at all identical with that occurring naturally in the cell wall . Furthermore , no two lignin preparations have the same physical properties or the same chemical reactions ; likewise , there is considerable evidence to show that the lignins from different species of wood are not identical . This has led to the conjecture that " either the substance known as lignin is a complex mixture of compounds with similar properties but of unrelated chemical structure , or else a mixture of compounds which are similar in structure or have the same basal form but which vary in minor ways . " 6 Whatever its exact chemical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ describe the cementing material which is largely removed during chemical pulping of wood . Lignin extracted from wood in this mariner constitutes one of the greatest industrial residues of the present time. * Among industrial uses of wood in which lignin is utilized along with other wood constituents are destructive distillation derivatives and lignin plastics . In the former , the lignin fraction of wood gives rise to methyl alcohol , acetic acid , and a portion of the complex mixture of tarry and oily substances ; in the latter lignin serves as a binding agent . A number of aromatic substances are also associated with lignin , among them vanillin and eugenol ( the flavoring principle of cloves ) . Manufacturers of storage batteries incorporate lignin as a part of negative battery plates , with a resulting tenfold increase of current output in zero weather . Purified lignin , hydrogenated in the presence of a catalyst , has been converted by Drs . S. C. Sherrard and E. E. Harris , of the U.S. Forest Products Laboratory , into a thick , viscous , colorless fluid from which , by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and four new substances . Two of these can be made into plastics ; another can be used as a solvent for organic gums , resins , and oils , and has a preservative value ; the fourth has adhesive properties . The utilization of extracted lignin is discussed in more detail in later pages under the utilization of sulfite liquor ( see Chap . 17 ) . Any real progress toward utilization of the vast amount of lignin available can not , however . be expected until its chemistry is better comprehended . recovered as one of the products of wood hydrolysis . Furfural is an important solvent and intermediate reagent in the chemical industry . footnote * Pulp-mill lignin losses amount to several million tons annually .  | 4 . Extractives . Wood extractives , also called the extraneous components of wood , are substances which can be extracted from wood by means of suitable solvents or by steam distillation without affecting the composition of the cell wall . Wood extractives , therefore , are not considered to be an integral part of the cell wall , but rather @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Most important of the wood extractives are essential oils , resins , fats , tannins , and natural dyestuffs or their precursors . Small amounts of organic acids or their salts are also present in many woods . The most widely distributed acid in plants is oxalic acid , which in wood is usually found in the form of crystals of calcium oxalate . A few woods are characterized by the presence of alkaloids . The wood of Cinchona spp. , for example , contains small amounts of quinine and related alkaloids , while traces of strychnine have been isolated from several woods of the genus Strychnos . Finally , small quantities , about 0.3 per cent , of other nitrogenous compounds , thought to be traceable to proteins in the dried protoplasm , are also found in some woody cells . Nearly all woods have small deposits of starch ; some also contain sugars . Some of these substances , notably tannins , resins , essential oils , and dyestuffs , have considerable economic importance and in a few cases may even constitute the chief value of a given wood @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ By and large , however , no attempt is made to recover these materials . The largest waste of various extractives occurs in the preparation of wood pulp , where they are removed and usually discarded in the spent cooking liquor , together with lignin and the hemicelluloses. 5 . Inorganic Components . The residue which remains after complete combustion of wood is called ash . In the North American woods analyzed by the U.S. Forest Products Laboratory , the ash content was found to range between 0.2 and 0.9 per cent . The highest ash content reported elsewhere was for the European olive tree , Olea europea L. , in which sapwood yielded about 5 per cent . The principal components of wood ash are salts of calcium , potassium , and magnesium ; small amounts of sodium , aluminum , iron , and manganese sulfates , chlorides , and silicates are also invariably present . Perhaps the most characteristic component of wood ashes is potash ( K2CO3 ) . The presence of this salt accounts for the once widespread use of wood ashes for fertilizer and as a raw @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the relationships between wood properties and wood utilization , it should be apparent to the reader that many of the present uses of wood are the direct result of research which has led to better understanding of some of its many unique properties . Nevertheless , other potential uses of wood have either gone unrecognized or are exploited in only a very limited manner because several of its fundamental properties are not even yet fully understood or appreciated . For example , drying , preserving , and even finishing procedures and techniques might be greatly revolutionized if we had a complete understanding of the forces and mechanics involved in the movement of moisture in living trees . The chemical utilization of wood offers a promising future , but there is yet much basic information to he developed before its impact can be fully appreciated . The lignin corn-  | plex , for example , is still somewhat of a chemical enigma . A determination of the precise nature of the chemical bond within the cellulose fibril will provide a basis for the development of good wood-stabilization techniques . A knowledge of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cellulose and hemicellulosic materials is also a field for fruitful research . These are but a few of the many basic problems confronting the researcher . Wood will continue to play an important role in the American economy , but its ability to compete with new and improved materials for new markets lies in the hands and skills of wood technologists , chemists , and engineers seeking basic information that will provide a firm foundation in new and improved wood products and process developments . SELECTED REFERENCES 1 . Anon . Wood Handbook . U.S. Department of Agriculture , Forest Service , Forest Products Laboratory , Handbook No. 72. 1955. 2 . Anon . Timber Design and Construction Handbook . F. W. Dodge Corporation , New York . 1956. 3 . Brown , H. P. , A. J. Panshin , and C. C. Forsaith . Textbook of Wood Technology . McGraw-Hill Book Company . Inc. , New York . Vol. 1 , 1949 ; Vol. 2. 1952. 4 . Harrar , E. S. Hough 's Encyclopaedia of American Woods , Vol. 1 , 2 . Robert Speller &; Sons , Publishers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The Properties and Uses of Wood . McGraw-Hill Book Company , Inc. , New York . 1924. 6 . Norman , A. G. The Bio-chemistry of Cellulose , Polyuronides , Lignin. etc . Oxford University Press , New York . 1937. 7 . Stamm , A. J. , and E. E. Harris . Chemical Processing of Wood . Chemical Publishing Company , Inc. , New York . 1953. 8 . Tiemann , H. D. Wood Technology , 2d ed . Pitman Publishing Corporation , New York . 1944. 9 . Wise , L. E. , and E. C. Jahn . Wood Chemistry , 2d ed. , Vol. 1 , 2 . American Chemical Society Monograph 97 . Reinhold Publishing Corporation , New York . 1952.  | ROUND TIMBERS I. POLES The first commercial telegraph system in the world , erected in 1844 , was a line of some 40 miles in length extending between Washington , D.C. , and Baltimore , Maryland . The wires connecting these two cities were carried on poles cut from tree-length logs , the harvesting of which marked the beginning of the wooden pole industry in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ first central telephone system was put into operation in New Haven , Connecticut , pole lines were found to be the most economical means of connecting the exchange with its 21 original subscribers . The first use of poles in electric power transmission lines occurred in 1882 when Thomas A. Edison constructed a utility station in New York City and sold electric power to nearly 100 consumers who had installed lighting circuits in their homes and/or business establishments . By the turn of the twentieth century the nation 's annual pole requirements were being counted in the millions . Today the more than 80 million poles in service support a vast labyrinth of power transmission and communication wires and cables which not only link the nation 's thriving nerve centers but also extend into the most remote of rural areas . There are currently some 5 to 51 ! ! , million poles harvested annually . Many of them are used to replace those no longer capable of rendering satisfactory service , while many more are used in the erection of new lines . The growing popularity of the economical and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ later , has developed a new and expanding market for treated poles . A. Factors Governing the Selection of Poles Several of our commercial timber-producing species are , for one reason or another , unsuited for the manufacture of poles . Bole form is especially important , and trees which do not develop characteristically straight , fullrounded shafts with a minimum of taper are generally avoided . Moderately lightweight timbers possessing high strength-weight ratios are preferred . r , S  | Poles produced from timbers of high density usually possess excellent mechanical properties , but their excessive weight adds to their harvesting , transportation , and erection costs , and in consequence they are seldom used in any appreciable numbers . Timbers of low density are unsuited for poles , as they are wholly incapable of supporting the heavy loads required in many lines , but especially in regions where severe icing along the wires is a common occurrence during the winter months . The vast majority of poles now placed in service are partially or wholly impregnated with some kind of toxic prior to their installation . Thus , it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ timber of required strength but also from those woods which are also known for their ability to accept and retain adequate amounts of a prescribed preservative material . When specifications call for the use of untreated material , a practice which is still followed in some localized areas , only those pole woods well known for their excellent natural durability should be employed . While the initial costs of untreated poles may appear to be very attractive . such items often prove to be the most expensive because the frequency with which they must be replaced increases maintenance costs beyond all reasonable limits . Finally , pole timbers must be readily accessible and available in quantities sufficient to harvest , impregnate , and market at reasonable prices . B. Polewood Species One privileged to examine pole lines erected prior to the First World War would find that a large variety of timber species were then in use . Chestnut , usually untreated , was one of the prime favorites throughout the whole of the Eastern United States . Baldcypress , Atlantic white-cedar , and southern yellow pine poles were dominant in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Rocky Mountain region featured western redcedar and Douglasfir , while both round and saw-tapered poles of redwood were prevalent in California . Installations in the Lake states were predominantly of northern white-cedar and tamarack ; in the southern Plains states poles of osage-orange were not infrequently used . Other species to be found in appreciable numbers included catalpa , oak , ash , elm , butternut , red mulberry , and in some localized areas even cottonwood , sassafras , and spruce . During the past quarter of a century , however , hardwood poles for use in communication and power transmission lines have been virtually eliminated . This has been occasioned by a series of events the most significant of which have been : 1 . The harvesting of all residual blight-killed chestnut trees in pole sizes 2 . Rising stumpage prices paid for hardwoods by other industries whose products bring higher net returns 3 . The facility with which most coniferous woods can he made to accept preservative compounds , and the now almost universal insistance that poles receive some form of treatment prior to use 4 . And @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ footnote * Loblolly , shorlleaf , longleaf , slash . and pond pines are all used in pule production .  | fully devised standards and specifications governing materials , sizes , and the manufacture of all poles destined to receive a preservative treatment ( see page 63 ) Poles are currently manufactured primarily from the southern yellow , lodgepole , ponderosa , red , and jack pines ; Douglas-fir ; western redcedar ; several of the western balsam ( true ) firs ; western larch ; western hemlock ; and northern white-cedar . A few other species still enjoy a very limited local use , but those enumerated above supply at least 97 per cent of the nation 's pole requirements . 1 . Southern Yellow Pines . The use of southern yellow pine poles has increased steadily since 1915 , and this group of pines currently accounts for about 75 per cent of the poles produced annually . These poles are procured throughout the southern pine belt , usually either from scattered tracts of second-growth timber or from small farm woodlots . Loblolly and shortleaf pines are preferred since all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pole-sized trees of these two species usually contain large volumes of sapwood , which is readily amenable to treatment . Few producers own standing timber . For the most part they deal directly with forest owners for those trees which , in their judgment , are suitable for pole manufacture in the lengths and in the classes for which they have markets . The harvesting of poles in the southern pine belt is essentially a yearround undertaking except in those areas where the incidence of bark-beetle outbreaks is inordinately high following logging operations . In such instances cutting is usually restricted to the winter months . 2 . Douglas-fir . The use of Douglas-fir poles has increased steadily since 1906 . For many years , however , an ample supply of the more durable , lighter-weight western redcedar in the same producing areas limited the production of Douglas-fir poles . At the present time this is the second most important polewood species and supplies about 7 per cent of the nation 's annual pole requirements . Prior to the Second World War consumption of Douglas-fir poles was largely restricted to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ those capable of being produced in the southern pine belt , however , have resulted in markets for these commodities throughout the United States . Douglas-fir poles are produced in both the Pacific Northwest and in the Inland Empire . As a rule they are harvested as a separate enterprise in advance of heavy logging operations . 3 . Western Redcedar . Western redcedar is a tree of gigantic proportions endemic to the Pacific Northwest and montane regions of northern Idaho and western Montana . Most of the western redcedar poles are produced in the Idaho panhandle , however , where the trees are of a size and shape especially well suited for pole production . Several thousand cedar poles are also harvested annually along the western slopes of the Cascade Mountains in Washington and Oregon , where the pole producers remove the younger and smaller trees from uneven-aged stands of mixed coniferous growth as a separate operation- usually in advance of a concentrated lumbering enterprise . Poles 130 ft or more in length are obtainable in this region  | when desired . This cedar is currently the third most important @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the nation 's needs . 4 . Lodgepole Pine . The lodgepole pine , a tree of wide distribution in western North America , was initially used for poles in 1923 when the Mountain States Telephone and Telegraph Company began experimenting with them in its lines . The Rocky Mountain form of this tree is especially well suited for the production of poles , and while the wood is not particularly resistant to decay , it has been found that a simple open-tank butt-treatment will assure a service life of at least 20 years for a pole placed in the more arid areas of the Rocky Mountain region . Lodgepole pine is presently contributing only 4 per cent to our pole supply ; however , it is certain to preempt a position of greater importance in the near future . 5 . Northern White-cedar . The production of northern white-cedar poles has declined rapidly in the last 10 years , and less than 100,000 are now being produced annually . The heartwood of this species , like that of its western congener , is exceedingly durable in contact with soil , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of satisfactory service . The bulk of the poles currently harvested , however , are butt-treated. 6 . Other Species . Several other species in addition to those enumerated above are used to produce a limited number of poles annually . Western larch , because of its size , strength , and desirable form , has appeared on the market in ever-increasing numbers since the Second World War . Ponderosa pine , the western balsam ( true ) firs , and western hemlock are others which , because of their form , strength , and ease of treatment , have invaded the pole markets in recent years . C. Seasoning of Poles In a normal woods operation the trees selected for pole production are felled , trimmed of all side branches , cut to specified lengths , and barked . Bark removal facilitates rapid drying and thus minimizes the threats of insect attack and blue-stain infection . In most areas the peeled poles are gathered , bunched , and then trucked to concentration yards for seasoning or hauled to railway sidings for delivery to seasoning yards at treating plants . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ yards in flumes . Air-seasoning is practiced at most facilities . Upon their delivery at the yards , the poles are segregated by lengths and classes and placed in wellspaced , stickered tiers , much in the manner of air-seasoning green lumber , and permitted to dry for 2 to 9 or more months depending upon species and locality . Open sheds or temporary roof decks are sometimes used to protect the piles from rain and the direct rays of the sun . Especial care is taken to provide adequate movement of air through the piles , as improper ventilation not only prolongs the period of seasoning but also abets conditions favorable for decay . The introduction of the vapor-drying process by I ) r . M. S. Iludson in 1942 has provided a rapid and inexpensive means for seasoning timbers in large sizes . It is especially well suited for drying poles that are to lie r iyen  | a full-length preservative treatment , since both procedures can be accomplished using the same chamber . Briefly , vapor-drying consists of placing green wood in an enclosed vessel and exposing it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Stoddard fluid . These gases heat the wood and cause it to give up some of its included water in the form of vapor . This vaporized moisture together with the inert gas are drawn off continuously and led into a condenser , where they are liquefied , then drained off into a separatory tank . The water is bled off through a metering device on its way to a sewer , thus permitting an operator to determine the drying rate of the charge . The solvent , on the other hand , is revaporized and returned to the drying chamber . Southern yellow pine poles may be satisfactorily dried in a matter of 10 to 12 hours , and with the use of this process the necessity for tying up substantial sums of working capital for several months in large inventories of slowly seasoning poles is virtually eliminated . D. Finishing Poles 1 . Shaving . The general appearance of poles may be materially improved by subjecting them to a mechanical shaving operation . Shaving not only removes the last vestiges of inner bark left on the surface but also @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The surfaces of shaved poles also permit better and more uniform distribution of preservative while poles are in the treating cylinder . Two basic types of pole-shaving machines are in current use . With one of them a pole is set into rotation as it is slowly advanced under a series of cutterheads mounted on long actuating arms ( Fig. 4-1 ) . With the other type a pole is fed without rotation through a battery of cutterheads which revolve about the pole . The depth of cut for either type of machine is easily regulated , and no more wood is removed than is ordinarily necessary to produce clean , smooth , cylindrical shafts. 2 . Framing . Pole framing consists of preboring all bolt holes and cutting the gains and roofs . Gains are the flat recesses let in near the top of a pole and used for seating the crossarm . In practice these are always placed on the face * of a pole . A pole is roofed by making a slanting cut across its top , or by cutting a pair of opposing angled surfaces to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Specification and Dimensions for Wood Poles , Designation 05.1 ? 1948 , decrees that all poles to be given a full-length preservative treatment shall be framed within the terms of the purchaser 's contract prior to treatment . This practice gives assurance that there will be no exposure of untreated wood below the depth of impregnation , a condition which is often unavoidable when pole framing is done after treatment . 3 . Incising . Poles which are given only an open-tank butt-treatment before emplacement are usually incised from 12 in. above their predetermined ground line to at least 24 in. below it . Incising is a mechanical operation consisting of punching slit-like holes , % in. long , 1% in. wide , and - /2 in . The concave side of a pole , or that side of greatest curvature having reverse or double sweep between the tote and ground line , is designated the face of the pole .  | deep , at regular and frequent intervals about the pole 's surface within the linear limits indicated above ( Fig. 4-2 ) . E. Preservative Treatment for Poles Materials used @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ broad classes , viz. : ( 1 ) oil and oil-borne chemicals and ( 2 ) water-borne salts . Standard preservative oils include creosote , creosote-coal tar formulations , creosote-petroleum blends , and pentachlorophenol . Creosote is an inexpensive and highly effective toxic and the one most widely used in impregnating poles . Water-borne salts may be used when poles will not be subjected to leaching and where cleanliness , paintability , and lack of odor are essential requirements . Pentachlorophenol is an excellent preservative for wood poles and posts . The surfaces of poles treated with this toxic are dry , clean , and nonoily ; may be painted with facility if so desired ; and are especially well suited for buildings and pole-type construction . Ordinarily all pine poles , as well as those produced from Douglas-fir , western larch , and other pole timbers known for their relatively perishable nature , are subjected to full-length , standardized pressure treatments as prescribed by the American Wood-Preservers ' Association. * However , it has been found that lodgepole pine and western larch poles placed in the drier areas of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ merely butt-treated in accordance with recommended procedures . Unless otherwise specified , one of the empty-cell methods of treatment such as the Rueping or the Lowry process is used when poles are given a full-length impregnation . When customer specifications call for a full-cell treatment , either the Bethell or Burnett process is recommended . Table 4-1 figure footnote * The reader is referred io A.W.P.A. Standards C-1 and C-4 , respectively , for details of acceptable practices in pressure treating poles . Creosote  | gives the A.W.P.A. minimum acceptable retentions of preservatives for the principal polewoods when subjected to empty-cell treatments . Untreated poles of the species enumerated in Table 4-1 , depending on their geographic location and site of erection , can not be depended upon to last for more than 2 to 10 years . A life expectancy of at least 35 to 40 years may be reasonably anticipated , however , for poles treated in accordance with recommended practices . Poles produced from timber exhibiting natural resistance to the depredations of fungi and insects do not require full-length pressure treatments to figure assure long service life . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ untreated poles of this species placed in service more than 30 years ago are still in a satisfactory state of repair . The sapwood zone of pole-sized trees of this species is seldom more than % in. wide , and while this zone may be destroyed at and near the ground line in a very few years , the heartwood , which constitutes more than 90 per cent of the volume of a pole , is seldom molested . Nevertheless it is now common practice to give western redcedar poles * at least butt-treatment in creosote oil in accordance with A.W.P.A. Standard C-7.f Accordingly , poles that have been properly seasoned , shaved , and incised through the ground-line zone , are stacked upright in an open tank ( Fig. 4-3 ) , and their butt ends permitted to steep for no less than 6 hours in a bath of hot creosote oil held at temperatures ranging from 190 to 235 ? F. The level of the oil is so maintained that the incised ground-line area is under immersion at all times . Following this cycle , the hot oil is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the poles held in this bath for 2 additional footnote * Also northern white-cedar. 1- Standard for the Preservative Treatment of Incised Tole Butts by Ihr ' I'lrrrnutl I'roress , Western Rrderdar arid Northern White cedar .  | hours at temperatures ranging from 150 ? F to that at which solids begin to form in the bath , or ( 2 ) allowed to cool for not less than 2 hours during the final 10 minutes of which the temperature shall range from 150 ? F to that at which solids begin to form . Finally , at the end of cold or cooling cycle , hot oil not exceeding a temperature of 230 ? F is pumped into the tank and the poles steeped for 1 additional hour . This treatment is usually adequate to obtain complete penetration of the toxic in the incised sapwood zone with oil retentions often amounting to as much as 35 lb per cu ft . When customers demand full-length treatment for cedar poles , provision is made at the treating plant for total immersion during treatment ( see A.W.P.A. C8-56 , Standard for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . F. Pole Specifications In 1941 the American Standards Association released a series of standard specifications and dimensions for each of the major polewoods then in common use . These standards served as a guide in the production of poles and were often incorporated into a purchaser 's contract as a specification governing acceptance of all pole shipments . Several years later ( 1948 ) these standards were superseded by a single , all-inclusive standard designated as 05.1 1948 and titled American Standard Specifications and Dimensions for Wood Poles , in which several new polewood species were included. * In the acceptance of this revision recognition was made of the fact that there were a number of inconsistencies in the methods employed for rating various species of wood poles and that there was also a dearth of reliable mechanical data upon which to establish working stresses for some of the new species included . This situation prompted the American Society for Testing Materials Committee D-7 on Wood to organize a Subcommittee on Wood Poles and Cross Arms that would have as its responsibility the planning and execution of an exhaustive research @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be developed . Two task-force groups were appointed within the committee , one to plan and direct the technical features of the program , the other to provide adequate financing for the project . After nearly 6 years of careful planning and programming the research got under way in February , 1954 , with the testing of the first 30-ft Class 6 western larch pole . During the second period of 6 years tests were conducted on more than 600 full-sized poles and on over 14,000 standardized clear-wood test specimens . The results of this research program , probably the most comprehensive of its kind ever undertaken , are embodied in the final report of A.S.T.M. 's wood pole research program : While a new commercial standard for wood poles has not yet been released , this report will without doubt be the basis for its revision when it appears . A few of the most important conclusions derived from this study are summarized as follows : footnote * American Standards Association Standard 05.1 ? 1948 . Available through the A.S.A. , New York , N.Y . T1 .. W. Wood @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Strength and Related Properties of Wood Poles . American Society for Testing Materials , Philadelphia , 1960.  | 1 . The strength of a pole is related to the specific gravity of the wood . 2 . The stiffness of a pole may be represented by the compression modulus of elasticity of the wood in it . 3 . The modulus of rupture in small poles is less than that in larger ones . 4 . Southern pine poles of rapid growth and low specific gravity for the species are below average strength for the species . 5 . There is a significant strength correlation between untreated poles and small clear-wood test specimens , and between treated poles and small clear-wood test specimens . 6 . Natural defects , such as knots and spiral grain , as presently limited in American Standards Association specifications are not an important factor in controlling the strength of poles as they are normally used . 7 . Preservative treatment has no consistent effect on the surface hardness of a pole . 8 . The bending strength of southern pine poles is reduced 20 to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ limits of 1960 American Wood-Preservers ' Association standards . 9 . Reduction of strength resulting from conditioning and treatment of southern pine was greater in poles than in small clear-wood test specimens taken from poles . 10 . A supplementary series of strength tests on treated longleaf pine revealed that lowering the temperature of steam and shortening the steam-conditioning period gave strength values closer to those of untreated poles . 11 . Treating-plant experiments indicate that reduced steaming temperatures of 240 to 245 ? F may be used successfully on southern pine poles . 12 . The bending strength of Douglas-fir and western larch test poles was reduced about 10 per cent by Boultonizing and treatment within the limits permitted by A.W.P.A. 1960 standards . 13 . Lodgepole pine and western redcedar showed no significant change in strength following air-seasoning and treatment in accordance with A.W.P.A. 1960 standards . 14 . Reintroduction of moisture into poles that were treated after airseasoning proved to be difficult . G. Pole-type Buildings During the past decade or so , a new concept in design has been employed in the framing of a wide variety @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of wood . Known as pole-type buildings , this new method of construction has been found to be especially well suited for the erection of such structures on the farm as barns , granaries , cribs , livestock shelters , and poultry houses , as well as for a variety of industrial sales and services buildings , canneries , boat shelters , and large warehouses , often of 30 ( 1 it or more in length . Unlike their conventional ciounterpa rts , which rise from foundations of brick or masonry , hole-Ipe buildings consist of nun ? rous full-length ,  | pressure-treated * poles of predetermined classes and lengths firmly anchored in the ground at specified distances from one another . These poles , when in position , are the main structural components of a building , as the siding ( of whatever form ) , bracing , and rafters are firmly fastened directly to them using ring-shanked nails . No foundations are required , and flooring , when it is used , is independently supported by the ground . Because they are firmly anchored in soil , pole-type buildings @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hurricane force or by flash floods than those rising from conventional foundations . Vig. 4-4 . Pole-type construction of a 32 by 32-ft hay shed . Built with sixteen 25-ft southern yellow pine poles pressure treated with creosote to final retention of 8 lb per en ft . ( Courtesy W. A. Stacey , American Wood-Preservers ' Institute , Lawrence , Kansas . ) Pole-type buildings are appearing rapidly and in large numbers in many parts of the country , as this type of construction can be done rapidly and at very substantial savings in both materials and money . Eliminated are expensive foundations , systems of bracing , and the high costs of skilled labor . Many farm buildings can be erected at less than $1 per square foot of enelosed area , while industrial structures requiring heavy slab floors often cost less than $2 per square foot . Figs. 4-4 and 4-5 depict two pole-type buildings in common use . II . Painted Poles Treated poles ordinarily present an acceptable surface , but when desired ' hey can be painted as readily as untreated materials . Painting is seldom @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a high degree of visibility is mandatory . Salt-treated poles can be painted with any paint of footnote * Pules treated with either creosote or pentachlorophenol are used , the choice being usually a matter of customer preference .  | figure quality once the surfaces have been thoroughly dried . The dried surfaces of poles containing creosote or an oil-borne preservative should be primed with aluminum powder in an approved vehicle before painting . A good grade of paint in any color may then be applied . I. Fish-net Poles A small but locally important market exists in some areas in the northeastern United States for fish-net poles . These are employed by commercial fishermen in offshore waters , tidal basins , and a few large fresh-water lakes to support pound and gill nets . Such poles seldom exceed a length of 30 ft . They are usually produced from any one of several available species , but production seldom exceeds 10,000 annually . J. Furnace Poles About 50,000 green hardwood poles are consumed annually in the refinement of copper along the Atlantic seaboard from New York to Maryland . When @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ chemical reaction occurs that removes oxygen and other impurities from the smelt . Furnace poles vary from 25 to 45 ft in length . No restrictions are placed upon them with respect to the number and kind of defects , lull it is mandatory that they be in a green condition at the time of their delivery . Poles of  | this sort are sold on a weight basis and bring from $7 to $10 laid down at the refinery . K. Future of the Pole Industry In many of our metropolitan areas , particularly in congested business districts , poles have been replaced in favor of underground conduits . Ornate reinforced concrete and metal poles support the lighting systems in some of our larger cities , while high-power transmission lines thread their way across the breadth and length of our land on poles and towers of latticed steel . There is little likelihood , however , that these fabricated structures will eventually replace the wood pole , for in the last analysis properly treated wood poles are still the least expensive means for supporting wire and cable . The annual @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and the erection of new ones to meet the insatiable demands of a rapidly growing urban and rural population , together with an expanding pole market in the construction field , are ample evidence that pole production will be maintained at current or possibly at slightly higher levels in the foreseeable future . II . ROUND-TIMBER PILES Round-timber piles are essentially poles used as columns for the support of heavy structural loads . Foundation piles are those driven into the ground in excavations and capped with masonry to provide adequate foundations I'ig .. 1-6. filing , - hir ii IriJyr ullnirl. nl ILi , al Ii.1 Iri , rn find 11w-a ' al right Ili final I ( iuulr+i la  | for heavy structures resting on soils that of themselves are wholly incapable of such support . The term timber piles , by contrast , is usually applied to the round , vertical components of docks , wharves , trestles , and similar strut . tures , where the greater length of each pile rises above the ground line , or where the piles merely rest on stone or masonry @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of piles or a framed structure fabricated principally with pile timbers . The use of piles actually antedates the recorded history of man . Many an aborigine , in an effort to secure maximum security for himself and his family , erected his crude abode on piles over the waters of shallow lakes and deep swamps , evidences of which are still to be observed in some of the montane lakes of Switzerland . Piles have been widely used in Europe since early medieval times , and particularly in the support of buildings in the cities of Holland and in Venice . And in modern times the towering structures of brick and steel rising into the skies over New York , Chicago , and other large metropolitan areas rest upon a dense forest of round-timber piles . Production of piling in the United States during the past few years has exceeded 20 million units annually . Pile timbers are harvested , peeled , and seasoned much in the manner of poles . Prior to use they are given a fulllength preservative pressure treatment in accordance with provisions set forth in A.W.P.A. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a long and satisfactory service life . A. Factors Governing the Selection of Pile Timbers The same general considerations as are employed in determining the suitability of a species for use as poles may be applied in piling . In addition , pile timbers must also possess good shock resistance and the ability to absorb heavy hammer loads imposed upon them during emplacement . End-brooming resulting from the pounding of a hammer is often excessive for some of the softer woods , but this type of failure can be largely overcome by placing ' steel collars about the head of a pile before it is driven . Piles with excessive sweep are objectionable because they are difficult to drive and only too often incapable of supporting loads expected of them . A rule-of-thumb inspection procedure is to reject those with sweep when a line projected from the top to the bottom centers of a pile falls outside anywhere along its length . B. Species Used The southern yellow pines currently account for about 71 per cent of the pile timbers produced in the United States . Douglas-fir is the second @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the supply annually . The residual 13 per cent is composed of several species including oak and a few other hardwoods ; red , ponderosa , and jack pines ; western redcedar ; and larch . Mention should also be made of two exotic timbers which enjoy use as timber piles in marine construction . The first , Demerara rrttnhcart r1'ertrintlru rn ( lit ( i Sehtoti . l , a bra ' V clloiah-rccn wood often nnolilcd ilh Iirom n  | or black pigmentation , is indigenous to British Guiana and several other South American countries . It is well known for its resistance to attack of marine borers and has been used in both European and American tidewaters with equally satisfactory results . Fender systems , dolphins , ferry slips , and wharves are but a few of the many sorts of marine installations fabricated with greenheart timber piles . No preservative treatment is needed for the wood of this species . Angelique ( Dicorynia paraensis Bertth. ) is another South American tree productive of timber notable for its natural resistance to marine worms . Heavy , and russet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ silica content , which , it is believed , is a deterrent to the destructive activities of marine organisms . Angelique piles are largely produced in French Guiana , where there is an abundance of pile-sized trees proximate to salt water . Marine installations of this timber in the warm , teredo-infested waters of the Canal Zone evinced little or no deterioration after 15 years of exposure , and since the Second World War , angelique timber piles are being used in ever-increasing numbers along the water fronts of both the American and European continents . Like greenheart , this timber requires no preservative treatment . C. Specifications for Round-timber Piles In 1927 the American Society for Testing Materials issued Standard Specification for Round Timber Piles , under the designation D25-27 . In the ensuing years it has been subject to a number of revisions the latest one of which appeared in 1958 as D25 58 . This same specification has also been approved by the American Standards Association under the A.S.A. designation 06.1 1959 . Both documents are available for purchase at nominal cost . HI . POSTS It has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ required annually to meet the national needs . More than 450 million of these are used in the continual erection and maintenance of fence lines , as fencing has been found to be the only practical means for area control on farms and ranches and along rights of way . Nearly another 100 million are utilized for guard posts and as supports for the array of directional and regulatory traffic markers that characterize the nation 's highways . In the days before preservatives were used to prolong the life of posts , it was customary in so far as possible to use only those species of proved durability . Chestnut , black locust , osage-orange , and most cedar posts could be relied upon to last for 20 to 30 or more years provided they were constituted principally of heartwood. * Such posts even after their thin peripheral layers of sapwood had been destroyed in the region of the ground line gave adequate service for many years . Redwood , baldcypress , white oak , and catalpa were usually good for 10 to 20 years , but such woods as ash @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ little resistance to the ravages of termites and wood-destroying fungi.  | birch , maple , hemlock , and spruce , even when the posts contained large volumes of heartwood , were usually in a bad state of repair after only 2 to 5 years in the ground . It was not until the availability of durable post-wood timbers began to diminish , however , that consideration was given to the use of preservatives to extend the useful life of the more perishable species . A. Sources of Posts Posts are produced in prodigious numbers in all timbered areas of the nation . Several million of them are procured from farm woodlots where they are cut during the winter months when most agricultural pursuits are at a virtual standstill . Many others are by-products of logging operations where treetops and large limbs are fashioned into post-sized pieces . In several sections of the country , and notably in the southern yellow pine belt , which is dominated by thrifty second-growth stands , thinnings in sizes too small for poles provide a multitude of posts , the sale of which more than pays @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and distributors have made their appearance in many areas . Unlike farmers who , as previously indicated , usually restrict harvesting operations to a few weeks during the winter months , commercial producers work from 200 to 300 days yearly . Their operations both in the woods and at the concentration yards are mechanized wherever possible , with portable power saws , mechanical debarkers , and treating facilities a part of their standard equipment . Most round posts are cut in lengths of 7 to 8 It , with their diameters ranging from 3 to 6 in . Post timbers in large diameters are not infrequently halved longitudinally , and some of the largest are even quartered . The supply of round posts is also augmented by materials from other sources . Hand-rived timbers of post dimensions are produced in large numbers from large western redcedar and redwood logs too severely damaged in felling or in logging operations to be of use for sawtimber . Posts with square or rectangular cross sections , products of sawmills , are commonly produced from large cants . B. Bark Removal The facility with which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from poles and piles , varies with the season in which they are produced . The bark on winter-cut timber is " tight " and always difficult to dislodge . That on trees felled during the early growing season , however , is seldom troublesome , as the cells in the active cambial region are easily ruptured . For many years the removal of bark was strictly a hand operation . Depending upon his skill and the tightness of the bark , an experienced operator could peel 100 to 200 posts in a single working day . Hand peeling operations seldom removed all the inner hark , which , when the posts were subjected to preservative treatment , inhibited the absorption of toxic . This , coupled with rising labor costs , caused pole producers to develop mechanical barkers that not onl increased production rates but also produced cleaner posts .  | Three types of mechanical barkers are in current use . In some producing centers they are mounted on skids and moved from one cutting site to the next as required . Others are set on permanent foundations at post @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this type operate on the same principle as rossers used in the wood yards of pulpwood mills . These consist of motor-driven drums approximately 5 ft in diameter and 9 ft in length , the shells of which are made of either perforated boiler plate or closely spaced channel irons . In its operation , the drum is loaded with 80 to 100 posts and then rotated at 25 to 35 rpm . The tumbling and rubbing action dislodges the bark which falls out through the perforations , or slots , in the wall provided for this purpose . In the design of one such machine the axles are eccentrically mounted at either end to provide greater tumbling and sliding action . Southern yellow pine posts as well as those of spring-cut and summer-cut hardwoods can be debarked in 12 to 25 minutes . The use of drum barkers is not recommended , however , for late-fall-cut and winter-cut hardwood posts . Machines of this sort have a daily capacity of from 900 to 1,000 posts depending upon the source of the wood and the season it was cut . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ per post . 2 . Hammer Barking Machines . Two versions of hammer barking machines are in current use . One of them is actually a machine specifically designed for rossing pulpwood and is composed of a power-driven shaft to which has been attached a number of small , free-swinging hammers . In debarking , posts are fed into and rotated against the flying hammers which literally beat off the bark . This mechanism has a daily capacity of about 3,000 posts , but because of its high initial and operating costs , its use is prohibitive in all except the largest of post-producing enterprises . The second version of these hammer-type machines is the chain barker . Its principal component is a large , steel , power-driven , flanged spool , with several short lengths of heavy logging chain bolted in transverse festoons between the spool 's flanges . This is mounted in a heavy metal frame to which are also attached feed rolls to carry the posts over and past the spool . In chain barking the spool is run at a speed of 700 rpm , and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ outward to strike and dislodge the bark on a post as it is moved over them . Feeding and rotating operations are manual . This machine has a daily capacity of from 300 to 400 pieces . 3 . Peeling Machines . Two types of post-peeling machines are in current use . They differ in their work from the other debarking machines previously described in that the bark is removed by peeling rather than by a pounding action . One machine is essentially a diminutive pole shaver with floating cutterheads . The other is a modified lathe . The lathe-type barker peels off not only the bark but also some wood , so that the finished post is a smooth cylinder of wood much like the residual core of a veneer bolt . Four men operating this machine , either in the woods or at a concentration center , can turn out 120 to 200 finished posts per hour . Lathe-peeled posts have smaller volumes than do tapered poles of comparable length and top diameter . Hence they are lighter in weight and require lesser amounts of preservative Iharr their tapered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to as much as $100 per car . It is questionable , however , if posts with small volumes of sapwood should be lathepeeled , since it is difficult to obtain satisfactory penetration of preservative in the heartwood of most species . C. Seasoning There is little or nothing to be gained by seasoning posts that are not destined for treatment with oil-borne preservatives , since once in the ground they pick up moisture until they reach equilibrium with that in the soil . Moreover , when Osmose salts are used , it is imperative that green material he used for satisfactory results . But to obtain adequate absorption and penetration of creosote and other oil-borne toxics , posts must first be thoroughly seasoned . In seasoning , the posts should be open-piled or ricked in pens to facilitate the free circulation of air about them . In such species as the oaks , particular care should be taken to avoid excessive checking . A better quality of posts is obtained from trees of these species when they are cut in the fall and seasoned during the fall and winter months @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ adequately seasoned in from 60 days to 6 months depending upon their diameters , season of the year when cut , and prevailing atmospheric conditions during drying . D. Framing Little or no supplementary framing is required for the vast majority of posts annually put into service . Those used in fence lines on farms and ranches are squared at either end at the time of their manufacture . In the event , however , that they are to be driven into the ground rather than inserted into prepared holes , the smaller ends are customarily taper-pointed to expedite driving . Right-of-way fence posts are handled in virtually the same manner except that gains are cut into those where bracing timbers are used . Highway guard posts are roofed in one of several ways and then either ( 1 ) bored to provide lead channels through which strands of restraining cable can be threaded or ( 2 ) gained to provide adequate seating for guard rails . Bolt holes are prebored in posts used to support the larger and heavier highway signs or markers . Posts , like poles , are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ possible exposure of toxic-free wood . E. Methods of Treating Several procedures are used in impregnating posts with a preservative , but the one most widely employed , particularly for farm and ranch fence lines , is the open-tank immersion method with alternating baths of hot and cool creosote . This process is similar to the one previously described for the preservation of western redcedar poles ( sec page 62 ) , although the equipment involved is seldom as elaborate . " Treating facilities erected at concentra-  | tion yards and on farms often consist of nothing more than oil drums or iron tanks or vats resting on stone or brick fireboxes . Properly seasoned posts subjected to complete immersion in such baths may be expected to last for 20 or more years under normal exposure . When merely butt-treatments are desired , they are stood upright in treating tanks , and the toxic is maintained at a level that will assure penetration several inches above a predetermined ground line . Guard and other highway posts , as well as most of those used in major right-of-way fencing , are subjected @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with A.W.P.A. standards , * thus giving every reasonable assurance of maximum protection and a long and satisfactory service life . During the past decade or so Osmose salts have been used in ever-increasing quantities for the preservation of fence posts . This preservative , which in its formulation includes sodium fluoride , potassium bichromate , dinitrophenol , and bisodium hydrogen arsenate , is supplied in the form of a cream or a paste . No special equipment is needed in its use , for the matrix , when mixed with a small amount of water , can be applied with a brush or , if desired , further diluted in a tank and used as a dipping bath . But unlike other preservative processes where wood must be well seasoned before impregnation , Osmose salts are applied to green material . Immediately after brushing or dipping , the posts are piled in solid stacks and covered with waterproof paper and permitted to stand for about 30 days . During this interval the salts slowly diffuse into the wood . This method of treatment is especially well suited for southern yellow @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . With such material salt penetration is deep , and the posts are well protected . Retentions of IA to % lb of toxic per cu ft of wood are generally regarded as adequate . During the past decade or so unscrupulous dealers have marketed millions of fence posts purported to have received an adequate preservative treatment . Yet in reality these materials were merely bathed in cheap , nontoxic mineral oil , often nothing more than crankcase drainings to which just enough creosote was added to provide an acceptable color and aroma . With the view to putting an end to these deceitful practices , the American Wood-Preservers ' Institute developed an industry standard which was submitted to the U.S. Department of Commerce for consideration and adoption . Released on February 6. 1961 , by the Commodity Standards Division of the U.S. Department of Commerce under the designation CS 235 61 , Pressure Treated Fence Posts ( with oil-type preservatives ) , this new industry standard , when properly used , assures consumers of pressure-treated fence posts that may be expected to give a service life of at least 30 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the case with all commercial standards , is strictly voluntary . It may be employed as a specification in contractual negotiations or incorporated as a part of a general specification . When it is made a part of a contract , its various stipulations may be enforced by footnote * See A.W.P.A. C-5 , Standard for the Preservative Treatment of Posts by Pressure Processes .  | either or both parties concerned . Particularly desirable features of this document are the standardization of dimensions for round , half-round , and square-sawed fence posts , and the provisions for uniform treatment and branding and tagging practices . F. Cost Considerations Rising farm-labor costs have made it expedient to use more efficient methods in erecting fence lines , with the result that mechanical post-hole diggers figure and mobile , powered post drivers have made their appearance in many areas . Setting posts by hand , which involves digging holes and then tamping the soil around a post once it has been positioned , is both laborious and time consuming . A two-man crew can rarely set more than eight posts an hour when hand @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ drills mounted on and powered by a tractor , make it possible to set about 12 posts an hour , but hand tamping is still necessary and is the principal deterrent to efficient operation . Power driving of pointed posts is the most economical method for setting posts yet devised . A two-man crew using a powered hammer ( Fig. 4-7 ) mounted on the rear of a tractor can set about 30 pointed posts an hour . As the posts are driven , the displaced soil is firmly packed against them , and thus supplementary tamping becomes unnecessary . Untreated fence posts , depending upon their size , species , availability , and geographic source , cost from $0.2() Io $I each . ' l'realed posts , on the other  | hand , bring from $0.35 to $1.50 or more , contingent not only upon those factors noted above but also upon the nature and amount of toxic retention and the method of impregnation . It is well for the user of fence posts to ascertain what materials are available in his area and their life expectancy on his particular @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ both treated and untreated posts , and if he decides to use the latter , what his replacement costs may amount to over 5 , 10 , or even 20 years . With such data in hand , he is in a position to determine the most economical installation consistent with his needs . If the purchase price for treated materials can be reasonably expected to exceed that of untreated stock plus anticipated replacements for those damaged in service , say for a 20-year period , there is little justification for the greater initial expenditure . Under most circumstances , however , the use of treated posts will effect appreciable savings in cash to the consumer . G. Steel Posts Prefabricated steel posts used for supporting wire barriers have made their appearance in many rural areas during the past several years . Their initial costs are appreciably higher than those of properly treated wooden posts , and there is no evidence to support the claim that they will outlast the wooden article . While it is expected that their use will continue , it is doubtful that they will be serious @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ farms . SELECTED REFERENCES 1 . Anderson , I. V. Trends in the Utilization of Pole Species and Their Effect on Forest Management . Proceedings , Society of American Foresters . Washington , D.C. 1947. 2 . Anon . A Report on Pole No. 92159 . Applied Research Laboratories , United States Steel Corporation , Pittsburgh , Pa. 1955. 3 . Anon . Pressure Treated Timber Poles . American Wood-Preservers ' Institute , Chicago , Ill. 1957. 4 . Anon . Fencing . The Farm Fencing Association , St. Louis , Mo . Undated . 5 . Anon . Low-cost Pole Buildings for Industry . The Dow Chemical Company , Midland , Mich . Undated . 6 . Bonnicksen , Leroy . Multi Combination Pole-type Construction . Oreg . Agr . Expt . Sta. , Bull . 557. 1956. 7 . Drow , John T. Strength of Western Larch and Its Suitability for Poles . U.S. Department of Agriculture , Forest Service , Forest Products Laboratory Report No . R1758 ( revised ) . 1952. 8 . Helphenstine , R. K. , Jr . Quantity of Wood Treated and Preservatives Used @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Forest Service and the American WoodPreservers ' Association . Issued annually . 9 . Hunt , C. M. , and G. A. Garratt . Wood Preservation , 2d ed . McGraw-Hill Book Company , Inc. , New York . 1953. 10 . Keeney , W. D. , R. H. Mann , and C. M. Burpee . Pressure Treated Timber Foundation Piles . American Wood-Preservers ' Institute , Chicago , Ill. 1955. 11. 1 chrhas , M. M. Fence Posh Barking Machines in the South . La . Forestry Coma. , Bull . 3. 1947.  | 12 . Mann , R. H. 54-year-old Creosoted Pine Poles Free from Decay and in Excellent Condition . Reprint from Wood Preserv . News . 1952. 13 . Neetzel , J. R. Cost of Setting Fence Posts in Minnesota . Lake States Forest Expt . Sta. , Tech . Note No. 350. 1951. 14 . Neetzel , J. R. Power-driving of Wood Fence Posts . Minn . Forest Notes , No. 4. 1952. 15 . Neetzel , J. R. , and S. A. Eugene . What Do Fence Posts Cost on an Annual Basis ? Lake @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 341. 1950. 16 . Ostrander , M. D. Production and Marketing Wood Piling and Poles in the Northeast . Northeast . Forest Expt . Sta. , Paper No. 57. 1953. 17 . Patterson , D. How to Design Pole Type Buildings . American Wood-Preservers ' Institute , Chicago , III . 1957. 18 . Smith , W. R. , and R. A. Hertzler . The Preservation of Fence Posts . N.C. Dept . Conserv. and Devlpmt. , Resources Indus . Ser. 1 . 1946. 19 . Stacey , W. A. How to Build Good Highway Fences . Wood Preserv . News , 35(9) : 6-8 , 18. 1957. 20 . Stacey , W. A. Pole Construction Is Just Beginning . Wood Preserv . News , 36(1) : 6 , 18-19. 1958. 21 . Stanford Research Institute . America 's Demand for Wood , 1929-1975 . Palo Alto . Calif. 1954. 22 . U.S. Department of Agriculture , Forest Service . Potential Requirements for Timber Production in the United States . Report 2 from A Reappraisal of the Forest Situation . 1946. 23 . Wending , J. P. Western Red Cedar : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Association , Minneapolis , Minn. 1938. 24 . Wilson , T. R. C. , and J. T. Drow . Fiber Stresses for Wood Poles . U.S. Department of Agriculture , Forest Service , Forest Products Laboratory Report No . D1619 ( revised ) . 1953.  | MINE TIMBERS I. USES OF MINE TIMBERS The term mine timbers is a collective designation denoting a variety of wooden supports used in the construction of mine tunnels , shafts , and other openings and chambers . Fay defines timber as " any of the wooden props , posts , bars , collars , lagging , etc. , used to support mine workings , " and timbering as " the timber structure employed for supporting the face of an excavation during the progress of construction . " The word timbering is sometimes applied to concrete , masonry , and steel supports , as well as to those made of wood , but the general term ground support is considered preferable to refer to all types of supporting structures . This chapter will be restricted , in the main , to ground supports made of wood @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ used in connection with mining . The subject of mine timbers is one of considerable importance in the forest economy of the United States , the consumption of wood for this purpose being exceeded only by lumber , fuel wood , pulpwood , railroad ties , and veneer logs . A. Purpose of Mine Timbers When an underground excavation is made , whether horizontal or vertical , the removal of soil and rock creates new and unsupported surfaces . Those composed of loose material soon start to slough away . Hard-rock faces exposed in this manner break away from the back along planes of fracture . Material of this latter sort will eventually arch and support itself , but if the back is not supported immediately , caving is apt to become cumulative until a large chamber is formed . In solid , unfractured rock formations , caving is seldom a problem , and the roofs of even large chambers may stand indefinitely without the need for internal supports . It is quite obvious that the amount of timbering that can be placed in a time opening many hundreds of feet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to support the tremendous weight of the overlying 77  | strata . The primary purpose of timbering is , therefore , to prevent loose material , blocks , or slabs from falling and damaging equipment , injuring workmen , and plugging passageways . Timbering also provides a firm foundation for machinery in soft ground , a base for car rails , linings for elevator shafts , and numerous other uses . The amount and character of timbering vary widely in different types of ground . * Weaknesses caused by faults , fissures , bedding and cleavage planes in rock strata , blasting fractures , seepage , etc. , may even dictate the use of several different methods and intensities of timbering in the same mine . Even after the ground around an excavation has " set , " pressures may be great . Such pressures may be either vertical or lateral , or both . Substantial timbering is required to keep some tunnels open , since even large timbers are sometimes broken in a matter of days . In some cases , tunnels must be abandoned and alternate passages cut in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mines also require floor timbering to prevent heaving . B. Mining Terminology Colloquialisms are common in mining terminology , and many of the terms used are not to be found in a dictionary . To complicate matters further , the same term may have different meanings in various mining regions . Some of the more common mining terms are defined below : Adit . A nearly horizontal passage from the surface by which a mine is entered and watered . In the United States an adit is usually called a tunnel , though the latter , strictly speaking , passes entirely through a hill and is open at both ends . Frequently also called drift , or adit , level . Cage . A frame with one or more platforms for cars , used in hoisting in a vertical shaft . It is steadied by guides on the sides of the shaft . Crossbar . A horizontal timber held against the roof to support it , usually over a roadway ; a collar . Crosscut. 1 . A small passageway driven at right angles to the main entry to connect it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ A level driven across the course of a vein or in general across the direction of the main workings or across the " grain of coal . " Drift . 1 . A horizontal passage underground . A drift follows the vein , as distinguished from a crosscut , which intersects it , or a level or a gallery , which may do either . 2 . In coal mining , a gangway or entry above water level , driven from the surface in the seam . Gob . Any pile of loose waste in a mine . Lagging . Planks , slabs , or small timbers placed over the caps or behind the posts of timbering , not to carry the main weight , but to form a ceiling or a wall , preventing fragments of rock from falling through . Level . A horizontal passage or drift into or in a mine . It is customary to work mines by levels at regular intervals in depth , numbered in their footnote * The term ground , as used in the mining industry , denotes rock formations in which a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or drainage level , if there be one . Rarely applied to coal mining . Pillar . I. A solid block of coal , etc. , varying in area from a few square yards to several acres . 2 . A piece of ground or mass of ore left to support the roof or hanging wall in a mine . Raise . A mine shaft driven from below upward ; called also upraise , rise , and riser ( Webster ) . An opening , like a shaft , made in the back of a level to reach a level above ( Standard ) . The term is in general usage at mines in Western states . Shaft . An excavation of limited area compared with its depth , made for finding or mining ore or coal ; raising water , ore , rock , or coal ; hoisting and lowering men and materials ; or ventilating underground workings . The term is often specifically applied to approximately vertical shafts , as distinguished from inclines or inclined shafts . Stope . An excavation from which the ore has been extracted , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of steps . A variation of step ( Standard ) . Usually applied to highly inclined or vertical veins . Frequently used incorrectly as a synonym of room , which is a wide working space in a flat mine . Stull. 1 . The top piece of a set of mine timbers . 2 . A timber prop supporting the roof of a mine opening . C. Mining Methods and Types of Timbering A mine may consist of ( 1 ) a simple horizontal tunnel driven into the side of a hill ; ( 2 ) a complicated interconnecting system of underground shafts , levels , crosscuts , drifts , pumping chambers , stopes , and rooms located hundreds of feet below ground ; or ( 3 ) any degree of development between these two extremes . An open pit of the type used in strip or surface mining is also called a mine . Little timber is needed in open-pit mines other than that used for crossties . The timbering requirements of some few mines cut into solid rock are also small , but in the majority of cases , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mining employed , and length of time the mine is to be kept operative , vast quantities of timber are required to maintain safe operating conditions . 1 . Timbering Open Rooms . The simplest form of timbering consists of single posts , or props , mounted with or without sills and topped either with caps or headboards . The cap may take the form of two wedge-shaped pieces of wood that can be driven together to assure a tight fit between the prop and the area of roof that it supports . Such props are most common in flat mines , such as coal mines , where they constitute the largest single item of wood consumption . 2 . Timbering Tunnels , Drifts , and Crosscuts . The timbering in tunnels , drifts , and crosscuts may vary from simple , one-piece tunnel sets lo complicated , eight-piece arched sets used in ground that swells when exposed to air and moisture . Probably the most common form of timbering  | is the three-piece tunnel set used in drift and crosscut construction . This type of tunnel set consists of three @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 5-1 ) . The sets form the major framework of tunnel timbering . Additional protection is required to prevent the caving of loose material between the sets . This is accomplished , where necessary , by placing poles , slabs , or sawed lumber on top of the caps and on the outsides of the posts , between the posts and the tunnel walls . This is called lagging ; that above the caps is known as top , or A B figure working-floor , lagging , that at the sides is called side , or gob , lagging . The construction of chutes , used for the loading of ore or waste into mine cars , consumes rather large quantities of heavy stull timbers and plank . 3 . The Square-set Method of Timbering Slopes . The square-set method is widely used in timbering stopes and rooms . Fay defines a square set as follows : " A set of timbers composed of a cap , girt , and post . These members meet so as to form a solid 90-degree angle . They are so framed at the intersection @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other similar sets . " A diagrammatic sketch of square-set timbering is shown in Fig. 5-2A ; a vertical transverse section through a typical square-set stope is shown in Fig. 5-2B. a . Joints Used in . Constructing Square Sets . The most common method of joining the component members of a square set is shown in Fig. 5-3 . This is the step-down , or Rocker 4-8-12 , method used extensively in the copper mines in Butte , Montana . This joint has many advantages over the former butted posts and square and beveled framing .  | figure D. Avoiding Timber Waste in Mines It has been estimated that as much as 85 per cent of all timber used underground is employed in temporary working spaces . It has also been reported that at least two-thirds of this timber is abandoned in a relatively short time , often while the wood is still sound . This estimate gives due allowance for timber quantities known to be salvaged , including mine ties . Much of this waste is unavoidable , yet more emphasis on salvage procedures would undoubtedly result in large @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Europe , where the matter has been given a good deal more thought . The development of methods that require less timber and of more efficient salvage operations has resulted in substantial savings of timber in Europe . The fact that much of the timber can not be salvaged , however , dictates certain requirements that mine timbers must meet , the most obvious being the lowest possible cost consistent with strength properties that will provide maximum safety . II . CLASSIFICATION AND CHARACTERISTICS OF MINE TIMBERS A. Classes of Mine Timbers Cost is the principal factor governing the selection of mine timbers . For convenience , such materials are classified into two general groups , round and sawed , although a limited number of split and hewed timbers are also placed in service . Round timbers constitute somewhat more than half the total amount of timber used . Ordinarily sawed timbers are employed in the more or less permanent installations , such as headframes , entry and shaft timbers , haulageways , certain types of lagging , tipples , trestles , ore bins and shoots , pumping stations , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the ease with which they may be framed and the score efficient and ec ononcical construction that can be accomplished . When the  | square-set method of timbering was first originated , it was considered impossible to obtain desired joint strength with round timbers . The development of better joints , however , such as the Rocker joint ( Fig. 5-3 ) has dispelled this belief . Now round timbers , usually untreated , are used almost exclusively where the duration of a working mine is less than the life expectancy of treated wood , and for nearly all temporary timbering where it is impossible to salvage the timbers as the workings advance . It has long since been demonstrated that round timbers and sawed timbers of the same net cross-sectional area have virtually the same strength , although the former have two inherent mechanical advantages . The axis of a round timber is almost always parallel to that of the component fibers , whereas sawed material is often cross-grained as a result of improper sawing . Knots can be expected to have less effect in reducing strength in round timbers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are usually smaller . The above is based on two assumptions : ( 1 ) that the round members can be fastened together as securely as sawed timbers ; and ( 2 ) that the volume of sapwood will not be reduced by decay during the service life of the timber . B. Qualities Desired in Mine Timbers Wood for use as mine timbers should possess the following qualities : 1 . Strength a . High stiffness and compressive strength b . Lack of brashness c . High strength-weight ratio 2 . Durability 3 . Availability 4 . Low initial and low maintenance costs Strength is , of course , of vital importance , since the safety of workers is at stake . Stiffness and compressive strength , both parallel and at right angles to the grain , are essential . Most mine props are used as columns , although they may serve as beams under various types of loading . Bearing strength is also important , particularly since the joints most commonly used depend on side bearings to sustain superimposed loads as well as to maintain tight joints . Brashness @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ without warning , can not be tolerated . Cross or spiral grain or combinations of the two , if present to the extent of weakening timbers beyond safe limits , is also dangerous . The total output of a mine is often governed by the efficiency and capacity of the hoisting system , and the transportation of supplies into a mine is a large part of the total cost of operation . The weight of wood used for timbering is , therefore , of the utmost importance , since wood for timbering represents a large part of the material that must be moved in many mines . Direct labor costs are also involved , since most timbering must be placed by hand tinder unfavorable working conditions . The preference for Douglasfir over western larch in the Rocky Mountain mining regions is an example  | of the effect of weight on the selection of a species . The properties of the two species are essentially equal for use as mine stulls , yet western larch usually enjoys only second choice because of its greater weight . The importance of durability varies with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ locations it may not be a factor at all . In semipermanent installations the wood used should have sufficient durability to ensure protection from decay for the expected life of the operation . Where long service is required , preservative treatments are essential , and ease of treatment may be of greater importance than natural durability . Availability and cost may be interdependent factors . If timber supplies are available at or near the mine site , the initial cost of wood is usually far less than that of substitute materials . This is the case in most mining areas in the United States , but there are exceptions . Sometimes mines must compete for supplies of costly timbers that are more valuable for other uses . Lowquality supplies may be expensive because of scarcity . In some arid regions even strength properties may be secondary to availability , making it necessary to utilize local species in order to obtain any timbers at all . In most mining regions , however , adequate supplies of relatively low-cost species are available . The high cost of maintenance is one of the disadvantages @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is valid when untreated wood is used in permanent installations and must be replaced frequently because of decay or excessive wear . Often this difficulty can be overcome by preservative treatment . The objection is not applicable in temporary workings or in stoping and other locations where no attempt is made to salvage the timbering . C. Advantages of Wood and Some Comparisons with Substitute Materials The advantages of wood over substitute materials are numerous , and they presage the use of wood timbering at rather permanent levels of consumption per ton of ore or coal mined . Steel and concrete have displaced wood in a few instances . These substitutes have found logical uses in specialized installations , but particularly where permanence and fire resistance are factors . Even so , it is expected that wood will continue to be used extensively , even in the one-third of those mines which are regarded as permanent in nature . The advantages of wood over other materials are ( 1 ) relatively low initial cost ; ( 2 ) availability ; ( 3 ) favorable strength-weight ratio ; ( 4 ) gradualness @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 5 ) adaptability because of ready workability ; and ( 6 ) sufficient durability for most short-term requirements . Cost , availability , and safety are probably the most important advantages of wood over substitute materials . The initial cost of wood is far less than that of substitute materials . This is important , since at least two-thirds of all mine timbers are either not salvageable or are used for only short periods . Availability is often a factor in cost , but stulls can be shipped for considerable distances and still maintain favor-  | able price margins . The fact that treated timbers cost no more to ship than untreated timbers is also a factor , since the former have sufficient service life to compete with steel under all but the most unfavorable conditions . Considering the average life of permanent installations in a mine , the cost of maintaining treated materials may not be significantly higher than the upkeep of steel , which must be painted at regular intervals to prevent deterioration . Opinion differs on this point , however ; figures are available to support the contention @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ remains that wood is suitable , and often preferred , for most mining operations . It costs less for most uses and is available at or adjacent to most of the important mining regions of the United States . The strength-weight ratio of wood compares favorably with that of steel and concrete . The stiffness of wood is also a factor in withstanding the high pressures produced by earth movements . Adaptability , attributable to a large extent to workability , is an outstanding advantage of wood . It has a marked effect on timbering costs , particularly in temporary workings . Steel tunnel sets designed for temporary workings lack the flexibility of wood in situations that require ready adjustments to variations in the size of tunnels . Also , the joints are usually more difficult to assemble underground . Because of the higher initial cost of steel , losses are greater when timbering is buried as a result of cave-ins . The waters found in many metal mines and some coal mines are highly corrosive . In such places steel suffers a fate similar to that of wood timbers subjected @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ corrosion may make the use of steel costly . Steel timbering may last indefinitely , however , in comparatively cool , dry mines , with only a minimum of maintenance in the form of occasional coats of protective paints . Durability , because it is so closely related to wood preservation , will be discussed under that heading . Steel timbering was once hailed as the solution to the rising costs of wood stulls , but its extensive use has never materialized . Both steel and concrete have , however , become standard materials for certain locations in mines , particularly in the coal mines of the eastern United States . Tipples , steel or cast-iron supports for main haulageways , shaft bottoms , and pumping stations . and . to some extent , shaft sets and drift sets , are among the common uses of steel at the present time . Concrete is most commonly used for machinery foundations , hcadframes , shaft collars , shafts and linings for shaft and hoisting stations , as a lining for shafts to exclude water , for sumps and the walls of pumping @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for precast shaft sets and stringers . It is sometimes used for the construction of pillars in large stopes and to reinforce natural pillars to prevent them from falling or crumbling . The most important uses of steel and concrete are for the construction of headframes , shaft and adit openings , and other surface structures where the prevention of fires is vital . From the foregoing it can be seen that wood , steel , and concrete all serve useful purposes in mine construction , each being adapted to special applications on the basis of inherent properties . There seems little doubt , however , that wood will continue to dominate the mine-timber field . Its favorable prop-  | erties , low cost , and availability , combined with its adaptability to the shortterm requirements of most mining operations , provide advantages that will be difficult to overcome unless prices of substitute materials can be reduced considerably below present levels . D. Preservation of Mine Timbers The principal disadvantage of wood for use as mine timbers is its lack of durability , i.e. , its inability to resist the attacks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ timbers , particularly unpeeled stulls , but the total damage produced does not approach that caused by decay . The decay problem is more critical in mines than it is above ground because the warm , damp atmosphere in most mines provides optimum growth conditions for many wood-destroying fungi . Under such conditions , nondurable woods may have a service life of only 1 year , and even naturally durable woods , such as white oak and the heartwood of Douglas-fir and the southern yellow pines , may last only 3 or 4 years . As mentioned previously , durability is not a point of issue in the case of timbers that can not be salvaged . The situation is quite different , on the other hand , when wood is used in permanent and semipermanent structures such as entry shafts and headframes , haulageway timbers , raises , ore bins and chutes , pumping stations , and similar installations . Even though the use of steel and concrete for such structures is increasing , wood is still used extensively . This poses the problem of frequent replacement costs versus wood @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ durable species may be sufficient to assure adequate life . In most cases , however , preservative treatment is the only means of reducing replacement costs and providing the service life required in permanent locations . Tests over a long period of time have demonstrated repeatedly the economy of treated mine ties and timbers . The average life of untreated timber , where not subject to crushing or destruction by mechanical wear , is approximately 3 years , or even less in some cases . The implications are obvious : untreated material would have to be replaced at least three times as often , if not more . Properly treated timbers will last 10 to 20 years . Increases in costs over the use of treated timber are significant , since the cost of replacement is often double or more that of the original installation . The increased drain on available supplies of suitable stulls must also be considered . Wood preservation can not be justified from the standpoint of economy in the many temporary structures used in mining . There can be no question , however , of the far-reaching @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ application of wood-preservation practices . Any of the standard preservatives are satisfactory for the treatment of mine timbers . The choice of a particular treatment will depend on the length and character of service the treatment is required to perform , the species to be treated , the location of the nine with respect to treating facilities , the most of treatment , the extent of fire hazard in a given mine , and other factors . II is sufficient to say . for the purposes of this chapter , that the judicious use  | of any proved wood preservative will result in material savings to the mine owner . 1 . Other Causes of Deterioration . Decay probably causes more than half the timber failures which occur prior to the normal abandonment of mine openings , but breakage and crushing and , to a lesser extent , mechanical wear and fire also cause the destruction of mine timbers . Decay , of course , contributes to losses from breakage and crushing . Crushing and mechanical wear of sound timber can be reduced by proper engineering . Losses caused by fire @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , are of vital importance from the standpoint of human safety and , because of this , a matter of concern to anyone interested in the use of wood in mines . Direct losses of timbers as a result of fires are usually small as compared with lost operating time and the cost of fighting the fire and of putting the workings back in operating condition . Most serious of all is the ever-present danger of loss of life , which can be staggering in a serious mine fire . Wood , being inflammable , is suspect from this standpoint . Probably the best method of eliminating the danger of fire from wood timbering is to resort to fire-retardant treatments . Unfortunately , such treatments are still too costly for general use , even though they can be combined with a wood-preserving process . Other methods consist of spraying timbers with concrete ( Guniting ) and other noninflammable materials . Guniting has given good service in some mines . The use of concrete and steel headframes and other units at the mouths of shafts , where fires are particularly dangerous , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the fire hazards of mines . The use of large quantities of wood is inevitable , as has already been pointed out , and special precautions must be taken to reduce the dangers of fire . Among these are the use of efficient sprinkler systems ; the exercise of great care in the installation of electric wiring ; adequate ventilation to prevent the accumulation of explosive dusts ; avoiding carelessness with miner 's lamps , blasting fuses , combustible fuels , and the like ; and providing ample lire-fighting equipment . Decayed wood is more combustible than sound wood . Thus a good preservative has a secondary advantage of aiding in the reduction of fire hazard . Some preservatives , however , or the solvents in which they are applied , increase the inflammability of wood , at least temporarily . This must be considered in selecting a preservative . Wood no doubt contributes to the spread of fires in a mine , particularly the smaller pieces used for lagging , but once a fire has started , failure of heavy wooden members progresses rather slowly . Steel and concrete will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ longer time . The timbers may fail eventually , but the time gained to fight the fire may be instrumental in saving endangered lives . E. Production of Mine Timbers The production of mine stulls is almost invariably carried on apart from standard logging operations . Sometimes the stull cutters follow other logging  | operations , taking the smaller trees , but more often they operate in young stands , cutting the trees that will meet mine specifications . This is true both in the hardwood regions of the East and the softwood areas of the West . In Idaho some stands cut for lumber during the depression have been relogged for stulls . There are a few instances of stulls having been supplied from thinnings and improvement cuttings , but such cases are rare . For the most part , stull production is carried on without consideration of the aims of sound forest management and often in direct conflict with such aims . Supplies of round timbers , except in unfavored areas , are most commonly obtained from nearby forests , and most of the sawed material comes from local @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ per cent of the round timbers and 75 per cent of the sawed material they use from the 15 counties of the anthracite region of the state . This situation is the general rule in the mining areas of the United States . In certain parts of Montana , the Southwestern states , and a few other regions not favored with suitable timber stands , appreciable quantities of timber must be shipped from outside sources . Douglas-fir and southern yellow pine timbers are being shipped in increasing quantities to Eastern coal mines . The shipment of treated timbers for considerable distances is becoming more common ; e.g. , mines in Idaho and Montana are purchasing treated material from treating plants in Seattle and Portland . There are no standard specifications for mine stulls , and few mines have published specifications . Round timbers are usually cut in accordance with an advance purchase order . In the coal-mining region of Pennsylvania , props may be purchased by the linear foot according to top diameter , at random by linear foot and top diameter , or by the ton . The diameters and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ operators . They are , of course , influenced by the type and size of the ore bodies being mined , the method of mining used , the pressures encountered , and other factors . The requirements of one group of mines in Montana offer an example of the range of stull sizes . Stulls are cut in the woods to log lengths of 11 , 14 , and 16 ft ; about 2 per cent are 14 ft long , 5 per cent 11 ft long , and 93 per cent 16 ft long . The 16-ft length is the most economical , since it is a standard log length that can be handled with standard logging and loading equipment . It is also the most versatile , because it will produce the following pieces with a minimum of waste : three 5 ft 5 in. caps , one 7-ft post , and one 8-ft 2-in. post ; or two 5-ft 4-in. caps and one 5-ft girt ; or two of these girts and one cap . An 11-ft stull will cut two caps without waste but it is not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is even less economical . The majority of the stulls obtained for this group of mines from immature Douglas-fir and western larch stands come from trees that give top diameters of 8 , 9 , 10 , and 7 in. in the approximate order given . No single top diameter can be considered ideal , but a tree with a diameter of 12 to 13 in. at breast height approaches this . The common practice in the bituminous coal regions is to cut stulls 5 to 15 ft in length and with a minimum top diameter of 3.5 in. inside the bark . Round props are preferred , but split props up to 8 ft long will be accepted . Lagging as small as 2 in. top diameter inside the bark is purchased by some mines .  | The production of round stulls is much the same in all parts of the country , although the type of producers involved may vary somewhat . In many parts of the Eastern and Middle Western states , large quantities of stulls are supplied by farmers who work in the woods during the winter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Professional stull choppers are also common , some cutting purchased stumpage , others harvesting props on land owned by mining interests . Jobbers are common ; many mines prefer to deal with reliable jobbers rather than with a large number of small producers . In parts of the West , stulls often are cut by loggers in off periods , or the mines may contract for logging with persons who are engaged in stull production as a regular business . Local shortages , the fear of depleted supplies , or competition from other users of logs have prompted some mining companies to purchase timber holdings and have put some mine owners in the sawmill business . Framing of timbers is done at the surface in modern framing plants at most large mines . Preframing of square-set members requires a precision which would be difficult to accomplish in the crowded quarters below ground . Modern sawing equipment , with automatic log-turning devices and mechanical conveyors , is used extensively in the framing plants . Sawed material finds many uses in a mine . In addition to the sawed material used for permanent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , large quantities of wood are used for wedges , lumber and plank for lagging , ladder stock , minecar material , shaft guides , and many other items . These , in so far as possible , are purchased from local sawmills or produced in the mine company 's own mill . Mine ties may be purchased locally or imported from outlying regions , depending on the suitability of species growing in the vicinity of the mine . Items such as shaft guides , which require special grades of structural material , are usually obtained from outside sources . 1 . Species Used . Oak is the most widely used species for all types of ( nine construction in the Eastern , Southeastern , and Central states . White oak is preferred because of its greater durability . Depending on available supplies , red oak , maple , beech , birch , ash , some hickory , and the dwindling supplies of chestnut are other hardwoods commonly used . Some yellow-poplar is used for sawed stock . Among the softwoods , hemlock , spruce , and the local pines are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the southern yellow pines is increasing east of the Mississippi River , particularly for structural timbers of all kinds . Available sources of suitable timbers in the Illinois mining area have largely been consumed , remaining sources being of rather low-quality , second-growth hardwoods . Much of the timbering consumed in this region comes from Missouri , but some supplies , of tamarack and hardwood are obtained from Wisconsin and Michigan . Here , too , the southern pines and Douglas-fir are being used more extensively . The situation is similar in the Lake Superior region , the local supply of high-quality , durable species being very small . In the West , the Rocky Mountain form of Douglas-fir is the most common source of mine timbers . In Colorado this species is supplemented by Engelmvui spruce Iodgepole pine , and . Tess commonly , some of the high-elevation live-needled pines . In some of the more arid locations western yellow pine  | is the only species that is available in any quantity . In the northern Rocky Mountain area of Montana and the Inland Empire lodgepole pine was once used @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ principal species . Lodgepole pine , ponderosa pine , and some of the spruces are used in areas where local supplies of the preferred species are unavailable . The Southwestern states depend to a large extent upon locally grown western yellow pine , but supplies of this species must be augmented by importations from other states . Local supplies of durable species of suitable quality are decreasing in some regions . Under proper forest management practices , such as have already been demonstrated as practicable , this situation could be corrected in most cases . 2 . Selection of Mine Stulls . The selection and handling of stulls and sawed material prior to placement in a mine may have marked effects on the service that can be expected . Timber is usually selected on the basis of species and the reputation it may have for strength and durability . This is not enough in many cases . Low-quality material of a desirable species may be less suited for mine timbers than good-quality material from an inferior species . A knowledge of structural grades and the relationship of grade to strength values @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stulls is the assurance that they are sound and not already infected by decay-producing fungi . Ordinarily this dictates immediate delivery to the mine , since logs left on the ground in the woods usually decay rather rapidly , particularly in the summer months . 3 . Peeling . Peeling is one of the best means of protecting stulls from deterioration during storage . Unless immediate use is assured and the expected service life is extremely short , all round timbers should be peeled as soon as cut or shortly thereafter . Peeling expedites seasoning and reduces materially the possibilities of insect damage both prior to and after installation . The elimination of insects has double benefits because the spores of fungi find ready access to the interior of wood through insect borings . Numerous experiments have shown that peeled stulls last longer than those that are installed with the bark on . In spite of such experiments , much timber that could be peeled to advantage is put in place without the bark removed . 4 . Seasoning . Proper seasoning of mine timber has several advantages . Seasoned timbers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been shown that properly seasoned wood gives longer service than unseasoned timbers . The difference is not great in extremely wet locations but may be appreciable in well-ventilated , comparatively dry mines . Seasoning is , of course , desirable prior to preservative treatment . The saving in weight brought about by seasoning represents distinct savings in freight and handling and in hoisting costs at the mine . 5 . Storage of Mine Timbers . In spite of the high cost of mine timbers , outright losses of large volumes of wood have been observed at many mines as a direct result of improper storage . Too often costly timbers are dumped or stacked in large piles on damp . poorly drained soil without any thought being givwr to the prevenlion of decay . Piling methods that prevent deterioration also prnuiote seasoning . Proper storage and seasoning methods  | are the same as for other forest products . The important factors to consider are a properly drained storage yard , elevation of the piles above the ground , and provision of sufficient space to assure adequate circulation of air around each @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of stulls are focusing the attention of mine operators on better storage practices , but much improvement is still to be desired . 6 . Costs of Mine Timbers . A detailed discussion of stuff . prop , and mine-timber prices is purposely eliminated from this chapter as there are no standard specifications for mine timbers . Furthermore , there have been no comprehensive analyses of costs for many years , and the current inflated prices , if quoted , would be obsolete in a very short time . F. Annual Requirements and Trends Comparatively speaking , the use of wood as mine timbers is a rather unproductive form of wood utilization because so little value is added to the raw material prior to its ultimate use . The amount of wood used per ton of ore or coal mined varies with the type of material being mined . For example , in 1935 the total amount of wood used , in cubic feet per ton of ore mined , was as follows : iron ore , 0.158 ; bituminous coal , 0.382 ; " other metals , " 0.603 ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mines " was 0.426 cu ft per ton of ore . The relationships between the consumption of wood in the various types of mines are maintained in the 1946 estimates , but they show a decrease in the proportion of sawed material , an increase in the amount of round material , and an over-all increase in the total amount of wood used per ton of ore . Coal mines use approximately 80 per cent of the wood used in mining ; Pennsylvania , West Virginia , and Kentucky , in the order named , lead all other states by wide margins . As mentioned previously oak is the predominant species used . Of the wood used in coal mines , the distribution is approximately as follows : 80 per cent for single props , 15 per cent for caps or crossbars , and 5 per cent for shaft and repair timbering . In most metal mines the percentages of timbers used for shafts , tunnels , and square sets are much greater , single props being used much less frequently . The consumption of wood in mines varies directly with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to general economic conditions . Prior to the First 11 orld War . mining expanded rapidly in keeping with the tremendous industrial development of the times . It was further stimulated during the war years , suffered a heavy decline after the armistice , recovered in 1923 , and rose again to a fairly steady level until the depression years , when the total output of all mines fell considerably below the 1905 level . By 1935 production had recovered to the level of approximately one-half the 1928 total . The heavy demands of the Second World War again stimulated production , and again there was a sharp drop at the end of hostilities as a result of labor unrest . scarcities of essential materials , and other factors . As this is written . production is again on the increase , and it may again reach the peaks attained in 1918 and 1928 . With prospects of full eniploN meat at home and comprehensive aid program abroad , it semis likel ' that ore production  | may continue at relatively high levels for several years , at least . If @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a position of heavy demand . The competition for supplies from badly needed house construction and other industries using wood has raised the cost of mine timbers to high levels in some regions . This may encourage the use of substitutes at higher levels than previously realized , but steel . too . is quite costly . On the other hand , should petroleum shortages develop . eventually this may accelerate the production of coal for its conversion to liquid fuels by the Fischer-Tropsch and similar processes . Eventually , of course , there is the possibility that the development of atomic energy may have far-reaching effects on the amount of coal that is mined . According to the already mentioned Stanford report y an average of 100 million cubic feet of logs and bolts will be required annually by the mining interests at least through 1975 . Not included in this projected figure , however , are tie requirements , which have been in decline for the past several years . G. Research in Mine-timber Utilization There are virtually no records of research designed to reduce the amount of wood @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wood . It seems unlikely that applications of wood to mine needs have reached a zenith of perfection that makes further improvements unnecessary . Certainly this is not true in other industries in which wood is one of the basic raw materials used . Even wood railroad ties , which have withstood the competition of substitutes since the earliest days , are now under close scrutiny by numerous research agencies . Progress has been made in wood preservation and in treatments for fire resistance , but these improvements have resulted from interest generated itt other fields . Some wartime research on mine . guides , sponsored by the Office of Production Research of the War Production Board , is a notable exception to the general lack of research mentioned above . This study demonstrated that laminated mine guides , made to replace high-density , straight-grained material that could not be obtained during the Second World War , were superior to the clear material previously used . It was believed that their superiority would probably offset the increase in cost involved . Improvements in fastenings used to connect mining timbers , perhaps @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seem to offer an excellent opportunity for successful research . SELECTED REFERENCES 1 . Anon . Mining Industry Is Large User of Wood . Timberman , 67181:212. 1940. 2 . Fay , A. H. A Glossary of the Mining and Mineral Industry . U.S. Bur . Mines , Bull . 95. 1920. 3 . Forbes , J. J. , and C. W. Owings . Some Information on Timbering Riluminous-coal Mines . U.S. Bur . Mines , Miner 's Cir. 40. 1939. 4 . Helphenstine , H. K. , Jr . Quantity of Wood Treated and Preservatives llsed in the United States . Joint Report of the U.S. Forest Service and the American WoodPreservers Associatin . Issued annually .  | 5 . Hough , A. F. Silviculture of Mine-prop Cutting in Western Maryland . Jour . Forestry , 9 ( 43 ) : 642-645. 1945. 6 . Hunt , G. M. , and G. A. Garratt . Wood Preservation , 2d ed . McGraw-Hi Book Company , Inc. , New York . 1953. 7 . Joyce , A. R. Steel and Timber Roof Supports for Mine Timbers . Wood Preserv . News @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Schrader , O. H. , Jr . Laminated Mine Elevator Guides . Tim.berman , 48 ( 31:126. 1947. 9 . Stanford Research Institute . America 's Demand for Wood , 1929-1975 . Palo Alto , Calif. 1954. 10 . U.S. Department of Agriculture , Forest Service . Potential Requirements for Timber Production in the United States . Report 2 from A Reappraisal of the Forest Situation . 1946.  | RAILROAD TIES Railroad ties , depending upon the manner in which they are used , fall into one of three general classes , viz. : ( 1 ) crossties , or sleepers as they are more commonly known in many other parts of the world ; ( 2 ) switch ties ; and ( 3 ) bridge ties . Crossties are transverse beams set in a roadbed to position and support railroad rails . Switch ties , which are greater in length , but otherwise similar to crossties , are used under the rails at frogs and switches . Bridge ties are closely spaced and transversely oriented beams attached to the stringers of bridges and trestles and upon which the rails are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ four sides , but crossties may be either sawed or hand-hewed and furnished with two opposite faces , or faced on all four sides . Years ago most crossties were hand-hewed , but somewhat more than 60 per cent of all crossties produced annually are now . manufactured at sawmills . In fact , the old tie maker , or " tie hack , " with his once familiar broadax is rapidly being replaced by the sawyer . A. Advantages of Wood as a Tie Material Over the years more than 2,500 patented ties have been introduced , yet none has ever seriously threatened to replace the wood tie , which in modern times differs but little from those used in the early days of railroading . In 1888 the Commissioner of the Agriculture Division of Forestry released a bulletin which reviewed the successes European , Asian , and African railroads were experiencing with metal ties . The author decried the American railroads ' seeming apathy to experimenting with similar structures and vouchsafed that " as the cost of wooden ties increases , and the cost of metal ties is reduced @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1959 reveal how wrong he was , for of the more than 900 million crossties in maintained tracks of Class I line-haul railways * less than 0.03 per cent were fabricated of steel , concrete , or other structural material . footnote * Class I line-haul railways include those whose annual revenues total one million dollars or more . These roads make up approximately 95 per rent of the trunk mileage , ? IOUIoc about 98 per cent of all raikay wage earners in the I sited States .  | It is of interest to record here that tests on prestressed concrete ties are currently being followed with considerable interest in quarter-mile lengths of track of both the Atlantic Coast Line and Seaboard Air Line railway systems . These ties , with a concave 12-in. base , cost about $9 each , or nearly three times the cost of a treated wood tie . On the other hand , it is claimed that only 2,000 are needed per mile of track compared with the nearly 3,000 used in conventional installations . Furthermore , because of their greater weight ( 550 lb @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the track and prevent sun kinks and buckling of continuous welded rails . A normal service life of 50 years compared with a well-established 30 years for treated wood ties is also prognosticated . It is still far too early to validate these claims , and there are in truth a number of obvious disadvantages associated with their use . Their weight involves added handling and shipping costs , and because of their brittle nature , unloading at trackside becomes a problem involving additional expense . It is also questionable how long such structures can stand up under the repeating impact loads generated by heavy , highspeed rolling stock . Their performance on curves under an entirely different set of stresses and their lasting qualities in regions subjected alternately to periods of high humidity and subzero temperatures are also open to question . Wood , on the other hand , because of its resiliency , strength , economy , availability , electrical resistance , capacity for absorbing severe shock loads , ability to dampen sound , screw- and spike-holding properties , and its nonelectrolytic nature , has no peer as a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tie will be replaced by any other engineering material , at least in the foreseeable future . Table 6-1 reveals the quantities of tie replacements in Class I railroads in previously laid tracks for the years 1948 through 1958 . While there has been ' Fable 6-1 . Ties Replaced in Previously Laid " Tracks by Class 1 Railways , 1948 through 1958 " figure  | a steady decrease in the amount of tie material during this period , it is significant to note that substitute materials have not been able to compete for the wood-tie market . Crosstie renewals in Class I railroads for the year 1960 . were estimated at 19,700,000 . B. Disadvantages of Wood as a Tie Material While wood has several properties that collectively make it the favored tie material , it also possesses others that work to its disadvantage . Principal among these are : 1 . It is subject to attack by wood-destroying fungi. 2 . It checks and splits in seasoning , particularly in " boxed-pith " pieces . Checking in boxed-pith ties is unavoidable because of the difference in tangential and radial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ trees and ties sawed from the centers of large logs exhibit this fault . Pith-free , flat-grained ties are usually not subject to severe checking , and they are likely to have greater spike-holding power because , in normal tree growth , the density of annual rings of the wood of most species becomes greater as the distance from the pith increases . This usually means that the wood directly under the rails is denser than that bearing on the ground , for the top of the tie is always considered to be the wide face that is farthest removed from the pith , whether the pith is present or not . For these reasons , the flat-grained , or " half-moon , " tie is preferable to any other form . 3 . It burns . Engines using coal as a fuel must dump cinders and ashes at designated places because of the fire hazard . Ties at these points are often burned . 4 . It is subject to mechanical wear . Crossties that have been treated with excellent preservatives often wear out and must be replaced before they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ due to the actual abrasion of the wood by the movement of the steel tie plates or rails over the surface of the tie , particularly when sand gets between the wood and the metal . To a lesser extent , crushing of the wood fibers contributes to mechanical failure . C. Factors That Prolong Tie Life Tie-replacement costs , which aggregate more than 100 million dollars annually , are still one of the largest single railroad maintenance expenditures . There is little doubt but these must be drastically reduced if the railroads are to continue their position of leadership in the transportation industry . All the companies are endeavoring to prolong the service life of ties by adopting new practices and equipment that will inhibit decay and reduce mechanical wear , breakage , spike-pulling , lateral thrust of spikes , and the development of such seasoning defects as splitting and checking . It is significant that approximately 9 ( 1 per cent of the ties in maintained tracks of Class I railways are now of treated wood , awl that several railroads Is. , ? no untreated wood ties in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Quincy Railroad , in 1909 and 1910 , laid ties of 20 species in test tracks . Some of the ties were untreated , some were treated with zinc chloride , some were treated with a mixture of zinc chloride and creosote , and others were treated with creosote only . The average life of the untreated ties was found to be 5.6 years ; that of those treated with zinc chloride , 15.5 years ; that of those treated with zinc chloride and creosote , 18.8 years ; and the estimated life of those treated only with coal-tar creosote , 29.1 years . These data are combined averages for all species . Individual species varied widely from the average . Table 6-2 gives the average life of 20 species of untreated ties and Table 6-2 . Average Life of Untreated Ties and Approximate Number of Times That Two Preservative Treatments Will Increase Average Life of Certain Species ' figure the approximate number of times that two methods of preservative treatment will increase the average life of these species . Mechanical wear is being reduced by the use of larger steel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tops of ties so that the tie plate may have Species Average life for untreated ties , in years  | a uniform bearing surface . It has been demonstrated that the cutting action of sifting particles of grit can be practically eliminated under the tie plate by inserting a felt pad composed of asphalt and jute fiber . Breakage is being reduced by the use of larger ties and better ballast and by maintaining good roadbed conditions . Spike-pulling is being minimized by boring holes prior to preservative treatment or by using power-driven screw spikes . A spike driven into a bored hole of the proper size offers greater resistance to withdrawal than one driven into solid wood . Some railroads , in order to obtain maximum spikeholding capacity of the ties , specify that the top one-fourth layer of the tie shall be of compact wood . This provision is applied to ties made from coniferous species and calls for an average of six or more annual rings per inch along any radius in this section of the tie . In addition to the ring count , some specifications decree @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tie shall contain at least one-third summerwood ; or , if the section has four to five rings per inch , the tie shall have one-half or more summerwood in each annual ring . Resistance to lateral thrust of spikes is secured by specifying ties with compact wood in the top quarter of the thickness , by the use of a tie plate which is perforated for the spikes and which has a shoulder that meets the outside edge of the base of the rail , or by the use of special tie plates that have flanges that extend down the sides of the tie . These special plates are bolted to the tie through the flanges . Antichecking irons , though not entirely satisfactory , are being used to retard checking and splitting during the seasoning process . Common forms of these devices are the S , C , Beegle , and crinkle irons . One of the newest innovations of this sort is the Koppers Company 's Krinkle-Loc antichecking iron which is available in both S and C configurations ( Fig. 6-1 ) . It works like a fishhook @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than the conventional irons , since it is made with a special rib which locks the iron and wood together . Severely split ties are being salvaged by the use of bolts , by squeezing the parts together and applying metal straps around the end of the tie , and by the use of spiral metal dowels made of twisted , square , iron bars that are driven into a bored hole of a size that will ensure a tight fit . Deterioration of ties because of fungus attack during the seasoning period prior to preservative treatment is being reduced by better methods of piling and better yard sanitation . Many railroads have adopted 1 by 7 , 1 by 8 ( Fig. 6-2 ) , or 1 by 9 piling in tie-seasoning yards . In this method , 7 , 8 , or 9 ties are laid edge to edge on two parallel stringers that are set on permanent foundations . The tops of the stringers are on a level plane . Two ties are placed on top of this first layer of 7 , 8 , or 9 ties @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the layer . Next , another layer of ties is placed above these two ties ; then only one tie is placed at one end and at right angles to this second layer . The third layer is placed on top of this one tic so that it is in a sloping position . After the third layer is in place , a single tie is placed across it , at its lower end , and the fourth ( aver is then added . The next " slicker " lie will he placed on tole of the fourth layer at the end opposite the sticker  | tie upon which the fourth layer rests . This alternation of sticker ties continues until the pile is completed . There are two principal advantages to this method of piling . The first is that there is less wood-to-wood contact between the ties in the pile , and the second is that a pile of this type will contain more ties for the same height than one that uses two sticker ties between the layers . That is , if a 1 by 9 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pile of the same height will contain only 86 ties . Until recently the decision to replace a tie in service was the result of visual inspection , which in many instances was restricted to only the upper face and ends . A tie tester recently developed by the New York Central Railroad uses gamma rays to probe for hidden defects within a tie , with the result that inspection is not only faster but vastly more accurate . D. Principal Species Used for Ties Species that arc suilahle fair c iosslies include the ashes , balsam firs , beech , birches , atalpas , cedars , hem , eheanut. eNpiess. 1 ) uuglas-fir , elms , gums .  | hackberry , hemlocks , hickories , larches , locusts , maples , mulberry , oaks , pines , poplars , redwood , sassafras , spruces , sycamore , and walnut . Formerly , when untreated ties were used and railroad traffic was not so heavy and fast as it is today , natural durability , cost , and availability were the principal considerations in selecting a species for crossties . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cypress , redwood , and chestnut , gave good service when not subjected to severe mechanical wear . Now , however , factors such as resistance to mechanical wear , crushing , spike-pulling , and lateral displacement of spikes ; bending strength ; and ease of treatment with preservatives are making the harder and denser woods preferable . The economy of using treated ties has been demonstrated so thoroughly that now few untreated ties are being laid . Thus the item of natural ability to resist fungus attack is secondary , and the ability of the wood to take preservatives is of primary importance . Of the more than 21,326,000 crossties given preservative treatment in 1958 , more than half were of oak . Ranked below are species in percentage of the total number of pieces indicated above . figure Red oak is now considered by many to produce the most satisfactory tie to meet present conditions because of the ease with which it may be treated and its superior combination of desirable physical and mechanical properties . Of the oaks given preservative treatment , more than half the total is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Although some railroads publish separate specifications for ties , the following American Standards Association specifications 1 are followed rather closely . With certain exceptions , ties must be free from defects that would impair the strength or durability of the wood , such as decay , large splits , large shakes , large or numerous holes and knots , and cross grain having a slope of more than 1 in. in 15 in . In cedar and cypress ties , a limited amount . if pipe or stump rot and peckiness is permitted . The rail-seat areas on a tie are important sections . These areas are located between 20 and 40 in. from the mid-length of the tie on each end of standard ; ' auge ties and between 15 and 25 in. from the mid-length of the tie on each end of narrow-gauge ties . Defects such as large knots ( greater in average diameter than one-fourth the width of the tie ) are accepted when they are located between the ends of the tie and the rail-scat areas . Ties that are to be  | used untreated may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ width of the tie at the rail-seat areas . Ties having sapwood in excess of this amount should be given preservative treatment and are designated " sap " ties ; the others are designated " heart " ties . Ties are divided into two general classes on the basis of necessity for preservative treatment for satisfactory performance . Class U ties may be used untreated . and Class T ties should be treated . Each of these general classes is subdivided into four groups in order to permit tie manufacturers to pile several species together when the purchasing railroad will permit such grouping . The grouping in each class of ties is as follows : figure  | All ties must be straight , cut square at the ends , free of bark , well sawed or hewed , and must have tops and bottoms parallel , within certain tolerances . A tie will be accepted when ( 1 ) a straight line along the top from the midpoint of the width of one end to the mid-point of the width of the other end lies entirely within the tie , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the mid-point of the thickness of one end to the mid-point of the thickness at the other end lies everywhere more than 2 in. from the top and bottom of the tie . The top and bottom of the tie are considered to be parallel if any difference in the thickness at the sides or ends does not exceed 11 , in . A tie is not well hewed or sawed when its surfaces contain score marks that are more than 2 in. deep or when its surfaces are uneven . Lengths , widths , and thicknesses specified are considered to be met when they are within the following limits : lengths not more than 1 in. shorter , and not more than 2 in. longer , than the specified length ; widths not more than 1j-/1 in. narrower , and not more than 3 in. wider , than that specified ; and thicknesses not more than 1/r in. thinner , and not more than 1 in. thicker , than the specified thickness . Ties more than 1 in. , but not more than 2 in. , thicker than the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ largest tie ordered . Thicknesses and widths are determined at the rail-seat areas , but the dimensions of the tie are not averaged . Width determinations are made on the top of the tie , and for this purpose the top of the tie is considered to be the narrower of the two horizontal faces or the face with the narrower or no heartwood when both horizontal faces are of the same width . Standard lengths of narrow-gauge ties are 5 , 51/2 , 6 , 6% , and 7 ft ; standard-gauge ties are 8 , 81/2 , and 9 ft long. * In cross-sectional dimension , seven standard sizes of ties are recognized . figure These dimensions apply to ties that are sawed or hewed on top , bottom , and sides , as well as to ties that are hewed or sawed on top and bottom only . In standard-gauge ties , sizes 0 and 1 are not acceptable when sawed or hewed on top , bottom , and sides . In the case of ties that are hewed or sawed on top and bottom only , a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a ? Some railroads now do not use ties less than 9 ft long , and others are considering adoption of the 9-ft tie . Size  | size 3 tie . If the railroad wishes to have 7 by 7 ties kept separate from 6 by 8 ties in size 3 , it should designate the 7 by 7 ties as size 3A . F. Advantages of Sawed and Hewed Ties Sawed ties have several distinct advantages not possessed by hewed ties . Their principal advantages are : 1 . There is less waste of raw material in the manufacture of sawed ties . Much material that would be wasted in the form of chips in hewing can be converted into lumber by sawing . It has been estimated that at least 35 per cent of a tree converted into hewed ties is wasted . 2 . Sawed ties are more uniform in size , particularly when sawed on four sides . This means a saving in transportation costs per tie because a greater number can be loaded into a given car . At the preservation plant , a greater number @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cylinder , and it is possible to determine more accurately the amount of preservative needed to attain a given absorption per cubic foot of wood . 3 . Ties sawed on four sides are less expensive to replace in tracks because there is less disturbance of the ballast in the process of removing the old tie and placing the new one . 4 . Ties sawed on four faces usually have less sapwood than hewed ties . 5 . Sawed ties are more easily adzed and bored prior to preservative treatment because of the parallel faces . 6 . In the absence of adzing , sawed ties provide a better bearing surface for the tie plates and rails . Hewed ties have several advantages , the chief of which are : 1 . Hewed ties are likely to be more straight-grained than sawed ties coming from a mill that does not saw its logs parallel to the hark. 2 . For a given size classification , a tie hewed on two faces has a greater volume of wood than a tie with four sawed faces . This advantage is lost in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ number ( whether it be two or four ) of hewed or sawed faces . 3 . Hewed ties often have more sapwood than sawed ties , and because sapwood absorbs preservatives more readily than heartwood , the hewed ties are easier to treat . G. Crossties Required per Mile of Track One mile of track requires from 2,600 to 3,328 crossties. depending on the size of tie and the service the road must render . Class I railways use an average of 2,994 ties per mile .  | 2 . Anon . What Price Cross Ties . Cross Tie Bull. , 28(9) : 9-19. 1947. 3 . Anon. 21,326,034 Cross Ties Treated in 1958 . Cross Tie Bull. , 40(6) : 22. 1959. 4 . Dick , M. W. What 's Ahead in Railroad Maintenance of Way in 1960 . Cross Tie Bull. , 41 ( 2 ) : 9-10. 1960. 5 . Fivaz , A. E. Trends in Foreign Markets for Cross Ties . Cross Tie Bull. , 41(11) : 11-12. 1960. 6 . Hoskins , R. N. Railroads Future Demands for Timber Products . Cross Tie Bull. , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , G. M. , and G. A. Garratt . Wood Preservation , 2d ed . McGraw-Hill Book Company , Inc. , New York . 1953. 8 . Jeffords , L. S. The Nine Foot Cross Tie . Cross Tie Bull. , 27 ( 8 ) : 20-22. 1946. 9 . Magee , G.M. Advantages and Disadvantages of Prestressed Concrete Relative to Treated Wood Ties . Cross Tie Bull. , 41(11) : 30-34. 1960. 10 . Putnam , J. A. Management of Southern Hardwood Forests Relative to the Supply of Railroad Stock . Cross Tie Bull. , 40(2) : 18-27. 1959. 11 . U.S. Interstate Commerce Commission . Seventy-second Annual Report on Transport Statistics in the United States for the Year Ending December 31 , 1958. 1959. 12 . Woolford , F. R. Changes in Cross Tie Replacements . Cross Tie Bull. , 40(2) : 26-32 , 36. 1959.  | THE LUMBER INDUSTRY The production of lumber represents one of the first manufacturing industries established in North America . The early American colonists needed to clear the forest cover from the land to prepare it for the growing of foodstuffs . At @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ businesses , their churches , and their governments . What was more natural than that they should convert the timber cleared from the land into useful construction material ? A further incentive to the production of lumber in colonial days was the fact that the Old World quickly recognized the value of American lumber . and lumber became one of the most important of the early export commodities . The date of the establishment of the first sawmill in America is not well documented , but it seems possible that lumber manufacturing was begun in Virginia as early as 1608 . Horn says that the wealth of " pv nes " impressed the British backers of the Virginia Company causing them to send sawmill workers to the New World in 1608 for the purpose of erecting sawmills . Mills operating in Jamestown , Virginia , in 1625 and Berwick , Maine , in 1631 are more commonly reported as the first in North America . As the lumber industry developed in the white pine region of New England , it had its center in Maine . With the depletion of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ areas of virgin timber . The center of production shifted from Maine to New York . thence to Pennsylvania . the Lake states , the South . and finally to the remaining virgin forest lands of the Pacific Coast . Lumber production in the United States increased rapidly with the opening of new lands until it reached its peak production in 1909 , when 45 billion board feet was produced . Since then lumber production has varied in the range of 30 to 40 billion board feet per annum . While the lumber industry in the United States originally developed around the use of large-sized virgin timber . it converted to the use of smaller . second-growth material when the virgin timber became scarce . This conversion has been associated with increased stumpage and manufacturing costs . Accordingly , the price of lumber has increased much more rapidly than the prices of competitive materials . The President 's Materials Policy Conunis-  | n ? and that " while the wholesale prices of all commodities increased 09 percent from 1940 to 1950 , the price of lumber advanced 218 percent . uring @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ore , nickel , and copper showed an increase less than the average of all commodities . " The Stanford report noted an increase of 286 per cent in the price of lumber during the period from 1929 to 1952 . According to this stud. ' the price of other competing construction materials during this period increased about 90 per cent . Despite this unfavorable price situation , all available evidence suggests that the demand for lumber will continue to increase . " Timber Resources for America 's Future " s estimates that the demand for lumber in 1975 will figure he in the range 47.6 to 55.5 billion board feet . The President 's Materials Policy Commission found that : " Despite increasing use of many competing materials , lumber remains indispensable in building construction , shipbuilding , furniture manufacture , and dozens of other enterprises . " A. Classification of Lumber Among the important raw materials of commerce and industry , lumber has one of the most complex classification systems in common usage . There are a number of explanations of this phenomenon . Lumber is produced from a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ large number of species , forms , and sizes , and this variety is reflected in the characteristics of the lumber manufactured from them . Lumber is used in many different ways and for many different purposes , and it is produced to best accommodate these uses . Finally , lumber specifications developed empirically , and customs and habit have militated against any radical simplification of specifications . Basically lumber is classified according to broad botanical origin , size ,  | and surface appearance . The major subdivision is into hardwood ( angiosperms ) and softwood ( gymnosperms ) types . Within these two broad classes size , standards , and grading rules further subdivide the product . Grading rules are systems of classification used to separate lumber into classes on the basis of the number , size , and character of such physical features as knots , splits , checks , wormholes , wane , pitch streaks , and pockets . Yard lumber is lumber that is graded and marketed on the basis that it will , or at least may , be used in the form in which it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the establishment of minimum permissible defects . Factory or shop lumber on the other hand is graded and marketed on the assumption that it is to be cut up before it is used . Factory-lumber grades are therefore based upon the specification of a minimum fraction of the surface area that will yield cuttings of specified sizes and qualities . 1 . Softwood Lumber Grades . Most softwood lumber is manufactured according to yard-lumber grades . This is the type of lumber that is commonly used in house construction , and the sort usually stocked by retail buildingsupply dealers . The structural grades are special groups of lumber grades also based upon the assumption that the piece will be used as purchased . Structural lumber is used where strength is of major importance ; in fact structural-lumber grades are not uncommonly referred to as stress grades . Softwood factory lumber is used where individual boards are to be cut up to recover small clear pieces . Here the location of defects is much more important than their size . This type of lumber is commonly used in the manufacture of such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , etc. , where small and relatively defect-free cuttings are required . The specific requirements of the various grades of softwood lumber are stated in the grading rules established by the trade association concerned with the species in question . In general all softwood grading rules conform to the broad criteria established in " Recommended American Lumber Standards . " a Table 7-1 illustrates the general basis for softwood lumber grading common to most grading rules for softwood lumber . 2 . Hardwood Lumber Grades . Basically , all hardwood lumber is graded on the assumption that it will be used in the form of cuttings of specified quality and size . When the hardwood lumber is sold in the form of boards , the defects remain in the piece , and factory-lumber grades are applicable . These grades are prepared and issued by the National Hardwood Lumber Association . They provide for the classification of boards on the basis of the fraction of the surface area that will yield clear , or sound , cuttings , meeting or exceeding certain minimum specified sizes . Sometimes a lumber manufacturer processes boards @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ converts the lumber into cuttings before shipment . Such cuttings are distributed as hardwood dimension stock and are sold subject to the grade requirements of Commercial Standard CS // footnote * The second number in the designation of a commercial standard refers to the date that the revision was promulgated . Users should always he certain that they have the most recent revision .  | figure accepted by a majority of the trade concerned and issued by the U.S. Department of Commerce . Most hardwood lumber is sold in the form of boards according to factory-lumber grades , with only a small fraction marketed as dimension stock . Table 7-2 gives the basic requirements of the factory-lumber grading rules for hardwood . Individual species have special requirements , and the user should refer to the published grading rules for these exceptions and special requirements . 3 . Measurement . The standard unit of measurement for lumber 1 in. or greater in thickness is the board foot . Lumber less than 1 in. in thickness is commonly sold on the basis of surface measure . Lumber is cut to nominal inch thicknesses @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ individual boards . but for marketing purposes the volume is still computed on the basis of the nominal dimension . During manufacture lumber may he sawed to even-inch widths or it may be ripped to random widths . Softwood lumber is customarily produced in even widths and hardwood lumber in random widths . Softwood yard lumber is usually manufactured to standard lengths ill 2-ft multiples . Softwood faf'tory and shop lumber and FACTORY AND SHOP LUMBER ( grading based on area of piece suitable for cuttings of certain size and quality )  | figure  | hardwood factory lumber are manufactured to standard lengths in multiples of 1 ft . Such millwork items as trim and molding are commonly sold by the linear foot . 4 . Flooring . Flooring is manufactured from both hardwoods and softwoods . Softwood flooring is usually produced from the denser conifers such as Douglas-fir , western larch , and the southern pines . Among hardwoods , oak is the species used most commonly in the manufacture of flooring , but maple , birch , and beech are also widely used . The major part of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Vertical-grained and flat-grained flooring are available in both hardwood and softwood types . Softwood flooring grades are B and Better , C Select , and D Select . Hardwood flooring grades vary with the species used . Oak flooring is available in the standard grades Clear , Select , No. 1 Common , and No. 2 Common . Hard maple flooring is available in four grades : First Grade White , First Grade , Second Grade , and Third Grade . Hardwood flooring is most frequently sold as strip flooring , tongued and grooved and end-matched . Strip flooring is produced in random lengths . The most common thickness is ' 5/j in. with face widths of 11l2 , 2 , and 2 ? in . Hardwood flooring in the form of parquetry and plank is used in smaller quantities . B. Manufacture of Lumber The manufacture of lumber involves five primary processing functions : breakdown . ripping , crosscutting , drying , and surfacing . In any given circumstance all the basic functions may not be involved . For example , lumber sold rough and green has not been dried @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ basic operations to be conducted in two or more separate manufacturing installations . A small ground mill may perform only the breakdown and ripping functions . The product of this mill may go to a concentration yard where crosscutting and drying are accomplished . It may go still later to a planing mill for surfacing . In contrast , at a large lumber-manufacturing installation all these operations will be performed in the same factory . Similarly the degree of sophistication of the operations may vary from one situation to another . When lumber is processed in small plants , the breakdown may be completed in a single operation . In a larger factory two or three separate operations may be required to perform the same function . 1 . Breakdown . To convert round logs into lumber it is necessary first to reduce the log to boards , planks , or timbers . This is the breakdown . There are three basic types of log breakdown equipment : the circular headsaw , the band headsaw , and the gang headsaw. a . Circular Headsaw . The circular headsaw consists of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The log is supported on a carriage that runs on a double track situated approximately parallel to the plane of the saw blade ( Fig. 7-2 ) . Most circular headsaws are of the inserted-tooth variety . The carriage is driven either by a cable or by a hydraulic , steam , or air piston . The log is passed through the saw resulting in the removal of  | a slab or a board , plank , or timber . As successive cuts are made the sawyer examines the exposed face to determine how the turning and cutting operation should proceed in order to obtain the most advantageous breakdown in terms of yield and lumber grade . The circular headsaw is used in the largest number of sawmills in the United States . This type of headsaw is most appropriate to a small sawmill . Its principal disadvantage is that it removes a very wide kerf. b . Band Headsaw . Large sawmills in America are most frequently equipped with band headsaws . The band saw consists of a continuous wide steel band figure with teeth on one or both edges @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inserted teeth ordinarily found on circular headsaws . The band saw is mounted on two wheels . The lower wheel is powered , and the upper one free-running . The band-saw carriage is essentially the same as the carriage used with a circular headsaw . Since band saws are ordinarily used on much larger saw mills than circular saws , the carriages of band mills are usually much more elaborate and automatic ( Fig. 7-3 ) . This is , however , a function . of mill size rather than headsaw type . During recent years fully automatic small circular mills have been built and effectively used . Most band headsaws are single cutting ; i.e. , they have teeth on only one edge . Some band headsaws are constructed with teeth on both edges and are accordingly double cutting . With a double-cutting band saw a cut is made with the movement in each direction of the carriage . In contrast the singlecutting band saw cuts only on the forward stroke .  | c . Gang Headsaw . Gang headsaws differ from circular and band headsaws in that the cuts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ consecutively . Some gang saws consist of a battery of flat steel reciprocating saw blades mounted in a sash . With a round-log gang mill a feed carriage grips the log and forces it through the sash frame , where it is cut into boards or planks . A support carriage at the rear of the sash frame carries the boards away from the saw . Gang headsaws represent the principal type of sawmill throughout most of the world . They are used more extensively outside the United States than within . Gang saws are , however , increasing in popularity in this country . The principal disadvantage of the gang saw is that it does not permit turning the log on the carriage to take maximum advantage of the opportunities to obtain higher grades of lumber . This disadvantage is most important when the logs being sawed are from oldgrowth timber . As the supply of virgin timber in the United States is depleted , the advantage of the circular and band headsaw over the gang headsaw is diminished . Gang headsaws are noted for the accuracy with which they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the log breakdown may be accomplished in several operations . Large timbers or cants may be cut on the headsaw and then further reduced in a resa wing operation . Resaws may be of either figure the single-saw or gang-saw variety . Single resaws sometimes use circular saws , but most frequently they utilize band saws . Mills are designated as horizontal or vertical depending upon the orientation of the saw blade . Small band mills , called pony rigs , are similar in construction to a band headsaw and are used as resaws in very large sawmills . Pony rigs are very fast and not uncommonly of the double-cutting variety . 2 . Ripping . The ripping operation has as its function the removal of any wane or bark edges and the dimensioning of the board or plank to width . On very small ground mills ripping is sometimes done with the headsaw . The hoards are stacked on the carriage , wane edges out , and then passed through the headsaw . In most sawmills the ripping operation is accomplished with an edger ( Fig. 7-4 ) . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a mandrel . The left-hand blade is usually fixed on the mandrel , while the retnaining blade or blades are movable and may be spaced in each ease to make the edging cut where required .  | figure figure  | Careful ripping operations permit the manufacturer to take full advantage of the opportunities to obtain higher grades of lumber . 3 . Crosscutting . The crosscutting operation has three principal functions : squaring the ends of the board , cutting to desired length , and removing defects . Machines used for crosscutting are called trimmers . They vary in size and complexity from the simple-swing cutoff saw used with a portable ground mill to the automatic multiple-saw trimmer used in a large sawmill ( Fig. 7-5 ) . Perhaps the most common form of trimmer in use is the two-saw type . This machine has two saws mounted on a long steel mandrel . The board is passed sideways through the saws and trimmed to length . As in the case of the edger , the left-hand saw is usually fixed and the right-hand saw adjustable on the mandrel to permit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ crosscutting operation is also essential if the maximum yield of upper grades is to be obtained . 4 . Drying . Wood in the living tree contains a considerable quantity of water . some of which it will lose after manufacture into lumber unless it is  | kept constantly wet . Some lumber is used green and permitted to dry in use . In the more discriminating uses of lumber it is necessary to dry the wood before utilizing it . Drying is normally accomplished in one of two ways : air-drying or kiln-drying . In some cases both air-drying and kiln-drying are used . a . Air-drying . Lumber is air-dried by stacking it in such a way as to expose the individual boards to the atmosphere . The most common procedure in air-drying is to build up stacks of lumber flat piled in such a way that the individual boards in a layer are separated by about an inch , and the layers are separated from each other through the use of cross stickers again by about an inch . Piles of lumber stacked for air-drying are ordinarily sloped @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the drying . The stacks are raised from the ground on foundations to permit free flow of air below the stack and to minimize decay and stain occurrence . Stacks are usually separated from each other by several feet to allow air movement along the sides and ends of the lumber pile . Temporary roofs are placed on the stacks to protect them from rain . Variations from the flat-piling technique of air-drying are end-racking and crib-piling . End-racking permits faster drying , but it also results in greater warping and in the occurrence of more degrade from stain and decay . Crib-piling is usually used in the drying of short-length specialty products such as staves and dimension stock . b . Kiln-drying . Kiln-drying of lumber is accomplished by placing it in a chamber where the atmospheric conditions are subject to more precise control than is possible in air-drying . The factors normally subject to control in kiln-drying operations are dry-bulb temperature , relative humidity , air velocity , and time of exposure . The nature and extent of control possible depend upon the kind of kiln that is used @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the method of charging and the nature of the air circulation provided . Based upon charging method used , kilns are classified either as progressive kilns or as compartment kilns . Progressive kilns are usually several hundred feet long . They are charged at one end and discharged at the other . At any given time all the conditions of wet- and dry-bulb temperature required by the drying schedule are present in some part of the progressive kiln. ormally the green , or charge , end of the kiln is maintained at a relatively low dry-bulb temperature and high relative humidity . The dry , or discharge , end of the kiln is maintained at a higher temperature and lower relative humidity . As the lumber moves from the green to the dry end of the kiln , it is subjected to increasingly severe drying conditions . Because lumber in all stages of drying is moving through the kiln at the same rate , the degree of control that can be exercised over the drying operation is somewhat limited . In compartment kilns the drying chamber is filled with green or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sequential series of temperature and relative humidity conditions most conducive to rapid drying %sith a minimum of drying-induced defers . Because all lumber in the kiln at a  | given time can be at approximately the same condition of dryness , it is possible to use much more severe drying schedules than can be applied in a progressive kiln . If rapid drying results in development of stress or nonuniform moisture content within the charge , these deficiencies can be corrected through the application of conditioning and equalizing treatments at the end of the drying schedule . On the basis of air circulation lumber-drying kilns are characterized as natural-draft or forced-draft kilns . Natural-draft kilns depend for air circulation upon maintaining air density differentials between one part of the kiln and another . The heating units are ordinarily under the lumber load . Air passing over the heat source increases in temperature and decreases in density . As it becomes less dense , it rises in the kiln , while the heavier cool air flows downward . As the hot air rises through the load , it becomes cooler and denser @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . This process continues , providing for a natural draft or gravity circulation . Usually the lumber is stacked and baffled in such a way as to allow the warm air to move up through the load and the cool air to move down alongside the load and escape the kiln through vents or chimneys . The vented air is replaced by fresh air introduced into the kiln below the heat source . In forced-draft kilns the air is forced past the heat source and through the load by means of power-driven fans . The load is stacked and baffled in such a way as to ensure an air circulation most conducive to rapid and uniform drying . Relative humidity is controlled in a dry kiln in two ways . Through adjustment of the vent openings , the moist air leaving the load can either he vented and replaced by dry air from outside or be recirculated in the kiln . If more moisture is required than is supplied from the evaporation of water from the wood , this can be introduced into the air stream by means of water or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , compartment kilns . These are subject to much more precise control of drying conditions than are the natural-draft and progressive kilns . Virtually all new installations are of the forced-draft , compartment type . 5 . Surfacing and Shaping . Following the drying operation , lumber may be surfaced and/or shaped . These are machining operations that are used to manufacture the lumber to more accurate dimensions , improve its surface characteristics , or impart to it a desired shape . Modern surfacing and shaping machines utilize high-speed cutterheads to perform the desired machining operations . The most simple production surfacing machine is the single-headed planer or jointer . In this machine the rough hoard is moved across a cutterhead by menus of live feed rolls , and a measured cut is removed from one surface of the board . In this machine only one face of the board is surfaced at a time . The double-headed planer differs from the single-headed planer in that the rough board is fed between two parallel cutterheads . The board thickness obtained is determined by the spacing of the two cutterheads . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It  | can surface all four faces of the rough lumber in a single pass . The cutterheads that surface the faces are installed ahead of those that surface the edges . This is essentially a machine for squaring up a rough board . It is possible to use profile attachments on a planer and matcher to achieve various shapes of finished product . The molder , or sticker , is a machine similar to a planer and matcher but specifically designed to permit the manufacture of shaped products . The molder has at least four and frequently more cutting heads . They provide for a wide variety of cuts , and it is possible on this type of equipment to work four or more sides of the stock to shape in a single pass . Such items as flooring , molding , dowels , furniture stock , and sash and door items are commonly produced on the molder . C. Status of the Industry The lumber industry is characterized by a continuing decrease in the size and quality of its raw material , coincident with an increase in stumpage @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ these unfavorable factors the industry is in the midst of an evolution that may permit the maintenance of a favorable competitive position in the market . According to " Timber Resources for America 's Future , " in 1952 about 1 out of every 4 ft of timber cut , or available from other sources , was not utilized . During recent years important strides have been made in the direction of improving the utilization of sawtimber . Many of the most progressive lumber-manufacturing enterprises are now utilizing slabs , edgings , and trimmings for the production of chips for the pulp and paper industry and the particle-board industry . Development of better methods of quality control and improved machinery are reducing waste . Improved technology has made it possible to convert into lumber logs that would have been rejected for lumber production a decade ago . Labor costs are being reduced substantially through the development of automatic equipment , through increased use of conveyers in lumber plants , and through better plant layout . While the major improvements in technology are in evidence in only the most modern factories , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ advances is rapidly increasing . It is reasonable to assume that modernization of manufacturing facilities will accelerate and that further technological improvements will be forthcoming . SELECTED REFERENCES 1 . Bethel , J. S. , and A. C. Barefoot . Can Lumber Compete ? Forest Prod . Jour. , 8(7) : 9A14A. 1958. 2 . Brown , N. C. , and J. S. Bethel . Lumber , 2d ed . John Wiley &; Sons , Inc. , New York . 1958. 3 . Central Committee on Lumber Standards . Recommended American Lumber Standards . IT , S. Department of Commerce Report . 1923. 4 . Clesinger . E. The Coming Age of Wood . Simon and Schuster , Inc. , New York . 1949. // 5 . Horn , S. F. This Fascinating Lumber Business . The Bobbs-Merrill Company , Inc. , Indianapolis . 1943. 6 . President 's Materials Policy Commission . Resources for Freedom . 1952. 7 . Stanford Research Institute . America 's Demand for Wood . 1929-4975 . Palo Alto , Calif. 1954. 8 . U.S. Department of Agriculture , Forest Service . Timber Resources for America @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                    