@@773539

txt FOUNDATIONAL EDUCATIONAL PROPOSITIONS Organic education then is composed of co-ordinations of realistic and idealistic factors , of external forces of discipline and internal forces of discipline , of determinate elements and indeterminate choices . The teacher or parent must then realize the proportionate bipolarity of external and internal forces . Adult control and direction should be administered in proportion to the actual capacities and powers of the learners at the various levels of development and maturation . ( 27 ) That education demands the co-ordination of reason and experience . Education should he characterized by its co-ordination of the functions of reason and the realm of ordinary experience . Reason has diverse functions and manifestations ; in one sense reason has a contemplative function ? that of seeking Truth , Goodness , Beauty , or understanding . Whitehead has called our attention to this function using the figure of the Greeks , " the reason of Plato . " 14 In another sense , using the Greek figure further , there is the prudential function of intelligence , or the " reason of Ulysses . " " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Thus one function of education derived from the contemplative function is that of development of scientific and philosophical inquiry in pursuit of truth and understanding . It is also a function of education to develop prudential intelligence in the means-ends processes of deliberate and purposeful behavior . The realms of rational inquiry and prudential intelligence are in one sense susceptible to disengagement ; in fact truly rational and objective inquiry requires such temporary disengagement from practical interests . However , the separability is only qualified ; for in the long run there is a necessity of seeing the interaction and the complementary relationship of the two functions . Thus organic education requires interweaving of these functions in the long run . ( 28 ) That the educational process must embrace ( a ) the realm of reason , and ( b ) the realm of ordinary experience . ' 5 These two realms of learning arc analogous to Plato 's Parable of the Prisoners of the Cave . Students must he led from the cave of ordinary experience to the light of reason and inquiry and back again to enlightened @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ respected within the teachinglearning processes.16 Logical continuities are to be interwoven with psychological continuities ( orders of experience ) . Neither one is to be subordinated to the other ; they are to be co-ordinated . ( 30 ) That the logic of subject matter must be respected within the educational process . Subject matters provide the necessary frameworks for structural intelligibility . As such they should not be treated incidentally and subordinated to psychological or experiential continuities . Vitalized teaching can take place within such frameworks . ( 31 ) That education in terms of schooling should follow the logicalpsychological continuity . The logical order is determined by objective factors ; the psychological order is determined by subjective factors ; the logical-psychological continuity is the resulting interweaving order of the two.17 They constitute a dynamic bipolar relationship . ( 32 ) That aspects of the educational process are subject to the principle of reversibility . Reversibility is a basic principle of the Organic Philosophy of Education , not explicitly stated in other educational philosophies to my knowledge , which states that the educational process is characterized by the reversibility of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ f ication , **35;255;TOOLONG , and **29;292;TOOLONG ( 33 ) That objectification and sub jecti f ication are essential phases of the whole educational process.18 By objectification is meant that process in knowing or learning whereby the peculiarly unique and personal understandings , perceptions , feelings , and values are developed to an objective status or level . By subjectification this writer means that process in knowing or learning whereby the knower or learner formulates one 's personal orientation in terms of understanding , appreciation , values , or purposes . Organic education is characterized by the movement through these two phases of the educational process by means of the principle of reversibility. ( 34 ) That the theoretical and practical aspects of the curriculum are bipolar in nature . Theory and practice in school studies are independent and interdependent ; they are disjunctive and conjunctive . For clarity in the mind of the learner there is a necessity that // theoretical inquiries be separated from practical projects . The student should see the conceptual relationships clearly and distinctly in their own intelligibility . At another stage of the learning process @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , it is a fundamental error of recent progressive practices in education which frequently treated all " theoretical aspects of the curriculum " as incidental to and subordinate to " the experiential curriculum . " The experiential curriculum is a legitimate part of the whole , but it is wrong to reduce all aspects of total learning to the experiential curriculum . ( 35 ) That organic education recognizes the role of diversity within unity , but it does not countenance dualism . " Dualism " allows for absolute distinctions between substances or processes , whereas , the distinctions made within the philosophy of organism are not absolute but relative . ( 36 ) That John Dewey was right in his constant endeavor to unify the dichotomies and bifurcations of former philosophies and educational theories ; however , that he erred in overlooking the legitimate diversities and bipolarities in actuality and the educational process . Dewey rightly inveighed against " gaps in experience " and absolute " either-or " bifurcations.19 He constantly sought to unify mind and body , the individual and society , feelings and thought , interest and ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and life . However , the effect of his strong reaction against " bifurcations " has been to blur the legitimacy of bipolarity , or the diversity ( separableness ) as well as the unity of opposites ( togetherness ) . The Organic Philosophy of Education seeks to correct the older error of " dualism " as well as the more recent error of " monism . " For example , this writer holds that " theory and practice " can and must be disengaged , as well as engaged . ( 37 ) That Whitehead is quite right in saying that we should teach fewer subjects and to teach them more thoroughly.29 In his Aims of Education , Whitehead has said : " Let us now ask how in our system of education we are to guard against this mental dryrot. ( inert ideas ' ) We enunciate two educational commandments , " Do not // teach too many subjects , " and again , " What you teach , teach thoroughly . " 21 The direct quotation from Whitehead is given because it supports the writer 's feelings on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the superficiality and fragmentation of learning resulting from the efforts to teach everything at once . It is high time that we recognize the wisdom of Whitehead 's commandments on fewer subjects and thorough teaching . ( 38 ) That the educational process includes complex and simple intelligibilities . Complex intelligibility is defined here as that intelligibility which is found in problems or situations requiring concepts , principles , and skills derived from two or more strands of subject matter ; that type of intelligibility exemplified in " fused curriculum , " " core curriculum , " and " interdisciplinary studies . " Simple intelligibility is defined here as that intelligibility which is found in single strands of subject matter ; that type of intelligibility found in the logical continuity of a given strand of subject matter , such as arithmetic . It is contended here that the curriculum shall include the simple and complex intelligibilities . Students must not be expected to learn only from complex intelligibilities ; they need the clarification to be derived from the study of simple intelligibilities and logical continuities , too . ( 39 ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ structural and functional intelligibilities . These intelligibilities when interwoven result in organic intelligibilities ; that is , the learner exemplifies the unification of both . ( 40 ) That education should nurture structural intelligibility . Structural intelligibility is defined here as the comprehensibility of anything in its formal aspects ; it refers to the knowability of something intrinsically . Structural intelligibility is complemented by functional intelligibility in the organic educational process . ( 41 ) That education should nurture functional intelligibilities . One aspect of education has to do with intelligent doing , acting , making , and creating . This involves functional intelligibility or " know-how . " // This phase of the educational process is complemented by the nurture of structural intelligibility. ( 42 ) That organic intelligibility is a constant objective of organic education . The term is used here to denote the unification of structural and functional intelligibilities in the learner . When the " why , what , and how " aspects of diverse intelligibilities are exemplified in the being of the learner , organic intelligibility has been achieved . ( 43 ) That those engaged @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ validities of objectivity and subjectivity and to avoid the one-sidedness of objectivism or subjectivism . One of the most intricate problems of all philosophy and science is that involving the discernment of elements of objectivity and subjectivity ? especially in the educational process . In one 's enthusiasm for a scientific approach or in one 's concern for personal and subjective factors it is easy to fall into the error of monopolarity. ( 44 ) That education requires harmonization of reality and freedom . Education is constituted by deliberate harmonization of factors of reality and freedom in the developing individual . The individual human organism is never completely free ; he is not absolutely free ; he is only relatively free . His development necessarily involves his relationships to reality and growing degrees of freedom . He must adjust to reality , but to the extent that actuality in the process of becoming is partly indeterminate he has degrees of freedom . Freedom is increased with the development of one 's powers and capacities and understandings . However , this freedom involves t he truth and understandings of reality . Hence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the individual in understanding the scope ; 111 ( 1 its of his freedom and the possibilities and limitations of realit v. ' I he ratio is a shifting one , but it is always a dynamic , existential ratio . ( 45 ) That education involves realization of responsibility and freedom . Education is a process of realization of human responsibility and freedom , to optimum degrees of possibility . It is commonplace to note that responsibility implies freedom and that freedom implies responsibility . In a democracy we value the rights of 3t FOUNDATIONAL EDUCATIONAL PROPOSITIONS individual development according to our own preferences and values . It should be noted that the individual also has a deep responsibility to the society which nourished him , and to humanity at large , and that therefore the educational process must develop one 's social responsibilities as well as one 's rights and freedoms . ( 46 ) That education involves the process of harmonizing the individual with the seven factors of process and reality . In a sense education is also a process of harmonizing the individual in his concrescence with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we should agree that Plato 's thought was largely concerned with the interweaving of seven notions : The Ideas , The Physical Elements , The Psyche , The Eros , The Harmony , The Mathematical Relations , and The Receptacle , ? and that these notions are as important for us now as they were then.22 If these are the factors with which we must deal in relationship to the macrocosm , then certainly it follows that we must deal with them in the microcosm of man . ( 47 ) That education involves the process of realization of beauty . Education is also a process of realization of beauty . " Beauty is the mutual adaptation of the several factors in an occasion of experience . " 23 Again Whitehead sees beauty in terms of abstract or ideal possibilities and as exemplified in actual objects . Beauty is characterized by harmony and " absence of mutual interference . " In addition there are striking contrasts of content . This set of conditions results in an increased intensity and issues in a higher form of beauty . There is harmony of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the total effect and also are enhanced by the totality of which they form a part.24 Education then involves the realization of such harmonies of patterned contrasts both in man himself and in his creations . Education requires the fusion of actual and ideal possibilities in beauty as well as in value . ( 48 ) That education is a process of realization of truth . Education is also a process of realization of truth . In Whitehead 's sense truth may he defined as the conformation of appearance to reality . " // The concrete data which actual entities prehend from other actual entities constitute reality ( in Whitehead 's special , technical use of the term ) , and the novel use which the new actual entity makes of these data , in accordance with its own subjective aim , constitutes what Whitehead calls appearance.28 There are several truth relations which are to be realized in the educational process . The most common conception of truth is perhaps that of the conformation of a proposition to objects described . Another truth relation is that of sense perception and accurate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ symbolic truth , or the relation of symbols and non-inherent meanings . Although there are elements of pragmatism within Whitehead 's epistemology , his theory of knowledge is by no means limited to the pragmatic viewpoint . A. H. Johnson observes that since Whitehead defines truth as the conformity of appearance and reality , he is committed to a kind of correspondence theory of truth , modified by his conception of coherence ; despite the fact that Whitehead 's theory is partly pragmatic in its recognition of consequences , it is not pragmatic in the ultimate sense ; his theory contains other essential elements and it is by no means limited to the pragmatic doctrine of consequences.27 Johnson underscores this distinction as follows , " However , the pragmatist is like Hamlet , continually postponing a final decision . Whitehead contends that intuition ( immediate experience ) in at least some instances removes the need for this tentativeness. " 28 ( 49 ) The problem of knowledge has important consequences for philosophy of education . This proposition need not imply that the problem of knowledge is more important than problems of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the problem of knowledge iand the existing theories of knowledge does provide the student of educational theory with rewarding insights into the dimensions of the educational process . It does make a difference to one 's conception of the educational process , what his theory of knowledge is . It makes . t difference whether one is devoted to one or more theories of knowledge , The philosophy of organism takes the position that all modes of human experience should be utilized in achieving maximum human concresence . FOUNDATIONAL EDUCATIONAL PROPOSITIONS ( 50 ) That philosophy of education is educational theory in its most general phases . The complexities of educational practice require that sound educational practices must be grounded in right theory . Theories of the educational process , human development , curriculum , methods , administration , educational psychology , counseling , and the like are apt to be very inharmonious and incoherent if they are not co-ordinated . This co-ordination and harmonization of theories of education is to be found in the undergirding philosophy of education . Hence educational philosophy is educational theory in its most general phases.29 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the minimization of evil . Education is a process whereby humans seek to maximize the good and to minimize the actualization of evil . This proposition follows from the belief that the ideal contrasts of good and evil in the universe are always with us and that absolute goodness or absolute evil are impossible states of organic achievement . Education in its effort to achieve positive valuation of Good , True , and Beautiful can only hope to maximize such values and to reduce opposites to a minimum . ( 52 ) That education requires a process of realization of value . In a sense education is a process of deliberate realization of value . This organic theory agrees with Whitehead in saying that " value is inherent in actuality " and that it is not an artificial construct.30 Values exist in entities and are enjoyed by all actual entities . This is true of the high-grade human entity or organism too . Hence the educational process becomes a deliberate attempt to realize values in the becoming and being of the learner . The process of self-realization and the creation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . As the learner becomes through the process of concrescence he experiences positive and negative prehensions in appropriating data from his environment . These appropriations are necessarily determinate and selective ; some data must be accepted and some rejected . Thus the becoming learner accepts and rejects values to be incorporated in his being ; values are co-ordinated in his unique being . // It is important to note that according to Whitehead there are value ideals and actual values.31 The value ideals are the abstract possibilities or eternal objects . The actual values are those existent values in actual entities . Human development then necessarily involves constant valuation.32 The educational process is characterized then by the determination and realization of ideal values and existing values through becoming of the learner in actual being . It is important in this connection to note that value should not be merely interpreted in terms of interest . Value arouses interest rather than being the result of interest.33 This twist has striking implications for educational theory in that the problem of values holds a priority over the problem of interests . Instead of asking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more important to determine their values . Values in turn are rooted in the reality of existence and in the ideality of abstract possibilities . Valuation in Whitehead 's terms also involves the complex role of God and the lure of the True , Good , and Beautiful.34 Time does not permit discussion of this part of his philosophy . ( 53 ) That education is a fusion of potentialities and possibilities.33 Education is a process whereby there is a deliberate fusion of actual potentialities of the learner and existing conditions and ideal possibilities . The learner and his environment represent the existential state of being at a given moment in a certain epoch . The learner as env among many entities of this epoch has achieved being in terms of his organized internal constitution . Thus there are actually existent determinate factors , and ideal possibilities ( eternal objects ) . The learner 's being is then determined by a process of concrescence as he unifies aspects of the data about him ; his being becomes formed or determined by the ingression of ideal forms in fusion with actualization of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the learner move from present existence into actualization of the ideal as well as rt xtential potentialities. ( 54 ) That education involves maximum realization of the potentialitie.v of roan qua roan and man 's unique individuality through democracy of it , Education is the maximum realization of the potentialities of man qua man and in man 's unique individuality through democracy . The Olitinnun degree of freedom and responsibility is furnished AR FOUNDATIONAL EDUCATIONAL PROPOSITIONS by a truly democratic environment ; this democratic way of life then is the means whereby man can realize his potentialities with respect to the totality of reality and not merely social environment . ( 55 ) That educational theories can not exist in a philosophical vacuum or in atomistic independence . Theories advanced by specialists in Curriculum , Instruction , Administration , Educational Psychology , Counseling and Guidance , or other divisions of Education , must be grounded in a philosophy of education which in turn is rooted in general philosophy . A given educational theory requires an underlying philosophical orientation either explicitly or implicitly . A standing danger in professional education is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ forth theories of education which are not properly grounded in a coherent philosophy of education . The next chapter presents an overview of some of the philosophical foundational propositions which provide the ground for these educational propositions . Summary . The Organic Philosophy of Education is characterized by selected foundational educational propositions . In most general terms education may be characterized as a deliberate process of creativity and the integration of contrasting elements . A corollary of the foregoing proposition is that education organically conceived is marked by the co-ordination of bipolar and complementary elements and forces . It seeks to avoid the error of monopolarity which results in a one-sidedness of both conservative and progressive theories . Education requires the fusion of knowing and doing , or science and art . The subordination of one to the other must be avoided through the principle of bipolarity . Education has as one of its deepest obligations the harmonization and development of those sides of man termed feeling ' and reason . ' Since man is fundamentally bipolar and ambivalent , exemplifying the great ideal opposites of all reality , it is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ involves the blending of systematic schooling ' and life experience ' in the total educational process . In this sense education as carried on by the schools is both preparation for life and life in its immediacy . FOUNDATIONAL EDUCATIONAL PROPOSITIONS Education requires both systematic learning from another and the nurture of originality through direct experience . This follows from the organic insistence upon the utilization of pluralistic modes of human experience in the total educational process . Organic education depends upon the co-ordination of progressive and conservative forces ; these two sets of forces contribute to the wholeness of the educational process which we seek to achieve . The school itself is thus more democratic than when devoting itself more or less to the beliefs of progressivism or conservatism . The educational process and product are sounder when following the organic conception . Education is most comprehensively conceived as an organic process . The organic process includes all of the functions of man . It is an error of reductionism to conceive of education as a social process , ' ' intellectual process , ' or moral process ' per @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is characterized by three stages of development : ( i ) Exploration , ( ii ) Analysis , and ( iii ) Synthesis , as Whitehead has indicated . The field of learning is that of the individual and reality in its wholeness . Such an organic field of experience is marked by various manifestations of bipolarity , which have to be taken into consideration in our understanding of the teaching-learning processes . Organic education is then characterized by a continual process of interweaving various kinds of opposites , contrasts , components , and co-ordinates . In short it involves bringing the many into the one ; this is concrescence . The organic field of experience exemplifies the bipolar hemispheres with their conjunctiveness and disjunctiveness . In my terms they are related through ( i ) Relative Separability , ( ii ) Relative Incompleteness in se , and ( iii ) Relative Togetherness , or Reciprocity ; in Professor Brahm 's terms the relations are similar : ( i ) Relative Independence . ( ii ) Relative Dependence , and ( iii ) Relative Interdedenpendence . Elements of tinily and diversity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ co-ordinated and liar:lionized in the educational process . // Coherence and continuity are essentials of the teaching-learning process . Logical and psychological continuities must be recognized as separate strands , which are interwoven within the learning process . Neither is subordinate to the other . Education must utilize all of the multiple types of human experience . Reason , experience , intuition , authority , doubt , and problemsolving are components of the total process . No single methodology is sufficient for education in the larger sense . It follows that in teaching students how to think , ' the diverse modes of thought open to mankind should be encompassed in the education of our youth . These multiple types of experience and ways of knowing are exemplified in the various fields of knowledge and experience . These modes of knowing are more or less exemplified in the established fields of knowledge and curriculum . From the organic point of view it would be a mistake to reduce all subject matter demarcations to the emergent , mixed problems of life , in the teaching-learning process . It is the business of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ basic functions of man . These generic functions are Intellectual , Moral , Spiritual , Social , Economic , Political , Physical , Domestic , Aesthetic , and Re-creational . A pattern for general education is secured when we combine these ten dimensions with the horizontal dimensions of Educational Needs , Values , Organized Knowledge , Arts ( Experiences ) , Functions and Aims , and the Respective Institutional Responsibilities . Education requires the development of man qua man , as well as the development of man in his unique individuality . There is the two-fold obligation of education : to man in his common denominators , and in his individuality with its individual differences . Education is in a very profound sense a process of the determination of one 's being . One 's being is determined by the great bipolarity of nature-nurture ? considered conjunctively and disjunctively . Essentially education assists the individual in realizing the answer to this question : " What am I going to be ? " In this process teachers should artist individuals in the acquisition of wisdom as well as practical ' know-how . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ learner as subject literally absorbs the data of his environment , of which he is a continuous extension , into the complexity of his life as a new unity . Education is also a process of harmonizing the forces of authority and freedom in mankind and in the individual . One 's degree of freedom is relative to the facts of reality . Hence the problem of control of the immature depends on our recognition that the human being is always an exemplification of the ratio or proportionate bipolarity equated with existent levels of maturity and immaturity , internal and external factors , idealistic and realistic components , freedom and reality , and elements of indeterminism and determinism . It follows that human motivation and control are pluralistic . Education is never a matter of either external control or internal control in the larger sense of these terms . The teacher must always strive for the ratio of realistic and idealistic components in the direction of the young . Since man has both contemplative and prudential intellectual functions , it follows that education should seek to co-ordinate reason and experience . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It follows as a corollary that logical continuities must be respected within the learning process . Subject matter continuities are necessary to avoid fragmentation . Objectively determined logical orders should be blended with subjectively determined psychological orders . One should not be subordinated to the other . Organic theory introduces a new principle : reversibility . The teaching-learning process should be marked by moving from the respective spheres of the organic field of experience . Thus through reversibility the teacher achieves abstraction-concretion , **32;323;TOOLONG , **35;357;TOOLONG , and the like . One 's experiences become objectified during one sustained movement , only to be subjectified during the deliberate reversal of that process . Education has theoretical and practical components which are learned in disjunction and conjunction at different stages . One is not subordinated to the other . Likewise , the organic conception of education seeks to realize both principles of unity and diversity in the // process . Dewey and his followers were right in seeking to close gaps in experience , but their revolt against dualism led them to overlook the validity of bipolarity , or the unity of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ subjects , but more thoroughly . Within the educational process it is necessary that we sustain simple intelligibilities as well as complex intelligibilities ; there must be recognition of the respective roles of structural and functional intelligibilities as they contribute to the synthesis ? organic intelligibility . In working toward the realization of these intelligibilities the respective validities of objective and subjective phases of human experience are to be recognized . Education requires the harmonization of reality and freedom and the realization of the right ratio between responsibility and freedom . Since man is a microcosm of the macrocosm , education involves the process of harmonizing the individual with the seven factors ( metaphysically ) of process and reality , namely : the Ideas , Physical Elements , Psyche , Eros , Harmony , Mathematical Relations , and the Receptacle . It should go without saying that the education of man requires the deliberate realization of Truth , Beauty , and Goodness to the highest of man 's capacities . Hence studies of reality , truth , and value have tremendously important implications for the educational process . Education then involves @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ human experience . It requires a deliberate realization of value . In this sense educational philosophy is educational theory in its most general phases . Education is a process whereby there is a deliberate fusion of actual potentialities with ideal possibilities . Hence education involves the maximum realization of the potentialities of man qua man and man 's unique individuality through democracy . In conclusion it should be noted that educational theories within Education ? such as educational psychology , educational administration , curriculum and Instruction ? can not function in a philosophical vacuum or in atomistic isolation . Consciously or unconsciously an educational philosophy Is implied . 93 T H E previous chapter has set forth the foundational educational propositions of this educational philosophy . These educational propositions are in turn based upon the foundational philosophical propositions that are set forth in this chapter . These philosophcial propositions are necessarily brief ; the exposition of these propositions in adequate form would require a complete volume in itself . The comparative brevity of these propositions makes it possible to provide the reader with an overview and a general understanding of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have been the most significant and influential in the formulation of this educational theory have been selected for the purposes of this book . All of these propositions are either explicitly or implicitly utilized in the later formulations of this book . Some of the propositions are expounded in later contexts , while others are merely implicit . For the most part these philosophical propositions per se will require more extensive exposition and defense in a later work devoted to these purposes . Many of these propositions are either directly or indirectly related to Whitehead 's philosophy of organism . However , there are many of the propositions which are not necessarily an integral pat of Whitehead 's philosophy and which are essential to this writer own philosophy as derived from his own experiences as well as a variety of sowers in the history of philosophy ? particularly from Plato , Aristotle , and the organic tradition to the present . // The Organic Philosophy of Education holds as follows : ( 1 ) That we live in an organic universe . Our universe is organic in character throughout . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ moving , creating , purposing , evolving in the organic sense as opposed to the conception of the world as mechanical , inert , materialistic , and atomistic . As Whitehead has indicated we live in a living universe as opposed to a dead universe.l As organic , the world is further characterized by its continuity , connectedness , relatedness , coherence , and internal relationships . It is like a seamless coat in that it admits no real bifurcation.2 Because of the reality of its conjunctiveness and disjunctiveness , however , the universe is conceived of in its organic-atomistic relations , whole-part relations , onemany relations , in unity and diversity . Its permanent creative factors are constantly in process in the temporal-spatial continuum.3 The world is a mixture . Hence it is both being and becoming as it evolves in the creative advance.4 ( 2 ) That reality is best characterized by a philosophy of organism . In other words a philosophy of organism is ultimately a better characterization of the world than those philosophies termed realism , idealism , pragmatism or the like . This does not for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lack substantially valid conceptions . The writer merely raises the time honored philosophical question as to which philosophy is most adequate and coherent . A philosophy of organism overlaps with philosophies of other systems . However , a philosophy of organism is not eclectic in this overlapping . It possesses its own core of coherent conceptions and propositions . Hence , organism is found to have principles in common with parts of realism , idealism , pragmatism , existentialism , and other views . It strives for a higher synthesis . By the same token there are important deviations and distinctions between all of these views . ( 3 ) That the ultimate entities of nature , though governed by mechanical principles , are not inert , but are enduring structures of activity , and that the nature of each reflects its organic relations with the larger structures of nature in which it enters.5 The entities of // forms which form the inevitable pattern for the world of becoming . The eternal objects are infinite in number ; they are possibles for ingression into actual entities in process . They are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they are the conceptual envisagements of God.15 Whitehead 's world is not bifurcated into a world of being and becoming ; the world is constituted in its being by its becoming . " One principle is that the very essence of real actuality ? that is , of the completely real ? is process . Thus each actual thing is only to be understood iii terms of its becoming and perishing. " 16 As noted earlier Whitehead is consistently concerned with Plato 's Seven Notions in any adequate philosophical explanation . " " I mention them because I hold that all philosophy is in fact an endeavour to obtain a coherent system out of some modification of these notions . " " They are The Ideas , The Physical Elements , The Psyche , The Eros , The Harmony , The Mathematical Relations , and The Receptacle . These metaphysical considerations then figure prominently in the philosophy of organism . It is important to note that Whitehead speaks of process and reality . There is becoming and being . Process is the expression of creativity in the world . Yet the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Although entities do emerge in time , they are both fluent and enduring . All entities are exemplifications of forms . As temporally enduring entities with forms , they do possess structure . Mankind as an evolved species of Homo sapiens is both fluent and enduring ; within given epochs he possesses the evolved structure and form of his being . As a product of millions of years of evolution he represents evolved structure as well as the fluency of process . Thus , evil ) though a philosophy of organism admits the processual aspects of reality , for practical purposes it is important that we recognize the existence of temporally enduring structures in relation to other enduring factors in a given epoch . In this qualified sense we can rightfully speak of the " nature of something . " ( t ; ) That there fire ideal opposites which pervade the world . As Whitehead says , 1(X) FOUNDATIONAL IH-IILOSOPHICAL PROPOSITIONS In our cosmological construction we are , therefore , left with the final opposites , joy and sorrow , good and evil , disjunction and conjunction ? that is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ permanence , greatness and triviality , freedom and necessity , God and the World . " 19 The world is not dual in the sense of absolute divisions or bifurcations of reality ; the world is characterized , however , by contrasting ideals in dynamic relationships which are elsewhere termed " bipolar " or a " union of opposites . " Essentially there is a sameness and otherness which characterizes all thought and existence . The world then is male and female , physical and mental , permanent and novel , and eternal and temporal . As Plato said the world as an organic creature is a mixture . ( 7 ) That the universe is characterized by bipolar opposites . Some of the bipolarities are **25;394;TOOLONG , **25;421;TOOLONG , logoi and existence , ebb and flow , good and evil , birth and death , eternality and temporality , permanence and novelty , stability and flux , organic and atomistic relations , externality and internality , co-operation and competition , and God and the World and the World and God.2 ? Thus the separableness and otherness of things are relatively @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the organic world is characterized by the principle of bipolarity both metaphysically and in its apparent manifestations . Essentially bipolarity refers to the unity of opposites which seems to characterize both thought and existence.21 Bipolarity manifests itself constantly in sameness and otherness , unity and diversity , and conjunctiveness and disjunctiveness . Bipolar fields of existence or experience are marked by contrasting poles which are not dualistic , but are respectively ( a ) dependent , ( b ) independent , and ( c ) interdependent.22 ( 9 ) That the principle of unity and diversity is one of the foremost bipolarities of the organic viewpoint . The significance of this proposition lies in the fact that a definitive stand is taken here on the perennial problem of the " one and the many . " Philosophers throughout history have been concerned with this problem . In their speculations // they have been concerned with the question of unity and diversity as it applies to thought and existence . Some philosophers have held that reality is " one " and therefore are known as " monists . " Others deny this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they are known as " pluralists . " Plato and other philosophers of the organic tradition have argued that the world is both one and many in different senses . The " one-many " was one of Plato 's highest categories and he held that there was an affinity between the one and many as expressed in the laws of thought and its manifestation in the world creature itself.23 In the Organic Philosophy of Education there is firm agreement with Whitehead when he says that the problem of the one and the many continues to be the main problem of contemporary philosophy . indeed his explanation of the concrescence of actual entities is largey the story of how " the many " elements enter into " the unity " of a given entity . In fact most of Whitehead 's cosmology is an effort to explain how the actual world is in one sense a unity and another a diversity or plurality . We can not here enter into the philosophical ramifications of the problem of the one and the many . It should be noted , however , that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ diversity , is one of the foremost bipolarities of this viewpoint . Hence one of the main efforts of this organic formulation has been the correction and reconstruction of educational theories through the application of the principles of unity and diversity and other organic principles . lie applications of such principles are many . For example , it is the commonplace contention of some progressive theorists that in view of the " doctrine of individual differences " all educational procedures should he adjusted to individuals . Such proponents allege that there are no two persons alike , and therefore procedures must he tailored to the individual . " Here then is a clear case of a halftruth and an excIusive reliance on the principle of diversity , of " manyness " fn Plato 's terns . They one-sidedly see only the diversity and differences of their students . How should this error he corrected in terms of the " one and the many " ? Organically we should see persons in virtue of the principle // of unity and diversity ? in their sameness and in their diversity . The " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a corollary of another category , " identity and difference . " Thus we must see not only the unity or identity of persons or things of a class , such as Homo sapiens , but we must correctly see the principle of diversity or difference as well . Consequently it is clear that an educational philosophy can not be soundly based upon either exclusive view ( a ) that all persons are alike , or ( b ) that all persons are different ; rather the organic doctrine recognizes both common elements , and individual differences in its view of man . The doctrine of the one and many has an infinite number of applications from the broadest philosophical conceptions to the most common identification of commonplace things of everyday life . It is the intent of this work to show the significance of this principle in diverse applications to problems of educational theory throughout this presentation . ( 10 ) That God is an actuality in the organic cosmology.24 The organic conception of God as evidenced in both Plato and Whitehead is " panentheistic " and not " theistic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such as Aristotle 's theism , conceives of God as " the supreme as eternal consciousness , not knowing or including the world . " 25 Another version of emphasis on the one pole is that of pantheism which recognizes " the supreme as eternal consciousness , knowing and including the world , " as in Spinoza and Royce . Panentheism is bipolar in that it recognizes " the supreme as eternal-temporal consciousness , knowing and including the world , " as in Plato , Schelling , Fechner and Whitehead.26 Speaking of the Law of Polarity ' as it applied to the panentheistic conception of God , Hartshorne and Reese summarize the three views as follows : A principal aim of this sourcebook is to exhibit a pattern in the history of rational reflection about God . . . . What we propose to call classical theism ' is , in the West , the chief product of this method ; in the Orient , its chief product is pantheism . The difference between the two is that theism admits the reality of plurality , potentiality , becoming ? as a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no way constitutive of his reality ; whereas // pantheism , properly so called , supposes that , although God includes all within himself , still , since he can not be really complex , or mutable , such categories can only express human ignorance or illusion . Thus , common to theism and pantheism is the doctrine of the invidious nature of categorical contrasts . One pole of each contrary is regarded as more excellent than the other , so that the supremely excellent being can not be described by the other and inferior pole . At once the dilemma results : either there is something outside of deity , so that the total real is deity-and-something , - else , a whole of which deity is merely one constituent ; or else the allegedly inferior pole of each categorical contrast is an illusory conception . Theism takes one horn of the dilemma ; pantheism , the other . The dilemma , however , is artificial ; for it is produced by the assumption that the highest form of reality is to be indicated by separating or purifying one pole of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of God then includes five aspects according to the description given by Hartshorne and Reese : ( 1 ) Eternal : in some aspects of his reality devoid of change .. . ( 2 ) Temporal : in some aspects capable of change .. . ( 3 ) Conscious : Self-aware .. . ( 4 ) Knowing the world or universe , omniscient . . . ( 5 ) World-inclusive , having all things as constituents . . . It is significant then that the Organic Philosophy of Education is grounded in a philosophy of organism which in turn provides a sound basis for a modern cosmology and source of religious as well as philosophical belief . We are deeply indebted to Whitehead and his interpreters for these valuable formulations of organic thought . ( 11 ) That the laws of nature are to be explained largely through the Doctrine of Law as Immanent.29 By the doctrine of Law as immanent it is meant that the order ( ) f nature expresses the characters of the real things which jointly compose the existences to be found in nature . When we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their mutual relations to each other . Thus according as there are common elements IN their various characters , there will necessarily be corresponding identities in their mutual relations . In other words , some partial Identity of pattern in the various characters of natural thinks Issues hi some partial identity of pattern in the mutual tuI FOUNDATIONAL PHILOSOPHICAL PROPOSITIONS relations of those things . These identities of pattern in the mutual relations are the Laws of Nature . Conversely , a Law is explanatory of some community in character pervading the things which constitute Nature . It is evident that the doctrine involves the negation of " absolute being . " It presupposes the essential interdependence of things . " 3 ? ( 12 ) That the world has an intelligible nature.31 It is not without permanent characteristics even though it is in creative process . The world is not mere flux , novelty , chance , precariousness , and unpredictability . Despite its organic character which includes dynamic processes , it does have a nature . It includes principles of stability , endurance , regularity , permanence , purposefulness @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , as well as the inevitable opposites of these . Complete and final knowledge is not possible for the finite intelligence of man . Yet if the world were not essentially and theoretically intelligible in its nature , there could be no progress in science , philosophy , religion , or in any branch of human knowledge and wisdom . If all is precarious and unpredictable flux , then any semblance of scientific knowledge is impossible . ( 13 ) That the temporal world is composed of mixtures , the rational and irrational , the intelligible and the sensible , and the like . Our theories about the temporal world can only be probable because it is in a constant process of flux and therefore knowledge about it must be hypothetical . Thus , the world is a stage for conflict ; there is the process of determining the indeterminate , the stress between these opposites , the relative success in the adjustment , the constant failure . The duality in the mixture is the source of the moral problem.32 ( 14 ) That the rational principle may be defined as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ source of rationality in the universe ; the universe is characterized by elements of rationality and irrationality ; this matrix of rationality manifests itself in the potentialities and actualities of human reason and , science . It is also exemplified in the actual processes and entities of the Extensive Continuum . // Organism contends that there is a fundamental affinity between the rational structure of thought itself and the ratios or forms expressed in the entities and forces of the actual world . Here is the rationalistic conviction that intelligence is one of the creative factors of the universe . Here is the conviction which has appealed to organic rationalists from Pythagoras and Plato to Descartes , Leibnitz , Spinoza , and Whitehead . What is the significance of this belief ? This belief in a rationalistic element or creative factor cosmologically signifies an organic faith in an intelligible world . Philosophically it indicates a kind of world in which we can obtain meaning , science , value , order , causality , and purpose . It provides the basis for a life of intelligence . Educationally it signifies a basis @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ scientific or philosophical inquiry , as well as the prudential and pragmatic concern with intelligence as applied to problem-solving in the affairs of everyday living . The postulation of a rationality which permeates our real world lifts us out of the life in a philosophical quandry which characterizes those schools of thought who deny or seriously doubt this rational faith . The rational principle undergirds the organic conception of the field of teaching-learning experiences discussed elsewhere . The organic belief in the actuality of stubborn fact has been indicated . Despite the fluency of actual entities as subjects of the developmental process , they achieve being through concrescence ? they become actual objects . Man is in one sense a developing subject ; in another sense he has a discernible nature as product or object . This embodiment of forms even in fluency makes for the intelligibility of actual entities . The eternal forms are clearly objects of intelligence . Yet it must be recalled that a philosophy of organism insists upon the concomitant recognition of the reformed subjective principle . ' The reformed subjectivist principle adopted by the philosophy of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ relativity ... This principle states that it belongs to the nature of a ' being ' that it is potential for every ' becoming . ' Thus all things are to he conceived as qualifications of actual occasions.ss That is to sits , that there is an " objective-relativism " in organic philosophy which says that in one respect objects exist independently FOUNDATIONAL PHILOSOPHICAL PROPOSITIONS or disjunctively , but in a very fundamental sense they are interdependent in their constant interplay . The reader should not presume that we are affirming a position of pure rationalism . Far from it . The rationalistic element of organism is more than counterbalanced by the role of " feeling . " In organism Whitehead has virtually presented a " critique of pure feeling " in paraphrase of Kant 's Critique of Pure Reason . The aesthetic component is crucial and fundamental in the philosophy of organism . Likewise there is the recognition of limits of human rationality , and the acknowledgment of the irrational . ( 15 ) That the world of the time-space continuum is a mixture of the creative elements . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . As Demos suggests in re Plato 's Timaeus , which furnishes a substantial point of departure for the organic cosmology : Finally , the world is a mixture of the creative factors . This makes the relation of the creative factors and the creature immediate ; the metaphysical elements are ingredients of the world , they enter into its composition ; they are immanent . The world is the creative factors in their togetherness.34 ( 16 ) That there are actual entities . Whitehead has said that he intended to place idealism on a realistic base.3 " In so doing he emphasized the reality of actual entities as follows : " ' Actual entities ' ? also termed actual occasions ' ? are the final real things of which the world is made up . There is no going behind actual entities to find anything more real . " 36 The actual entities have emerged from the world of the extensive continuum very concretely in time-space . They become through prehension and concrescence in interaction with other entities . Each entity has a mental and physical pole . Through its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Through its physical pole it prehends or appropriates data from other entities of its environment . Each such actual entity is a subject-superfect. ( 17 ) That there is always the embodiment of form within existing entities . It should not be overlooked that a philosophy of organism does not postulate process as formless flux . Entities and societies of entities have being as well as becoming . A bar of steel is an entity // and it is an event . It is in the process of becoming from its birth to its death . Its atomic elements are in motion . Yet it does have endurance as well as fluency . It is a bar of steel with certain definite characteristics during its lifetime . It does possess structural intelligibility . It is the exemplification of forms which can be known scientifically . For all practical purposes we can treat such entities or structures as " substances , " as long as we remember the metaphysical qualifications . Mankind as evolved Homo sapiens then has structure and function ; he has an enduring nature in this sense . ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ All entities are involved in constant creativity . The very process of becoming in terms of prehension and concrescence is that of creativity . Creativity itself is an eternal object as is exemplified in the activity of actual entities . God as an actual entity is creative ; he weaves his primordial conceptuality upon his temporal consequent becoming . All entities in their complex interactions contribute to the creative advance of the world through the joint processes of creativity . ( 19 ) That the qualitative elements of the world are characterized by mathematical harmonies . Greek philosophers were impressed with the harmonies and proportions of all reality . Plato in particular emphasized the harmonies of the spheres which characterized both realms of being and becoming . In respect to Harmony , the Greeks made a discovery which is a landmark in the history of thought . They found out that exact Mathematical Relationships , as they exist in Geometry and in the numerical proportions of measurements , are realized in various outstanding examples of beautiful composition 37 The Greek discovery of the relationships between the vibrations of stringed instruments and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mind of Plato it meant that mathematical proportions and ratios characterized the world . Science seeks the exact ratios exemplified in entities and events ; man seeks harmonious adjustment to his world . ( 20 ) That there are eternal objects . These eternal objects as recognized byWhitehead are similar to Plato 's eternal forms or ideas , // but with some significant differences ; the eternal objects are synonymously possibles , pure potentials , or forms of definiteness . Whitehead defines them as , " Any entity whose conceptual recognition does not involve a necessary reference to any definite actual entities of the temporal world is called an eternal object . ' " 38 Whitehead 's eternal objects are infinite in number ; they do not constitute a single model or ideal architectonic for the world of becoming ; they represent an infinite number of possibles or ideal forms which may or may not ingress into actual entities . Furthermore they do not subsist as vacuous entities in nothingness ; they are the envisagements of the primordial conceptuality of God ; in this sense they are internally related and possibles @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( 21 ) That the forms of thought and existence emanate from a common matrix . The conceptual forms which are manifest in the cognitive processes of the high-grade human organism are not alien to the forms which are exemplified in other actual entities and objects . They are derived from a common matrix . Thus there is a genuine intelligibility between theoretical inquiry and the forms discovered in existing entities . Entities are intelligible to the extent that they exemplify forms of definiteness . For example , the highest categories of thought manifest the bipolarities of unity and diversity , being and non-being , identity and difference , and truth and falsity . These categories are essential to human thought and predication . They are also inevitably manifest in the being and becoming of actual entities in the temporal-spatial continuum . They are manifest in our description of the nature of things , or in statements of human knowledge . When we say " The chair is heavy , " we assert it is one object of many ; we assert that it has being and non-being ; we see @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; we utter a partial truth and a partial falsity . If we take our statement too seriously , we have made the error of " misplaced concreteness . " The " chair " is also many other things we have not mentioned . ( 22 ) That man is an ambivalent organism because of his exemplification of the bipolar opposites of the world itself . As a microcosm // of the macrocosm man exemplifies the deeply rooted ideal opposites of the universe . As a high-grade organism the existence of a bipolarity of physical and mental poles in man is most significant . The contrary attractions of physical pleasures and the ideal lures of the mental pole contribute to man 's ambivalence . Excessive pursuit of physical pleasures can result in the rejection or diminution of the intellectual , moral , and spiritual life . Man 's appetites and passions may contradict his desire for higher experiences . The educational significance of this ambivalent nature is that education should assist man in harmonizing and co-ordinating these contrasting forces of his being . Man , although a temporal creature in one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the eternal . Man is not " dualistic " in nature according to a philosophy of organism . He is an organic mixture and embodiment of such contrasts as permanent and novel , spiritual and physical , mental and physical , rational and emotional , comprehension and prehension , intellectual and aesthetic , joy and sorrow , birth and death , the eternal and the temporal . There is no thought of dualistic separations of mind and body . Our whole continuity of human experience convinces us that the relationship between human body and human intelligence is so intimate , interwoven , and intrinsic , that the question of intercommunication between body and mind does not emerge . The body itself is important in the philosophy of organism . The body with its subtle feelings , sensations , prehensions , intuitions , emotions , appetites , hungers , and rhythmic demands , is the vital link between external reality and the more cognitive and intellectual functionings of the human intelligence . Since existence is continuous in the organic outlook , it is most difficult to distinguish between so-called external and internal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has a discernible and enduring nurture as well as a fluent nature . Man today is a product of the creative advances of the world . Although organicists do not speak of iiian 's nature in terms of the older substance theory , this fact does not nre ; ur that there 1s no enduring pattern of man 's being which we may cull " mature " In terms of this epoch it can be said that man has achieved a relatively stable pattern of characteristics of his being through a process of becoming . Man 's present nature as an cndurFOUNDATIONAL PHILOSOPHICAL PROPOSITIONS ing entity is a stubborn fact . Despite certain apparent plasticity and modifiability of man 's nature , it is clear that his being , which is the product of untold millions of years of evolution , represents a patterned concrescence . Although subject to further evolution , man as man today is a relatively enduring product with intelligible characteristics . ( 24 ) That man is an organic microcosm of the macrocosm . Man is an evolved product of the creative advance of the world ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; he is a concrescence of the multiple creative factors which in process and reality have produced the entities of the present epoch . Figuratively man is a drop of water of the ocean of the universe . He is the epitome of its ideal and actual possibilities as determined by past events up to the present moment . Man then must be understood as a product of all the complex forces and events of the past . He is the product of prior events and interactions of entities which were in part determined and in part undetermined ? but which inevitably became determined . As such , man must be understood only in part as the product of given cultures . In a larger context man is the product of the totality of forces ? which might well be termed metaphysical , physical , biological , as well as cultural . 111 // PHILOSOPHICAL PROPOSITIONS continued CONTINUING the basic propositions the organic educational philosophy holds : ( 25 ) That speculative and experimental modes of inquiry are necessary to one another . Exclusive dependence upon modes of speculation or experimentation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thought , and philosophical speculation needs the facts of scientific inquiry . Likewise , the conceptual order complements the observational order . Our co-ordinated knowledge , which in the general sense of the term is Science , is formed by a meeting of two orders of experience . One order is constituted by the direct , immediate discriminations of particular observations . The other order is constituted by our general way of conceiving the Universe . They will he called , the Observational Order and the Conceptual Order . The first point to remember is that the observational order is invariably interpreted in terms of the concepts supplied by the conceptual order.l ( 26 ) That human beings should utilize all modes of experience open to theca in prehending and comprehending their world . Whitehea 's has called attention to the varieties of human experience and the necessity of utilizing all types of experience.2 The methods of introspection , intuition , literature , humanities , sciences , and ordinary experience should be included . This writer adds that in view of the apparent validities existing in the various " ways of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ should avail ourselves of all types of experiences , including the empirical , rational , intuitional , authoritative , pragmatic , and skeptical. // The value theory is both ideal and actual , or transcendent in one sense and immanent in another . To the extent that there are ideal values in the eternal forms which defy perfect or final embodiment in actual things in process , we can say that the ideal values are in this sense transcendent . To the extent that ideal values have been exemplified in the creative advance of the world , that is they have contributed to the determination of actual entities , there is said to be an immanence of norms or values . Thus to the extent that actual entities have exemplified certain forms and values in their real internal constitutions , and to the extent that they have achieved determined being , these values in actual entities are immanent . ( 27 ) That human thought processes necessarily involve concepts of contrast . There is a profound unity undergirding human rational thought . Human thought necessarily involves forms of contrast ; these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ universal for Homo sapiens . The writer refers here to the proposition that thought necessarily involves such implicit or explicit contrasts as suggested in the categories of Plato . Thought involves Sameness and Otherness , Identity and Difference , Truth and Falsity , and Being and Non-Being . Rational thought requires predication , which in turn contains these contrasts . If we say , " This is a book , " we assert that it has been perceived as a book and not something else . We assert a kind of being and non-being . We utilize similarity and difference in our perception . The proposition about the book is partially true in a sense , and partially false ? it is also other things . There is a sense in which Plato was right in saying that there is a natural metaphysics of thought itself . ( 28 ) That there is an immanence of oughtness in the very nature of things . Man in his evolved nature embodies an inherent oughtness for his living . His actualized being contains the generic requisites for his living . Man ought to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his nature . In this sense there is an immanence in his very being . Furthermore , man should actualize ideal values in the existing conditions of his epoch . ( 29 ) That values are both ideal and actual . Values are not merely subjective ; they inhere in the very nature of things ; they are part of // the objective constitution of entities . As Whitehead says , the flower that blooms in the desert has its own beauty and is dimly appreciated by the life about it.4 Concrescence involves the appropriation of value from other actual entities . There are also ideal values or abstract possibilities of value . These ideal values are not complete in themselves , for they are only possible values for exemplification in actual entities . Ideal values need this exemplification in actual entities through ingression to complete their possibility of realization . We have referred elsewhere to the fact that God serves as the binding element for the translation of abstract values into concrete entities.5 Organic values then are not assigned to some transcendental realm beyond attainment ; as ideal values they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ entities . They are transcendental in that they may not be perfectly embodied per se. ( 30 ) That man can experience eternal values in his temporal existence . In large measure the traditional dichotomy between " other worldliness " and " this worldliness " can be overcome through the realization that man can experience eternal values in his temporal existence . As Plato suggested the temporal musical instrument can play eternal harmonies while it enjoys its existence . Values derived from eternal objects can be enjoyed in the particular conditions of a given temporal epoch and through the media of the existing entities of that time and place . Thus the eternal values are exemplified and objectified in the concreteness of the given entities of an epoch . Justice , for example , is an eternal object ; yet as actualized in the relations of concrete entities it becomes a relative value as felt and conceived in a determinate situation . In the situation it is relative and not absolute ; it is this complex situation with combinations of justice and other eternal objects that makes the problem on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ spiritual function of man is largely his identity with the world . Mau in his many-sidedness is very much a part of the cosmos as well as the human society . Leaving the social side of man 's existence for a moment , the spirit of man is also concerned with his solitariness and his place in the world . // In its solitariness the spirit asks , What , in the way of value , is the attainment of life ? And it can find no such value till it has merged its individual claim with that of the objective universe . Religion is world-loyalty. ? ( 32 ) That the existence of evil in the world is one of the tragic truths of reality . Evil can not be wished away , for it is part of the creative advance of the world . The fluctuating ratios of good and evil are inevitable . The very processes of concrescence of entities in the determination of their respective beings involve good and evil. ? Humans can reduce evil in their lives , but they can never completely eliminate it from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the evil in the world , not merely the moral evil , but the pain and suffering . " 8 ( 33 ) That the quest for universality is motivated by the desire for some connection with permanence in the world . Man does not want to be lost in the hurly-burly of immediate detail . The reason of the connection between universality and solitariness is that universality is a disconnection from immediate surroundings . It is an endeavour to find something permanent and intelligible by which to interpret the confusion of immediate detail. ? ( 34 ) That doubt about the divinity of the universe does not in itself make one irrreligious.10 Most thinking persons have evolved in their conceptions of God and the universe . During the time of this evolution they have had conflicts and doubts within their complex experiences of life . During periods of personal loss and deep bereavement many have no doubt experienced an all pervasive feeling of loneliness in the sea of reality . Many have felt forsaken even by God . Whitehead with his usual penetration has divined this too and said : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to have felt forsaken , even by God . " 11 ( 35 ) That one 's religious life may or may not be furthered through institutional rituals.12 Since religion is largely a matter of what one does with his solitariness , it is quite possible that one can be devoutly religious in his own right . // Thus religion is solitariness ; and if you are never solitary , you are never religious . Collective enthusiasms , revivals , institutions , churches , rituals , bibles , codes of behaviour , are the trappings of religion , its passing forms . They may be useful , or harmful ; they may be authoritatively ordained , or merely temporary expedients . But the end of religion is beyond all this.13 ( 36 ) That " religion is what man does with his solitariness. " 14 One of the most succinct and meaningful definitions of religion in my opinion is that furnished by Whitehead . Religion is man 's feeling of his relationship as an individual with the universe . The completely socially oriented person is afraid to be alone ; he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Man should cultivate his powers of solitariness as well as his social being . " Accordingly , what should emerge from religion is individual worth of character . " 15 ( 37 ) That we must not make the error of reductionism in conceiving of man narrowly as a social product . Man is necessarily a social being , but he is more than that . You can not abstract society from man ; most psychology is herdpsychology . But all collective emotions leave untouched the awful ultimate fact , which is the human being , consciously alone with itself , for its own sake.16 Man must find his place in the cosmos . ( 38 ) That the development of man is not limited to his social environment ; human development requires individualistic internal nurture and an intimate feeling of community with those elements of permanence in the world . Man is a product of the cosmos as well as of his immediate culture . Hence the importance of religion in man 's develepment . Religion is the art and the theory of the internal life of man , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on what is permanent in the nature of things.17 ( 39 ) That one 's character is fundamentally dependent upon his beliefs . ' To believe at all one must have faith in something whether it hr reason , experience , or revelation . One 's religion in the final analysis is a matter of his faith . Your character is developed from your faith . This is the primary religious tenth from which no one can escape . Religion is // force of belief cleansing the inward parts . For this reason the primary religious virtue is sincerity , a penetrating sincerity . ' $ ( 40 ) That modern man is suffering from the loss of religious moorings . Some of the modern existentialists have correctly pointed out that for modern man the statement that " God is dead " is a very real one.19 Hence man is alone ; he feels a sense of homelessness in his modern world . As Whitehead says , " The modern world has lost God and is seeking him . " 20 ( 41 ) That God is necessary to the actual @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ God.21 Whitehead 's explanation of the reciprocal role of God and the actual World is indeed a fundamental one . God is the necessary binding element between abstract forms ( possibles ) and actual entities ( exemplifications in time-space ) . Apart from God , there would be no actual world ; and apart from the actual world with its creativity , there would be no rational explanation of the ideal vision which constitutes God.22 ( 42 ) That God and the World need each other . " It is as true to say that God creates the World , as that the World creates God . " 23 God and the World are the contrasted opposites in terms of which Creativity achieves its supreme task of transforming disjoined multiplicity , with its diversities in opposition , into concrescent unity , with its diversities in contrast . In each actuality there are two concrescent poles of realization ? ' enjoyment ' and appetition , ' that is , the physical ' and the conceptual . ' For God the conceptual is prior to the physical , for the World the physical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ function in the world by reason of which our purposes are directed to the ends which in our own consciousness are impartial as to our own interests.25 He is the binding element in the world.26 He is not the world , but the valuation of the world.27 ( 43 ) That an organic world is a fusion of elements of permanence and flux . The vicious separation of the flux from the permanence leads to the concept of an entirely static God , with eminent i'eality , in relation to an entirely fluent world , with deficient reality . But if the opposites , static and fluent , have once been so explained as separately to characterize diverse actualities , the interplay be- // tween the thing which is static and the things which are fluent involves contradiction at every step in its explanation.28 ( 44 ) That God moves the world by the lure of the true , good , and beautiful . He does not create the world , He saves it : or , more accurately , He is the poet of the world , with tender patience @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and goodness.2 ? ( 45 ) That God hcis a consequent nature which binds him with all actual entities . But God , as well as being primordial , is also consequent . He is the beginning and the end , lle is not the beginning in the sense of being in the past of all members . He is the presupposed actuality of conceptual operation , in unison of becoming with every other creative act . Thus , by reason of the relativity of all things , there is a reaction of the world on God . He shares with every new creation its actual world ; and the concrescent creature is objectified in God as a novel element in God 's objectification of that actual world . This prehension into God of each creature is directed with the subjective aim , and clothed with the subjective form , wholly derivative from his all-inclusive primordial valuation . God 's conceptual nature is unchanged , by reason of its final completeness . But his derivative nature is consequent upon the creative advance of the world.3o ( 46 ) That God is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they are manifest as a primordial and consequent nature ; God 's primordial nature represents the conceptual unification of all eternal objects ; God is an actual entity expressed in his consequent nature as constituted by prehensions of other actual entities . God weaves his primordial conceptual being upon his actuality in the creative advance of the world . God is " panentheistic " in that he is constituted by a bipolarity of his primordial and consequent nature . Viewed as primordial , he is the unlimited conceptual realization et the absolute wealth of potentiality . In this aspect , he is not before all creation , but with all creation . But , as primordial , so far is he from ' eminent reality , ' that in this abstraction he is ' deficiently : actual ? and this in two ways . His feelings are only conceptual and so lack the fullness of actuality . Secondly , conceptual feelings apart from complex integration with physical feelings , ore dew ) id of consciousness in their subjective forms.82 lie is the lure for feeling , the eternal urge of desire.88 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ metaphysical principles.34 God is not an exception to metaphysical principles ; he is the chief exemplification of such organic principles . ( 48 ) That philosophy is the handmaiden of religion . History offers ample proof of the proposition that philosophy is the handmaiden of religion . Certainly the rise of the great religions of the world shows a close kinship with philosophical conceptions and inquiries . If we are to nurture religion in our own lives , we must also nurture the spirit of philosophy . " The peculiar position of religion is that it stands between abstract metaphysics and the particular principles applying to only some among the experiences of life . " 36 Furthermore religion in its intuitions has need for philosophy in its rational articulation . " The rational religion must have recourse to metaphysics for scrutiny of its terms . " 36 ( 49 ) That conflict between science and religion is unnecessary . There is no necessary antagonism between these respective fields of inquiry and experience . As Whitehead says of this conflict between science and religion : In one sense , therefore , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has been unduly emphasized . A mere logical contradiction can not in itself point to more than the necessity of some readjustments , possibly of a very minor character on both sides . Remember the widely different aspects of events which are dealt with in science and in religion respectively . Science is concerned with the general conditions which are observed to regulate physical phenomena ; whereas religion is wholly wrapped up in the contemplation of moral and aesthetic values . On the one side there is the law of gravitation , and on the other the contemplation of the beauty of holiness . What one side sees , the other misses ; and vice versa.37 Conflict occurs only when dogmatic stands are taken by the protagonists of each field and an unwillingness exists on the part of one or both to work toward continual development and reconciliation . Religion will not regain its old power until it can face change in the same spirit as does science . Its principles may be eternal , but the expression of those principles requires continual development . This evolution of religion is in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the adventitious notions which have // crept into it by reason of the expression of its own ideas in terms of the imaginative picture of the world entertained in previous ages . Such a release of religion from the bonds of imperfect science is all to the good . It stresses its own message . The great point to be kept in mind is that normally an advance in science will show that statements of various religious beliefs require some sort of modification . . . The progress of science must result in the unceasing codification of religious thought , to the great advantage of religion.88 ( 50 ) That there is no necessary conflict between philosophy and science . " ? The organic viewpoint acknowledges our indebtedness to both science and philosophy in their respective contributions and in their reciprocal interplay . Scientific facts and observations are meaningless without an over-all philosophical framework for interpretation . Science is in part dependent upon philosophical speculation with respect to the concepts within a cosmology of such topics as space , time , causation , form , matter , organism , function , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ important speculative tasks can not function in isolation from science ; the experimentation , empirical verification , the factual observations , and other advances of science and scientific method are necessary aspects of philosophical inquiry and generalization . Science on its empirical and experimental side is indispensable to an adequate philosophy . The purpose of science is to search out exemplifications of conceptually designated laws of nature or the universe . Philosophy profits from the findings of science ; the relationship is reciprocal . Without the imaginative speculations , the dialectical inquiries , the penetrating flights of reason in the ideational realms of philosophy and mathematics , science would be limited indeed . Our organic orientation then is found in a tradition of organic thinkers from Plato to Whitehead . We can not limit ourselves to the religious , scientific , or philosophical viewpoints . We entertain an organic world which is both one and many , permanent and changing , determined and undetermined , and both rational and irrational , as well as manifesting what we in varying perspectives term good or had . It is a world in which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ // everything ; he is a representation of the sources of good , value , intelligibility , order , beauty , and purpose.4 ? ( 51 ) " That philosophy always buries its undertakers. " 41 Etienne Gilson points out in his Unity of Philosophical Experience that the history of philosophy indicates that with the rise and fall of particular philosophical systems there recurs an attempt to do away with philosophy . " The so-called death of philosophy being regularly attended by its revival , some new dogmatism should now be at hand . In short , the first law to be inferred from philosophical experience is : Philosophy always buries its undertakers. " 42 Despite the recent attempts to destroy philosophy , it is very much alive . The Organic Philosophy of Education is dedicated to the important role of philosophy throughout human affairs . Summary . The foregoing educational propositions are grounded in foundational philosophical propositions . In summary form , the Organic Philosophy of Education holds the following beliefs : ( 1 ) That we live in an organic universe . ( 2 ) That reality is best @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ That the ultimate entities of nature , though governed by mechanical principles , are not inert , but are enduring structures of activity , and that the nature of each reflects its organic relations with the larger structures of nature in which it enters . ( 4 ) That there is a stubborn persistency in the nature of things . ( 5 ) That the world is both a process of becoming and a product in its being . ( 6 ) That there are ideal opposites which pervade the world . ( 7 ) That the universe is characterized by bipolar opposites . ( 8 ) That the organic world is characterized by the principle of bipolarity both metaphysically and in its apparent manifestations. ( 9 ) That the principle of unity and diversity is one of the foremost bipolarities of the organic viewpoint . ( 10 ) That God is an actuality in the organic cosmology . ( 11 ) That the laws of nature are to be explained largely through the Doctrine of Law as Immanent in the Organic cosmology . ( 12 ) That the world has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ temporal world is composed of mixtures , the rational and irrational , the intelligible and the sensible and the like . ( 14 ) That the rational principle may be defined as an organic principle which holds that there is a source of rationality in the universe ; the universe is characterized by elements of rationality and irrationality ; this matrix of rationality manifests itself in potentialities and actualities of human reason and science . It is also exemplified in the actual processes and entities of the Extensive Continuum . ( 15 ) That the world of the Extensive Continuum is a mixture of the creative elements . ( 16 ) That there are actual entities which emerge in the world of process . ( 17 ) That there is always the embodiment of form within existing entities . ( 18 ) That the actual world is involved in creativity . ( 19 ) That the qualitative elements of the world are characterized by mathematical harmonies . See also , Friedrich Nietzsche , " Zarathustra 's Prologue , " Thus Spake Zarathustra . ( 20 ) That there are eternal objects @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of thought and existence emanate from a common matrix . ( 22 ) That man is an ambivalent organism because of his exemplification of the bipolar opposites of the world itself . ( 23 ) That man as Homo sapiens has a discernible and relatively enduring nature as well as an evolving fluent nature . ( 24 ) That man is an organic microcosm of the macrocosm. ( 25 ) That speculative and experimental modes of inquiry are necessary to one another . ( 26 ) That human beings should utilize all modes of experience open to them in prehending and comprehending their world . ( 27 ) human thought processes necessarily involve concepts of contrast . ( 28 ) That then , is an immanence of oughtness in the very nature of things . ( ' ' here is also a sense of transcendency of ideal forms. ) ( 29 ) That values arc both ideal and actual . // ( 30 ) That man can experience eternal values in his temporal existence . ( 31 ) That the spiritual function of man is largely his identity with the world @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the world is one of the organic truths of reality . ( 33 ) That the quest for universality is motivated by the desire for some connection with permanence in the world . ( 34 ) That doubt about the divinity of the universe does not in itself make one irreligious. ( 35 ) That one 's religious life may or may not be furthered through institutional rituals . ( 36 ) That religion is what man does with his solitariness. ' ( 37 ) That we must not make the error of reductionism in conceiving of man narrowly as a social product . ( 38 ) That the development of man is not limited to his social environment ; human development requires individualistic internal nurture and an intimate feeling of community with those elements of permanence in the world . ( 39 ) That one 's character is fundamentally dependent upon his beliefs . ( 40 ) That modern man is suffering from the loss of religious moorings. ( 41 ) That God is necessary to the actual world , and that the actual world is necessary to God @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ each other . ( 43 ) That an organic world is a fusion of elements of permanence and flux. ( 44 ) That God moves the World by the lure of the true , good , and beautiful . ( 45 ) That God has a consequent nature which binds him with all entities . ( 46 ) That God is bipolar or panentheistic ' in nature . ( 47 ) That God is an exemplification of metaphysical principles . ( 48 ) That philosophy is the handmaiden of religion . // ( 49 ) That conflict between science and religion is unnecessary . ( 50 ) That there is no necessary conflict between philosophy and science . ( 51 ) " That philosophy always buries its undertakers. " // BIPOLARITY g N Part III we shall move from our previous survey of foundational propositions to a consideration of some of these conceptions as they apply to crucial problems of the educational process . Some of the questions with which we shall be concerned in this part are : What do you mean by the principle of bipolarity ? How does @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ propose to reconcile realms of reason and experience ? What is the role of intelligibility in the educational process ? How are the valid elements of objectivity and subjectivity to be reconciled in the educational process ? ' What is the organic conception of creativity in the educational process ? What is the organic theory of control ? What is the organic theory of creativity ? What are the types of creativity ? In this chapter we shall probe further into the principle of bipolarity . We need to know something of its historical treatment as well as contemporary interpretations . Some of the questions to be considered are as follows : What are some of the " opposites " to be considered ? What are some of the historical sources of the bipolar problem ? What were the views of Plato and Aristotle ? What were some of the medieval views ? What were the views of the German idealists ? What are the evaluations of these views by this organic philosophy ? Introduction One of the perennial problems of philosophy is that of contraries , opposites , contradictions and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and value are inevitably involved with the explanations of various types of oppositions . Schools of thought such as monism , // dualism , pluralism , and organism have flourished in their respective responses to these problems . ' It is no overstatement to say that one of the enduring challenges to philosophy is that of explaining these subtle and complex relationships of seemingly opposing elements and principles . Much of one 's philosophical orientation depends upon his explanation of such elements . Some of the " opposites " which have formed the issues of the long history of western philosophy are as follows:2 ( 1 ) Permanence and Change ( 2 ) Eternal and Temporal ( 3 ) One and Many ( 4 ) Ideal and Sensible ( 5 ) Being and Becoming ( 6 ) Ideal and Material ( 7 ) Knowledge and Opinion ( 8 ) Form and Matter ( 9 ) Absolute and Relative ( 10 ) Rational and Empirical ( 11 ) Universal and Particular ( 12 ) Identity and Difference ( 13 ) Continuity and Discontinuity ( 14 ) Substance and Function ( 15 ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 17 ) Internal and External ( 18 ) Intrinsic and Instrumental ( 19 ) Organic and Atomistic ( 20 ) True and False ( 21 ) Good and Evil It is the writer 's contention that one 's philosophical propositions with respect to problems of reality , knowledge , and value should be intimately related to one 's educational propositions . Hence , before we can turn to some of the major conflicts of educational theory , the organic approach to these perennial oppositions must be set forth . In other words the resolution of such oppositions as formal and informal , structural and functional , logical and psychological , rational // and empirical , objective and subjective , academic and experiential , cognitive and conative , theoretical and practical , conservative and progressive , general and special , cultural and vocational , and the like , requires a philosophical orientation of adequate propositions . It would not be appropriate in this writing to engage in a long survey of philosophical resolutions of this problem of opposites . However , the principle of bipolarity as later developed in this educational philosophy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and contemporary sources of bipolarity are briefly indicated . We are particularly concerned with any philosophers or educators who have been concerned with the concept of polarity itself , especially those who are concerned with the polar aspects of opposites . One dictionary defines philosophy of polarity as follows : Philosophies that make the concept of polarity one of the systematic principles according to which opposites involve each other when applied to any significant realm of investigation . Polarity was one of the basic concepts of Cusanus and Schelling . Morris R. Cohen made use of the principle of polarity in scientific philosophy , in biology , in social and historical analysis , in law and in ethics .3 It is the purpose here then to provide a brief sketch of some of the notable philosophers and educators who have dealt with the problem of opposites in such a way as to approximate one form or another of polarity or duality . The selection of illustrative philosophers is arbitrary and incomplete . A few of these notable thinkers have been chosen to indicate the variety of sources available to one interested @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and contemporary times . A complete analysis of this problem would lead one through the entire history of philosophy . Historical Instances of " Opposites " One does not find clearly formulated instances of " bipolarities " in the long history of philosophy . Instead one finds philosophers in ancient , medieval , and modern times wrestling with the problem of " opposites " in their various ways.4 Pre-Socratic Greek philosophers such as Pythagoras , Anaximander , Empedocles , and Heraclitus , for example , had their diverse and respective conceptions of the oppos- // ing forces of the cosmos . Plato and Aristotle too had their conceptions of the nature of " opposites " and " contraries. " 9 Their diverse views contribute to our own appreciations of the problem of opposites and to the nature of bipolarity as viewed today . Pythagoras , for example , produced " The Table of Ten Opposites " out of his view of the " dyadic " relations of things . They included : Odd and Even , Right and Left , Male and Female , Limited and Unlimited , One and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Straight and Crooked , Light and Darkness , and Good and l3ad. ? In the far cast the Indian and Chinese philosophers formulated the " Binary Wheel of Yang and Yin " which shows they too were cognizant of the bipolar forces of reality as expressed poetically in the conceptions of Heaven and Earth , Light and Darkness , Masculine and Feminine , Good and Bad , and Life and Death ? These historical examples are cited as evidence of their concern with the problem of opposites and not necessarily as legitimate bipolarities with which we are bound to agree today . The history of philosophy illustrates the perennial quality of the interest in this problem of opposites . Virtually every philosophical system illustrates some explicit or implicit solution to this problem of opposites , whether it be a monism , dualism , pluralism , or organism in its solution . The problem is perennial ; its solution within a given system depends on the presuppositions of that system . Plato : " Dualist " or " Bipolarist " ? Some philosophers would argue that Plato was not a believer in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ opposites . " Accordingly they would say that since Plato emphasized the ultimate reality of the realm of being , as opposed to the realm of becoming , that in c fleet he " bifurcated " his world and gave being a superior role in the hierarchy of reality or " great chain of being . " , 9 Many would say that Plate was a " dualist " in separating the ideal and actual worlds and that therefore he could not have been seriously interested in bipolarity . On the ether side , however , it can be argued that Plato 's conceptions seem to reinforce a bipolar principle . Although Plato did 1:34 BACKGROUNDS OF BIPOLARITY make distinctions between the ideal and the actual realms , his whole outlook is organic . As we have noted earlier the actual world is an organic creature which is composed of the mixtures of the creative factors , God , the Mathematicals , Pattern , the Forms , the Good , the Eros , and the Receptacle.10 Thus actual entities are mixtures in the realm of becoming as they embody these creative @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " and matter , " or a unity of opposites . " Only a few of the conceptions in Plato are mentioned here briefly that might be cited in the direction of a bipolarity . Plato 's concern with the interdependence of " being " and " becoming " is shown many times in his criticism of those who would defend one to the exclusion of the other . In the Sophist , for example , Plato criticizes the " friends of the forms " or apparently the idealists.12 As A. E. Taylor says very pointedly , From the statement of their theory , it is clear that they are extreme dualists , who regard being ' and becoming ' as absolutely sundered . They then identify becoming ' with the sensible world , and consequently hold that the sensible world has no real existence . To state the same thing from the epistemological standpoint , they deny that sensation has any cognitive value , or plays any part in the apprehension of truth . This shows that the reference can not be to the type of theory ascribed to Socrates @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the doctrine of ' participation ' of sensible things in forms was just to break down the absolute severance between a real world of being ' and an illusory world of becoming , ' by ascribing a partial and secondary reality to the sensible . So the doctrine of recollection ' was intended to assign a genuine , if a humble , part in the process of reaching truth ; sensation is , on that theory , just what suggests ' or calls into our minds ' the thought of the forms.13 Many such evidences could be brought to bear on the contention that Plato 's later thought tended more and more toward a " unity of opposites " in terms of being and becoming , one and many , rest and : notion , and other fundamental bipolarities . It seems incredible that Plato should really have contended that the ideal realm could exist In absolute independence from the realm of becoming ; it is even // more obvious that he would never have argued that the realm of becoming could have any existence without the metaphysical creative factors . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could find strong evidence for a bipolar conception of dependence , independence , and interdependence in Plato 's works . Aristotle and Contraries Although Aristotle does not speak directly of bipolarity he does speak pointedly of the relationship of contraries : Again , in the list of contraries one of the two columns is privative and all contraries are reducible to being and non-being , and to unity and plurality . And nearly all thinkers agree that being and substance are composed of contraries ; at least all name contraries as their first principles ? some odd and even , some hot and cold , some limit and the unlimited , some love and strife . And all others as well are evidently reducible to unity and plurality and the principles stated by other thinkers fall entirely under these as their genera . It is obvious then from these considerations too that it belongs to one science to examine being qua being . For all things are contraries or composed of contraries , and unity and plurality are the starting-points of all contraries . And these belong to one science , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there are certainly important distinctions between the systems of Plato and Aristotle on this very principle , it can be said that they both approximate a doctrine of bipolarity . Some of the relationships in Aristotle which appear to be virtually bipolar in character are the following : the form-matter relationship , the entelechy of potentiality and actuality , the active-passive concept of mini , the Golden Mean in his ethical outlook , the structure-function principle , and man as knower and doer . Although Aristotle does not overtly state that these are " bipolarities " or " unities of opposites " with the characteristics of " dependence , independence , and interdependence . " in retrospect from our present position it would not be difficcult to project these terms into Aristotle 's exposition . Historically it has been maintained that despite certain common beliefs of Plato and Aristotle , that they represented two divergent philosophy. , , idealism and realism . It is contended that Aristotle objected to the IPlatonistic " dualism " of the realm of ideal forms and BACKGROUNDS OF BIPOLARITY the realm of becoming , or the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ view would make Plato a " dualist " in place of an " organic bipolarist . " Perhaps this theory is the more feasible , but there are reasons for believing this answer to be too pat . However , the historian of philosophy , Dr. W. Windelband , has this to say about Aristotle 's Logic and Metaphysics : As such , however , it has its roots in the Socratic-Platonic doctrine of ideas . That which truly is , is the general or universal , and knowledge of this is the conception . In this respect Aristotle always remained a Platonist . What he combated in the system of his great predecessor was only the Eleatic assumption of absence of relation , ? absence of relation between general and particular , between Ideas and phenomena , between conceptions and perceptions ; an absence of relation which , in spite of all his efforts , Plato had not overcome , even in the later phase of his teaching . ( italics added ) Even as the final cause of occurrence the Ideas remained a world by themselves beside the phenomena @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Being and Becoming , is , in addition to special dialectical objections , the object of the chief reproach which Aristotle brings against the doctrine of ideas . While Plato had made two different worlds out of the general which is known by the conception , and the particular which is perceived , the entire effort of Aristotle is directed toward removing again this division in the conception of reality , and discovering that relation between Idea and phenomenon which shall make conceptional knowledge able to explain what is perceived.15 ( italics added ) The problem resolves itself to this : Did Plato in the later stages of his philosophical development make an absolute separation of realms of Being and Becoming , or was this separation " bipolar " in that it was conceived of as a " unity of opposites " ? Would Plato say that Being and Becoming were unified in one respect , but diverse or separable in another respect ? Consensus seems to be on the side of the dualistic interpretation ; however , it does remain as an interesting problem for further inquiry and resolution . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or organism , the writer 's own conviction is that the creative factors ( realm of being ) of the universe are organically related to the entities in the space-time continuum of process and reality ( realm of becoming ) ; hence it is // more accurate to speak of " Becoming-Being " of actual entities as bipolar . Medieval philosophers ' views If space permitted here it would be most interesting to make an analysis of the great philosophical controversy of the 12th Century with respect to the nature of concepts , the joint problem of epistemology and metaphysics . Particularly significant in the light of our previous observations on Plato and Aristotle would be the comparative analysis of the views of the well known philosophers of this period : Anselm , William of Champeaux , Roscellinus , and Abelard . Although the famous controversy over Universals of this period would carry us far afield , it would also contribute significantly to our particular interest in the principle of bipolarity , which in turn involves the problem of relations . It will be recalled that the dispute at first was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Champeaux , who insisted upon the reality of individual substances . Abelard endeavored to mediate between the extreme realism of William of Champeaux and the nominalism of Roscellinus.16 He could not agree that universals were mere words or sounds ; nor could he agree that only the individual substances constituted the real . He came to believe that universals had three modes of " being " or existing : ( a ) in the mind of God , ( b ) in things , and ( c ) after things in the human understanding . Even Abelard , however , explains this likeness of character in a multiplicity of individuals upon the hypothesis that God created the world according to archetypes which he carried in his mind ( nous ) . Thus , according to his view , the universals exist firstly , before the things , as conceptus mentis in God ; secondly , in the things , as likeness of the essential characteristics of individuals ; thirdly , after things , in the human understanding as its concepts and predicates acquired by comparative thought . " 1 ? Abelard @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his view cane ? to he accepted by the Arabian philosophers ( Avicenna ) according to Windelhand in the formula : Unirersalia ante inmltiplicatem , in multiplicitate et post multiplicitate ; to iinivcrsals belongs equally a significance ante rent as regards the divine mind , in re as regards Nature , and post rem 13M BACKGROUNDS OF BIPOLARITY as regards human knowledge . And since Thomas and Duns Scotus in the main agreed in this view , the problem of universals , which , to be sure , has not yet been solved , came to a preliminary rest , to come again into the foreground when Nominalism was revived . ' $ It is interesting to note that Charles S. Peirce in his Pragmaticism approximated this position in his philosophy according to Feibleman : Making due allowance for the language of the scholastics , ante res became for Peirce the logical possibility of ontology ; in rebus became the knowledge relation of epistemology ; and post res became the mental concepts of psychology . But the solution was not confined to the level of metaphysical problems only ; it became @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his other writings . For by scholastic realism Peirce understood that " general principles are really operative in nature . " 19 It is evident that the problem of opposites in relation to our problem of bipolarity takes us through the mainstream of the perennial philosophical issues . Pursuit of this problem systematically would involve us in virtually every philosophy of importance . In later contexts it will be noted that these three relations are reflected in Whitehead 's philosophy of organism , too . His " eternal objects " or possibles envisaged by the primordial aspect of God , his " actual entities " which embody or exemplify these forms , and his " prehension " and comprehension of these " eternal objects " in human beings , approximate the older triadic explanation of conceptualism in universals ante res , in rebus , and post res . The organic view sees these distinctions as relatively conjunctive and disjunctive , and not as absolute distinctions or bifurcations of reality . Again there is no absolute distinction between realms of being and becoming for organism ; they represent bipolar relations . German @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the late 18th Century and early 19th Century we find the rise of German Idealism . If time permitted we should like very much to pursue the notable treatment of opposites by such Wien as Kant , Fichte , Hegel , Schelling , Schlegel , Krause , Schiller , Herhart , Froebel , and many others of note . Kant , for example , is notable for his effort to reconcile the rival contentions of empiricism // and rationalism , as well as the objective and subjective elements . His vast influence on those who were to follow him is well known . Hegel 's famous dialectical idealism is of course one of the most outstanding expositions of the relationships of opposites in the dynamics of the triadic pattern of thesis , antithesis , and synthesis . Friedrich Schiller 's Aesthetic Education of Man exemplifies another influential contribution of a German idealistic philosopher in dealing with the dynamics of the interweaving of opposites in the educational process of man . The various influences of Krause , Schiller , Schelling , and others upon the organismic educational philosophy of Froebel also is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which these philosophers and educators treated the problem of opposites are in order in our review of concepts and bipolarity . Friedrich W. J. Schelling and Polarity In the period of the development of German Idealism the name of Friedrich Schelling stands out as a contributor to the notion of polarity . A member of the famed University of Jena group , along with Fichte and Hegel , he is known mainly for his Transcendental Idealism . According to Windelband his development as a philosopher includes five periods : ( 1 ) Philosophy of Nature ; ( 2 ) Aesthetic Idealism ; ( 3 ) Absolute Idealism ; ( 4 ) Doctrine of Freedom ; and ( 5 ) his Philosophy of Mythology and Revelation.21 Schelling was an organic philosopher with idealistic emphasis and interpretation . For him " Nature is the ego , or self , in process of becoming . " 22 This is his theme in his philosophy of nature . He opposed the " Democritic-Galilean principle of the purely mechanical explanation of nature . " 23 Speaking of Schelling 's philosophy Windelhand says : As a result @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attempt to consider Nature from the point of view of the organism , and to understand the connection of its forces from the ultimate inch of the production of organic life.24 This emphsis on the perspective of the organism is certainly an important part of the modern philosophy of organism . this notion of polarity was expressed in his conception of the manner in which objective reason struggles its way upward through the // material modes of manifestation and expression in the entities of nature 25 In particular , it was the conception of duality , of the opposition of forces which negate each other in a higher unity , that formed the fundamental schema of his " construction of nature , " ? a conception due to the Science of Knowledge , ? and from this point of view the polarity in electric and magnetic phenomena which busied Schelling 's contemporaries as a newly found enigma was particularly significant for him It would be interesting and revealing indeed to pursue the question of how much influence he had upon his contemporaries : Krause , Hegel , and perhaps Froebel . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Aesthetic Idealism Educationally speaking , one of the most significant philosophers was Schiller . This writer is impressed with Schiller 's explanation of the aesthetic process in education as expessed in his Letters on the Aesthetic Education of the Human Race , because he saw the important role of the interweaving and fusing of the theoretical and the practical in the aesthetic.27 Since references have been made to Schiller elsewhere in some detail it is unnecessary to repeat here . Yet it should be remembered that Schiller found the principle of unification in human development in the artistic impulse and in the fusing of intellectual and moral elements with the sensuous and emotional elements through the aesthetic expression . In contrast to Kant 's almost stoical devotion to the life of moral duty in terms of his categorical imperative , Schiller contended that it is the quest for the beautiful which unifies man 's development and in time brings him to the realization of the good . From this Schiller concluded in the first place that wherever we have to do with educating man , subject to his sensuous nature @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the aesthetic life offers the most effective means to this end.28 us where Kant offers religion as an aid to man 's moral life , Schiller offers art . Art in turn is an interweaving or fusion of the spiritual and sensuous , and the cognitive and the emotional . This ( u%ion is certainly a dynamic educational bipolarity. // Again it would be most interesting and enlightening to pursue the whole of Schiller 's educational theory with its emphasis upon the role of play and the notion of education as art . His influence upon educational theory in general , and on Froebel in particular , has been admirably revealed by the writings of my esteemed colleague , Professor Frederick Eby , in his Development of Modern Education . " ? We can only note this relationship in passing . Organic Comments on Schiller 's View Here we have an excellent example of the overlapping of two varying philosophical systems on the role of the aesthetic in the education of man . The philosophy of organism is not an idealistic system per se ; it places idealism on a realistic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , we can note the mutual insistence upon the role of the aesthetic in human development . Whitehead comes very close to Schiller in his emphasis on the role of the aesthetic . It is quite remarkable how much of the thinking of such men as Hegel , Schiller , and Froebel is approximated by Whitehead , who certainly has much more realism in his theory of organism . Hence within the context of the present educational theory of organism there would be some agreement with Schiller 's concept of the role of the aesthetic in education.30 This writer finds much merit in Schiller 's confidence in the role of the aesthetic process in achieving the good life . However , " education as art " is only a part of the whole complex process of education and life . Kant , Hegel , Pestalozzi , and Froebel . I f space permitted we should certainly want to investigate and discuss the problem of opposites , as treated by Kant , Hegel , Pestalozzi , and Froebel , very thoroughly . Kant 's dictum , " Percepts without concepts are blind @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which grew out of his endeavor to reconcile the valid elements of Empiricism and Rationalism , is indicative of the pertinence of his thought to the problem . Kant was certainly well involved in the problem of opposites . His is works in this subject are considered by many to be the most eminent in the history of philosophy . // Hegel stands out as one of the notable exponents of idealistic dialectics in his now famous triadic pattern of thesis , antithesis , and synthesis . His enormous philosophical contribution with its idealistic logical system certainly bears upon the problem of opposites with unusual clarity . Any thorough-going analysis of philosophers of polarity would have to include Hegel . In another context analysis of the views of Pestalozzi and Froebel as educational philosophers would certainly be in order . Pestalozzi 's devotion to organic principles is particularly intriguing to this point of view . The fact that he took seriously Kant 's dictum quoted above on the relation of percepts and concepts is proven by the emphasis which he placed upon " object lessons " in moving from the concrete @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as Eby points out , Pestalozzi became entangled in difficulties of educational theory because he never realized the significant differences between logical and psychological continuities.32 Friedrich Froebel stands out also as an educational philosopher very much concerned with the dynamics of opposites . In setting forth his law of development Froebel apparently went beyond the views of Fichte and Hegel . Froebel was concerned with the actual forces of organic processes in addition to the processes of thought emphasized in the Hegelian dialectic . Froebel also searched for a single principle that would explain the process of the creative activity of the universe . This creative activity is , as previously indicated , the same in the inorganic as in the organic world ; it is also the same power that is known in human willing and thinking . According to Froebel , it is not pure thought or idea , as Hegel taught ; nor physical force , as the materialists believed . It is a spiritual , creative energizing that shows itself alike in the force of the physical world and in the will power and thought of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Absolute Idealism of Hegel to the extent that he did not restrict his notion of dynamics of opposites to the dialectic of ideas , but extended his conception into the physical forces of nature . It should be noted too that in extending the concept of creative activity from the organic world into the inorganic , Froebel was in large part anticipat- // ing Whitehead 's philosophy of organism . As we have noted , Whitehead 's theory of organism extends through all entities ; all entities are said to participate in the organic processes of prehension and concrescence . Here then is a very interesting similarity between Froebel and Whitehead . Froebel 's Law of Opposites Froebel is well known in the history of education for his conception of education as " Cosmic Evolution and Organic Education ? ' " In stating his theory of development he formulated the " law of opposites " as a dynamic principle of action , reaction , and equilibrium . Although similar to Hegel 's triadic pattern of thesis , antithesis , and synthesis , Froebel 's principle was intended for broader application @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to which spiritual activity or creative energy evolves , is the law of opposites , or of unity . It is similar to the law of thesis , antithesis , and synthesis , except that the latter dialectic process is a process of logical ideas or meanings . Froebel 's law is a dynamic principle . It is the law of activity , the law of action , reaction , and equilibrium . It is , therefore , broader in application than the process of thesis , antithesis , and synthesis , which is applicable only to thought . Froebel 's law includes and explains this dialectic process of thought , but his law is universal in scope . It explains the creation of all things in the physical and spiritual worlds . Its greatest value is in explaining the course of development of human conduct , skill , and thought.35 From this brief exposition of Froebel 's Law of Opposites it can be seen that further penetration into his writings would be very pertinent to our line of inquiry on the nature of opposites and their implications for the educational @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ postponed for a later work . Organic Response to these Theories In referring to these idealistic thinkers ? Kant , Hegel , Pestalozzi , and Frcael ) ( l it 5 ) 1001 ( 1 be remembered that the organic philosophy has its differences as well as its agreements with these views . It has been noted that whereas for Kant the world emerges from mind , Whitehead insists in his philosophy of organism that entities emerge from the world . Whitehead is deeply both empirical and rationalistic . Yet // organically the driving force of realism ? the objectivity of the world ? and the driving force of idealism ? the important role of subjectivity ? are combined in the organic philosophy . Hegel and the others in German Idealism made magnificent contributions to the development of philosophical thought . The similarities of organic concepts of creative processes and some of the idealistic concepts are striking . Yet the reader should not equate the philosophy of organism , or the organic educational philosophy per se , with these 18th and 19th Century idealistic theories . The strong realistic and existential @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ these philosophies , despite similarities . Summary . It has been the perennial problem of philosophy to deal with the nature of opposites , contraries , and contradictions . Various philosophical schools of thought have emerged in their attempts to reconcile such opposites as permanence and change , the eternal and temporal , the one and the many , and being and becoming . The present organic conception of bipolarity is understood better in the context of its long historical development . Ancient philosophers of East and West wrestled with the problem of opposites . Pythagoras was one of the first to recognize the dyadic relations of things . Indian and Chinese philosophers formulated the doctrine of Yang and Yin which recognized certain complementary forces of nature . Although Plato is usually interpreted as a dualist in his philosophy of Being and Becoming , there is some evidence of the basis for an organic bipolarity in his later writings . Aristotle dealt with the problem of contraries and opposites at some length In his works . Although he did not state bipolarity in the sense that we have described it , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his system , which was in turn based upon the Category of Substance . Aristotle found essences exemplified in the realm of particulars . Medieval philosophers in their famous controversy over the nature of universals contributed further to the problem of opposites . Abelard endeavored to mediate between the extreme realism of William of Champeaux and the nominalism of Roscellinus . He concluded that the disputed universal has three modes of being : ( a ) in the mind of // God , ( b ) in things , and ( c ) after things in the human understanding . Charles S. Peirce , American Pragmaticist of the 19th Century , seems to have approximated this conclusion in re universals . Notable treatments of opposites are also to be found in 18th and 19th Century philosophies of German Idealism . Friedrich Schelling , organic and idealistic philosopher , contributed to the notion of polarity through his emphasis on the opposition of forces which negate each other ice nature 's process of becoming . Friedrich Schiller in his Aesthetic Idealism contributed to the bipolar notion in his exposition of the interweaving or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ together the spiritual and the sensuous , the cognitive and the emotional . The problem of opposites received eminent treatment at the hands of Kant , Hegel , Pestalozzi , and Froebel too . Kant saw the polarity of perception and conception . Pestalozzi was devoted to organic principles in the education of man . He applied Kant 's dictum on percepts and concepts . Froebel formulated the law of opposites ' as a dynamic principle of action , reaction , and equilibrium . He saw the principle as applying to all the dynamic forces of nature and not merely to abstract levels of human thought . Hegel 's exposition of the dialectical process of being and becoming in terms of thesis , anti-thesis , and synthesis is , of course , one of the most penetrating treatments of the problem of opposites in the history of philosophy . His influence philosophically and educationally has been far-reaching , especially in the work of W. T. Harris and other American educators of the 19th Century . ' Flee Organic Philosophy of Education is not in complete agreement with these 19th Century conceptions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ opposites . Certain overlappings are indeed evident . However , the organic conception of bipolarity and the resolution of the problem of opposites defended here is more in line with the contemporary viewpoints expressed in the next chapter . 146 // CONCEPTIONS OF BIPOLARITY H E foregoing historical background should provide us with a better appreciation and understanding of some of the contemporary conceptions of bipolarity . Various expositions and interpretations of bipolarity , ' polarity , ' and dipolarity , ' in recent philosophical literature have . come to the attention of the writer . In this chapter we shall review some of the other conceptions of polarity ; comparisons and contrasts of these conceptions with this writer 's viewpoint contribute to the formulation and clarification of bipolarity in the Organic Philosophy of Education . Numerous contemporary and recent philosophers have utilized polarity or bipolarity significantly in their writings . The most notable expression is perhaps that of the late A. N. Whitehead in his organic theory of reality . He speaks both of bipolarity ' and dipolarity ' in various contexts . Charles Hartshorne and William Reese have made @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ work , Philosophers Speak of God . Professor W. H. Sheldon devotes considerable attention to the notion of polarity , particularly in his book , Process and Polarity . Professor Archie J. Bahm has made some excellent articulations and formulations of the bipolar principle in his writings on Organicism . ' In his Reason and Nature Morris Cohen recognizes the important role of polarity . In the field of Anthropology Professor David Bidney in his book , Theoretical Anthropology , makes distinctive use of the principle of polarity . This writer has been able to find only one instance of utilization of the principle of bipolarity among recent or contemporary educational philosophers ; Professor Frederick Breed , writing on the " Education and the Realistic Outlook , " in the 41st Yearbook , Philosophies of Education , has made // definite but brief application of bipolarity to problems of education . No doubt there are many others who have written on aspects of polarity which have not come to the attention of this writer . John Dewey 's stand on bipolarity appears to be a debatable question . His views are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bipolarity because of the eminent role of his educational philosophy , and because any reconstruction of educational philosophy could hardly be adequate without critical consideration of his views on a given problem . A number of questions emerge for our consideration in this chapter . What are some of the contemporary views of polarity and bipolarity ? What is Professor Bahm 's ' organicism ' ? What is Whitehead 's conception of bipolarity ? What is the comparative evaluation of these two viewpoints made by the Organic Philosophy of Education ? What is Professor Sheldon 's conception of process and polarity ' ? What is this organic response to Sheldon 's views ? What is Cohen 's notion of polarity ? What is the organic response to Cohen 's views ? What is Breed 's proposal with respect to a bipolar theory of education ' ? What is the organic critique of this proposal ? Did John Dewey believe in the principle of bipolarity ? What is the organic response to Dewey 's views on this subject ? What is the theory of bipolarity as formulated and amplified in the context @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the educational significance of the principle of bipolarity ? What is the error of monopolarity ? How expressed in educational theories ? Professor Archie Bahm 's Organicism One of the most ingenious and explicit analyses of the concept of polarity which this writer has encountered is that of Professor Archie J. Bailin in a philosophical viewpoint which he terms " Organicism. " 1 Bahm states that it is advanced in a pragamatic spirit " as a tentative proposal to be examined for its relative merits as a general interpretive hypothesis . " 2 The student will find Professor Bahm 's book a most helpful and clarifying exposition of organic and polar relationships . Bailin presents his view of " Organicism " by showing and explaining its relationships to eight other theories or philosophies.8 150                     