@@773653

txt Ioo ASCIDIANS epicardium plays no part in the actual making of a bud but only in its development once segregation has taken place . Because Ciona is a comparatively large , non-budding form with an elaborate branchial sac , Van Name considers it to be a specialized type and that accordingly its perivisceral or pericardial sacs can not be properly regarded as being in a primitive condition ; yet branchial structure is related to size , and in any case organisms may possess elaborate structures of one kind and at the same time retain another in a relatively primitive form . I am convinced , as I have stated at greater length elsewhere // ( Berrill , 1935 , 1951 ) , that budding organs as such do not exist , but only local epidermal growths which may enclose various other tissues ; and accordingly epicardial tissue , being histologically unspecialized , plays a very active role whenever it is included ; while on the other hand branchial structure varies according to size and independently of other features . The epicardium can be considered entirely on its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which it is a part . A good case can be made for Ciona as probably the least specialized of ascidians , although the discussion would necessarily be an extended one . Yet it is important , for if my own views are correct , we can see in it the chordate coelom in its original state . Much of this is a matter of opinion , but I hold strongly to the view that ascidians were primitively ( a ) small , solitary forms in which the viscera did not descend into the stalk of fixation , ( b ) that those in which the viscera ( i.e. gut loop , heart and epicardium , and gonads ) occupy the stalk represent a more specialized , derivative type , and ( c ) that the reproduction by budding has been acquired among ascidians on several occasions and is not a primitive feature , and that such reproductive activity effectively reduces the individual size of the ascidiozooids with resultant but secondary simplification of branchial structure . In other words , the relatively elaborate nature of the Ciona branchial basket does not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ general character . It is the only genus ( and family ) in which the viscera continue to occupy the position they held from the beginning . In all other families the viscera either descends into the stalk during the course of development or is dislocated forward along one side of the branchial region of the body . The epicardium varies accordingly in these several types . In Ciona it exists as a pair of perivisceral sacs opening into the basal end of the pharynx at either side of a ridge denoting the median plane . Each sac is spacious and is lined with simple , unspecialized epithelium . That of the right side envelops the right side of the pericardium and also lines the inner surface of the right side of the body wall . The sac on the left is the larger of the two , and it lines not only the left inner surface of the body wall but also the left side of the pericardium ; while it envelops as an investing epithelium the whole of the digestive tube and // the gonads as well . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to regenerate virtually all thoracic structure , both branchial and neural , when necessary ; yet the amputation that removes the precise extent of the body necessary to invoke response at the epicardial level , without destroying the whole , is not at all likely to occur naturally . In other words , the regenerative potency of the epithelium merely indicates its unspecialized character and is not indicative of its normal function . On the other hand , there is little doubt that it serves for excretion , enabling waste metabolites of gut , heart , and body wall to diffuse freely into water-filled cavities in open communication with branchial sac and its circulating water currents . This conclusion might be surmized from a study of Ciona alone , but in other ascidians the excretory function is unmistakable . In the Ascidiidae , Styelidae , and Molgulidae , a perivisceral sac develops in the young individual shortly after it has become attached and is fully functional , much as in Ciona except that it becomes separated from the pharyngeal floor where it originally evaginated . In all of these a small @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so formed . In the Ascidiidae ( and Corellidae ) proliferative growth of this primary vesicle gives rise to multitudes of similar ones , each secreting a typical concentricallyformed concretion within , the numbers of vesicles increasing throughout the life of the individual . In the Molgulidae the sac retains its original unity and grows in size with the body as a whole , and remains closely apposed to one side of the pericardium ; a single large concretion is secreted within continuously . In both the single and dispersed types , the concretions are for the most part urates . The excretory function is certain . Yet morphologically these are simply specialized forms of the epicardium , and it is reasonable to assume that the Cionid condition is the more primitive , for the original developmental state persists and excretion is accomplished by diffusion . All ascidian morphology confirms this . Similarly , in those families of ascidians in which there is a typical abdomen , i.e. with viscera descended into the stalk , the two epicardial sacs are also extended in their proper relationship to the adjacent organs and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the pharynx are subsequently lost . This also appears to // be a condition derived from one similar to that of Ciona . Without carrying this argument further , and in detail it can be elaborated almost indefinitely , I believe that the evidence shows that , first , the Cionid condition of the epicardial sacs is by far the most primitive among ascidians and , secondly , that they serve primarily as a coelom , with particular reference to its excretory function ; and they function as such from their first appearance and do so progressively thereafter as the body grows . There is no doubt at all , in my opinion , that if a homologue of the vertebrate coelom exists at all among ascidians , the so-called epicardia , and in particular their presence as perivisceral sacs in Ciona , represent it . In other words , if the chordates have evolved paedomorphically from the ascidian tadpole , carrying basic ascidian structure along , then the coelom is well accounted for as a pair of perivisceral sacs of the primitive sessile form , sacs which serve mainly as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ function as such from the very beginning of the active life of the ascidiozooid . The epithelium of the Cionid ascidian coelom , to give it the name it deserves , invests the heart , all of the post-pharyngeal intestine , and the gonads . These structures in turn are of interest in so far as they set the stage for vertebrate evolution . Heart and Blood-vessels The heart is significant both in itself , that is , in its structure and development , and in its spatial relationship to blood-vessels . In the young ascidian , when the heart first begins to beat , it consists of a vesicle about twice as long as it is wide lying in the median plane at the base of the pharynx . One side of the vesicle , lying along the long axis of the inward side , is invaginated . Its outer wall is the pericardium , the invaginated inner fold is the myocardium , while a closed pericardial cavity lies between . The long lips formed by the invagination lie apposed to one another so that functionally the myocardium is closed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ remains open only at the two ends of the elongated vesicle . This is the original condition in all ascidians . The dislocations and extensions associated with large individual size or with descent of the viscera into the stalk lie outside our present frame of reference . They have been described at length elsewhere ( Berrill , 1936 , 1951 ) . I04 ASCIDIANS The cardiac vesicle in its first appearance develops from mesenchyme ; but only in the absence of an endothelial lining is it significantly different from the newly functioning heart of vertebrate embryos . It is of the same general type , and moreover it forms in the same relative place . It lies at the base of the pharynx and one end opens into a large vessel which runs forward in the median plane immediately external to the endostyle ; in relation to the heart and pharynx the vessel corresponds to the ventral aorta of a vertebrate , and it gives off lateral vessels on each side which pass between adjacent primary gill slits or between rows of secondary ones . On the opposite side of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as a median vessel corresponding in position to that of the dorsal aorta , which passes basally to break up into vessels supplying the viscera . These in turn re-collect to open into the other end of the heart . The whole circulating pattern therefore is essentially that of the vertebrate . The outstanding ascidian peculiarity is the regular reversal in the direction of heart beat , of myogenic origin possibly based on alternating fatigue of two initiation centres situated at opposite ends of the heart ; the circulation reverses in consequence , since no valves exist to impede movement of the blood . Postbrancliial Intestine The post-branchial gut is relatively simple and in all forms consists of three distinct regions : a narrow oesophagus ; an enlarged region , of variable character , which may be called the stomach and into which a glandular extension secretes proteases , lipase , and amylase ; and a long , recurved absorptive intestine . The mucus food cord is moved along the tube by ciliary action . The three divisions appear to foreshadow the vertebrate system , and there is little doubt either @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ equivalent to a pancreas ( Yonge , 1925 ; Berrill , 1929 ) . Gonads In all but the most specialized of ascidian families the gonad is a single hermaphrodite gland , lying more or less within the loop of the intestine , with oviduct and sperm duct typically following the course of the ascending limb of the intestine to // end near the anus close to the cloacal funnel . Apart from the general significance of the hermaphrodite condition and of the topography , the most striking feature is the physiological and histological connexions between the gonad and the neural ganglion ? subneural gland complex , which is discussed below under this heading . Neural Ganglion , Neural Gland , and Reproduction The neural ganglion and neural gland are so closely associated the complex consists of the neural ganglion or brain , the neural gland closely apposed to the under surface of the ganglion , a duct which runs forward from the gland to open by a ciliated funnel or tubercle into the prebranchial region of the pharynx , and a so-called dorsal cord which extends along the median line @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the neural gland with the pituitary gland of vertebrates was first suggested by Julin ( 1881 ) and has been the subject of controversy ever since . Development is essentially similar in ascidians taken from the three ascidian suborders ( Willey , 1893 ; Garstang and Garstang , 1928 ; Elwyn , 1937 ) . After closure of the neuropore the anterior region of the neural tube separates into right and left components , the details of which vary with the genus . The right enlarges to form the sensory vesicle of the larva , the left to form the hypophysial duct of the adult , the anterior end of which extends forward to open into the pharynx . Behind the sensory vesicle the neural tube differentiates into the visceral or larval ganglion ( which controls the tail-muscle action , &c.); and the apparently non-functional caudal nerve cord . The walls of the hypophysial tube later proliferate both the adult ganglion and the entire neural gland . The dorsal cord , according to Brien ( 1927 ) is non-ganglionated and non-fibrillar , and consists of histologically undifferentiated cells ; it is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the complex and is a nonnervous basal ( or posterior ) extension of it . Of these components the sensory vesicle , visceral ganglion , and caudal nerve cord degenerate at the time of metamorphosis of the tadpole larva . Ascidians are highly efficient filter-feeders ; a medium-sized individual of Ascidia nigra ( Hecht , 1918 ) , for instance , filters Io6 ASCIDIANS I 73 litres in twenty-four hours , and there is no reason to suppose the filtration system is less efficient at any smaller size . It is clearly important that exhaled water with its possible content of faeces and gametes be not inhaled again , and also that all particles and organisms larger than a certain critical size , which varies according to the size of the ascidian , be kept from enterTHE // ing . Consequently most of the activity of the neural ganglion lying between the inhalent and exhalent siphons is concerned with the closure and opening of the siphons and also of a general contraction of the body equivalent to an avoidance reaction . One method of ensuring the immediate safety of gametes in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The neural gland is of primary interest in this connexion . We have to consider not only the possible homology of the gland and its associated structures with the pituitary gland of vertebrates , but also , and in any case , the problem concerning the function performed by the gland in its ascidian context . Carlisle ( 1951 ) has given the most recent account of this matter , together with new investigations . Concerning homology he points out that release of gametes in vertebrates is always immediately followed by the discharge of secretion by the anterior pituitary , and that also in the ascidians , Ciona and Phallusia , the neural gland discharges its secretion immediately after the release of gametes ; and corpora lutea appear in the ovaries of Ciona after ovulation . The physiological effects produced by neural gland extracts are an oxytocic activity ( Butcher , 1930 , and Bacq and Florkin , 1935 ) , a vasopressor activity ( Bacq and Florkin , 1935 ) and a chromatophoric activity ( Bacq and Florkin , 1935 , Abramowitz , 1937 ) . Carlisle sums up @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , suggests that the neural gland is the homologue of the pituitary of vertebrates and confirms the anatomical evidence . Until the discovery of Hogg ( 1937 ) of the gonadotropic activity of the neural complex it was believed that this homology was restricted to the posterior lobe only of the pituitary and that the anterior lobe was not represented in the ascidians ( vide Huus , 1937 ) . Hogg 's discovery however suggested that this was not the case . His view that the neural gland represents the whole pituitary can be supported by several slight pieces of evidence . ( 1 ) The method of secretion of the neural gland is comparable only with that of the anterior lobe of selachians and is nowhere found in the posterior lobe ( vide Butcher , 1930 ) . ( 2 ) The discharge of secretion by the neural gland after ovulation is strictly comparable with that by the anterior pituitary of vertebrates under like conditions . ( 3 ) A mammalian gonadotrophin will stimulate ascidians to ovulate and discharge sperm . 1o8 ASCIDIANS ( 4 ) An extract of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 5 ) The chromotophoric principle of the vertebrate pituitary is believed to derive from the intermediate lobe and therefore to be of hypophysial origin , not infundibular ( vide Landgrebe and Waring , 1950 ) . This is likely also to apply to the chromotophoric principle of ascidians. ( 6 ) Van Beneden and Julin ( 1884 ) showed that a stomodaeal element entered into the formation of the neural gland which thus has a dual origin , stomodaeal as well as neural . This was confirmed by Metcalf ( 1895 ) . The weight of evidence would seem to suggest that the neural gland ( including ciliated pit ) of Ascidians represents the entire pituitary of Vertebrates , adenohypophysis as well as neurohypophysis . So much for the relationship with the vertebrate pituitary . An equally chronic concern has been the function of the neuralgland complex within the ascidian . Huus ( 1937 ) concluded that the neural gland and ciliated pit of ascidians serves as a sense organ to detect the presence of gametes of the animal 's own species in the imbibed water , so that all animals @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ensure a great measure of cross-fertilization . Carlisle found that if chorionic gonadotropin is injected , the positive response is prevented by section of the nerves from the ganglion to the gonad region but not by destruction of the heart and removal of the blood ; the stimulus must act upon the neural region . Moreover for gametes to act as the stimulator the neural gland must be intact , which is not necessary in the case of gonadotropin injections . Accordingly the stimulus must pass to the neural gland by way of the ciliated pit and duct , from there to the ganglion , and then from the ganglion to the gonads by nervous rather than humoral pathways . The food stream of ascidians and other tunicates carries particles to the mouth of the ciliated pit ( Van Weel , 1940 ; Carlisle , 1950 ) , and Carlisle has postulated that the organ is the sense organ controlling ( via the central nervous system ) the rate and mode of feeding . Gametes are merely a sample of the ingested food , and it seems likely that the function @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ control of ovulation and sperm release is a superimposed exploitation of it . In the latter THE GROUND PLAN tog connexion Carlisle visualizes the path of communication as figure To this I would add one suggestion , namely , that the dorsal cord rather than nerves as such may be the efferent pathway to the gonad , and in spite of its cellular and non-fibrillar nature that either neuroid or hormonal transmission may take place along its plasmal surface . If so , loss of the cord during later evolutionary phases would leave the pituitary homologue with the circulating blood as the alternative means of transportation ; or , of course , true humoral transmission may have taken the place of cordal transmission and so led to the disappearance of the cord . It seems to me therefore that if we accept both the homology of the neural gland complex with the vertebrate pituitary , and the sensory transmission function relating to ingestion as being the primary function in ascidians and tunicates generally , that we have a definite relationship between the two types and that this relationship is one that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from ascidians to vertebrates . PARENTHESIS // T HE basic organization of ascidians is clearly related to that of vertebrates . Does it also relate to that of pterobranchs and balanoglossids ? I have already expressed my opinion that these forms do not represent the ancestral stock either of ascidians or of the chordates independently of ascidian connexions . They have , however , entered so greatly into discussions of chordate origins that they can not be dismissed lightly . At the same time the following consideration departs from the positive thesis we have been developing , in so far as it is primarily an exclusion . A full and recent account of this group has been given by Dawydoff ( 1948 ) , to which the reader is referred for detail . In the present context I wish to discuss the structure of these forms mainly in its relation to the ascidian , although the intrinsic interest is great . The following features common to the three types , Rhabdopleura , Cephalodiscus , and the balanoglossids , which are obviously relevant in this connexion are the general body plan , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ location of the nervous system , the heart , and the tripartite coelom . These are considered first . All forms have a plane of bilateral symmetry , a distal or anterior and a basal or posterior end , and a mouth which is subterminal . These are such general features that they can not be taken by themselves as indicative of relationship with other forms . The body in all cases , however , can be divided into a pre-oral region , a collar region , and an abdomen . This links them together but tends to set them aside from the ascidians ; neither does there seem to be anything in the ascidian organization that can be compared with the collar region . Even if pterobranch and ascidian stocks have had a common origin , IN THE BEGINNING iii the distal region concerned with the process of feeding seems to me to have evolved along very different lines , and I find it difficult to see how either type could have evolved from the other , at least in the form in which they now exist . Rhabdopleura and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pre-oral lobe which is employed as a sucker in moving either within or outside the sheltering tubes of the colony , and each has bilaterally disposed lophoral feeding tentacles which cause water to converge toward the mouth . The nervous system is generally referred to as a dorsally located ganglion , suggesting affinity with chordates , a description that is of doubtful validity . The nervous system is in reality a ring surrounding the mouth . Nerves pass from the ring towards the posterior end of the body along what would be the ventral side if we could legitimately call any side ventral ; while the ring itself is enlarged on the opposite side to form a ganglion lying effectively between mouth and anus and giving off nerves to the tentacles and disk . The objections I have already raised to the terms dorsal and ventral in the case of ascidians apply equally here , but if for expediency we now employ them , then the pterobranchs have a nervous system which is essentially a circum-oral ring which has become hypertrophied on the dorsal side in relation to the pre-oral feeding @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ supply the abdomen . Nothing of a circum-oral nervous organization exists in ascidians , and I believe we have instead indications here of a significantly close relationship of these hemichordates to a crinoid echinoderm stock , particularly if we regard the radial symmetry of echinoderms as a secondary condition imposed upon a basic bilateral symmetry . The balanoglossid nervous system is not essentially different . Commissural nerves encircle the body at the junction of the collar and trunk regions , with so-called dorsal and ventral nerve cords extending anteriorly and posteriorly respectively . Balanoglossids in fact may be looked upon as pterobranchs that have abandoned the tubicolous habit and the associated exploitation of asexual budding processes , to become free-living burrowing forms , with consequent lengthening of the body and straightening of the gut . The tendency of the pterobranchs to wander about within or without their tubes suggests how such a change I12 PARENTHESIS may have started . Or a simple , small wandering form may have given rise to the two extremes by divergent evolution . In both the pterobranchs and balanoglossids the heart is in itself very much @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vesicle invaginated on one side to form a myocardium . It is a simple device and could have evolved from any vesicular structure possessing muscle cells with a tendency to contract regularly in a polarized manner . The significant point in the present connexion concerns the location of the heart rather than its construction . In all ascidians it lies far behind the mouth at the base of the endostyle , at a place corresponding to the junction of collar and abdomen of pterobranchs and balanoglossids . In these forms , however , the heart lies in front of the mouth , distal to the neural ganglion , and projecting into the cavity of the pre-oral lobe . No amount of anatomical distortion or of relative growth can bring the location of the heart of the one into the position of the other . A disruptive dislocation is necessary to get the **25;515;TOOLONG heart into the ascidian position , or vice versa . It seems impossible to regard the heart in the two groups as homologous . The coelom of pterobranchs and balanoglossids is tripartite , and Dawydoff among others regards @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ manner of development of // the coelom varies considerably even among balanoglossids , yet in all cases it is formed during the embryonic period of development and appears as a process of evagination from the archenteron . In a general way the coelom develops in a manner and form remarkably like that of echinoderms . The question is to what extent we can compare the **25;542;TOOLONG coelom with the perivisceral coelom of a Ciona , either ontogenetically or phylogenetically . The embryos and larvae of echinoderms , balanoglossids , and Amphioxus have been frequently grouped together as phylogenetically related types because they share certain outstanding developmental features . In each case cleavage is comparatively indeterminate , a blastula with a large blastocoel forms , gastrulation is strikingly invaginative , and the mesoderm with its coelomic cavity evaginates from the archenteron to form , either directly or indirectly , a subdivided coelom on either side of the median plane . Ascidians do not readily fit into a grouping of this kind and it is because of this as much as any other reason that the ascidians in general have been more or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ line running from larval echinoderms through larval balanoglossids to a larval amphioxid type has received more attention . The assembly and the exclusion , however , rests upon developmental qualities which have little if any phylogenetic significance . Generally speaking , invaginations , evaginations , and other foldings of epithelial layers are the simplest forms of morphogenetic movements . Gastrulation is strongly invaginative whenever adequate cell numbers and internal space for manoeuvring permit . Similarly , mesoderm evaginates from the archenteron when the latter consists of a relatively thin epithelial tissue consisting of very many cells . Granted that balanoglossids and Amphioxus have a fairly spacious coelom and eggs of relatively indeterminate type , the manner and similarities of development are to be expected . Absence of specialization in the egg and the presence of a coelom in the adult account for the resemblances in development . I see no other significance . Whether or not coelomic cavities are to be regarded as homologous throughout the animal kingdom must be decided on grounds other than the manner of development . // Accordingly I believe that the manner of development of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the question of homology . In ascidian development , gastrulation occurs and an archenteron is formed relatively precociously , when the number of cells at each stage is barely more than the minimum required to permit the necessary invagination . There are neither cells enough nor blastocoelic space enough to allow mesoderm and coelom formation to occur by evaginative pouching of the archenteron ; mesoderm formation is essentially segregative , while coelom formation is mechanically impossible at the developmental stage equivalent to that at which the process occurs in the other type . In other words a coelom can not develop at the stage and in the manner typical of Amphioxus and the other forms simply because in the ascidian egg the determinative process is accelerated relative to the process of cleavage . Inhibition of a developmental process resulting from numerical insufficiency of cells at a critical time and place is a common developmental phenomenon , which I have discussed elsewhere ( Berrill , 1940 ) . Whenever a structure or an organ which usually forms during the embryonic developmental period is suppressed for this reason , it develops at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ growth of a functioning organism is in process . This is true for both developing eggs and buds , and applies to all manner of tissues . Consequently the perivisceral coelom of ascidians develops as it does because the conditions for its development at an earlier time are not fulfilled at the critical embryonic stage , and because the opportunity , of a somewhat different kind , reoccurs at the close of egg development proper . We therefore reach the conclusion that the difference in the manner of development in Amphioxus and ascidians is as much without phylogenetic significance as is the similarity of developmental method among Amphioxus , balanoglossids , and echinoderms . These differences and resemblances , however , are of profound interest developmentally , although as such they lie outside our present frame of reference . If , in view of this argument , we admit the ascidian with its belatedly developed perivisceral coelom to the company of coelomate forms represented by Amphioxus , echinoderms , and // others , we are faced by the general question of coelom homology . Even if we exclude the Spiralia-type phyla @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rest almost from the beginning , we are still left with such forms as brachiopods , bryozoa , Phoronis , and chaetognathes , in addition to the echinoderms , pterobranchs , balanoglossids , Amphioxus , and now ascidians , as a coelomate assembly . We in consequence have the choice of regarding the coelom as homologous throughout this group or else as having evolved on more than one occasion within it . If the former then the coelom of any of these forms has been inherited from a past which preceded the diversification into the existing phyla and in all probability goes back to a semi-microscopic phase of pelagic evolution , so far in fact that it hardly profits us to pursue the question further . On the other hand if the coelom has had a polyphyletic origin within this group of phyla , then we are at liberty to assume that the ascidian coelom may have been an ascidian innovation , leading to the coelom of chordates as a whole , but that the coelom of balanoglossids and pterobranchs , let alone that of echinoderms , may not be homologous @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ exterior , and , in balanoglossids at least , the presence of a hydrocoel , link pterobranchs and balanoglossids with echinoderms ; by the same token they separate them from ascidians and other chordates ; if the ascidian coelom is to be homologized with that of the pterobranch and balanoglossid , it is with the abdominal division alone . I have avoided using the term hemichordate for pterobranchs and enteropneusts together because of its implication that a halfway-evolved notochord is present in these forms . Great efforts have been made at various times to recognize the homologue of the notochord in the stomocord of pterobranchs and enteropneusts , with the wishful thought of bringing these animals within the chordate fold . In spite of such good will this interpretation has steadily lost what support it may once have had . I can myself see no basis for so regarding it , and I think it more profitable merely to regard the structure for what it is , namely , a turgid supporting tissue which affords a degree of mechanical stability to the pre-oral lobe . Pseudo-cartilaginous tissue supports the tentacle bases @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ consisting of turgid vacuolated cells , supports the // lophophoral and proboscis base of pterobranchs and enteropneusts respectively ; turgid chordal cells extend and support the tail of an ascidian larva . These are three independent solutions of a common problem , evolved in different ways and places in three different kinds of organism . The remaining feature of importance is the most difficult to appraise , namely , the presence of a series of gill slits in balanoglossids , of a single pair in Cephalodiscus , and their absence in Rhabdopleura . Of the several basic characters generally considered to denote chordate status , the notochord can safely be said to be absent , the coelom is at the best of a non-committal nature , the so-called dorsal nervous system is no more than a distal ganglion inevitably situated where it is found , and only the gill slits seem to be unmistakably the same in hemichordate and chordate alike . Yet the gill slit is a simple device serving primarily to permit superfluous water , entering the mouth as an extension of the lophophoral feeding current , to escape @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ slits have very obvious value and it is as remarkable that Phoronis and bryozoans have not evolved them as it is that hemichordates and chordates both possess them . We have no assurance therefore that gill slits may not have evolved independently in the two groups , and yet my own feeling is against such a conclusion , although it has no rational basis . Altogether then , we reach a somewhat unsatisfactory state of indecision . A case can be made for the complete exclusion of the pterobranchs and balanoglossids together with the echinoderms , from the chordate scheme ; or we can assume that such features as are shared in common have not been separately evolved but do indicate a common heritage at some point in the past . If so the point becomes much more remote than has generally been considered . Echinoderm , pterobranch , balanoglossid , and ascidian larvae all develop a pre-oral lobe by which they become temporarily or permanently attached . The lobe develops from the apical or anterior region of the larva , and Willey ( 1893 ? 4 ) made out a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ several types . This may or may not be so , for all small organisms originally settling on the sea floor would tend to settle by one end , and that end in all probability would be the apical sensory // region . In other words the pre-oral lobe would have been an almost necessary response of the growing organism to the need for settling and might well have evolved during each and every successful venture of this kind . If , however , we do regard the group as a whole as having a common origin , the pterobranchs and balanoglossids seem to be set apart from ascidians by the location of the heart , that is , the heart evolved independently in the two after they had become sessile organisms ; while the tripartite coelom plus hydrocoel unites balanoglossid and echinoderm and suggests that any union with an ascidian ancestral stock preceded such an elaboration of the coelom , and that divergence probably occurred during a pelagic evolutionary phase . If then the gill slits represent a common inheritance , we have to look to pelagic existence to account @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that became pterobranchs on the one hand and ascidians on the other were equipped with at least one pair of gill slits before this change in habitat took place . If so , the organisms that settled to give rise to ascidians , and thereby in my opinion to the rest of the chordates , must have been bilaterally symmetrical with a subterminal mouth and a sensory apical region , feeding by means of a ciliary mechanism involving the use of internally situated gill slits for the escape of the water current . Ascidians elaborated the internal gill-slit components , pterobranchs the external ciliary field into the form of a lophophore , although Rhabdopleura , presumably because of extreme reduction in size ( to o ? 3 mm. total length ) and consequent ineffectiveness of correspondingly small slits , lost the pair of gill slits it may have started with . In any case Cephalodiscus , Rhabdopleura , and balanoglossids seem never to have become completely sessile forms . They all retain the pre-oral lobe either as a disk-shaped sucker for locomotion within or without a system of tubes or for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ original bottom-living form as a small non-budding organism creeping about by means of its pre-oral disk ; those that secreted a protective tube evolved into budding forms , which in turn limited or reduced individual body size to dimensions where gill slits became of doubtful value ? to be lost in Rhabdopleura and restricted to one pair in Cephalodiscus ; while others evolved larger body size as a 1 18 PARENTHESIS condition for burrowing , and gill slits multiplied accordingly . I find it difficult , if not impossible , to bring the primitive ascidian into such a setting as this , and were it not for the gill slits I would say that the two groups are unrelated . As it is , this inquiry must be left in an inconclusive state . PELAGIC TUNICATES // w HEN we combine the organization of the primitive ascidian with that of the tadpole larva , what do we find ? Enough , I think , to show the chordate organism well on its way . If we go a little further and orientate the organism according to its homologies with the vertebrates @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , anterior and posterior aspects , we have a free-swimming and somewhat stream-lined form with most of the essential features . In brief these are as follows : ( a ) A nervous system consisting of the following points : an antero-dorsal brain with a central cavity the wall of which contains an otolith and ocellus ; a hollow tubular neural tube extending dorsally throughout the tail ; and a ganglionic mass innervating mouth , pharyngeal , and visceral regions , which lies at the junction of sensory vesicle and the neural tube . In other words , there are neural divisions corresponding to the spinal cord , medullary region , and the anterior distance-receptor region of the vertebrate central nervous system ; and to this we can add a hypophysial gland connected with the central , ventral region of the system . All the basic components appear to be present . ( b ) A digestive system consisting of an anterior terminal mouth which leads through a sensory vestibule into a capacious pharynx perforated on each side by a series of gill slits , and supplied with an endostyle and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ oesophageal , pancreatic , and absorptive regions . The system as a whole , apart from its reflex curvature , is remarkably similar to that of a lamprey larva. ( c ) A heart and vascular system which in position and fundamental pattern are essentially the same as those of the more primitive aquatic vertebrates . // ( d ) A coelom consisting of a pair of contiguous epithelial sacs lining the posterior body wall and also investing the viscera and the gonads. ( e ) Hermaphrodite gonads , which appears also to be the primitive condition of vertebrates , with sperm duct and oviduct opening close to the end of the intestine . ( f ) Control of reproduction by the neural or hypophysial gland . ( g ) A locomotory tail consisting of a central axial supporting notochord , lateral bands of striated muscle , and a dorsal neural tube , enclosed within an epidermal sheath carrying dorsal , ventral , and tail fins of a cuticular nature . Altogether the basic chordate appears to be present and all that seems to be necessary is to combine the two @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , without carrying the structural and functional continuities of ascidians and vertebrates any further at this place , the nature and possibilities of paedomorphic evolution call for attention . Two distinct approaches can be made to this question . Ascidian tadpoles and the nature of their metamorphosis can be studied to see to what extent neotenic or paedomorphic development may be possible ; and we can examine tunicates as a whole for evidence that such a major evolutionary event may actually have occurred . Only the first of these is considered in the present chapter . The ascidian egg develops as a dual system . It develops to form a tadpole , and it develops to form a small sessile ascidian . The organization of the egg preceding or following fertilization , in so far as it is discernible , relates almost entirely to the development of a tadpole larva at a comparatively early stage in the developmental course . So far we have considered only the least modified type , namely eggs of minimal size and yolk content , which arc shed oviparously , to be fertilized and develop free @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is evident , for the processes which culminate in the formation of a tadpole occur more rapidly than those leading to the permanent organism , and the precociously differentiated tissues suffer disintegration shortly after they have matured ; in other words , metamorphosis takes place . Comparative and experimental studies show that two possi-EMANCIPATION I2I bilities exist . One is that the nature of the egg may be so modified that the developmental pace of the two emerging patterns may become more or less equalized , so that , while metamorphosis still occurs , there is at least a momentary period when both tadpole and ascidiozooid structures coexist . The other is increase in stability of the precociously differentiated tadpole tissues so that to a great extent , at least , the tadpole organization persists until both patterns are present together . The first of the possibilities is of widespread occurrence and is to be associated with the development of all ascidian eggs , whatever their size , in which there is a relative increase in the amount of yolk . These types have been described and analysed in much detail @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ need only be reviewed here briefly . It appears that when there is an increase in amount of yolk relative to the cytoplasm of the egg , the additional yolk finds its way mainly into two presumptive tissues , the endoderm and notochord . The significant factor is that the presumptive chordal tissue partakes of the additional yolk and while this extra yolk content apparently has little effect on the stability or fate of the chordal cells , for they are still more or less fully laden with yolk granules at the time of their metamorphic disintegration , the presence of the yolk in effect slows down the rate of histological maturation . In other words , while the pattern and number of cleavages and final cell number of the notochord remain unaffected , the rate of cleavage and differentiation is retarded , and the notochord may attain functional activity much later than is characteristic of the forms previously discussed . There is no doubt that the rate of differentiation of the notochord acts as the pace maker for the development of tadpole structure and the general result when the maturation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is a prolonging of tadpole culmination and activity virtually to the stage at which the sessile ascidian structure is also complete . The following are a few examples , one from each of the three ascidian suborders : Ecteinascidia turbinata , Distaplia rosea , and Botrylloides leachi . The development of these may be compared with that ofvarious species ofAscidia , of Ciona intestinalis , of Diazona violacea , and Styela partita respectively , although to all intent these may be treated as a single type . The contrast is both in timing and in structure , for increase in yolk content has I22 PELAGIC TUNICATES other effects in addition to modification of relative developmental rates . This topic has been treated at length elsewhere ( Berrill , 1935 , 1940 , 1951 ) . Primarily , the effect of increase in egg size or in relative amount of yolk , or both , is seen to be structurally expressed in the branchial structure at the time the gill slits first begin to function . Rows of secondary gill slits may develop and function directly , as in Ecteinascidia , or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ yet embryonic , so that the first functional stage is again the secondary form , as in Distaplia ; or primary gill slits may develop and remain as such , although the number may be exceptionally large , as in Botrylloides . This developmental variation has its particular interest , but it is not relevant in the present context . What is of importance is the dominant role played by the notochord as a pace-maker , the indications of adaptation in the tail musculature , and the relative independence of the developmental larval and permanent features . In the case of the standard type represented by Ascidia , Ciona , Diazona , and Styela , in which the eggs are about 0.15 mm. diameter and have little yolk , the tadpole ( at 16 ? C. ) becomes active about 30 hours after fertilization , while the sessile ascidian stage first functions later than 130 hours after fertilization . In Botrylloides leachi , with a very yolky egg of o ? 26 mm. diameter , the tadpole functions at about 220 hours after fertilization , while the completely metamorphosed functioning ascidian @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Distaplia rosea ( 0.42 mm. diameter and heavily yolked ) develop to the tadpole stage in about 370 hours , but have completed metamorphosis and become functional ascidians only a few hours later . The larger but somewhat less yolky egg of Ecteinascidia turbinata ( 0.72 mm. diameter ) develops in much the same way , to produce a tadpole in which the ascidiozooid structure has almost completed its development ; in which , like that of Distaplia , the heart is already beating . In all of these the notochord remains a rod formed by about forty cells ; its rate of histomaturation depends upon the size and yolk content of the constituent cells , and the time of tadpole functioning depends upon completion of this process . No doubt exists that the rate of notochord development and differentiation is the pace-maker for the development of the tadpole organization as a whole ; it is just as certain that the // rate of development of the permanent ascidian tissues is entirely independent of it . The variable gearing of the two is very great . The other significant feature is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ forty cells throughout the ascidians , and while the histodifferentiation of the muscle bands of the tail proceeds at a corresponding rate so that the functional state coincides with the final stiffening of the notochord , the number of cells in the muscle bands does not remain constant and restricted to the 36 or 38 characteristic of the standard type . Additional cell divisions take place , as many as six in the case of Ecteinascidia turbinata , so that in this case approximately 1,400 cells comprise the two muscle bands . Such an emancipation from the usual constraint is suggestive . - Increase in egg size alone , however , does not bring about a shift in the gearing of the development of tadpole and permanent structures ; increase in relative yolk content is necessary . The important points are that the gearing is potentially changeable , and that secondary histological changes may follow changes in developmental rate . I do not suggest in any way that increases in size or in relative yolk content of the eggs has at any time led to the kind of paedomorphic development we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prolongation of tadpole development so that the larval and permanent patterns culminate together , but the inhibition of metamorphosis so that the tadpole tissues and organization continue to exist into the adult organism . The examples just given indicate that metamorphosis occurs not after any given time but when the larval tissues of the tadpole have acquired full histological maturity and a certain degree of senescence . It is significant , for instance , that the free-swimming period of tadpoles which have developed at a retarded rate is comparatively very short , and may be no more than a few minutes . We come therefore to the third important step in the making of a vertebrate . The first was when the settling organism , the primitive sessile ascidian , made and set the pattern of most of the chordate organization not concerned with locomotion . The creation of a tadpole larva within the original ascidian developmental cycle supplied the model for the locomotor carrier , and // constituted the second step . The third is the combination of the two as co-existing patterns in a swimming organism , and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ breakdown of the tadpole tissues which comprises the essential aspect of metamorphosis . The axial chordate structures exist in the tadpole larva , but they are built out of precociously differentiated and precociously ageing tissues consisting of relatively small numbers of large cells . Any comprehension of how such tissues , and the structures and functions dependent on them , may have become stabilized , and the tendency to settle and transform into a sessile ascidian overcome , calls for an analysis of the metamorphic phenomena , both histologically and experimentally . The extensive experiments of Grave and Nicol ( 1939 ) on larvae of Ascidia nigra and Polyandrocarpa tincta yielded results of two kinds . Extracts both of adult and larval tissues , even when dialysed through collodion membranes , accelerated metamorphosis , while so did otherwise non-toxic concentrations of copper , iron and aluminium salts , and iodine . Since these last are substances which are notorious for their oligodynamic action ' on living cells and organisms generally , their effect indicates probably little more than a relative general susceptibility of certain tissues to any metabolic disturbance . Grave @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conditioned by two factors , one that appears with an ageing ' of the larva after its liberation , and another dependent more upon the swimming activity . His final conclusion , based on studies of the tadpoles of Styela partita ( 1944 ) , was that the larvae produce a substance which greatly accelerates metamorphosis and that the effect increases as its concentration increases , until a lethal concentration may actually be obtained . Glaser and Anslow ( 1949 ) attempted to assign the controlling role to copper released within the tadpole tissues , but I do not find the facts particularly convincing with regard to this conclusion . In many ways the histology of tail destruction is more illuminating ( Berrill , 1947 ) . Phagocytosis does not occur . During tail resorption both notochord and muscle cells appear to play a passive role ; the active agent in forcing the whole structure progressively towards the base of the trunk is the shrinkage of the epidermis , which // becomes nutritionally exhausted , progressively from the tip to the base . This is very clearly seen in the case @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ascidian tadpoles existing . The epidermal cells nearest the tip of the tail are the most extended and the most remote from any possible sustaining influence of the body as a whole ; they are also the most susceptible to toxic metabolites or to traces of heavy metals . This utilization and final exhaustion of the intracellular reserve of the tail epidermis is undoubtedly the ageing factor noticed by Grave , while the activity factor appears to be the accumulation within the distal part of the tail of toxic metabolites , including CO2 , resulting from contractions of the tail-muscle tissue . There is a general problem here as well as a specific one . An ascidian tadpole consists of two sets of tissues which are distinct from one another in a sense quite apart from their structural significance . The purely larval tissues , irrespective of cell number and size , consist of fully matured , differentiated cells . The residual tissues which will form the sessile ascidian are all at this time still in process of development and cell proliferation , and are far from being histologically mature . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is subject to adverse conditions of almost any sort , the mature cells become casualties while the immature cells survive and may even proliferate more rapidly as nutrient substances become more available . Thus heat tolerance in the hydroid Tubularia is much less for the differentiated cells of the hydranth than for the unspecialized cells of the stem ( Berrill , 1948 ) . In closed stolonic systems of hydroids in which one end is proliferating and the other consists of older , non-dividing cells ( Berrill , 1949b ) , and in which no nourishment can be obtained from external sources , the recently divided cells survive and the older cells die ; in other words , when nutriment is restricted below a certain threshhold , cells or tissues that are growing or proliferating take what they need , while older cells and tissues break down . When marked differentiation is added to age itself , the contrast becomes even more striking . In campanularian hydroids placed in water a few degrees above their normal tolerance , all developing units , whether destined to be hydranths or gonophores , continue @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in spite of adverse conditions ; but as soon as their development is complete and they cease to consist of juvenile growing cells , disintegration takes place at once . Such examples can be supplied indefinitely . We see the same phenomenon in the formation of restitution buds in certain ascidians , such as Perophora and Clavelina ( Huxley , 1921 , 1926 ; Ries , 1937 ) . Old differentiated tissues disintegrate and cytolyse ; simple , unspecialized tissues grow and proliferate within the mass . ( In Obelia stolons bearing hydranths and well supplied with food , the proximal stolon cells survive for a much longer time than when chronically starved . ) I believe this to be the essence of all metamorphic phenomenon ? the dissolution of histologically differentiated or mature tissues , together with structure dependent upon them , under the impact of conditions adverse to their survival , although such conditions may be and usually are encouraging to less // specialized cells and tissues ; the initiating circumstances may be critical temperature ( Tubularia ) , critical metabolic levels ( amphibians and insects ) , relative @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ partly controlled breakdown of larval tissues by metabolites or Cu liberated in system or derived from immediate environment ( ascidian tadpoles , mussel and oyster larvae , &c.).; From this standpoint the ascidian tadpole is precariously organized . The essential structure consists of cells which have matured at an astonishingly fast pace and are of exceptionally large size , two factors that leave them in a particularly vulnerable state . At the same time this mature , structurally completed system rests within or among residual tissues still in full course of development ; the permanent organs are not functional , there is no circulation or beating heart , and the larval tissues are self-contained amidst a potentially hostile tissue environment . The chordal cells in many species fail even to utilize the yolk reserves that they possess when the tadpole first becomes active ? they do not lack internal reserves ; and to a lesser degree the same is true of the muscle-tissue . Inanition appears to be primarily an epidermal phenomenon . Altogether the factors involved in the dissolution of the tail tissues are numerous and complex and it is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ little doubt that it can be counteracted , at least to a significant extent . High alkalinity ( sea-water of pH 9-0 ) tends to inhibit metamorphosis in the simple type of tadpole as , for instance , that of Ascidia or Ciona , so that the tadpole remains more or less active for many days , during which time the ascidian structure continues to develop , finally yielding a swimming organism with beating heart and active gill slits . It is not uncommon for the ascidiozooid to form and become fully active as a sessile organism with the tail still intact and still twitching at the base . The problem remains . Yet enough has been said , I think , to show that , theoretically at least , dissolution of the tadpole tissue might well be counteracted completely if we understood a little more of the interacting processes involved . It may be possible to bring about the paedomorphic condition experimentally , or we may merely see more clearly how it might have been attained . The possibility exists . // NE0TEN0Us or pacdomorphic evolution of ascidians , by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with a permanently motile tadpole , is more than a hypothetical possibility . If it were only this , then the step from the marine ascidian to the primitive freshwater vertebrate would be uncomfortably long for contemplation , although the ascidian-plus-tadpole organism would still , I believe , be the most likely candidate for this promotion . At the same time I think it is just as improbable that the primitive vertebrates could have evolved from a stock such as the ascidians without leaving relics along the way as it is unlikely that vertebrates could have evolved from any but a group that has been successful in other ways . Ascidians , which have colonized almost every conceivable part of the marine world , have been an enterprising and highly successful group , and only their lack of economic value has drawn our attention from their numbers and variety . And among the most abundant of all marine organisms are their immediate descendants , the thaliacean and larvacean tunicates . This statement I realize contains the conclusion that the pelagic tunicates have evolved from the sessile tunicates , and not the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have at times supposed ; but I propose to show that this has been the probable sequence and that the four basic types of pelagic tunicates are those relics of transition that were mentioned above . It stands to reason that if ancient ascidian tadpole larvae became neotenous forms , abandoning the sessile existence and becoming sexually mature pelagic filter-feeders propelled by the tadpole tail , the change was made for immediate benefits and had no reference to any possible vertebrate outcome . In fact , in this attempt to trace the vertebrate stock to its earliest beginnings , it is just as necessary to show that an abundant 5611 K // free-swimming chordate stock existed in the early seas as it has been to show how such a chordate stock itself could have evolved from a sessile ascidian . Only from such a group is it at all likely that the further step of penetrating river systems could have been made . Yet since the time of this occurrence the vertebrates as such have come into being and have progressed to the state of writing about their origins ; during @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which they arose has had equal opportunity , in the temporal sense , of changing from its original state , and this applies as much to the pelagic group as it does to the sessile . Sessile ascidians have become large , complex , and specialized in various ways ; pelagic tunicates have become exquisitely adapted to oceanic life ; and in neither case is the primitive form evident in the fully evolved forms that now exist . If the creation of minute filter-feeders attached to the sea floor was the first phase of our ascent , and the making of a tadpole larva was the second , then the exploitation of the oceanic surface pastures was the third . This is our present topic . The pelagic tunicates are at the present time represented by Pyrosoma , Doliolum , Salpa , and the Larvacea . Fundamentally , each type exhibits the same basic organization that we find in the ascidians ; all are filter-feeders , in spite of their free , nonattached , existence . And in each we see not an oceanic migrant but a pelagic form in which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to sea surface , and more importantly to filtration of adjacent water . Apart from the need , shared with all planktonic organisms , to remain within certain limits of depth , effort is directed almost entirely to the creation of a feeding current , and locomotion as such is little more than a by-product of this activity . None of the four existing types represents an entirely primitive condition and it is only by an analysis of each , together with subsequent comparison and summation , that we get a picture of what the original state of the pelagic tunicate may have been . Of the four Doliolum appears to afford the best point of departure . Doliolum In brief , the organization and life cycle of Doliolum is as follows . The sexually mature adult , the gonozooid , is a small , // delicate , barrel-shaped organism , with the mouth or inhalant siphon at one end , and the atrial or exhalant siphon at the other . Eight bands of muscle completely encircle the body , equally spaced from one another , and their regular contractions force @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the individual to move forward through the water by what is virtually jet propulsion . The pharyngeal chamber , complete with endostyle , peripharyngeal bands , ciliated funnel , and gill slits , occupies the anterior two-thirds of the body . The atrial or cloacal chamber occupies most of the posterior third , and its lining more or less envelops the viscera ( i.e. digestive loop , gonads , and heart ) . The branchial wall is little more than a thin membrane perforated by gill slits , slung across the passage between the anterior and posterior siphons . Each side of the branchial wall of the gonozooid may have sixty or more elongate gill slits , which are generally and probably correctly regarded as primary gill slits . In the oozooid , which is the alternate generation , only four primary gill slits are present on each side . According to Garstang and Platt ( 1928 ) the endostyle , while structurally a long open groove as in ascidians , transforms itself functionally into a closed tube opening only in front , so that the mucus destined to form the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the peripharyngeal bands . The neural ganglion is like that of an adult ascidian , lying more or less midway between the inhalant and exhalant siphons and sending fibres to both siphons and to the lateral walls of the body . An ocellus is not present , although a statocyst occurs on each side of the body where one of the lateral nerve branches terminates ; they occur only in the oozooid generation and not in the gonozooid . The outer tunic is made up of cuticle alone , secreted by the epidermis , and , unlike ascidians in general , does not contain cellulose or tunicin . A budding stolon forms in the median plane posterior to the endostyle and consists of an epidermal envelope containing tissue outgrowths from the floor of the pharynx ( which may be regarded as epicardial outgrowths ) , from the pericardial wall , and from the cloacal or atrial lining . The individual as a whole , whether of oozooid or gonozooid generation , is clearly and exquisitely well adapted as a pelagic filter-feeder , with a set of circular muscles serving as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ passage of water internally and to movement of the organism through the water . The relative posterior location of the gill slits and the effective anterior release of the mucus sheet , taken together with the muscle ring system , indicate a marked degree of subordination of the ciliated gill slits as creators of the internal water current and filtration equipment . The terminal anterior and posterior positions of the siphons is obviously related to effective movement of and movement in water . Reproduction occurs both by budding and by the production // of eggs and sperm . Bud formation is by successive constriction from the distal end of the bud stolon , and occurs only in the individual which develops from the egg , i.e. the oozooid . The buds , or probuds , migrate along the surface of the parent and wander out in three lines along a dorsal spur , giving rise by subdivision to the definitive buds . Some of these become merely nutritive individuals permanently attached to the parent , others become gonozooids which detach and become sexually mature . The gonozooid develops gonads but lacks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but does not develop gonads . The details of these events are of extreme interest from the standpoint of developmental studies , but in the present context the important features are the position of the stolon , the alternate character of gonozooid and oozooid , and the migratory nature of the original buds . Doliolids unfortunately are small transparent oceanic forms that shed their eggs at the time of fertilization . What is known of the development is very fragmentary , mostly observations of Uljanin ( 1884 ) , and highly significant . The egg is very small and transparent ; the exact dimensions are not recorded but are apparently of the same order as those of most oviparous ascidians . Cleavage is total and rapid , and according to Uljanin within five hours of fertilization a gastrula has formed by invagination and has proceeded to the stage of being a tailed embryo . In later stages the larva acquires the appearance shown in figure 20 ( 2 ) ; it is cigar-shaped , and consists of an anterior rostral extension , a trunk region which represents the future entire individual @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tail . The whole is enclosed within a large perivitelline space bounded by the original vitelline membrane . Both the balloon-like perivitelline envelope and the vesicular region of the larva are devices serving to keep the embryonic doliolid sufficiently buoyant during the course of development . The rostral outgrowth , which is transient , may possibly represent the similar outgrowth which appears in the development of many ascidians ( e.g. Ciona , Diazona , and Clavelina ) and becomes the stalk . The tail , while virtually of a non-functional character , is of great interest and importance . Shortly after gastrulation it is seen to contain about forty chordal cells and this number appears // to be the final one . Fibrillated muscle-cells form a band along each side of the notochord , and their number , as far as an incomplete drawing of Neumann 's ( 1906 , 1935 ) indicates , is of the same order . The organization and actual cell numbers of the notochord and muscle bands are unmistakably the same as those of the ascidian tadpole . The tail of the tadpole larvae is retained @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ neural tissue develops , and without any association with any kind of sense organ . When we also consider that the larva or embryo is more or less effectively enveloped by a perivitelline membrane and that the tail has little opportunity for functional activity , it becomes fairly evident that the tail is in a residual rather than a primitive condition , indicating a past relationship with ascidians rather than any antecedent condition . The evidence , in other words , suggests that Doliolum is a paedomorphic form in which the ascidian larval tail develops but does not persist far beyond the stage which it is characteristic of in the ascidian life cycle . The distinction in fact is that while cleavage , gastrulation , and tail formation appear to proceed in a typical ascidian manner , the larval sense organs of the ascidian tadpole do not develop and no settling or attachment take splace . Metamorphosis is more or less inhibited ; although since the tail is resorbed , it can not be said to be entirely omitted . It seems to me that the clue here is the absence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sense organs , and what may well be a consequent failure of the tailed larva to settle on the sea floor and find a suitable site for attachment . I see no reason why the stalk-like rostrum of the young Doliolum , which is also a transient structure , should not be regarded as the developing pre-oral stalk homologous with that of Ciona and other ascidians . That region which lies between the transient tail and the transient stalk is the main body of the tunicate in a relatively early stage of its development , comparable to the stage of development of the trunk region of most ascidians at the time of tadpole activity . If we take the Doliolum stage when the tail is functionally differentiated even though ineffective , the resemblance to a typical ascidian tadpole larva is striking , except that the sense organs are absent and so are adhesive organs for attachment . These , however , are features which are developmentally asso- // ciated in the sense that experimental injury or dislocation readily suppresses both structures , and their elimination from doliolid development may have been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1937 ) . I think it is reasonable therefore to interpret Doliolum as an ascidian that has lost larval sense organs and adhesive organs but has retained the larval tail , and has converted the bands of muscle normally associated with the closing and opening of the ascidian siphons into contractile locomotor bands for the creation of the internal water current . Loss of the sensory structure may well have inhibited settling , while retention of the tail would keep the organism motile . Conversion or evolution of the trunkmuscle bands conferred locomotor and current-creating power upon the ascidian body , making the tail subsequently unnecessary , while at present the tail is partly or wholly superseded as a motile agent even in juvenile stages by the acquisition of buoyancy through perivitelline and other devices . A few questions remain to be answered . If Doliolum is to be regarded as an ascidian secondarily adapted to pelagic life , the fact that its gill slits are undoubtedly protostigmata suggests that the divergence occurred before ascidians as such had evolved rows of secondary gill slits in place of the single primaries , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ size of the attached stock . At the same time Doliolum possesses a single atrial siphon , like that of the later growth stages of the ascidian , rather than the lateral paired siphons of the primary stage correlated with the presence of primary gill slits . Accordingly , either the siphonic fusion evolved earlier than I have previously suggested , or it is an independently acquired condition in Doliolum . The latter is a reasonable hypothesis inasmuch as the general development of the siphons as the effective and greater part of the active body would almost inevitably bring about such a fusion of lateral siphons into a single terminal one . Whatever the initial condition , the final state would almost certainly be what we see . The remaining point concerns the coelom . The reduction of the visceral region to relatively small dimensions and the correspondingly great enlargement of the cloacal or atrial involution effectively eliminates the need of a coelom as an excretory envelope ? the atrial lining serves the same purpose , just as it // does in all polystyelid ascidians . An epicardial outgrowth still forms @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the same region from which arise the perivisceral sacs of Ciona or the epicardium or renal vesicle of those ascidians that possess such structures . I believe the doliolid outgrowth to be homologous , but without surviving coelomic or excretory function . The fact that it plays perhaps the leading role in stolon formation and in the morphogenesis and histogenesis of the buds merely adds support to this contention ; for the epicardial lining in ascidians is by far the most general and potent source of new tissue and structure during regenerative and budding processes . Larvacea ( or Appendicularia ) Larvaceans , or Appendicularians , have been in the forefront of discussions of chordate origins for a long time , the older point of view being that they represent the primitive form of tunicates from which ascidians and other tunicates have evolved , and in turn have descended perhaps from a more advanced freeswimming chordate type . This view has been tacitly abandoned and I do not propose to set it forth in detail here simply in order to put it down again . Garstang ( 1928 ) , however @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as paedomorphic doliolids , and it is this that calls for consideration at this time , together with the general relationship the Larvacea may have with the ascidian tadpole larva . The development of the larvacean Oikopleura is now fairly well known as the result of Delsman 's ( 1912 ) investigations , and , taken together with the extensive studies of Lohmann ( 1933 ) and others on the nature of various adult forms , a reasonably clear picture appears . The following outline presents the essentials . The oikopleuran egg is small ( about o ? o85 mm. diam. ) and is fertilized and develops free in the water . The first two cleavages are similar to those occurring in the ascidian egg , but the third , horizontal , cleavage is unequal ; no segmentation cavity is formed . The presumptive territories , however , are identical with those of ascidian embryos of this stage with respect to plan of symmetry and location of the axes , but are represented by fewer cells . One can recognize ventral ectoblast , neuroblasts bordering the outer blastoporal lip and subjacent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ entirely by // a single large endoblastic cell . Mesoblasts border the posterior margin of the blastopore . The stage illustrated is actually the equivalent of the ascidian embryo in mid-gastrulation . The territories are present in complete form and in exactly the same mutual relationship as in the ascidian , but whereas the ascidian embryo begins and completes the process of gastrulation between the sixth and seventh cleavages , it is evident that here the process is accomplished between the fifth and sixth . This , taken together with the difference observable at the third cleavage , already mentioned , indicates that while the basic pattern of development of the ascidian and oikopleuran egg is remarkably similar , the general process of differentiation , leading both to the histogenesis of the primary tissues and to gastrulation , is relatively accelerated in Oikopleura , so that the several events occur one cleavage sooner in the course of development . The validity of t his interpretation is shown by the fact that in later development the presumptive chordal region yields 20 notochord cells in place of the ascidian 's 40 , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In other words , in so far as the tail is concerned , the larvacean tail develops exactly as the tail of the ascidian larva except for a degree of accelerated differentiation , a difference that is more quantitative than qualitative . And , although further developmental details are rather meagerly known , a sensory vesicle develops and a typical neural tube extends into the tail as in the ascidian tadpole . In fact , apart from the matter of acceleration of differentiation relative to cleavage , the general development of the ascidian tadpole larva and of the oikopleuran is virtually the same up to a comparatively late stage . The morphological differences , however , while small , are significant . The ocellus and otolith of the ascidian larva are absent in Oikopleura , and so are even traces of anterior adhesive organs . At the same time a multicellular statocyst develops in relation to the neural ganglion , consisting of a hollow vesicle of cells bearing sensory hairs , with a statolith in the cavity . I can see no way in which this organ can have evolved from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conclude that it has been independently acquired . The significance of this will be discussed a little later . Meanwhile the larvacean tail is of further interest in itself . In the first place it becomes twisted at its base so that it lies in the // horizontal rather than vertical plane . This is also characteristic of the tadpole larvae of most compound ascidians and in these is clearly an impressed ' character associated with the coiling of the tail around a relatively large , yolky trunk region . The condition in the Larvacea , which Garstang suggests is derived from a compound ascidian type exhibiting this character , may imply that the present small size of the egg is secondary and that the egg has at one time been comparatively large ; or it may be merely an adaptation in connexion with the peculiar function of the larvacean tail . In other ways the larvacean tail is more differentiated than that of the ascidian tadpole . In place of the purely cuticular tail fin of the ascidian tadpole , the morphologically similar fins of the Larvacea consist of epidermal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is that in the Larvacea the neural tube contains a series of ganglionic cell groups , each of which has dorsal motor nerves and sensory ventral ones , both associated with the muscle bands . Some investigators ( Langerhans , Van Beneden and Julin , and Dumas ) have seen in this a vestigial metamcrism . At the same time , however , it seems to me that there is nothing in the construction of the larvacean tail that can not be readily interpreted as a moderate degree of further differentiation of the tail of the ascidian tadpole larva . In the larvae of many simple ascidians , e.g. Ascidia , Phallusia , &c.,; the notochordal cells fuse together to form a continuous turgid cylinder ; in the Larvacea a similar fusion occurs , but the core substance sets to an almost cartilaginous consistency . In both the tail of the tadpole larva and of the Larvacea the muscle cells fuse to form a syncytium in which myofibrillae run continuously from one end to the other . And in both the neural tissue is a slender , posterior , tubular extension @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ acquires histological neural differentiation while the other does not . Most Larvacea are minute , with a body rarely exceeding t mm. and a tail usually not more than three times that length , although some species , e.g. Oikopleura vanhoffeni , have a body as long as 8 mm. and a tail correspondingly large . The body or trunk region presents problems independently of the significance of the tail . A short endostyle is usually present , and a single pair of branchial openings ( primary gill slits ) // lead from the floor of the pharynx to the exterior . There are no peribranchial cavities as such , nor is there a cloacal or atrial siphon . A simple heart lies in the usual position on the ventral side posterior to the endostyle , except in one genus ( Kowalevskaia ) which has neither endostyle nor heart . The gonads are relatively large , occupy the posterior region of the body , and open directly to the exterior . The feeding mechanism is of particular interest . It is a complex and specialized arrangement involving the pharynx , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ oikoplastic epithelium covering the anterior part of the trunk . All three components are essential . Within the pharynx the mucus secreted by the endostyle is directed forwards and dorsally along the peripharyngeal bands , and the micro-organisms brought in by the current induced by the cilia of the gill slits are caught up not in lateral sheets of mucus moving up along the sides of the pharynx as in ascidians but in a twisting cord passing freely back like a vortex from the peripharyngeal bands . It is a peculiarly specialized system which Garstang ( 1928 ) has discussed at considerable length and which he interprets , correctly in my opinion , as a type derived from that of Doliolum and not in any way directly related to that of ascidians . This internal system , however , is only a part of the total mechanism , and Garstang 's interpretation of the Larvacea as paedomorphic doliolids becomes even more convincing when other aspects of their structure and activity are studied . In all tunicates other than the Larvacca , the entire surface of the epidermis is active in secreting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sharply divided into an antero-dorsal oikoplastic zone and an extensive postero-ventral region incapable of tunic secretion . The boundary between the two zones is sharp , and it is in the posterior zone that the gill slits , rectum , and gonads open . Garstang regards this non-secretory region as equivalent to a shallow atrio-cloacal chamber , homologous with that of Doliolum , the cavity of which has been suppressed and the epithelial lining everted . This is plausible , and so far no other explanation of the peculiar state of the larvacean epidermis has been put forward . The oikoplastic epithelium secretes a tunic or house at first as a continuous sheet of cuticular substance ( cf. Lohmann , // 1933 ) . The ventro-lateral wall is almost uniformly gelatinous , but the dorso-lateral wall is from the start differentiated into alternating zones of gelatinous material and membranous laminations . It is at first a continuous mosaic of cuticular products resting on a continuous matrix of diversified secretory epithelium . By subsequent foldings and readjustments of one part to another as the whole becomes lifted off from its epithelial base @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ among the different species of Larvacea . The house ' serves as an efficient food trap and is cast off and replaced from time to time . Garstang 's discussion of this subject is intensive and should be consulted for further detail . His conclusion is as follows : From this examination it results that in all probability the primitive type of Appendicularian Hans ' , from which all others have been derived either by elaboration or reduction , consists of a hollow , oval or spherical capsule with two apertures at opposite extremities , one oral , and the other formed round the boundary zone of the oikoplastic epithelium , which in primitive cases is limited by the base of a dorsal hood or veil . Assuming this to mark the limits of a former atrio-cloacal cavity , the primitive house must have been a cast-off test , with opposite oral and cloacal apertures . Such a test could only be formed by a pelagic Tunicate of the Doliolid type ; and since Doliolum , at least D. mulleri , is known to possess the power of total ecdysis ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no need to say more than that the case is complete . There can be no question of the fact or of the correspondence in essential details . Uljanin observed the process under the microscope under conditions which enabled him to describe it as eine vollkommen normal Erscheinung ' , and to assert ' class unter der abgeworfenen beschmutzen Cuticula eine sehr dunne neue immer schon angeschieden wird ' . He points out , moreover , that in Doliolum the test throughout life remains hyaline and structureless , like that of the youngest larval stages of ordinary Ascidians , and contains no cellulose , and that , as in the Larvacea ( Appendicularians ) alone among the Tunicata , there is no involution of test-substance within the oral aperture ( or within the cloacal aperture ) . These are precisely the conditions required for the beginnings of the evolution of the Larvacean house . The modifications introduced into the house for purposes of food collection form a story which does not concern us here . Garstang goes on to say : Thus , after a fairly exhaustive survey of Appendicularia pecu-TRANSITION @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ simplicity is more apparent than real . When the structure and working of their pharynx and endostyle are examined closely and comparatively , these organs alone yield conclusive proof of a derivation from the more normal Tunicate type . Moreover , in every respect ? position and number of gill slits , structure and function of endostyle , form of intestinal loop , position of the anus , and torsion of nerve-cord ? Doliolum has been shown to provide the key to their phylogeny . Finally , the architecture of the house , and its relations to the oikoplastic epithelium , have confirmed our view that the absence of a cloaca and of peribranchial cavities is a secondary phenomenon , and that the ancestor of the Appendicularians was essentially a Doliolum with a barrel-shaped test subject to periodic exuviation . . . . The remarkable thing about these features of resemblance to Doliolum is that they are all essentially adult , as distinct from larval characteristics , and may be thought to give a final refutation of the neotenic theory I began by defending , since only the tail is left @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ however , at an earlier stage , Ascidian larvae do not feed , and have no visceral organization of their own distinct from that of the adult phase which , in varying degrees , they seek precociously to develop . The same conditions must have prevailed among primitive Doliolids before the larva was finally boxed up in an inflated egg-capsule serving as a float . The appendicularian or larvacean tail acquired function , not only for the creation of currents through the Haus ' ( or into the vesicle , as the case may be ) by a mode of undulation recognizably different from that used in free locomotion , but also of manipulative powers , by which the tail assists in extending the house-rudiment over the body and in enlarging and shaping its internal spaces . Clearly a tail which has acquired a motility and versatility of this order can not be expected to have retained the primitive features of its origin . Its free articulation with the body , its width , length , and flexibility , its smooth surface , sensitive tip , and specialized neuromuscular apparatus , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of specialized modification . The tail , in other words , while like that of the ascidian tadpole larva in its basic cellular constitution , serves primarily as a more elaborately differentiated organ for the creation of a feeding current and placement of the food trap , rather than as a simple organ of locomotion . There is , however , one further feature of the larvacean organisms which Garstang did not consider , and it is one I believe // that confirms his conclusion concerning their neotenic nature . Not only is the number of cells which constitute the several components of the tail firmly fixed but those of the body appear to be so as well , and in some genera to a remarkable degree . In Fritillaria , for instance , the endostyle is invariably 4 cells in cross section , the stomach consists of about 20 large cells , and the heart of 2 cells only , all of comparatively large size . This is a common characteristic of neotenous forms , which tends to show that the permanence of the larval pattern is obtained perhaps by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and quality . We will , however , have to reconsider the significance of the larvacean characteristics in relation to the general setting of the pelagic tunicates at the end of the present chapter . Meanwhile some consideration needs to be given to the thaliaceans Salpa and Pyrosoma before appraising the situation as a whole . Salpa and Pyrosoma Salpa , Pyrosoma , and Doliolum clearly constitute a related group of organisms . Salpa and Doliolum swim and feed in much the same way and have much the same structure . Each is essentially a barrel open at both ends , through which water is pumped by the action of more or less complete encircling muscle bands . The individuals of the several species of Doliolum and Dolioletta are relatively small , ranging from about 3 to 12 mm. in length in the case of gonozooids ; while 8 or 9 mm. is typical . The maximum size of doliolids , however , is roughly the minimum size of salps , and the latter for the most part grow to lengths from 25 to 150 mm . This difference in order @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ small number of large gill slits in the posterior region of the branchial sac , salps have none , unless the single extensive passage on either side of the gill ridge may be interpreted as a hypertrophied gill slit . However this may be , I think we can reasonably look upon salps as equivalent in a general way to enlarged doliolids in which a typically fenestrated posterior branchial wall would offer too great a resistance to the volume and force of water being driven through the body barrel by the powerful muscles . The delicate structure of the relatively small doliolid gill sheets would rupture in a larger form . Salps , I believe , have become more vigorously // adapted to pelagic life than the doliolids . And in spite of the general similarity of salps and doliolids as motile , feeding organisms , the salps show no trace of developmental affinities with ascidian tadpole larvae . The egg , while small , develops directly into the final form . At the same time this directness of development is anything but primitive , and the actual mode of development @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ place in relation to architectural structures formed at first by purely maternal tissues ( Brien , 1928 ; Berrill , 1950 ) . The egg is to be regarded as secondarily simplified , with complete elimination of all determinative processes which may at one time have led to distinctive cleavage patterns , gastrulation , and the formation of a tailed larva . In this last respect Pyrosoma is somewhat similar . The egg is comparatively large and yolky , and while its blastomeres do not derive nourishment directly from maternal tissues as in the case of salps , all trace of those features so distinctive of the development of the ascidian egg , and clearly recognizable in the development of the egg of doliolids and Larvacea , is absent . The pyrosomid eggs develop more or less in situ and , in their own way , are as clearly secondarily modified by yolk and viviparity . The individual zooid of a Pyrosoma colony is constructed along much the same plan as the salp and doliolid . Mouth and cloacal apertures lie at opposite ends of a long axis . At the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sessile ascidian type than is the case in the other two forms . Numerous primary gill slits are present , arranged serially along the whole length of the branchial sac or pharynx . The water current is created by the ciliary action of the gill slits , not by the muscles of the body wall , and it is the conjoined outflow of the currents produced by all the members of the colony that causes the colonial organism as a whole to glide through the water . The individual zooids are small , 8 ? 10 mm. long , of which about half is represented by an elongated atrial siphon . In order of size , therefore , the pyrosomid individual tends to be even smaller than the doliolid , and it is because of this , in my opinion , that primary gill slits are retained as the effective agents for creation of the feeding current , while the co-operative effort of the numerous individuals composing a colony effectively transports the collective I44 PELAGIC TUNICATES whole , and obviates such effort as is put forth by muscle bands in salps @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this brief picture of the thaliacean types we need to look at the process of budding and asexual reproduction in general . The processes of asexual reproduction in salps , doliolids , and in Pyrosoma may be regarded as various elaborations of a single basic kind . In all three groups a budding stolon grows out from the midventral region of the body wall immediately posterior to the endostyle . In all three the stolon consists of an outer epidermal envelope and an inner tubular extension from the posterior wall of the pharynx . Apart from a strand of mesenchyme which differentiates as gonadial tissue , these two layers in the case of Pyrosoma and salps give rise to all the tissues of the individuals subsequently budded off . In Doliolum additional components grow into the stolon from peribranchial and pericardial epithelia , but , in contrast to Garstang 's opinion on this point , I consider these to be secondary involvements of interest from the point of view of tissue growth , but not relevant to the present discussion . In my opinion the two outstanding points of interest are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ process in the three groups is so great that it can only indicate the origin of the three from a common stock , and also indicates the possible , and to me plausible , interpretation of the pharyngeal outgrowth as the homologue of the epicardium and therefore of the Cionid perivisceral coelom . With the great expansion of the cloaca and atrial lining , the coelomic function of the epicardium would in any case have been superseded , even if the epicardium had not already assumed a character typical of those ascidians with abdominal and post-abdominal regions . If we accept Garstang 's interpretation of the larvaceans as neotenic doliolids , then the pelagic tunicates as a whole can be regarded as a single group of organisms that has evolved in diverse ways from a common stock . The nature of this ancestral stock and the reasons for departure from it are what concerns us most at this stage of our argument . // PELAGIC TUNICATES S U M I N G that the pelagic tunicates are derived from a AS sessile ascidian stock , an assumption generally made by students @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by suppression of metamorphosis and continued activity of the tadpole locomotor equipment . At the close of embryonic and larval development , when the sequence of cell divisions initiated at fertilization of the egg has come to an end both in tadpole tissues as such and also in tissues normally destined to form the permanent ascidian , we would have a free-swimming form equipped with the typical tadpole tail and a trunk similar to that of Ciona at the onset of feeding , that is , with a terminal mouth , a pair of lateral peribranchial siphons , and two or three primary gill slits on each side . At the time such an emancipation took place , growth of the trunk region beyond this stage and size may or may not have been considerable . Undoubtedly there would have been growth to some extent , but the fact that only primary gill slits occur in pelagic tunicates suggests rather forcibly that growth of the trunk remained within the limits compatible with the presence of a series of simple , ciliated primary gill slits . The zooids of Pyrosoma colonies are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Fusion of the paired peribranchial siphons to form a single posterior cloacal siphon may be an inheritance from the ascidian or it may well have been independently acquired , for the same reasons of mechanical efficiency in water-current production , and the consequence of a similar process of enlargement . The single cloacal siphon of thaliacean tunicates in fact is not in any way informative concerning the early pelagic condition . The lateral gill openings in the Larvacea in the same way may indicate that the originally inherited condition was lateral and paired , or it may be a consequence of neoteny . I can see no I46 PELAGIC TUNICATES other way in which a transformation from a sessile to a permanently pelagic existence could have taken place . At this point we need to consider again the significance of asexual reproduction by budding as it occurs in the three thaliacean types ; the Larvacea can be left aside for the time being . In spite of the diverse ways that this method of reproduction has been exploited in these forms , the basic similarity of the process is profound @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the ancestral form common to them all . It has been customary to attempt to derive the primitive thaliacean from this or that family of ascidians according to resemblances in budding processes , or conversely to derive various ascidian processes from thaliaccan types as Garstang has done . But my own acquaintance with methods of budding in the Tunicata ( cf. Berrill , 1952 ) inclines me to the opinion that budding has been acquired on several occasions within the class , and that the basic kind typical of the Thaliacea is unrelated to those of any ascidians . In other words , since the type of budding in Thaliacea appears to be distinct and since there seems to be no particular reason to assume that the comparatively small and simple ascidian stock from which the thaliaceans probably arose had acquired such a process , the simplest procedure is to assume that the process was acquired some time after emancipation from an attached existence . Budding in ascidians is primarily a means of extending the living , reproducing ascidian entity in two rather than three dimensions , in relation to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ leads to increasing insecurity of foothold . As a form of reproduction in the narrower sense of propagation it hardly ranks at all . Budding in thaliaceans is primarily a means of propagation rather than colony building , at least in doliolids and salps , if not in Pyrosoma . It is comparable I think to the asexual reproduction of certain medusae , e.g. species of Rathkea and Bougainvillia , where reproduction by budding is employed to build up enormous populations in oceanic regions which are particularly suitable . Reproduction by budding in medusae and thaliacean alike is an effective adaptation to a pelagic oceanic existence . This may have been the motive from the beginning , as far as the thaliaceans are concerned , in which case the process was converted to colony formation to give us Pyrosoma , at a relaORIGIN // Lively early stage , but has become elaborated in various ways as a strikingly effective method for rapid population building in forms that have evolved as doliolids and salps . Apart from the acquisition of asexual reproduction , involving what I consider to be a superannuated coelom @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one of continuing adaptation to pelagic oceanic life . In all three forms the tadpole tail has been structurally or functionally discarded . As long as the larval tail retains its original cellular constitution , it can grow no larger than those limited cell numbers permit . The tail may be effective in propelling a comparably small trunk through the water , but not anything of another order of size . Doliolum , more clearly than the others , appears to show what has occurred . Increase in body size , as distinct from tail , made the tail progressively ineffective , and trunk muscles became specialized as rhythmically contractile bands capable of propelling the whole organism through the water , and also water through the organism . The tendency was to reduce the need for a series of small gill slits , and to supersede the tail as an organ of locomotion . And at the present time we accordingly find Doliolum producing an ascidian-type egg which develops into an abortive tadpole retaining the tail with its limited cellular constitution , but in a confined and nonfunctional form ; continuing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an ascidian modified for pelagic life . The tadpole was a means to an end , so to speak , but not a permanent one in itself . Salps may be considered as having gone further in the same general direction : whether independently or not is another matter . But final body sizes are larger , asexual reproduction is more effectively exploited , judging from population densities , and the original character of the egg and any dependent larval development has been completely eliminated . The same holds true for the egg and early development of Pyrosoma , although in this form the individual zooid has not departed so far from a typical ascidian condition , since motility has been acquired by co-operative effort of the constituent zooids of the colony , and the elaboration of contractile muscle bands as in Doliolum and Salpa has not been necessary . The main point in all of this is that the tadpole larva tail was // necessary to launch ascidians upon a pelagic career , but it rapidly became unnecessary and even ineffective as a means of propelling them through the water @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ directed locomotion of the whole organism has little significance or value . The important activity is the passing of a food-bearing water current through the body , and locomotion through the water is virtually a secondary by-product of this . The Larvacea support the various contentions put forward above . Body size is adjusted to the restrictions of the cellular constitution of the tail , by what appears to be an inhibition of growth beyond what can be accomplished by increase in cell sizes as distinct from cell numbers . Moreover , in spite of the fact that the larval tail persists as a permanent organ , it serves primarily for the creation of a feeding water current passing through a specialized cuticular house or food trap , and only incidentally for causing the organism itself to move through the water . There is one final matter I believe to be highly significant . The Larvacea possess a statocyst , in association with the cerebral ganglion , but it is almost certainly not homologous with the otolith of the ascidian tadpole . Doliolids , at least in the gonozooid generations , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which is obviously an independent acquisition , and they retain no trace either in adult or larvae of an otolith of the ascidian tadpole type . Neither Larvacea nor doliolids have any trace of an ocellus . Salps possess no statocyst at all , but they all possess , in all types of individuals , an eye in close association with the central ganglion : but as Metcalf has shown conclusively , this eye is not a derivative of the eye or ocellus of an ascidian tadpole and must be regarded as an independent development . It is clear therefore that in the first place the sensory equipment of the ascidian tadpole has not been carried over into the pelagic types , and in the second that the pelagic types , with the exception of Pyrosoma , have felt the need for organs that orientate in respect to either gravity or light , just as do medusae and most other pelagic forms . The probable answer I think is suggestive . If the ascidian tadpole larva has been the vehicle of emancipation , as I have argued , and the tail @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would also have been employed and even elaborated had they served the same end . Yet we know that first of all these sense organs serve primarily for bringing the tadpole larvae of ascidians into shaded secure locations near or on the sea floor , and secondly that they have not survived with the tail as part of the pelagic equipment . It means , I think , that as long as they persisted , metamorphosis occurred and the organisms became sessile as before ? and that suppression of the larval sense organs may well have been a condition for the suppression of metamorphosis as a whole , including the typical premetamorphic reactions . The tail was retained at first purely as a propelling mechanism without directive sense organs , and any directive sense organs possessed by pelagic forms have been new acquisitions . Accordingly the pelagic tunicates should be regarded as the successful but highly specialized pelagic descendants of an originally relatively simple free-swimming form consisting of an ascidian tadpole tail propelling a small ascidian body devoid of statolith or ocellus and having a general organization not far removed from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ associated with the onset of feeding . This stock must have been at one time a successful and vigorous one to have evolved the four types of pelagic tunicates that now constitute such dominant components of oceanic life ? and it is to such a stock as this I believe we must look for the ancestral form that may have given rise to primitive vertebrates . MIGRATION // RECAPITULATING briefly the theme so far : we start with simple , more or less microscopic , pelagic organisms settling or colonizing the shallow sea floor and becoming , among other kinds , small sessile ascidians no more than a few millimetres in height , equipped with one or more primary ciliated gill slits on each side , and a pair of lateral exhalant siphons . Such ascidians in turn evolved non-feeding tadpole larvae , not for dispersion ? which was well effected by drifting developing eggs ? but for retreat from pelagic drift and for the selection of sheltered , shaded sites upon which to settle . Pelagic tunicates evolved from primitive ascidians before they had grown in size to the point @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and by the device of suppressing metamorphosis , possibly as a result of elimination of the larval sense organs otherwise employed in the settling procedures . The existing four types of pelagic tunicates represent various adaptations relating to more efficient pelagic existence or to increase in body size or both . The tadpole larva , in so far as it is to be seen in the structure of the Larvacea and in the larva of Doliolum , is typically ascidian inasmuch as the tail tissue shows at least the same degree of restriction of cell numbers . If this is the stage of divergence , from which not only the pelagic tunicates evolved but the vertebrates as well , certain very definite changes and related problems have to be considered . Whether a single stock of this sort gave rise both to pelagic tunicates and to vertebrates , or whether such a stock evolved on more than one occasion and in one case gave rise to pelagic tunicates and in the other to vertebrates , makes very little difference to our discussion , or to the nature of the free-swimming organism @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ THE PROBLEM I55I evidence to the contrary , it is simpler to assume that the abandonment of a sessile existence occurred but once and the two free-swimming groups evolved diversely from the common stock . In any case , whatever the actual sequence , we are faced with a relatively great gap with no surviving organisms to give supporting substance to imagination . Amphioxus is not forgotten , but comes into the story later . If our contention is a valid one , then we need to see how a small marine pelagic tunicate , probably no more than a few millimetres long , could have become a primitive but relatively large vertebrate feeding and breeding in fresh water , that is , widely distributed among the lakes and river systems of Ordovician and of probably much earlier times . The problems are many and difficult , but at least they can be recognized and examined . They fall into two distinct categories . What were the environmental pressures or attractions which caused free-swimming marine organisms to enter the river systems , and in what ways would successful entrants have had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ postulated ? A simple answer can be given provisionally to each of these . River systems were colonized primarily as feeding territories because their lower regions were relatively rich in the detritus and such unicellular organisms that small filter-feeders thrive upon . And the primitive marine chordates could enter such rivers only in so far as they had the motive power to progress against a current , which necessarily involved a great increase in size . The question of increase in size and speed will be considered first , for at least we have a starting-point . The neotenous ascidian tadpoles , with typical tadpole larva tail and relatively simple ascidian trunk structure , probably of the order of size of 2 or 3 mm. in length , could not have migrated from the sea into freshwater rivers . With the equipment so far envisaged and at this size , they could neither have sensed the presence and direction of a current entering the sea nor have made any progress against it had they done so , no matter how flat the land surfaces may have been and how slowly the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Present day conditions are a poor guide to what may have prevailed during the times in question . // Quite apart from speculations such as these , we can take our more or less hypothetical primitive marine pelagic tunicate and in a sense calculate what must have happened to it by analysing how such an organism could grow and transform into one more closely resembling a primitive vertebrate both in size and in tissue and organ structure . The small size of the ascidian tadpole larva determines its low speed as a swimming organism . Some idea of the relationship of size to speed can be gained by comparing the swimming tadpole larvae of various ascidians . This is done in the accompanying table , which shows that as size increases , with general body and tail proportions and contours remaining more or less unchanged , the speed increases while stroke ( number of tail strokes per minute ) decreases . There is no doubt that the larger tadpoles are by far the most effective swimmers , or that their motion is effected at a slower rate of muscle beat . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ what may have occurred ; they themselves are specialized and are comparatively recent developments of the more specialized modern ascidian families . Their speed is still too low to be particularly effective in swimming against a current , although not hopelessly so as is the case of the smaller kinds . Apart , however , from the demonstration of the relationship of speed and size in this type of swimming organism , a relationship which must have operated as a gear ratio all along , the larger ascidian tadpole larvae , which develop from eggs both larger and yolkier than the primitive kind , show certain significant histological changes . The penetration of estuaries and rivers where there was any significant current flowing towards the sea required increase in size beyond that attained by any recent ascidian tadpole larva // or , with one or two exceptions , by the Larvacea . The Larvacea in fact live their individual oceanic lives with a tail made up of only half the number of cells that even the tail of the ascidian tadpole possesses , and have made a kind of compromise : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enlargement of the cells initially present , and may be said to have reduced the size of the trunk to that which the tail can operate . The notochord of the larvacean with the largest tail , Oikopleura vanhoffeni , 5-10 mm. long , still consists of merely 20 cells , with no more than 9 or lo correspondingly large muscle cells on either side of it . Tissue limitations of this kind obviously would have been incompatible with increase in overall size beyond certain rather definite and relatively small limits . Accordingly , if the provertebrate stock evolved from emancipated ascidian tadpole larvae , a profound change must have taken place in the nature of the tail tissues . The capacity for proliferative tissue growth , in contrast to growth resulting from cell enlargement exclusively , is necessary for increase in size to the extent required . The Larvacea represent an exploitation within the terms of increased histological rigidity . The pro-vertebrates , if they came from the source we have suggested , represent a loosening of embryonic shackles , rather than a tightening . Obviously it did occur , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the matter is afforded by a comparative histological study of existing ascidian tadpole larvae , although these particular forms are not to be regarded as anything more than illustrating possibilities ? they can not be considered as representing ancestral conditions themselves but only as indications of the general nature of developmental tissue relationships which could on another occasion have led to the type of growth required . We find , to start with , that the histological constitution of the tail of all those tadpole larvae of ascidians developing from eggs less than 0.2 mm. diameter , which includes all oviparous examples and some that are viviparous , is remarkably uniform and gives every indication of rigid determination . The notochord consists of forty cells , the lateral muscle bands of twenty cells each ; in each case the cells are relatively very large . The cells constituting the larval sense organs are equally constant and few in number and are large , apart from degenerative changes or actual loss . The neural tube and epidermis consist // of very much smaller cells which are correspondingly more numerous . Several comparative @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , each series representing a group of related species arranged serially in order of increasing egg size , and showing the number of cells constituting the notochord and muscle bands of the tail . It is evident at once that in the first place the notochord remains rigidly determined in all cases . The number of cells which constitute it remains virtually constant at about forty . I have shown elsewhere ( Berrill , 1935 ) that this tissue is the pacemaker for the development of larval structure , and that concentration of yolk in presumptive notochordal cells greatly retards the rate of differentiation not only of the notochord as such but of larval tissues in general . Functional differentiation of the muscle tissue of the tail occurs approximately as the tail acquires its maximum length , i.e. when the notochord cells have individually and collectively enlarged and extended as far as possible . In contrast to the notochordal cell constancy , the muscle tissue is evidently in a different category . Muscle-tissue is determined at the onset of development in the sense that certain ooplasmic territories are thereafter destined to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not , however , the same restriction with regard to cell numbers . As eggs become // larger and/or more yolkier , the presumptive muscle-tissue becomes correspondingly larger and differentiates more slowly , and above a certain rather critical egg size ( o ? 2o mm. diam. ) the lateral muscle bands consist of increasingly large numbers of cells . This is the kind of histogenic emancipation required . // FRESHWATER SYSTEMS P RIMARILY we are concerned with the time , the circumstances and the means of penetration into freshwater systems by a primitively marine stock of small freeswimming filter-feeders . On the one hand those forms that succeeded in so doing must have been more powerful swimmers and have been better equipped with orientating sense organs than the neotenous ascidian tadpoles we have reconstructed ; on the other hand , the general character of the freshwater region that they entered , and particularly the transitional regions between completely fresh water and undiluted seawater , must have been notably different from the general conditions prevailing today . The conclusions I have reached concerning this last question I have subsequently found to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ paper by T. C. Chamberlin ( 1900 ) on the Habit of Early Vertebrates . Similar conclusions independently arrived at , particularly when reached from different startingpoints , gain a certain degree of validity from this very fact . Chamberlin observed that the oldest fossil fish and eurypterids were from freshwater deposits , and that marine fossils of these forms were of creatures washed down to the mouths of estuaries ; and that of the three dominant groups of freshwater animals , the crustacea and molluscs held station in a current by clinging with legs or foot , and the fish alone did so by swimming . He noted that current flow impresses a rhythmical undulation on a passive column . In the movement of a rope of vegetation in a pulsating current it is the pressure of the pulses of water against the sides of the rope that gives the incurvations . The two phenomena are natural reciprocals in the active and passive voices . The development in the fish of a rhythmical system of motor response to the rhythm impressed upon it by its persistent environment and duly adjusted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a natural mode of neutralizing the current force and securing stability of position or motion against the current , as desired . He derived the notochord itself from this situation , having started with the assumption that some primitive animal aggregate invaded the freshwater regions far back in pre-Cambrian times . For he concluded that the Cambrian sandstones are typical disintegration products , and the voluminous carbonaceous Huronian deposits suggest at least that lowland vegetation was abundant . He pictured the linking up of river systems by piracy and by common junction with terminal lagoons ; that river flow increased generally and intensified the struggle to hold position , bringing about improvement of the provertebrate type and causing those that could not hold station to be swept out to sea , and from such as these last the ascidians and Balanoglossus are descended . This was his conclusion . Now , half a century later , it is possible to see the past a little more clearly , and while the general concept which follows is my own , its basic resemblance to Chamberlin 's is unmistakable . At the present @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of intense mountain building and also one in which great amounts of water have been segregated in the ice caps , even now only partly returned to the sea . The continental masses are virtually dry . Rivers run swiftly to the sea , some less swiftly than others but still with very few meandering with a mazy motion ' . These are not conditions which encourage marine animals to migrate from the sea to rivers . Only comparatively powerful swimmers among vertebrates are able to do so , and even the crustacea and molluscs , among invertebrates , which could undoubtedly crawl along river bottoms from the sea , are for the most part unable to face the suddenness of the chemical transition , if not the physical . The topography of land and water at present , it seems to me , is about as poorly suited to invasion from the sea as it can ever have been . Our primitive chordate I am sure needed all the help it could get in order to make that original migration , and required conditions as far from the present extreme @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Lands should be low-lying almost everywhere , without interior ranges to precipitate and accelerate too much water flowing to the seas ; while the seas receiving the quiet , slow-moving streams should be shallow // inland seas rather than the open oceans with their turbulent margins . Conditions such as these have prevailed through much of the earth 's history , at different times , in varying pattern , and over enormous periods . The earliest period of this sort that is known to us is the Cambrian , which will serve as a model , although I believe that the period of invasion of the fresh waters we are dealing with should be pushed back probably well into pre-Cambrian times . Throughout most of the Cambrian period , without too much change , the sea level was relatively high and lands were low ; and great inland seas of shallow depth flooded the North American and Asiatic continents . Europe lay under water , beneath a shallow sea extending from the continental shelf east as far as the present Urals and south to Africa . Narrow land masses lay @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more extensive land existed in the regions of Mongolia and eastern Siberia . The interior of the North American continent also lay beneath shallow seas , except for a very large and low-lying central emerging plain , so that in relation to present ranges Cambrian seas extended the length of the continent , one immediately west of the Appalachians and the other cast of the Cordilleras , the latter at times being discontinuous in mid-continental latitude . These seas apparently were warm , shallow , and abundantly rich in most forms of littoral marine life . They were , moreover , of such size , volume , and shape that they may well have been without tidal rhythm other than currents induced from outside the seas themselves . The margins of these seas were in all probability quiet waters merging with the low-lying land mass through salt and brackish water lagoons ; while streams and rivers entered either lagoons or an inland sea itself with perhaps an almost imperceptible flow , without a significant gradient from sea-floor to river beds . Sea-water of high salinity would extend far up from the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ over it towards the sea . We could expect to find salinity stratifications at the mouths of estuaries and inlets comparable to those prevailing off the west coast of Sweden today , and farther in toward the upper ends of embayments the water may well have been brackish to the extent we now find in the upper Baltic , where the oceanic jellyfish Aurelia swims comfortably // in water supporting the growth of freshwater flowering plants . It is in fact possible to see in the Baltic Sea and its marginal waters just such conditions that might well encourage interchange of fauna between salt- and fresh water , and there is little doubt that similar situations have at times been commonplace , without the present restrictions of winter cold , and that we might well expect this to have been the case along the margins of the continental Cambrian seas . This is shown perhaps by the one really clear glimpse we get of mid-Cambrian life . High on the side of Mt . Stephen ( Mt . Wapta ) in eastern British Columbia is an exposure of some layers of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ discovered by Walcott in 191o . It is slaty black shale of Middle Cambrian date , in which fossils are preserved as delicate carbon films on planes where bedding and cleavage coincide . Each lustrous film is the residue of a soft body pressed to an immeasurable thinness , but preserving in amazing detail the form of delicate external appendages and even the presence of viscera . Walcott described 130 species of seventy genera , including sponges , jellyfish , annelids , trilobites , branchiopods , and , of all things , a peripatus-like onychophoran . The deposit was once a mud so fine of grain and so rich in decaying organic matter that it must have formed a soft oozy sea floor , deficient in oxygen and pervaded by H2S , for the texture of the shale is extremely fine and the organisms contained in it are almost unbelievably well preserved , with no recognizable evidence of decay even of soft tissues . Carl Dunbar ( 1949 ) suggests that the locality represents a depression somewhat deeper than the surrounding sea floor , and that when dying organisms settled into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into the ooze and were never again disturbed by either scavengers or bacteria . According to Walcott the area was an embayment of some sort opening into the mid-Cambrian continental sea of the Cordilleran geosyncline , that is , opening eastward into the shallow sea rather than west into the Pacific Ocean . The fossils constitute an amazing and puzzling collection . Hutchinson ( 1930 ) re-examined them and confirmed the identification of the various branchiopods and cladocera and also that the peripatus-like creature is truly an onychophoran with typical 16o MIGRATION hook-bearing appendages . Hutchinson assumes , as did Walcott , that all the fossilized forms were marine . Another interpretation , however , is possible . I believe we have in this deposit , with its contained fossils , evidence of just those conditions I have been discussing . This remnant of the inland sea represents not a blind marginal embayment but a junction of fresh water and salt inlet of some kind , where fresh water drifted quietly over the deeper salt , and the muddy sea floor , perhaps of a lagoon , remained normally undisturbed at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ layers of the soft mud ; trilobites and other forms searched for food on or a little above the muddy bottom ; medusae swam through the water above ; all in salt water , unless there was a gradual gradient , in which case the medusae may have extended upwards into brackish layers . I suggest , however , that the various and abundant branchiopods were not marine , but swam in fresh water overlying the salt , and when something occurred to disturb the soft bottom mud and released H2S , the bottom forms were engulfed , as Dunbar suggested , together with the branchiopods likewise killed by the rising gas . The presence of the peripatoid more or less confirms this , and I think the picture is a composite , consisting of a marine bottom with marine inhabitants , overlain by fresh water already swarming with branchiopods , although these may have drifted from upstream ; while the peripatoid may well have been a casualty from a community already feeding more or less out of water on the marginal vegetation of inland fresh waters . The interest of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is first of all the glimpse it gives us of the richness and comparative modernity of the mid-Cambrian marine fauna , and in the second place the strong indication of an advanced freshwater fauna already in existence in waters communicating with the sea in gentle manner . Annelids , arthropods , molluscs , brachiopods , echinoderms , and others were in fact so well evolved and differentiated at this time that I can see no reason to suppose that chordates should have been laggards . The freeswimming neotenic tunicate which I have postulated would , according to our earlier discussion , have evolved from an ascidian stock of a stage comparable to much earlier evolutionary stages                     