@@774176

txt p 300 Those internal boundaries which are not straight lines often follow river channels . The grand scale of most of the river basins also contributes to the confusion of state jurisdictions within them . Thus the development of the Tennessee and of the Colorado concerns seven states in each instance , that of the Ohio ten states , and of the Missouri ten . If the entire Mississippi river system is taken , thirty states are concerned . Among all the major basins only the Central Valley of California is within one state . A single state , like Colorado , may be drawn into the developmental problems of as many as four major river basins . The principal results over a long period were two . Where development of streams was not a matter of critical concern ( generally east of the Tooth meridian ) very little positive action was taken by the states themselves on major development . Where water development was vital to any substantial progress , as in the states with territory west of the tooth meridian , there has been a history @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The compartmentalizing of the Colorado river , with water withdrawals of specified amounts for each of the seven states of the Basin , is illustrative of the barriers which state boundaries impose upon development where appropriative water law has become necessary . About twenty years ago it became very clear that if the wealth of the nation 's major streams were not to be allowed to waste indefinitely some federal action toward basin development would be necessary . For this reason , among others , the Tennessee Valley Authority experiment was started , and has been pursued successfully in the South-east . While other federal water development activities , through the United States Army Corps of Engineers and the Bureau of Reclamation , had taken place previous to the 1930 's , they were usually of a localized character . Even the levee systems of the lower Mississippi were of this nature . From 1933 onward , however , not only the Tennessee Valley Authority but also the Department of the Interior26 and the Corps of Engineers have been actively concerned with planning , construction , and management of the nation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ full benefits as possible from the rivers ' potential for power production , navigation , flood prevention , and water supply , and other Footnote  | purposes . While the organization needed to manage such activities is still very much a matter of controversy in the United States , 27 few now raise questions as to the need for federal leadership and participation if such development is to be accomplished . The unsuitability of individual state jurisdictions to comprehensive basin development was too long demonstrated . Technology , Changes in Settlement Pattern , and Administrative Responsibilities Within the larger pattern of economic and governmental activity imposed by size , by environmental diversity , and by the peculiarities of the American federal system , some fundamental changes are taking place which are affecting every section of the country . They can be traced to a dynamic technology , buttressed by a huge national expenditure for scientific and engineering research ( 3800 million dollars in 1952 ) . Development of new industrial processes , of new uses for erstwhile unknown or unusable natural resources , of highly mechanized farming techniques , and introduction @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ communication are having a profound influence upon American patterns of economic and political life . The influence of technological innovation is widespread in American life , as indeed in that of any other advanced modern nation . Advances in the techniques of transmitting and generating electrical energy have encouraged decentralization of manufacturing industry , both to new regions and to new localities within the old regions . The growth of industry in both the South and the Pacific North-west , the early sites of all nuclear-energy work in the United States , and the sites of much of the country 's large expansion of electro-metallurgical industries in the last decade , has been much aided by these advances . Technological advances in the use of petroleum and natural gas brought a major growth of chemical industries in the Gulf South-west . Advances in pipe-line transmission of natural gas are redressing the balance by bringing that new important fuel and material into the industrial northeastern states . But in addition to the regional changes , technical changes also have Footnote  | made possible decentralization of industry intra-regionally . With some corporations it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ plants outside the larger industrial centers . Many hundreds of smaller towns throughout the Midwest and North-east now have manufacturing plants ; and the same process is taking place in the South-east . In part this has become possible because of improvements in motor-truck transportation ; but the development of the electric motor as a prime mover , petroleum and gas pipelines , and other phases of industrial change have helped . In the wake of this industrialization of the countryside have come important social changes . The great increase of suburban and rural residence in the last twenty years " and the growth of labor unions into organizations with pervading influence throughout a region as well as in large industrial centers may be mentioned as examples . ( See Table 2 . ) With the spread of urban folkways and techniques into hitherto rural areas , tensions are created as the older , and frequently distinctive , rural values are displaced by more uniform urban methods . Industrialization of rural areas tends also to create inter-regional tensions , such as the series of political charges and bargains exchanged in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rural areas are beginning to bite into the business cake ' which , until recently , the older industrial regions have had all to themselves . Footnote  | Technology and the Farm One of the most interesting and important changes which technology has made possible is that which has occurred on American farms . American farming practices have changed radically in the last three decades . Even since 1940 the change to greater mechanization has been striking . In 1954 there were 4.65 million tractors in use on American farms as against 1.5 million in 1940 . With this assistance , and with better crop varieties , better pest control , and other improvements , 6.9 million farmers produced 31 per cent . more farm products in 1952 than did 9.5 million farm workers in 1940 . Technical change has relieved one man in five on the farm in 1940.29 It also has raised the level of cash investment required to enter agriculture on a competitive basis . These production changes have been paralleled by changes in the farm population , which decreased from 32 million in 1910 to 22 million @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ per cent . of the total ; in 1954 it was 13.5 per cent . While farm population has been decreasing , land area in farms has increased , from 46 per cent . of the total United States land area in 1910 to 61 per cent . in 1950 . The size of American farms therefore has been increasing steadily , from an average of 138 acres in 1910 to 215 acres in 1950 . Average farm size in 1950 ranged from 74 acres in Rhode Island to 3834 acres in Arizona.3 0 Interesting social and political changes have followed the change in farm methods . For one thing , the family farm has become a less important factor in agricultural production than ever before . The number of corporation farms is rising , and the number of independent landowners is declining relatively . In 1950 full owners of farms comprised only 5.1 per cent . of the civilian gainfully employed.31 The declining farm population , instead of weakening the voice of agriculture in public affairs , has tended to centralize and strengthen it , a tendency enhanced by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by those most directly affected . The interests of the farm bloc ' are watched over closely by the well-organized American Farm Bureau Federation , the National Grange , and the Farmers Footnote  | Union . Together they have an estimated membership of about 2.8 million persons.32 Additional farm political strength is derived from the fact that within the constitutional system the farmer is over-represented , because he was relatively more numerous previously . At both the state and national levels of government , rural populations exercise a voting strength which remains disproportionately large as the appointment of legislative representatives lags behind the shift of population to urban centers . Farm production has improved so rapidly that it has outrun the capacity of the nation to absorb it , even though the average American diet is better than ever before , the population has been rising steadily , and the capacity of industry to absorb farm products has improved . American agriculture may not now be able to depend fully on a free competitive market and remain prosperous . Because of this , and because of the political strength of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ political issues in spite of the declining farm population . To help the farmer meet the problem of unpredictable markets the Government maintains a system of agricultural commodity price supports which , through supporting farm income , has succeeded in stabilizing an economically and politically troublesome situation . Thus in November 1953 government-purchased surplus products on hand included 6 million bales of cotton , 1109 million pounds of fats and oils , 1021 million pounds of dairy products , 854 million bushels of wheat , and many other commodities in equally large amounts.33 The Federal Government , in 1953 , was paying 168 million dollars a year just to store agricultural surpluses in addition to some 2500 million dollars loaned ' to farmers for price supports.34 Mobility of the People Changes on the farm have also contributed to a demographic characteristic of present-day United States : the relatively high mobility of its Footnote  | people . In recent years it has been particularly a movement of rural people to the cities . In 1900 , 39.7 per cent . of the American population lived in cities or towns of 2500 or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ per cent . In 1950 , 168 metropolitan areas accounted for more than half ( 56 per cent. ) of the entire population of the country . In 1900 , America had 78 cities of over 50,000 population ; by 1940 , there were 199 ; and in 1950 , 230 such cities.35 Whether it is to the city or elsewhere , ten million Americans make a major change in their place of residence each year , moving either to another part of one state or into another state.36 Population mobility continues to create several major problems and effect certain political and social changes . Movement from place to place breaks the continuity of social bonds , with the result that the migrant often becomes socially detached and indifferent to the problems of the local or regional community . Expanding urban populations have meant an ever-increasing demand for governmental services ; services which in rural life were either unnecessary or else taken care of among family chores . Included are many of the expanding municipal responsibilities : sanitation , water-supply , waste removal , recreation and parks , and local transportation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The growing cities , with their mixtures of economic , racial , and social interests , interject new forces into the older patterns of political balance . Thus , in the South-east the city of Atlanta , Georgia , once known as a seat of conservatism , has responded to the needs of its industrial growth with many progressive ' changes . Urbanization introduces class politics . It compels increased legislative action on issues such as housing , race relations , and social security , since these are matters of more real and pressing concern to urban voters than to rural . Conclusion The comments here made are only illustrative of the many intricate relationships among the natural environment , economic development , and governmental affairs in the United States . They serve to emphasize that the present-day United States is the product of contending , if not Footnote  | conflicting , forces working within it . Some of these forces derive from the past , when relatively few people were called upon to shape a culture , economy , and society within a vast and diverse living room . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in relation to the room provided by great resources and large space , encourage acceptance of the idea of an ever-expanding economy . So also does an Table expanding population , which has risen from 122.8 million in 1930 to an estimated 166 million in 1955,37 and the enormous demands for production of a modern defense establishment . All of these influences give rise to an ever-greater need to exploit the resources of United States territory , and to improve the efficiency of the government and business organizations responsible for resource development . They will also assure continuing American interest in the economic development of other Footnote  | parts of the world , particularly those having low ratios of population to resources . The United States in a sense is now in a transition from a period in which it supported its economy from funded ' resources38 to a time still in the future when it will depend most heavily upon managed production from renewable resources on a sustained-yield basis . American agriculture even now is making the turn . Instead of the traditional reliance on the stored fertility of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , longer-cultivated lands , is now becoming expert in the use of farm and commercial fertilizers . Since 1930 the farm consumption of commercial fertilizers has risen about three and a half times.39 American forestry is following the same pattern , with a distinct trend toward carefully managed forest plantations , whether publicly or privately owned . There is also a movement toward orderly development of water resources . As per capita consumption continues to rise , and as , population increases still more , the trend toward a more carefully managed use of resources may be expected to gain momentum . The need for more careful management is likely in turn to mean pressures for public attention to development and regulation of resource use . Both state and federal governments are certain to be increasingly concerned with activities related to economic development and resource management . This will be particularly true in eastern United States , within which the major opportunities for popular support seem to lie , and where we can expect the major land , water , and industrial developments of the future . An interesting future event @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ irrigation into eastern , and particularly south-eastern , United States , with all of its potentiality for increasing the complexity of administering resources and local economic development . There are thus some basic forces at work in the Uthted States which press the nation in the direction of greater federal and state administrative concern for economic development and resource management . The pressure of these basic forces must be considered in the light of the pattern of territorial division among the states . Because of territorial characteristics , all but a few states lack capacity to deal effectively with Footnote  | some of the more important problems of development and management . Because of this , the basic pressure in many cases will fall more heavily on the federal administrative structure than on that of the states . The direction of these pressures toward the federa140 establishment is reinforced by the changes in American social structure and geographical pattern which are being caused by technology . The growing specialization of the economy and the increasingly greater number of people resident in or dependent on urban communities with quasi-national service responsibilities create @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a national scale , particularly in emergency . Migration and growing urban or suburban residence furthermore favor psychological attitudes which tend to weaken local and regional ties , and leave dominant the identification of the individual with the nation . The changes which technology has brought about in agriculture have also resulted in pressure for federal action and federal responsibility . The problem of stabilizing agriculture is of such great size that no state has yet shown itself capable of meeting it . The Eisenhower Administration , committed to a policy of lessening federal participation in economic affairs , has not been able to change federal responsibility for agricultural stabilization materially . Furthermore , the fact that the only logical outlet for United States agricultural surpluses lies in foreign aid and development programs will assist in keeping farm problems tied to national policy . On the other hand , there are also strong contending forces which generally press in the opposite direction . Sectionalism , emphasizing differences and contrasts , encompasses many of these forces . A few sections , like the Interior South , undoubtedly will continue to favor a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ permits both federal and state initiative . In general , however , sectional forces in the United States are anti-federal in their expressions . The spokesmen for the Gulf South-west and New England seem to want no federal interference with the pattern of resource development they have worked out on a state basis . Often their expressions appear to be stimulated and prompted by vested private economic interest , particularly privately owned utilities , which can better maintain positions of political power where federal activity is restricted . The voices which interpret sectionalism are reinforced by the inheri-Footnote  | tance of attitudes from past periods of sparse population and oversized territory . The tendency to emphasize immediate development problems and the tenacity of the inexhaustibility legend still strongly favor minimum participation by public agencies in economic affairs . These voices still are very strong . Yet there appears to be an underlying understanding about many activities relating to economic development , even on the part of those who promote sectional positions most strongly , which admits state inadequacies . The pressure for federal investment funds for resource development is a good @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ identity that it has not pressed for increasingly large federal investment in the last twenty years . Preferably it is a non-reimbursable federal investment which is sought . But federal management of any economic activity is consistently opposed in the same breath , even though it often is obvious that the individual states at present are no more prepared to handle some management problems than to meet investment needs . Consequently there have arisen new occasions to experiment with regional combinations of states to deal with interstate problems like those attending river-basin development . Most are referred to in legal terms as inter-state compacts . ' Thus proposals and negotiations have arisen for inter-state compacts on the Missouri river and Columbia river developments and several others . There have been further experiments with interagency ' committees which combine federal and state representation for resource ? development planning purposes . While compact agreements are not new in the United States , their proposed use for broad purposes of economic development is . Their potentialities have assumed new importance since 1953 , when a national policy discouraging the regionalization of federal agencies was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ trend toward decentralization of administrative structure on a regional pattern among the important operational agencies of the Federal Government . This had been looked upon as undesirable strengthening of the federal administrative structure by many proponents of sectional views . In 1954 the sectional influence was thus still powerful in determining the pattern of governmental participation in United States economic activity . While exercising this power , however , there was overt admission by sectional interests that their administrative outlet , the state , was inadequate to undertake the increasingly complex task of economic  | development , resource management , and economic regulation . It would seem that the basic forces at work in the United States combine unrelentingly to demand a certain degree of federal administrative participation in the future of these affairs . At the same time there are possibilities of more effective co-operation organization which transcends the limits imposed by state territorial jurisdictions , but permitting independent regional expression . In this respect also the United States may be considered to be in a period of experimentation and transition . An interesting aspect of present activities is that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ being carried on in an area where federal activity has been most coherently organized , the Interior South , which centers in the Tennessee Valley . This would tend to prove that coherent , well-coordinated federal administrative organization which responds to the basic needs for economic development , resource management , and economic regulation is not incompatible with strong expressions of sectional identity . This pattern may well lie beyond the present period of transition , and even confusion , in administrative structure relating to economic affairs . When the change to smoother , more efficient co-operative relations between necessary federal organization and state activities is achieved consistency in foreign and domestic economic policy should be more easily obtained , and sectional interests should be recognized as more compatible with national interest . Footnote  | The Confederation of Canada N. L. NICHOLSON THE rise of the Canadian nation is an event of very recent times . It is usual to date it from 1867 , when , by an Act of the British Parliament , the three former colonies of Canada , New Brunswick , and Nova Scotia became four provinces @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Rupert 's Land and the North-Western Territory " were placed under the new federal government when the Hudson 's Bay Company surrendered exclusive control of those areas , and in 1871 and 1873 the colonies of British Columbia and Prince Edward Island became additional provinces of Canada . In 188o Canada acquired the British title to the Arctic Archipelago , which , in 1925 , was officially claimed to extend to the North Pole , and in 1949 she embraced the remaining portions of the north Atlantic coast when Newfoundland and its dependency ( Labrador ) joined the Confederation ( Fig. 1 ) . As a result , Canada is now the second largest political unit in the world , a huge country , with an area of about 3,846,000 square miles and an extent of over 88 degrees of longitude and 48 degrees of latitude . At the same time it has a sea-coast of no less than 6o,000 miles ( more than twice the circumference of the earth ) , and faces three oceans ? the Pacific , the Arctic , and the Atlantic . These astronomical figures @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ per cent . of the country experiences an arctic ' climate and more than 50 per cent . is subarctic . ' Of the remaining areas those which experience microthermal , mesothermal , and continental steppe climates cover less than 20 per cent . of the total area of the country , yet support most of the fifteen million Canadian people . This cecumene is a long , narrow tract stretching from east to west along the southern part of the country . It borders the United States of America , and this close Footnote Caption  | proximity to the great republic affects almost every phase of Canadian life . Indeed , the State of Canada as it is to-day had its very origins in the American Revolution , for its present form began to take shape after that event . The National Limits of Canada When the independence of the United States became recognized , the remainder of North America was either Russian or British territory . Although the boundaries of the latter with the new United States were inaccurately stated in the Treaty of Paris in 1783 , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , substantially they extended from Lake of the Woods , through Lakes Superior , Huron , Erie , and Ontario , along the St Lawrence river to the 45th parallel , thence to the St John river and to the Bay of Fundy . This resulted from the fact that , as far as territorial claims and counter-claims were concerned , Great Britain , after the revolution , occupied the position that France had occupied before the conquest of Canada in 1763 . Consequently , after 1783 , Great Britain retained the Quebec , Nova Scotia , and Newfoundland of 1763 , but territory added to Canada after that date was surrendered to the United States . The precise location of the boundary was probably based on the application , to the existing maps of the time , of principles previously adopted . The division of Lakes Ontario and Erie into two parts had first appeared in the Quebec Act of 1774 , and when this was revived in 1783 it must have appeared logical to extend it through Lakes Huron and Superior . The boundaries west of Lake of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's Bay Company 's territory . On the southwest these limits were the watershed between those waters which flowed into the Gulf of Mexico and those which flowed northward . Between the Rocky Mountains and the Red River valley this watershed approximated very roughly to the 49th parallel . The Company had also stated that it would be willing to accept this parallel as the southern boundary of its territories during much earlier boundary negotiations between the English and the French . Accordingly , in 1818 , by Anglo-American agreement , the southern boundary of Canada between Lake of the Woods and the Rocky Mountains became coincident with the 49th parallel . It was extended farther westward to the Pacific Ocean in 1846 , partly because it was convenient to do so and partly because it  | roughly bisected Columbia , an area which had legally been under joint American-British occupation since 1818 . That much of the 49th parallel is approximately a watershed and is in places marked by low hills2 does not lessen the fact that it , and the international boundary east of it to the Atlantic Ocean @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ American continent and have little effect on the underlying unity of Canada and the United States . But the one physiographic province that is almost entirely included in the Canada of to-day is the Canadian Shield . The rivers and lakes which fringe it link up with the lower Great Lakes ? St Lawrence waterways and the river systems of the northwest " in a manner that has given the northern portion of the continent a peculiar measure of east and west unity . " 3 It was along these waterways that the earliest explorers , traders , missionaries , and settlers moved . Later the transcontinental railways followed them , and , in facilitating east ? west migration , enormously strengthened the longitudinal rather than the latitudinal forces at work . To-day millions of Canadians live around the fringes of the Shield , deriving their livelihood from its rich forests and mineral resources , which are becoming even more productive as technology advances . The boundary between Russian and British territory in North America , which is to-day the boundary between Canada and Alaska , was substantially settled in 1825 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the representations of two trading companies ? the Russian-.American on the one hand , whose chief interest was in exploiting the resources of the sea , and the Hudson 's Bay on the other , which was primarily engaged in hunting the resources of the land . Therefore , the Russians were particularly anxious to retain control of the Pacific coast north of 550 N. , the southern limit mentioned in their charter of 1799 , as it included the trading settlements " which they had established . On the other hand , the British wished to retain control of the Mackenzie river area . The ultimate selection of the 141st meridian as the northern part of the boundary was probably due to the fact that it ran north from Mount St Elias , one of the few outstanding and unmistakable features in a relatively unknown land , and supplied a point of reference for the Footnote  | northern part of the boundary as well as the southern " panhandle " part . In the north , Canada 's title to the Arctic islands was obtained from Britain in 188o , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ most of the exploration in that area . The Norwegian claim to certain islands as a result of Sverdrup 's explorations of 1898-1901 , was withdrawn in favour of Canada in 1930 , and there now seems to be no doubt as to her sovereignty in the area . The claim to the sector between 141 ? W. and 6o ? W. was first made by Senator Poirier in 1907 , although it was not officially supported by a member of the Canadian Cabinet until 1925 . The Growth of the Internal Political Structure Canada 's size alone would have made a unitary state almost unworkable , quite apart from its historical development . Thus it is to-day a federation of ten provinces and two territories . The provinces are all fundamentally south of 6o ? N. , whereas the two territories extend south of 6o ? N. only in the Hudson Bay and James Bay areas , and include those water bodies and the islands within them . Each of these major internal political units varies greatly in area , shape , and In four of them ? British Columbia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Scotia ? their boundaries resulted from forces which were significant at the time of their creation in the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries , but which have long since lost that significance . British Columbia evolved from the earlier colonies of Vancouver Island , British Columbia , and Stickeen Territory . Its present extent dates from 1863 and is largely due to the discoveries of placer gold along the mountain rivers and creeks after 185o . It was thought that the gold found along the lower courses of the rivers was but debris from larger deposits along the headwaters , and the colonial boundaries were therefore established in such a way as to include as many of these headwater areas as possible . ' The three smallest maritime provinces really originated in 1763 , Footnote  | when , as a result of the Treaty of Paris , France withdrew from North America except for the islands of St Pierre and Miquelon . In order to provide for the administration of this newly acquired territory , the British extended the government of Nova Scotia over the peninsula proper , Cape Breton Island , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Prince Edward Island , which was practically deserted after the withdrawal of the French , was re-colonized by the British , but no sooner had this been accomplished than the landlords petitioned the Crown for complete political separation from the government of Nova Scotia . They stressed the inconvenience of having to refer all judicial and legal matters to Halifax , the capital of Nova Scotia . At the best of times the journey from the island to the mainland was tedious and expensive , and during the winter months it was impracticable because of the ice in Northumberland Strait . These and other reasons ultimately resulted in the separation of Prince Edward Island in 1769 . In 1784 New Brunswick was established as a separate colony . This clearly resulted from the American Revolution . During and immediately after its close thousands of people who adhered to the royal standard , now known as " United Empire Loyalists , " moved into what remained of British North America .. In Nova Scotia , these lands were mainly in the St John valley and along the north shore of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that most of the Americans went in Eastern Canada . This sudden advent of thousands of migrants , many of whom were destitute , created judicial and administrative problems with which the government in Halifax was unable to deal adequately , the more so as it was relatively inaccessible to the remoter parts of the province . Ultimately , the division was made across the fourteen-milewide Chignecto Isthmus , from Cumberland Arm to Baie Verte . Thus the existence to-day of three small provinces on the Atlantic seaboard of Canada stems essentially from the state of the transportation system of the late eighteenth century . ' Nevertheless , other factors were also involved . The decision to separate New Brunswick from peninsular Nova Scotia , for example , was in part due to the divide-andrule ' policy of the British Government . With the experience of the American Revolution fresh in their minds , they took the view that small , separate colonies would show less independence than large ones . Footnote  | Indeed , the British colonial administration had even suggested the creation of another province between New Brunswick and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ purpose ; for , being a Loyalist ' province , it acted as a buffer ' between the United States and Nova Scotia , which had during the Revolution shown signs of sympathizing with the rebels . This was , of course , hardly surprising , as on the eve of the Revolution more than half the population of Nova Scotia was American . However , the core of the new Confederation in 1867 was the Colony of Canada . This had undergone a somewhat complicated political evolution since the time of the earliest settlements along the shores of the St Lawrence , but at the close of the American Revolution it was called Quebec and extended from the Atlantic coast westward to the shores of Lakes Huron and St Clair . Most of its unsettled lands lay south-west of the Ottawa river and along the north shores of Lakes Erie and Ontario , between the lands granted in seigniory during the French regime and the small settlement of French origin near the present city of Windsor . To these lands went large numbers of United Empire Loyalists , and after @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the offer of free land . ' The French feudal system of land tenure was contrary to the ideas of these newcomers , who held their land in free and common socage . Furthermore , having become accustomed to popular government , they resented its absence in their new country . The factor of accessibility was also present . The distance from Windsor to Montreal , the colonial capital , was some six hundred miles , and no road connected them , while the journey on the Great Lakes-St Lawrence waterways was " exceedingly tedious , precarious , and during the winter season , absolutely impossible . " 8 Consequently , the movement for political separation of the New Canadians from the Old Canadians grew , and , following the Constitutional Act of 1791 , the Province of Quebec was divided into the two provinces of Upper and Lower Canada . The boundary ran northward from the St Lawrence river , following the westernmost limits of the seigniories to the Ottawa river , and thence up the river . Thus the " triangle " south of the Ottawa river and north @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Lower Canada , but this area , from the point of view of regional geography , is properly part Footnote  | of the Montreal plain , and the boundary , therefore , approximated to a physiographic division as well as being a line dividing people of different origins . The Canadians of French descent , having acquired their own government , were able to preserve their own laws and customs without conflict with the Canadians of American and British descent , who had established a different set of institutions . But the division came to an end in 184o , for a number of reasons . Among them was the fact that , as a result of the division , Upper Canada was compelled to import all seaborne articles through territory under the administration of another government , either through Lower Canada or the United States . Thus trade via the St Lawrence River was commanded by Lower Canada , and in order to collect customs revenue it was necessary for Upper Canada either to establish customs houses on her eastern boundary or to come to some arrangement whereby a certain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of entry for Lower Canada , would be given to the administration of Upper Canada . The latter course was taken , but it resulted in perpetual friction and temporary arrangements . As separate parts of a federated country , however , such difficulties would not arise , and as the factors of human geography were as valid in 1867 as they had been in 1791 , re-division occurred in 1867 along the 1191 boundary , when , by the British North America Act , the colony of Canada became the two provinces of Ontario and Quebec . Ontario and Quebec , however , differed from the other provinces which became part of Canada in 1867 , or shortly afterwards , in that their northern limits were not precisely known . This was one of the problems in internal political geography with which the Government of Canada was faced almost as soon as it was created . Its solution was complicated by the formation of a new province ( Manitoba ) in response to the demands of the people who had settled in the Canadian portion of the Red River Valley @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Woods and the present Port Arthur ? Fort William , and the controversy was not settled until 1889 . The northern limits of Quebec were not defined until 1898 . Meanwhile the former Hudson 's Bay Company territory was being peopled . The first response , from the point of view of political geography , was to divide the area into provisional districts for administrative and postal purposes . These districts underwent several modifications in response to the geographical changes which resulted from in-  | creased settlement and development , and by 1905 much of the area was deemed ready for provincial responsibilities . The Government was of the opinion that the area north of 6o ? N. and west of the District of Keewatin was " absolutely unfit for agriculture , " and that without agriculture there could be little hope of " thick and permanent settlement , " and thus of stable provincial government . They also considered that the area within these limits was too large for a single province when compared with the other members of the Confederation , and therefore it was divided into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Saskatchewan . The boundary between them followed the ' loth meridian W. and was admittedly an arbitrary one . But although at the time there was some criticism , because it divided the cattle-raising area between Calgary and Swift Current , it does not appear to have caused any permanent hardship . The real effect of the creation of Alberta and Saskatchewan was felt outside those provinces , for now three provinces extended as far north as 6o ? N. Manitoba , Ontario , and Quebec , therefore , felt justified in requesting northward extensions . The main difficulty seemed to concern Manitoba and Ontario , as both laid claim to the area between the Albany and Churchill rivers . This was ultimately divided more or less equally between the two . The boundary was intended to follow the watershed between the Hayes and Nelson rivers on the one hand , and the Severn river on the other . However , when it was discovered that this boundary did not extend in a reasonably straight line to Hudson Bay , because it was met some distance from the shore by another @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ desired division was expressed geometrically as two straight lines.9 These extensions came into force in 1912 , at the same time as Quebec was extended northward to the shores of Hudson Strait and Bay . The only remaining major boundary to be settled was that between Canada and Newfoundland . Labrador , east of Riviere St-Jean , Anticosti Island , and the Magdalen Islands first came under the jurisdiction of Newfoundland in 1763 , but they were transferred to Quebec in 1774 , as it was thought that this would be in the best interests of the Quebec fishermen . By 1809 , however , this had become inconvenient from an administrative point of view , and Labrador and Anticosti Island were returned to Newfoundland . This still led to difficulties , Footnote  | however , as the laws of Newfoundland were unfamiliar to the fishermen of French origin , so that in 1825 Anticosti Island and that part of the Labrador coast between Riviere St-Jean and Ance Sablon , now known as Blanc Sablon , became part of Quebec . The major part , however , remained under Newfoundland , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ delimited . This did not become a practical problem until 1902 , when the Government of Newfoundland granted leases for the cutting of timber in a 297-square-mile area on the north and south sides of the Hamilton river , between Lake Melville and Grand Falls , and the Government of Quebec maintained that this was an area properly under their jurisdiction . Eventually , the matter was referred to the Imperial Privy Council , who decided that the boundary was essentially the watershed of those rivers flowing into the Atlantic Ocean . In 1949 , when Newfoundland joined . Canada as a province , the terms of union guaranteed these limits to it ( Fig. 1 ) . The People of Canada The people of Canada came originally from many different parts of the world . Although most of them were European in origin , the population as a whole generally lacks homogeneity , and the fact that the Canadian Citizenship Act of 1947 conferred upon them a legal status quite apart from British citizenship has hardly lessened their tendency to describe themselves variously as English , Scottish , Polish , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Eskimos . Together they now number about 166,000-a little more than one hundredth of the- total population . Regionally , however , their significance varies . Their relative concentration in the western provinces is mainly an expression of the fact that much of the land there is unsuited to colonization by other groups , and industrialization is lacking . More Indians live in Ontario than in any of these provinces , but conditions there are much more favourable for other groups , and immigration into Ontario has therefore reduced the relative numbers of Indians . A completely reversed situation exists in the Territories , and consequently almost half the population is of Indian and Eskimo origin , although their total numbers are less than those for Quebec , where , in turn , they form less than I per cent . of the total population of the province : All the other inhabitants of Canada are relatively recent immigrants  | or their descendants . The first colonies of settlement were established in the early seventeenth century , by the French , in the lower St Lawrence valley10 and by the English @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " although proclamations of sovereignty had been made by both countries , as well as others , at much earlier dates . These colonies differed in character , for the French settlements were intended to establish a New France in North America , while the English settlements were merely intended to safeguard the property of the fishermen , and the island of Newfoundland was regarded rather as a ship moored near the fishing grounds than as a colony . However , these colonies progressed , particularly those in the St Lawrence valley , and to them were added similar settlements in the peninsula of Nova Scotia and Prince Edward Island , which were either British or French depending upon the fortunes of war and the tenacity of the original colonists . The third great wave of settlement was the northward movement of people from the United States at the close of the American Revolution . They occupied the best agricultural portions of New Brunswick and were the founders of Ontario . They simply settled near the people of French origin without the two groups assimilating or making much impression on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hudson 's Bay Company 's posts at the present Victoria and Vancouver and was also principally British in origin . The fourth influx of people into Canada occurred between 1901 and 1913 , when the Prairies were opened for development and the great transcontinental railways were being built . It was as a result of this addition to the population that Canada began to lose its more purely French-British characteristics , for although the countries of North-west Europe were still the principal sources of immigrants , the newcomers contained significant numbers from Eastern Europe and the Eastern Mediterranean . Canadians of French and British origin , who in 1901 had constituted 88 per cent . of the total population , made up but 84 per cent . ten years later ( Fig. 2 ) . There was a similar wave of migration after the second world war , when significant numbers of Germans , Italians , Poles , and Netherlanders came to Canada , in addition to those from the British Isles . These continental Europeans exceeded in number immigrants from the British Commonwealth . Footnote  | The distribution of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the impress of early colonization and subsequent waves of migration . Thus in Quebec 82 per cent . of the people are of French origin , Table while in Newfoundland almost 94 per cent . of the people are of British Isles origin . These high percentages stem directly from the origin of the earliest settlers . Increases in the population of Canadians of French descent since 1745 , and Newfoundlanders since 183o , have been primarily the result of natural increases , not immigration . The people of Nova Scotia and Prince Edward Island are more than 75 per cent . British in origin , and those of Ontario and British Columbia over 65 per cent . so ( Fig. 3 ) . In New Brunswick those of British Isles origin form 57 per cent . of the population , but in the other provinces , although Footnote // Caption people of British Isles origin constitute the largest single group , they are exceeded in numbers by all the other groups combined ? a situation which holds good for Canada as a whole . Les Quebecios In only one province @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the majority . They have overflowed into Ontario , particularly east of the Frontenac axis , where this outlier of the Canadian Shield extends across the St Lawrence into the United States and forms a relatively sparsely populated area because of its unsuitability for agriculture . The people of French origin are also to be found in considerable numbers in northern New Brunswick , where they have penetrated the valleys through the Appalachians and the coastal plains around them to join smaller concentrations in Nova Scotia , whose ancestors formed the other early French colony of Acadia . Elsewhere in Canada the people of French origin are scattered , although they form locally important minorities . Their distinct survival in Quebec is not hard to explain , for the British North America Act guarantees French as an official language , on an equality with English , in Quebec , in the proceedings of the Parliament of Canada , and in Federal Courts throughout Canada . It also guarantees to Quebec the  | right to a Roman Catholic school system under the control of the Roman Catholic population of the province . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and their branch of this Church differs in several respects from the English-speaking branch , in which the leadership is mainly provided by people of Irish origin . Les Quebecois have , therefore , developed a culture of their own , which is different in many respects from the culture of the rest of Canada , and , indeed , the rest of North America . " Comme , par instinct et par volonte , it entend se garder francais et catholique , le but de la politique pour lui , ce n'est ni la prosperite , comme pour 1'Americain , ni meme la liberte , comme pour l'Anglais , mais sa survivance ethnique . C'est sous ce seul angle qu'il envisage tout le probleme national . " 13 The political consequences of this are important , for Les Quebecois , conscious of being a national minority , tend to act as a unit in national politics and support whichever party is paying attention to their claims.14 Political Regionalism But , quite apart from the origins of the people , the great differences in area and population between the ten @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ just as the presence of major and minor powers does in the United Nations . On a population basis alone , the Provinces of Ontario and Quebec compare with independent States like Norway , Finland , and Venezuela , while the population of Prince Edward Island is barely one-quarter that of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg . Furthermore , it must be remembered that the boundaries of the larger provinces all cut across major geographical regions ( Fig. 4 ) . n Thus each of them includes a wide variety of regions and resources which , if found in an independent State , would enhance its international standing . The same result is found in the provinces , where there are tendencies to behave like quasi-independent countries , which tendencies are often accentuated by the factors of human geography , particularly in Quebec . The result is a problem in national unity ? one Footnote  | which really arises out of a failure to realize that the principles on which the provincial boundaries were based at the time of their original establishment have been almost completely invalidated by later events . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the internal Figure Caption boundaries are looked upon as though they were created by the same agencies which produced the Rocky Mountains or the St Lawrence river . From this point of view the provinces of Canada can be divided into three groups . Ontario and Quebec can be regarded as major powers ;  | British Columbia , Alberta , Saskatchewan , and Manitoba as middle powers ; and Newfoundland , Prince Edward Island , Nova Scotia , and New Brunswick , as minor powers . To offset the influences of Ontario and Quebec , the other provinces often ' group themselves sectionally along these lines , so that within Canada it is common to speak of the East or Atlantic Provinces ; Ontario ; Quebec ; and the West , or Western Provinces . Because its physical environment is in such great contrast to that of the other western provinces , British Columbia is sometimes considered separately from Alberta , Saskatchewan , and Manitoba , which are often referred to as " The Prairie Provinces " despite the fact that the prairie landscape occupies less than one fifth of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Newfoundland is often considered as a separate section , ' partly because it was outside Canada until recently , and partly because of its relative remoteness from Nova Scotia , Prince Edward Island , and New Brunswick , which are still collectively referred to as " The Maritime Provinces . "  | Table The North Canada north of the provinces is divided into Yukon Territory , and Northwest Territories . It does not enter directly into the internal political arena , because , with its widely scattered population of 25,000 , it has but two members in the Federal Parliament of 265 . In an indirect way , however , the Territories have representation in the Canadian Cabinet , just as the provinces do , as their administration is the responsibility of the Minister of Northern Affairs and National Resources , who is not , at the moment , one of the elected members from the Territories . But the significance of " Territorial " Canada in national life goes beyond these facts . Its importance lies as much in its " mystic appeal " 17 as in its economic value @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ value , but no Canadian would ever disown it . To-day , increasing wealth is being obtained from the Territories in the form of furs Wi and Footnote  | minerals , and there are indications of continued developments of this kind even in the Queen Elizabeth Islands , which are in the far northern sector to which the Prime Minister of Canada as recently as 1953 reiterated his country 's claim and determination to develop . This attitude stems from the acquisition of the Hudson 's Bay Company 's territories , when , as Sir John A. Macdonald , Canada 's first Prime Minister , said , the Government had one great country before them to do with as they liked . The challenge to " go north " remains as fresh as ever . By no means the least of the increasingly important aspects of northern Canada has resulted from developments in aviation . The fact that the most direct air route between America and Europe and America and Asia lies over the area is an indication of the location of the possible future air routes . Canadian Pacific Air @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from Vancouver to Amsterdam via Churchill ( Manitoba ) and Sondrestom ( Greenland ) . In the meantime , the need for further meteorological information from all parts of the world has led to the establishment of five weather stations in the Queen Elizabeth Islands , three of which are almost on the shores of the Arctic Sea itself . Footnote  | Canada : Economic Aspect G. TATHAM CANADA is the second largest country in the world . Its area , about 3 million square miles , equals that of Europe , yet there are only fifteen million inhabitants , and virtually all of these are found in scattered groups along the southern border . Less than half a million square miles are effectively settled ; the rest of the country is an uninhabited wilderness of coniferous forest and tundra . Empty space is the dominant feature of Canadian geography . Nevertheless , this young , almost empty country ranks as a Middle Power , and is exerting increasing influence in international affairs . Such apparently disproportionate influence is rooted in two geographical factors ? space relations and economic resources . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ transformed Canada from a northern outpost of civilization to a nerve centre of the world . To the south , sharing a common frontier 3000 miles long , is the United States , the strongest single Power in the world . Across the Arctic , barely 2500 miles from the Canadian coast , is the second strongest ? the U.S.S.R. All the shortest air routes between these opponents either cross Canadian territory or skirt Canadian shores , and , though mutual suspicion and Soviet isolationism have retarded their development , their ultimate importance can not be doubted ; indeed , the control of these routes may be decisive in any future war . Across the Atlantic , Canada faces the old and still important industrial Powers of Europe ; to the west , across the Pacific , China and Japan , two of the three major Powers of Asia . In a shrinking world the centrality of Canada 's position , surrounded by most of the powerful nations , ensures her an abiding , if uncomfortable , importance . On a world scale it recalls the position of the Low Countries @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ too may not have thrust upon her the role of an international cockpit.  | Quite apart from its space relations , Canada derives importance from its natural resources . Large areas of agricultural land producing a great surplus of food , mineral deposits so vast as to seem unlimited , extensive forests and abundant water-power , all combine to give Canada great productive capacity and one of the highest material standards of living in the world . In 1952 annual production was 1600 dollars per capita ( U.S. , 2200 dollars ) and per capita income 1230 dollars ( U.S. , 1785 dollars ) . As world population grows and pressure on resources increases , the development and use of Canadian resources will be of deepening concern to her neighbours . Already foreign investment in Canada is greater than in any other self-governing country . Non-residents own 40 per cent . of the manufacturing industry , 45 per cent . of mining and smelting , 42 per cent . of the railroads , and 50 per cent . of the oil industry , a matter of great significance in the political @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ maintain the interest of foreign nations in Canada . Physical geography , on the other hand , causes Canada to have a reciprocal interest in foreign areas . Most of Canada is covered by Taiga and Tundra , and the more favoured sections lie wholly within the cool temperate belt . There is relatively little climatic variety , and this , by limiting the list of agricultural products , makes it impossible for Canada to attain any degree of economic autonomy comparable with that of the United States . Canada is , and always will be , more dependent on foreign supplies than its neighbour . In 1952 , when , for example , Canada exported 24 per cent . of her national output and spent 24 per cent . of her national outlay on imported foods and services , the corresponding figures for the United States were only 5 per cent . and 4 per cent . respectively . This dependence on foreign areas is not new . It began with the first settlers and has persisted ever since . At every stage Canadian development has been shaped more by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ industrial nations , than by internal forces . The basic importance of agriculture , forestry , and mining in Canadian life bears witness to this . These three primary industries owe their expansion to the persistent stimulus of foreign demand . Under this stimulus they have come to be the very foundation of Canadian economy and to exert considerable influence on her external relations .  | Material Resources and their Uses Only 16 per cent . of the total area of Canada is suited to agriculture . Less than half of this , only 174 million acres ( 7 per cent . of the total area of Canada ) , is cultivated . Nevertheless ; in 1952 farm income amounted to 2750 million dollars and agriculture provided 20 per cent . of the net value of production . All the cultivated land lies south of 550 N. latitude . East of the Great Lakes and in British Columbia farming is diversified and concerned primarily with animal and dairy produce . Local areas ( Niagara Peninsula , the Annapolis and Okanagan valleys ) produce special crops ? fruits , vegetables , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and very little moves to outside markets . Farming in the Prairies is quite different . There , in a grassland environment , on pedocal soils , are large 300- to 400-acre farms , highly mechanized and devoted to the monoculture of cereals . It is an American type of farming , but is closely tied to world markets . Annual production of wheat varies between 300 and 500 million bushels , of which 120 to 240 million bushels are exported . Until 1929 Prairie wheat made up about 30 per cent . by value of all Canadian exports , and in some years Canada supplied over 40 per cent . of international requirements ( 48.6 per cent . in 1925 ? 26 ) . Since then , though the volume has increased , its relative importance has declined . To-day wheat and wheat flour together make up only 15 to 20 per cent . of all exports . Prairie grain production is particularly sensitive to world conditions . The depression of the thirties , backed by natural disasters ( pests , disease , droughts , frost ) , cut @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ annual income in the Prairie Provinces between 1930 and 1938 was only half what it had been in the years 1926 ? 29 , and emigration reduced their population by 250,000 . War restored prosperity , but then the demand was for animal products as well as wheat . Under this stimulus the cultivated area expanded . Production was diversified , livestock increased everywhere , and the proportion of Prairie farmers ' cash income provided by wheat fell from 63 per cent . ( 1935 ? 39 average ) to 30 per cent . ( 1942 ) . Receipts from livestock were multiplied four and a half times . In Alberta cash from the sale of hogs actually exceeded cash from wheat in the year 1942 ? 43 . With the end of hostilities , as markets returned to something  | resembling pre-war conditions , the Prairies immediately turned from livestock and began to concentrate once more on wheat . Many experts considered this unwise and campaigned for a continuance of mixed farming , but in vain ; since 1945 the numbers of hogs and milk cattle have dropped by half @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fluctuations in world demand that the whole outlook of the farmers is dominated by their search for stability . This makes them willing to accept , even welcome , a considerable measure of State control and direction , and their political attitude is closer to that of the Australian and New Zealander than to that of their neighbours in Eastern Car ada and the United States . At the level of provincial government it has led to the support of parties with programmes of social security and a willingness to throw the whole weight of government support behind the farmer in a depression . It was on such a programme that the Social Credit Government swept into office in Alberta ( 1936 ) and the Socialist ( C.C.F.1 ) Government in Saskatchewan ( 1946 ) . Relations between the Prairie Provinces and the Federal Government are also determined by the willingness of the latter to maintain wheat prices and defend and expand wheat markets by international agreement . Forestry ranks second to agriculture in value of production . From the great forests that still cover one third of the country comes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ annual production and about 20 per cent . of the total exports . These forests extend from the Atlantic to the Pacific in a broad girdle around the open Prairies . Of the total 8o per cent . is in the boreal forest of the north , part of the circumpolar Taiga belt , which crosses Canada from the Rockies to Labrador and extends south from the northern limit of tree growth to the Great Lakes . Conifers predominate ( spruce , balsam , jackpine ) , with a sprinkling of aspen and birch . lo per cent . is mixed deciduous and coniferous woodland characterized by a great variety of species in the milder and more humid south-east ( Southern Ontario to the Maritimes ) . The remaining 10 per cent . is in the western mountains and varies greatly in type . The richest and most accessible is the coastal forest in the area of heavy winter rains . Western hemlock and western red cedar , with Douglas fir in the south and Sitka spruce in the north , are typical . Almost half ( 590,000 square miles ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ non-productive ? i.e. , not capable of producing a crop of Footnote  | marketable timber . The remaining 700,000 square miles form 19 per cent . of the total productive forest of the world . But , of this , much is inaccessible at present , and important only as a future reserve . Lumbering , consequently , is confined to about half a million square miles . Between two and a half and three million cubic feet of timber are produced each year . Of this two-thirds comes from Ontario and Quebec , and the Maritimes , just less than one quarter from British Columbia , and the rest from Newfoundland and the Prairies . Although Canadian forests seem inexhaustible , the rate of cutting ( 3000 million cubic feet in the last decade ) is beginning to cause concern , and most of the provinces are initiating conservation programmes . The fact that during the last ten years one fifth of the annual depletion has been due to forest fires , pests , and disease indicates that such programmes are long overdue . Minerals stand third among the basic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . of the net value of production , and provides one-third of the freight carried by Canadian railways and about one quarter of the total exports . Industries based on minerals produce 39 per cent . of the gross value of manufactures . The minerals are as varied as they are abundant . Sixty-six different ones are listed . They occur in every part of the country , though , as one would expect , the bulk are in the Pre-Cambrian Shield . From these old rocks come nickel , copper , silver , gold , iron , cobalt , platinum , and uranium ; the Appalachian region supplies coal and asbestos ; the younger undisturbed rocks of the Prairies oil , coal , and lignite ; and the Cordillera metals and coal . Annual production has an average value of 1250 million dollars . Canada leads in world production of nickel ( about 90 per cent . of the world 's supply ) , asbestos ( 7o per cent. ) , and platinum . She is second in aluminium ( from imported ore ) , gold , zinc , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fourth in lead , copper , and cobalt . Large as the present known reserves are , they are probably only part of the total . Many new deposits have come to light during the past few years2 and there are still large areas unexplored . How significant the new discoveries may be can be illustrated by the reference to iron ore . Twenty years ago it was generally agreed that Canadian industrial development would always be handicapped by her lack of iron . At that Footnote  | time the known reserves were insignificant and production nil . Then ore was found at Steep Rock , 135 miles west of Lake Superior , with a reserve now estimated to be between 500 and loon million tons . Production , started in 1939 , has already reached a yearly total of one and a half million tons , but this , it is believed , will eventually reach ten million . Minor ore bodies were next discovered in Southern Ontario near Renfrew and near Peterborough . Half a million tons are expected to be raised from'the Peterborough deposit in 1954 . Attention @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1893 iron-ore deposits were known to exist in a zone extending for 350 miles from Lake Ashuanipi ( 53 ? N. 66 ? W. ) to Hudson Strait , but they were too inaccessible to be mined . With the second world war interest revived . A company was formed to explore the area more carefully . Almost immediately a reserve of 500 million tons of high-grade hxmatite was located near Knob Lake on the Quebec-Labrador boundary . All this lies in only fifty square miles of the total iron ore region , and as each year new deposits are located , estimates of an ultimate reserve of loon million tons are being confidently made and do not seem unreasonable . Development , costing 200 million dollars , is proceeding at a rapid rate . A 36o-mile railway , completed in January 1954 , links Knob Lake with Sept Iles on the St Lawrence , where loading docks are being constructed . Hydro-electric stations on the Menihek and Ste Marguerite rivers , with capacities of 12,000 and 17,000 h.p. respectively , were finished in 1954 , when the first ore was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a year is planned . This will be expanded to twenty million . In 1939 Canada 's iron reserves were estimated at about 250 million tons . No ore had been mined for seventeen years . Newfoundland , not then part of Canada , was producing between one and two million tons a year from the Wabana mines , where reserves were believed to be , 3500 million tons . To-day annual production is close to five million tons , 2 per cent . of the world 's total . Canada , now including Newfoundland , ranks eighth among world producers . Within the foreseeable future annual production will most likely exceed thirty million tons , which is equivalent to present Soviet production . The whole of Canada 's industrial prospects has been changed . And there are political implications , too . Canadian resources have expanded just when the Mesabi deposits are approaching exhaustion . American iron and steel manufacturers , looking for new sources of supply , are  | showing keen interest in Labrador . The Hanna Company , of Cleveland , has already acquired a minority interest in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will soon need Labrador ore has swung many Middle Western voters to the support of the St Lawrence Seaway.3 Figure Canada 's reserve of coal is roughly 1,400,000 million tons , seven times that of Great Britain and just a little below that of the U.S.S.R. Most of it is in western Alberta and is of inferior quality , sub-bituminous Footnote  | and lignite , though nearer the Rockies and extending into British Columbia good bituminous and anthracite occur . Other deposits are in Nova Scotia ( Sydney ) and Vancouver Island . Annual production varies around twenty million tons , Alberta producing 41 per cent. , Nova Scotia 34 per cent. , and British Columbia lo per cent . This total , however , is only 40 per cent . of the annual consumption ( average forty-five million tons ) . The other 6o per cent . is imported , 99 per cent . coming from eastern United States . This is the inevitable result of the excentric distribution of the Canadian deposits . The main market for coal is in the industrialized and densely settled southern section of Ontario @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Nova Scotia , but only 250 from Pennsylvania and West Virginia . Ontario finds it cheaper to import American coal than to pay freight charges from Alberta , particularly since western coal moving eastward has to compete with wheat and iron ore for transport . Pennsylvanian coal , on the other hand , favoured by cheap rates in the returning empty ships and freight cars , can compete successfully with Alberta coal as far west as Winnipeg . Furthermore , Alberta coal does not ship well ; it breaks easily and crumbles if exposed to the weather . Altogether , it seems that Alberta production will not expand rapidly and Canada must continue to rely on the U.S.A. The outlook for Canadian oil is distinctly brighter . Just east of the Alberta coalfield a great sedimentary basin extends from the U.S. boundary for 1800 miles to the north between the Rockies and the Shield . Oil associated with Devonian limestone has been found in the southern section , but the structure makes it probable that the whole basin is a single oilfield comparable with the Mid-Continental Field of the United States @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ present boom began with the discovery of oil at Leduc ( 1947 ) and Redwater ( 1948 ) . Before this discovery Canada was producing ( 1946 ) only 20,000 barrels a day and had a meagre seventy-two million barrels reserve . By 1948 daily production had reached 34,000 barrels and reserves Soo million barrels ( cf. U.S. reserves , 27,000 million ; U.S.S.R. , 40,000 half of Canadian requirements , potential output was 300,000 barrels , and estimated reserves 1679 million barrels . Prospecting is proceeding in both Alberta and Saskatchewan with considerable success . Estimates of Canada 's potential reserve vary between 5000 million and 50,000 million barrels ( cf. U.S. reserves , 300,000 million ; U.S.S.R. , 90,000 million ) .  | To supplement this , there is a further reserve of zoo to 300 million barrels in the Athabaska tar sands . These lie in a broad belt thirty to fifty miles east and west of the river Athabaska below Fort McMurray , about 300 miles north-east of Edmonton . No transport problem hampers the use of oil . A thirty-inch pipe-line from Edmonton to Lake Superior @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1950 . Its recent extension to Sarnia , at the southern end of Lake Huron , has eliminated the lake haul by tanker . This interprovincial pipe-line will deliver ioo , 000 barrels a day to the Sarnia refineries . Another line carries refined oil to Toronto . Vancouver is also linked to Edmonton by a pipe-line with a daily capacity of 120,000 barrels , soon to be raised to 200,000 barrels . A branch from this line will cross the border to the new refineries at Bellingham in Washington . By 196o Canadian production will be sufficient to meet all her requirements . Lastly in this survey of resources , there is the vast supply of waterpower . Most of this is conveniently located near the main centres of population . In the west and east precipitation is heavy , reliable , and equally distributed throughout the year , and the terrain furnishes many admirable power sites . There are three main groups of sites : ( 1 ) along the numerous rivers re-developing on the glaciated surface of the Shield , ( 2 ) where the Appalachians fall precipitously @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ St Lawrence at Niagara and farther east where the river cuts through the Kingston axis , a neck of Pre-Cambrian shield rocks which links the Shield with the Adirondacks . British Columbia has many fine sites on the steep , well-watered slopes of the Coastal Mountains . In potential power Canada ranks fourth among the nations ( after U.S.A. , India , and U.S.S.R. ) , but in installed capacity ( 13.3 million h.p. ) is surpassed only by the United States . 8o per cent . of present capacity is in Ontario and Quebec , and 10 per cent . in British Columbia . Many projects destined to expand production are under way . Ontario will gain an additional 4 million h.p. when the new Niagara plant is completed and another one million h.p. from sites built in connexion with the St Lawrence Seaway . For a young country , apparently so fitted by its abundance of food and raw materials for a colonial type of economy , the rapid rise of Canadian manufacturing during the last fifty years is remarkable . It seems even more so when the obstacles @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is small and widely dispersed . Natural  | resources are also scattered , so that costs of assembling raw materials and distributing finished goods are high . Close by is a great industrial Power , whose well-protected home market , ten times as great as that of Canada , enables her to exploit mass-production methods more successfully , and whose desire to penetrate the Canadian market is matched by her ability to do so . Contact with the United States affects wage rates . Canadian unions are affiliated with American , and though wages in the two countries are not equal , rates in Canada tend to approach the United States level , and to be far higher than those of Europe . This weakens Canada in competitive export markets . Nevertheless , despite these handicaps , industries have developed behind a high tariff wall . To-day they produce 14,000 million dollars a year , 53 per cent . of the total national income . Their development too has been shaped by external influences . Three main periods of rapid growth can be recognized . Firstly , during the first world @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the refining of nonferrous metals and to the expansion of the steel industry . Secondly , in the boom years of the late twenties . This was due to heavy investments of American capital in the manufacture of pulp and paper , motor-cars , chemicals , and non-metallic minerals.4 Thirdly , during the second world war , Canada then , as a major arsenal for the west , expanded her equipment for producing tools , precision instruments , chemicals , synthetic rubber , aluminium , aircraft , electrical . apparatus , and ships . To-day industries may be divided into three groups : z . Those based on Canadian raw material and cheap power ? pulp and paper , saw-mills , smelting and refining of non-ferrous metals , iron and steel , canning and processing of foodstuffs . 2 . Offshoots of American firms producing in Canada to avoid Canadian tariff payments . The automobile industry is the main one . The plants are concentrated in south-western Ontario close to their parent industries , at Windsor ( Ford , Chrysler ) , Hamilton ( Studebaker ) , Oshawa ( General Motors @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Kaiser-Frazer ) . 3 . Consumer industries that under tariff protection have sprung up to supply the home market . Textiles ( Eastern Townships , Montreal , and the Grand River Valley ) are the chief . In contrast to the first two , foreign capital is not important in this third group . Four-fifths of all Canadian manufacturing is in the triangular low-Footnote  | land between the Great Lakes , the St Lawrence , and the southern edge of the Shield . Ontario ( 49 per cent . of the total ) has almost all the motor-cars , machine tools , agricultural machinery , heavy electrical machinery ; Quebec ( 30 per cent. ) has tobacco , textiles , clothing , paper . Four cities ? Toronto , Windsor , Hamilton , and Montreal ? produce half of the Ontario and Quebec total . British Columbia ( 8 per cent. ) has saw-mill products , pulp and paper , fish-processing , meat-packing , and raw-metal refining . The heavy concentration of industry in central Canada creates there a social and political outlook very different from that of the Prairies . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ midnineteenth century divided industrial New England , primarily interested in the home market , from the agricultural South , producing a cash crop for export . To reconcile these regional points of view is a perennial task of Canadian statesmanship . Canada in International Trade Canada is one of the leading trading nations of the world . In 1951 her total trade had a value of 8250 million dollars . This placed her fourth among the countries outside of the iron curtain , after U.S.A. ( 27,500 million ) , U.K. ( 18,5o0 million ) , France ( 8600 million dollars ) , all of which she surpassed in the amount of trade per capita ( Canada 588 dollars ; U.S. 175 dollars ; U.K. 366 dollars ; France 206 dollars ) . The nature of this trade is simple . Canada exports a relatively few raw or processed natural products ( newsprint , wheat , wheat flour , woodpulp , lumber , base metals ) and imports a large variety of manufactured goods ( machinery , iron and steel goods , textiles , electrical apparatus , etc . ) . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The two most important have been the economic demands of Western Europe and competition with the United States . At first the demands of Europe were paramount . Fishing on the Grand Banks supplied salted cod for the Paris market , then sun-dried cod for the Roman Catholic populations of the Mediterranean and Caribbean . Later , as the French pushed west along the St Lawrence and Great Lakes and the British opened up the river routes from Hudson Bay , furs began to supplement fish . In the early nineteenth century : white and red pine , potash , and , after 184o , wheat from the St Lawrence  | and Southern Ontario were exported along with furs from the Prairie and fish from the coast . Then , in the nineties , Prairie wheat began to move o.ut in increasing quantities until it became the major export . All this development proceeded on an east ? west political axis , following the minor geographical features , but cutting across the dominant north ? south grain of the country which makes political and economic links with the U.S. more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ great waterway facilitated the latitudinal movement of goods , but west of Lake Superior communications had to be provided . Political as well as economic necessities caused trunk railways to be pushed through to the Pacific as quickly as possible . To keep within Canadian territory these lines had to cross a great section of the Shield and the rugged western mountains , areas which at first produced little revenue . Private enterprise could not cope with such expensive undertakings , and government support had to be given . Any hope of compensation for such an outlay through the development of Montreal as the chief outlet for the continent was frustrated when the Erie Canal provided an all-water route to the superior harbour of New York ( 1825 ) , which , in addition to being deeper , was never blocked by ice . New York 's supremacy was confirmed after 1866 by the tariff policy of the victorious North . The tariff wall tied Canada more securely.to the economy of Western Europe , and the eastward movement of wheat was now balanced by the westward movement of manufactures . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Their demand for gold , base metals , pulp , and paper fostered a more diversified economy , especially in Ontario , Quebec , and British Columbia , and caused a certain re-orientation of trade . Goods now moved from north to south across the established current of trade , and though this new trend did not change the nature of Canadian trade , it had important political results . At home it complicated provincialfederal relations by encouraging provincial independence . In foreign relations the economic link with the United States gave Canada a counterpoise to the politico-economic link with Britain , enabling her to adopt a more independent attitude than would otherwise have been possible . At the same time trade with Britain , the Commonwealth , and Europe preserved Canada from American domination . The United States and Britain still dominate Canadian trade relations . In the inter-war years ( 1918 ? 39 ) Canadian trade reached an unprece-  | dented aggregate total of 38,000 million dollars . Of this , half was with the U.S. ; io , 000 million dollars , or 27 per cent. , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been unbalanced . Of the total 19,000 million dollars , 11,500 million dollars were imports from the U.S. and 7500 million dollars exports . Proximity and the nature of her production make the United States the natural source for Canadian imports . The list of these is long and varied . Many are basic to Canadian manufacturing ? sources of energy ( coal , oil ) , raw materials ( cotton , iron ore , hides , steel , chemicals ) capital goods ( mining equpiment , tanks , boilers , electrical goods ) . Consumer goods , foods ( citrus and other fruits , vegetables ) , domestic machinery ( refrigerators , washing machines , etc. ) , cars , and textiles are also imported , and have a strong competitive position in the Canadian market , owing to the popularity of American papers and journals in which they are advertised . But though supplying two-thirds of the imports , the United States took only one-third ( 35 per cent. ) of Canadian exports . These were mostly raw materials and partly processed goods : in 1939 , wood and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ per cent . Very few Canadian manufactures entered the United States . Canada consequently had a deficit in her trade with the U.S. , and had to find a market outside the States for 65 per cent . of her products . Of this 65 per cent . going overseas , 37 per cent . went to Britain ( food , 17 per cent. , lumber , and non-ferrous metals ) 10 per cent . to the rest of the Commonwealth , 9 per cent . to Europe ( food and metals ) , and 3.2 per cent . to Asia ( lumber ) . From 1932 onward the credit balance in Canada 's trade account with these overseas countries more than covered the deficit with the United States , and the practice of earning dollars in Europe to pay the United States was known as the Atlantic Triangle . This term , however , suggests greater simplicity than actually existed . Europe earned American dollars to pay Canada , not by trade with the United States , but by exporting to countries of south-east Asia which had an annual credit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stability consequently rested on a freely moving , multilateral trade . The war wrecked all this . When hostilities ended , the former European customers of Canada , exhausted and burdened with debts , were forced to cut imports . At the same time , imports from the States to Canada shot up as American industry turned to peacetime produc-Footnote  | tion and Canadian savings were spent on consumer goods.6 Canada was compelled to seek a new economic basis . There were two possibilities : 1 . Canada could reorient her trade to the United States . It was , however , difficult to see how the latter could absorb all Canadian exports , particularly wheat and livestock products . Politically , too , reorientation would mean that , as an economic satellite of the United States , Canadian independence would be jeopardized. 2 . Canada could help her former customers to rebuild their economies to the point where the pre-war trade pattern could be restored . In favour of this policy was a strong humanitarian desire to help those hurt by the war , as well as the realization that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ second policy which Canada adopted . Trade credits exceeding 1500 million dollars were extended to Europe , the bulk ( z000 million dollars ) going to Britain . The outcome is still uncertain . European nations , in their reconstruction , are making themselves somewhat more independent economically , even at the cost of a lower standard of living , and this will restrict the market for Canadian goods . At present they can still buy from Canada because of American loans to , and expenditure in , Europe , but it is impossible to foresee what will happen when American financial assistance ceases . Canada seems destined , therefore , to a closer economic dependence on the United States . Already American investment in Canada has increased from 4500 million dollars in 1932 to 6500 million dollars in 1950 . Indeed , only by this heavy import of capital ( 1500 million dollars in 1950 and 1951 ) has the large post-war trade deficit been covered . British investment in Canada in the same period dropped from 2700 million dollars ( 1933 ) to 1700 million dollars ( 1950 ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by reducing the trade deficit . Alberta oil and Labrador iron will help to do this , particularly after the St Lawrence Seaway is cut and ore moves cheaply into the Pittsburgh area . But , in addition , Canada must diversify her industries . A start was made during the war , and this diversification must be continued . It will not be easy . The small and dispersed home market is one handicap , but the greatest is the height and complexity of the United States tariff which so successfully keeps out Canadian goods . Canada can do little about this , though she might manage to make Americans buy processed Footnote  | instead of raw materials , just as she has already got them to take newsprint instead of wood-pulp . These are all as much political as economic problems . American imports originate largely in the Shield , those to Europe and Britain in the Prairies , those to the Commonwealth countries in the industrial areas of Central Canada . So any reorientation of trade will affect not only the prosperity of one or other region , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The more the solution of these problems is sought at the international level , the more it will require federal action , and thereby strengthen the federal at the expense of the provincial governments . Canada 's Empty Space and her Population Capacity There remains to be considered the influence of empty space in Canadian life . The disparity between the size of Canada and its population has already been mentioned . The average density is 31 people per square mile , fifth lowest in the world . In sharp contrast are conditions , in overcrowded countries facing Canada across the Pacific and Atlantic . World population is increasing at a rate that will double it in seventy years . Two-thirds of the present 2600 million are already living in a state of acute hunger as indicated by identifiable nutritional disease . Whether there are too many people on the earth to-day or not , there is no question that they are badly distributed . Any remedial action will require a high degree of international co-operation , and Canada will inevitably be involved . It is surprising how conservative Canadians are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , with a territory twice the size of Canada , but lying in roughly the same latitudes and with comparable resources , has 215 million and is doing everything possible to increase this to 38o million . Some Canadians , on the other hand , believe their country , with only fifteen million , is already uncomfortably full . Griffith Taylor , having endured much criticism from Australians for telling them their country could not support more than thirty million , received almost as much abuse from Canadians for assuring them their population could reach loo million . Australians , of course , living in an isolated outpost of white settlement facing the teeming lands of Asia , need a large population for defence . Canadians know America will have to defend them for the sake of her own security .  | Most geographers are more cautious than Taylor. ? After all , one million square miles of Canadian territory lie north of the tree line , where coasts are ice-bound nine to eleven months every year and no summer month has an average temperature above 50 ? F. Canadian known @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at the rate planned they will be used up in a century . Modern estimates put the potential arable area at about 132 million acres , of which only zoo million could be cultivated every year . This would provide food for forty to fifty million people eating much as we do to-day . Such considerations make a figure of forty to fifty million more acceptable as the optimum population with present techniques of production . Although this seems to err on the side of caution , it nevertheless means that there can be a threefold increase of population in the next fifty years without any threat to the standard of living . The present natural rate of increase is high ? 17.1 per cent . for the decade 1941 ? 51 ( 1.82 and 1.88 in 1951 and 19528 ) ? but even this will not raise the population to forty-five million by the end of the century . Immigration is therefore possible and perhaps desirable . It has long been the policy of the Federal Government to encourage immigration , and five million immigrants have entered since 1900 . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 700,000 entered in the last seven years . Immigration necessarily imposes the problem of selection . Preference so far has been given to those who would appear to fit most easily into Canadian life , rather than to men and women from the areas of greatest overcrowding . Citizens of Great Britain , France , and the United States are thus given priority . All other would-be immigrants must satisfy the authorities that they are suitable . Asiatics , other than wives and children ( under eighteen ) of Canadian citizens , were excluded till 1951 . Then restrictions were relaxed to allow 150 citizens from India , loo from Pakistan , and fifty from Ceylon to enter each year . The result of this policy has been that in the decade 1941 ? 51 , 39 per cent . of all immigrants were from the British Isles , 59 per cent . from continental Europe , and only 1.3 per cent . from Asia . Such discrimination is defended by the authorities as being in the interest of national unity . Inter-cultural friction already exists between Footnote  | the English @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tendency for immigrant groups to form exclusive national associations , which add further complications , especially since these groups tend to perpetuate the political animosities of their homeland . Canada has not succeeded in developing a sense of Canadianism as strong as Americanism in the United States . Provincial loyalties and cultural separatism are everywhere strong . Moreover , education is a provincial concern and one most jealously guarded , so the Federal Government , in charge of immigration , has to rely on the provinces to provide educational programmes that will help immigrants to become assimilated . Much , it is true , has been done in this regard , but almost nothing has been done to curb prejudice against newcomers among those Canadians who have forgotten that they too are of immigrant stock . Alberta , in fact , has a government openly anti-semitic and actively hostile to inter-cultural education . The same tangle of governmental authority has also delayed the preparation of an adequate housing scheme . To-day over 7o0,000 homes are needed , and though 90,000 are being built each year , the annual natural increase in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and high rents do much to create prejudice against newcomers . Empty space is thus a geographical factor affecting politics at every level . In external affairs there is the possibility of protests from the crowded nations of Asia against discriminatory practices which flout the basic principles of the United Nations ; 9 at home there is the possibility of federal , provincial , and even municipal friction . Footnote  | The Soviet Union : its Geographical Setting and Historical Background W. GORDON EAST ITTLE more than a generation has elapsed since the Soviet Union first appeared as heir to the Russian Empire , yet in its vigorous and articulate youth , as a protagonist in world affairs , it compels widespread attention . Its ideology and its foreign policy supply a continual leaven to international politics , while its geographical position , its numbers , its economic and military strength , and its tenacity in diplomacy entitle it to the high place it now occupies in the hierarchy of states . The U.S.S.R. is the old Russia writ large ? in territorial extent as in politico-economic potential . The federal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ consists is dominated , as was Russia , by the Great Russian nation , and the area which this Union controls directly is that vast Euro-Asian territory which was settled , conquered , developed , and administered by Russian peoples during centuries of rule by the tsars . In the four succeeding chapters discussion turns on the internal political structure of the Soviet Union , its demographic and economic progress , its frontiers and frontier problems , and its place in contemporary world politics . A brief review of the history of the Russian land and the Russian peoples should help in the understanding of the Soviet Union and the problems which it begets . For , as the Soviet geographer Mikhaylov wrote , ' " the lines on the map are the handwriting of history " ? and not merely Soviet history , as he would have us believe . Nor can the words of Vidal de la Blache2 be disputed : " the history of a people can not be separated from the country which it inhabits . " Footnote  | The Great Russian Plain A major physical unit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to dominate it , the Great Russian Plain was the stage on which Russian history began as it remains to-day the most important , though only a fourth part , of the Soviet Union . Covering some two million square miles , this plain occupies more than half of Europe and its broadest , eastern area . Inland waters ? the Baltic Gulf of Finland , Lakes Ladoga and Onega , and the White and Barents Seas ? delimit it to the north ; the Azov , Black , and Caspian Seas to the south . Eastward it is bounded by the Ural Mountains , worn remnants of Paleozoic folds , which appear more striking features on the map than on the ground and command approaches to the broad and lower plain of Western Siberia . In the south-east the Great Russian Plain ends at the foothills of the Caucasus Mountains , which recall ? if not in their scale , at least in their altitude , land forms , and scenery ? mountain systems of like age , such as the Rockies and the Alps . Westward , except where @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Plain lies open to , as it forms part of , the North European Lowland . It is in the west , therefore , that the plain is inevitably joined to the rest of Europe , from which it long stood aloof , and to which it did not appear wholly to belong . Only the broad expanse of the Pripet marshes , which are believed to have been the original homeland of the Slays , inject an obstacle ( except when frozen over in winter ) between this plain and Peninsular Europe beyond . By European standards the Great Russian Plain is an outsize unit : in places over 1500 miles broad and over 2000 long from north to south . Indeed , it accords in scale and uniformity with component parts of Asia , as it accords too with Asia in the continentality of its climate . From the days of ancient Greece onward into the Middle Ages the limit of Europe in the east bisected the southern part of the plain along the line of the Azov Sea and the river Don . How far Russia , in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Europe , part of Asia , or a world apart , has always been , and remains , a theme for discussion . For if this plain appears physically an integral part of Europe , it is linked closely too with Asia . The wide Caspian Gate between the southern end of the Urals and the northern shore of the Caspian Sea joins the steppes of Siberia and Central Asia with those of South Russia , while narrow and difficult routes flanking  | the Caucasus Mountains link Russia with the highlands of South-west Asia , the chief part of what is now called the Middle East . The Great Russian Plain is by no means uniform either in its relief and soils or in its climate and vegetation cover . Deposits of glacial clays and sands in its northern half and thick deposits of interglacial loess in the southern , mantled in part by rich black-earth soils , introduce one important differential , while Paleozoic rocks of the underlying Russian Platform emerge at the surface in a few areas ? as in Kola in the far north and in South-west Russia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Climate ? with its winter severity and its limitation of the growing period for plants , most reduced in the northeast . and longest in the south-west ? has reacted on vegetation to produce the most fundamental division of the Great Russian Plain between a southern part formerly covered by steppe grasses , with few trees except in the valleys , and a larger part in Central and North Russia made up of either mixed or wholly coniferous forests , interspersed with marshes . Forest , grass steppe , and between them the transition zone of wooded steppe thus provided sharply contrasted habitats , each adapted historically to its own forms of society and economy , yet linked together potentially by a remarkably well-developed system of navigable rivers . These rivers , too , permitted transport between the interior lands and the neighbouring seas , as also between northern and southern ports . While to the south of Moscow the area of transition between the mixed forests and the wooded steppe marked a recognizable and significant geographical frontier , and while the inland seas set ultimately attainable limits to territorial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ regional compartments , congenial to national and political growth , which abounded in Peninsular Europe . Thus few physical limits were offered to Russia as it developed , and , as to-day , expansion and defence were inextricably bound . The Origins of Kievan Russia While archeologists by their studies of the kurgans ( burial mounds ) of South Russia have revealed a long prehistory of settled and civilized life , based on arable and pastoral husbandry , in the South Russian steppe , it is only with the immigration and settlement of the Eastern Slays , largely within the zone of mixed forests , that Russian history begins ,  |  and the Principality of Kiev , created in the mid-ninth century , was the first Russian State . The Slays , who make up to-day one of the distinct language groups of Europe , first appear in the lower Danube region of the Roman Empire , whence some of them , defeated in battle by the Emperor Trajan early in the second century A.D. , moved off northeastward . In the sixth century the Slays , then known as the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dwelling not in towns but in forests and marshlands in the Carpathian Mountains , the Galician plateau , along the Vistula river , and eastward to the Dniester . The attacks of Slavonic tribes on the East Roman ( Byzantine ) Empire up to c . A.D. 650 testify to their military organization , and some of them appear soon after to have begun their eastward migration from the Carpathian region to the Dnieper . By the ninth century these so-called ' Eastern ' Slays had widely colonized the western half of the Great Russian Plain by setting up scattered , fortified homesteads along the rivers within an extensive area of mixed forests , wooded steppe , and swamps , in parts of which some Finnish and Germanic peoples had earlier penetrated . The economy of the Slays reflected the nature of their habitat and their own cultural limitations : there was at first little agriculture , but the trapping of animals for their furs and hides and the collection of wax and honey produced goods for trading . Already before c . A.D. 850 trading centres for the collection and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Dnieper and its tributaries , which clearly furnished the principal means of communication and transport . As early as the eighth century , it would seem , the Eastern Slays had reopened the old river trade routes across the plain from the Baltic to the Black , Azov , and Caspian Seas ? routes used in the days of ancient Greece ? to carry on a lively trade with the Khazars of the Volga-Don steppes and with the Byzantine Empire . The Russian land and the Russian State owe their name to the " men of Rus , " Scandinavian intruders , chiefly from Denmark , who gradually and peacefully infiltrated the Slavonic population of Russia from the second half of the ninth century onward , as merchants , warriors , and later rulers of the Eastern Slays . Already before their advent towns were growing up , especially along the lines of the Dnieper and Volkhov rivers , which provided from the Gulf of Finland water access to the Scandinavians or " Varangian " immigrants . Already , too , towns on the river trade routes had made themselves @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The arrival of the Varangians coincided broadly with the decline of thepower of the Khazars of the south-eastern steppe , to whom the Slays had been subjected , and with the occupation of the steppe north of the Azov-Black Seas , by the Pechenegs , mounted nomads who threatened the safety of the Slays and of their trade routes . It was the achievement of certain Varangian leaders to organize and apply armed force in the common interest of the Slays by associating them into the Principality of Kiev , which replaced a number of small and weak principalities . A successful attack in A.D. 86o on Constantinople , capital of the Byzantine Empire and the most important market for Russian trade , showed the strength of this new State and the likelihood of its survival despite the recurrent enmity of the mobile horsemen of the steppe . Kievan Russia between the tenth and the twelfth centuries consisted of the lands of the following rivers : the upper and middle Dnieper , the upper Dniester and southern Bug , the upper basins of the western Bug , the Niemen and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ For the most part it thus comprised a watershed area and controlled easy portages between navigable rivers which diverged in all directions towards the neighbouring Baltic , Black , and Caspian Seas . In the north , overlapping the watershed area , it reached to Lake Ladoga , and although confined by lands of Finnish and Lithuanian settlement , it commanded access to the Baltic by one narrow gateway at the head of the Gulf of Finland , to which it had water access by way of the river Lovat , Lake Ilmen , Lake Ladoga , and the river Neva . In the north , where trade with the Baltic developed and where Russian colonists were pressing into the forests in search of new homes and of furs , the republic of Great Novgorod , despite its remoteness from Kiev , had acknowledged Kiev 's political authority , for it depended on the wooded steppelands of the south for trade facilities and for grain which it could not sufficiently produce itself . In the south the settlements and fortifications of Kievan Russia extended to the limits of the wooded steppe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Dnieper for its armed trading convoys across the hazardous grass steppe en route for the markets of the Greek and Arab worlds beyond . In the west the territories of the Principality impinged on those of the Prussians , the Poles ( another Slavic people ) , and the Hungarians , the last two of which became Christian kingdoms which adopted their Christianity from Rome and became oriented to Western Europe .  | In short , Kievan Russia , although not wholly land-locked ? indeed , it was largely the political outcome of the overland routes between inland seas ? had an interior location and was girt around by alien peoples . Doubtless external dangers helped towards the assimilation of the ruling Varangians with the subject Slays , and in the eleventh and twelfth centuries the term " Rus " ( whence " Russia " ) , formerly applied to the Varangian minority , was being applied to the whole Principality and also to its fusing Varangian and Slavic population . Kievan Russia thus revolved around the north ? south axis aligned along the Volkhov and Dnieper rivers , and it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ civilization which flourished in its metropolitan city Kiev was largely derived from that of the Byzantine Empire . But although it was already by European standards large in area and also populous ( the population of Kievan Russia has been estimated at between seven and eight millions ) , it had no territories on the shores of the Black , Azov , and Caspian Seas , and suffered , to a greater degree than did the Byzantine Empire and the Hungarian kingdom , from " the historical scourge of Russia " ? the continual assaults of warring , nomadic horsemen who moved along the broad grass steppe between the UralCaspian Gate and the lower Danube . Kievan Russia , although essentially a mercantile State , turned increasingly from shifting to settled agriculture , especially within the wooded steppe , which provided its most productive lands , and introduced the variety of crops then grown in Western Europe . Princely , boyar , and monastic estates , worked by a peasantry of serfs , and , indeed , also by slaves , became characteristic . Kiev , the most southerly of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ once an advanced stronghold for defence against enemies from the steppe and the chief collecting-point for the commodities traded with Constantinople and the Arab world . The Principality of Moscow If Kievan Russia is rightly regarded as the cradle of Russian nationality , the Principality of Moscow , which succeeded it , is clearly the Russian State which grew into the Russia of modern history . It owed its rise to the disruption and decline of Kievan Russia and to the stream of emigrants who left it to settle within the forests and marshes of Central  | Russia in the second half of the twelfth century . Kievan Russia suffered from internal disruption related to the feuds of its ruling aristocracy and to social cleavages , while it failed to defend its lands and its trade route from successive attacks of the Polovtsi , who ruled the southern steppe . Some of the emigrants from Kievan Russia moved north-westward to resettle Galicia and Volhynia , lands from which their ancestors had originally come into Russia . Another stream moved north-eastward along the valley of the Desna river , a left-bank tributary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . A.D. 1150 ) a direct route from Kiev to Murom , on the lower Oka ? through hitherto trackless forests . This emigration led to the colonization of the land of Suzdal , between the upper Volga and its tributary the Oka , which was to become the nucleus of the new Russian State ruled from Moscow . Suzdal was a land of forests and marsh and intricately patterned streams . It differed sharply from the more congenial country around Kiev . The soils were heavier and less well drained ; the forest and undergrowth more dense ; the winters were longer and the growing period was shorter . Lying nearly 500 miles north-east of Kiev , Suzdal stood aside at first from the main water highways , although this loss was balanced by its relative security , since it lay remote from the steppe and was shielded by its oakwood forests . It did not lack means of communication with North Russia : indeed , a few agricultural townships already existed along or between the Oka and the upper Volga , such as Suzdal , Rostov , 3 Vladimir @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this region from the north-west . The later Russian immigrants were seeking new homes to settle in and new lands to cultivate , rather than trade opportunities . Actually the geographical position of Suzdal was potentially very good : situated at the geometric centre of the Great Russian Plain , it commanded water access to the Baltic , the White Sea , the Dnieper , the Azov Sea ( by the Don river ) , and the Caspian ( by the Volga ) . Moreover , Suzdal enjoyed a certain security , the lack of which had proved Kiev 's downfall . Out of the colonization of Russian peasants in Suzdal , and their peaceful association and then fusion with the less numerous native Finns , developed the Great Russian ' nation , which to-day accounts for more than a half of the U.S.S.R. 's people and forms the dominant national group in the Soviet Union . Russian immigrants brought with them a material civilization superior to that of the Finns . They introduced and Footnote  | established the organization of the Orthodox ( Greek ) Church . Further , although @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the vigour of true pioneers in colonization . Moving along the river valleys , they cleared and burnt strips of woodland , settled down in dispersed hamlets , cultivated their cleared land for several years , then moved on to make more clearings , ever north and north-eastward towards the White Sea and the Ural Mountains . Thus was slowly created the social and territorial fabric of Muscovy , the political leadership of which , in a vigorously assertive form , was won by the princes of Moscow in the midthirteenth century . Moscow , a newcomer among the towns of central Russia and situated on the frontier of Suzdal , did not become its capital until 1263 , yet less than a century later it had clearly become the political centre of gravity of Russia . Its success in achieving , first , primacy over the many other Russian principalities , and then in organizing and expanding its territory , owed much to Moscow 's fine geographical position . Standing in an area of relatively dense colonization , protected by its marshes and forests , yet at the meeting-place of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and wealth fostered political power . Thanks to the rule of primogeniture , which was applied to the Principality of Moscow , its princes were able to follow a consistent and remunerative policy in their dealings with other princes within and outside Russia . By paying court to the Great Khan , whose Tatar hordes desolated most of Russia in the thirteenth century , the prince of Moscow obtained recognition from him ( in 1328 ) as suzerain prince of Russia and as collector of the Russian tribute due to the Khan . The prestige of the prince of Moscow was further raised , at about the same time , when Moscow became the ecclesiastical capital of Russia , for the Metropolitan , head of the Russian Church , transferred his residence there from Vladimir , to which he had fled from Kiev owing to the Tatar danger . The prince of Moscow , too , had proved himself a successful military leader against Russia 's enemies , the Lithuanians and the Tatars . Thus , although Russia seemed to be threatened with extinction between the converging pressures of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the southwest , who ( in the fourteenth century ) conquered the Russian lands of Podolia , Volhynia , Galicia , and Kiev , the princes of Moscow consolidated the small nuclear State of Muscovy , which was to grow into the Russian Empire .  | The Expansion of Russia in Europe and Asia Russia moves East . The principality of Moscow , as it stood in 1462 at the accession of Ivan III , was merely part of Russia ? that is , of the area originally colonized by the Eastern Slays , or subsequently colonized by Russians ( Fig. 1 ) . To the west , in the basins of the upper Dnieper and upper Desna , were Russian principalities , while to the north , stretching from Lake Peipus to the White Sea , stood the vast forested area loosely administered by the landed and trading aristocracy of the Commonwealth of Great Novgorod , which fell to Moscow , by conquest , in 1478 . A great part of the Russian land , in the middle Dnieper basin , as well as steppelands farther south as far as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Grand Duchy of Lithuania , which in 1386 was united dynastically with Poland . This advance of Lithuania into Russian lands wasted by the Tatars led later on to their recolonization , largely by the descendants of Russians who had fled westward ( to Galicia , Volhynia , and Polotsk ) , before the assaults of the Polovtsi in the twelfth century . And there , in the heartlands of the old Kievan Russia astride the middle Dnieper , developed by the sixteenth century the Little Russian , or Ukrainian , nation with its variant form of Slav speech . So also in the basin of the upper Dnieper west of Moscow , in a similar way , emerged the Byelorussians , or White Russians , with their language and nationality ? distinct alike from those of the Great Russians and the Ukrainians . South and east of Muscovy the much feared Tatars held the Don and Volga steppes and the middle Volga forests as the outposts of their vast Asiatic empire . The Great Khan , master from China and Korea to the Black Sea , held Russia tributary to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the eastern side of the Volga bend , not far from the present Stalingrad . In short , the Russian States were tightly hemmed in virtually on all sides : the ring was broken to provide an outlet for their further expansion only in the north-east , into the basins of the North Dvina and Pechora , a vast expanse of coniferous forest and marsh with the longest and coldest winters of European Russia . By 1584 , when Ivan IV ( " The Terrible " ) died , the territorial pattern of Russia had substantially changed , although not wholly to its advantage . Lithuania-Poland , controlling nearly the whole length of the Dnieper , still held Kiev " the mother of Russia " and approached closely  | to Smolensk , which , indeed , they later seized . In the north-west Ivan failed , despite a long struggle ( 1558-81 ) , to broaden or even maintain his narrow outlet to the Baltic on the Gulf of Finland , for the Swedes succeeded in shutting Russia off from the Baltic by securing Ingria and Karelia on the two @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had only the White Sea outlet , then closed by ice for half the year , but , thanks to the voyage of Chancellor in 1553 , made accessible to maritime trade with Western Europe . In the east and south , in contrast , Russia 's position was greatly improved . Ivan III had refused to pay tribute to the Khan , and Ivan IV , having fought the Tatars successfully , annexed extensive , scantily peopled , and mainly steppe areas . The basins of the Don and Volga , Astrakhan , and part of the northern shore of the Caspian Sea all fell into Russian hands . The capture of Kazan ( in 1552 ) opened the way to the central Urals , which Russians had reached and crossed by 1581 . Although Russia held almost the whole basin of the Don , it was denied the outlet which this gave to the Azov Sea , for the Crimean Tatars commanded it on one flank as subjects of the Ottoman Turks , who had extinguished and replaced the Byzantine Empire , controlled the Don outlet by its fortress @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Sea . Thus , shut off from the Baltic and the Black Seas and deprived of the Dnieper below Smolensk ? the river which was the original artery of the Russian land ? Russia was projected eastward , away from Europe . As a result , it absorbed more non-Russian peoples ( Finno-Ugrian and Turkic-Tatar ) , and diverted much of its national energy to expansion into Siberia beyond the Urals . Indeed , during the century which followed the death of Ivan IV Russia appeared increasingly an Asiatic State . Sweden , Lithuania-Poland , and Turkey held it back firmly from Europe . The Poles even farther invaded Russian-settled lands ? around Smolensk , and in Ukraine east of the Dnieper . And Russian pioneers made their way across Siberia to the Pacific . Siberia ( Turkic Su beri , meaning ' a watery wilderness ' ) extended north from the Mongol Empire to the Arctic Ocean and from the Urals to the Pacific . Vast , mainly coniferous forests , interspersed with marshes especially west of the Yenisei , dominated its continental landscape , with winters longer and harder @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and in the south , especially west of the Yenisei , steppe , bordered this world of forests . West of the Yenisei the West Siberian basin is mantled by glacial deposits and lies low with only a gentle slope towards the  | Figure Arctic . East of the Yenisei , in contrast , plateau levels and mountain ranges diversify the landscape . The Arctic seas , with open water for only about two months a year , defied the efforts of the early Western explorers : there was no Hudson 's Bay to permit their entry into this world with its wealth of timber , furs , and mammoth ivory . Thus , unlike Canada , Siberia was occupied and conquered only from the continental side . The Tatars ? essentially a people of the steppe , although their  | main territorial base lay in settled China ? did not penetrate northward beyond the borders of the wooded steppe . To the Russians , however , Siberia 's highly developed river system , supplemented by portages , lured them on into regions not so dissimilar from their own in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ scanty , dispersed , and semi-nomadic tribes , which were no match for the Russians , better organized and bearing firearms . A few landmarks in Russian expansion in Siberia may be recalled . The capture of Kazan in 1552 , which opened the way east ; the defeat of the Tatars at Tobolsk on the middle Irtish river by the Cossack forces in 1587 ; the establishment of fortified posts at Yeniseisk ( on the Yenisei ) in 1618 ; at Yakutsk ( on the Lena river ) in 163o ; and at Okhotsk , on the Pacific coast ( lat. 590 N. ) , in 1647 . Although still barred from the near-by Baltic , Azov , and Black Seas , Russia had found a window to the distant Pacific . Although she was checked in the lower Amur basin by Manchu power until 186o , her Russian-American Company had by 182o established trade stations in Kamchatka , Alaska , and along the American coast almost as far south as San Francisco . Many motives and interests lay behind the winning of Siberia . Hunters , trappers , soldiers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ part , and the State took charge of the territories won , collected tribute in furs from the subjected natives , and monopolized the fur trade . It was only in the eighteenth century that Russian colonists began to settle the wooded and grass steppes as distinct from clearings in the taiga . The creation of Siberia as a Russian-settled land , greatly stimulated in the twentieth century by the opening of the Trans-Siberian Railway , continues , and now adds its considerable wealth in minerals , food , and timber to the Soviet economic potential . Russia turns West . It is remarkable how , in the three centuries that preceded the achievements of Peter the Great , Russia became detached from Europe and displaced into Asia . While sharpening its national consciousness , based on its dominantly Slav heritage and its attachment to the Orthodox Church , and reacting to dangers from outside , Russia stood aloof from the main cultural movements of Western Europe ? the Renaissance , the Reformation , the Great Discoveries , and the growth of Science . The destruction of the Byzantine Empire by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its culture , and although its rulers proudly assumed , as tsars , the imperial title , they appeared des-  | tined merely to rule a vast , loosely organized , weak , and backward State . The reign of Peter the Great ( 1689 ? 1725 ) marks both a turning point and landmark in the history of Russia , as , indeed , in that of Europe and the world , since , as a result of his unremitting and statesmanlike efforts , Russia emerged ( by 1721 ) as a State of the first rank and a European State at that . Tireless in his attempts to learn from the more advanced Figure material culture of the West , he brought foreign technicians to Russia , created a modernized standing army , built the first Russian navy , centralized government at his new capital at St Petersburg under his autocratic control , created a bureaucracy , reorganized the finances , consolidated serfdom , started many new industries ( including the iron and copper industries of the Urals ) , and pursued relentlessly a foreign policy designed to increase @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Alexis , had won back Smolensk , Kiev , and left-bank Ukraine from the Poles , but Russia was still cut off from the Baltic and Azov-Black Seas . In the south , despite initial successes , Peter failed to break through the outer defences of the Ottoman Empire and establish Russia as a Black Sea Power , but at least he prevented the Turks from reaching the Caspian Sea by overrunning a strip of Persian territory ,  | which included Baku , along its western and southern sides . It was in the north , after a protracted war with Sweden ( 1700-21 ) , that Peter was most successful . By the Treaty of Nystad in 1721 Sweden lost its preeminence in the Baltic , and Russia acquired Karelia , Ingria , Estonia , and Livonia ? a secure frontage on the Baltic , protected by a fleet , and a direct seaway to the West ( Fig. 2 ) . These territories brought more non-Russians and non-Orthodox Christians into Russia : Letts and Estonians ruled by a German upper class , useful servants of a Westernizing tsar @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ relations with Western Europe , Peter had begun the gigantic task of building St Petersburg , and the fortress of Kronstadt to defend it in the Gulf of Finland near by . Although so ex-centrically located , St Petersburg remained the capital of Russia until 1918 , and in and around it grew one of its major industrial regions . No other metropolitan city of its size occupies so northerly a location . Russia moves West , North , and South . If , before the accession of Peter the Great , Russia was a world apart from Europe , in the centuries which followed down to the first world war it intervened in Europe ( and in Asia too ) as a Great Power . Hitherto the geographical extent of Russia had always fluctuated ; it had decreased much after the Kievan period , but in the 220 years before the death of Peter the Great it had greatly expanded , mainly in the areas of the Volga steppe and of the Siberian forests and tundra . Just what should have been the limits of Russia at any particular period @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Soviet Union to-day , is a scientifically unanswerable question . Actually in 1725 Russia by no means included in Europe all of " the Russian land " ? that is , the area of settlement by Russian stock . No less evidently , in the east it had won for itself vast areas of scanty but alien populations , areas which , in this century especially , it has effectively colonized with Russians . After Peter the Great the problem of Russia 's security and independence necessarily involved that of its territorial extent and frontiers , and for a strong and vigorous nation security has usually been sought by expansion . On all its European borders ? west , north , and south ? Russia markedly expanded during the two centuries after Peter the Great ; in Asia , too , it colonized southward of the Siberian forests . Indeed , the successors of Peter the Great in large measure systematically pursued policies towards Russia 's neighbours ? Sweden , Poland , and Turkey ? which he had himself initiated ,  | With their neighbours the Poles the Russians @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ centuries : their common Slav speech in no sense endeared them one to the other . Poland had merged dynastically with the Grand Duchy of Lithuania , whose territories , strung out across the European isthmus between the Black and Baltic Seas , included Russian-settled lands , formerly part of Kievan Russia : these lands lay mainly west but even east of the Dnieper and Dvina . Poland-Lithuania , which Poland came increasingly to dominate , was thus a multi-national State , made up of Lithuanians , Russians , and Poles , the last concentrated mainly within the basin of the Vistula . Into Poland 's " eastern lands " ( Russia 's " western lands " ) Poles intruded to form the landed upper class , but the serf population there , little affected by Polish culture , remained either White Russian or Ukrainian in language and either Orthodox or Uniat4 Christians . In its struggles with Poland Muscovy was at times worsted : between 1610 and 1612 a Polish tsar was actually imposed on Moscow , which was unable to win back Kiev and Smolensk from Poland until 1667 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ claim to be the defender of European culture and Catholicism from barbarians to the east , while Russia coveted Courland , Poland 's Baltic territory . Under Peter the Great the relative strengths of Poland and Russia changed decisively , and he devised the policy , followed by his successors , of keeping Poland internally weak and under Russian influence . He started , too , the practice of marching Russian troops across Poland en route for action in Germany . Russian pressure on Poland , on behalf of Poland 's Orthodox subjects , made it clear also that Muscovy hoped to recover the lost lands of Kievan Russia . In the late eighteenth century Russia won back its " western lands " ? and more besides ? but this success , achieved in partnership with Prussia and Austria , involved the complete effacement of Poland by the three partitions of 1772 , 1793 , and 1795 ( Fig. 3 ) . Russia 's territorial gains were considerable , and she advanced more than 300 miles westward into Europe ? to the Niemen , the headwaters of the Pripet , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Lithuanian in population , which she annexed in the third partition , Russia had , however , no title . Nor , indeed , had Austria and Prussia any justification for their annexation of truly Polish ( so-called ethnographic ' ) Poland . The Polish Footnote  | partitions extinguished Poland , but not the Polish nation . In 1809 Napoleon I created the short-lived Grand Duchy of Warsaw , and in 1815 a small Polish kingdom , " Congress Poland , " was set up by the Congress of Vienna , but under the tsar as king . This arrangement naturally failed FIG. 3 . THE TERRITORIAL EXPANSION OF RUSSIA to satisfy the national aspirations of Polish leaders . It lasted a century , however , until the collapse of Russia and the defeat of Germany in the first world war made possible the creation of an independent Polish republic . This Poland expanded eastward by winning back Russia 's " western lands " ; during the second world war this situation was drastically changed in favour of the Soviet Union.5 6 See below , p. 418.  | Not only in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the north it completed its long struggle with Sweden ? and consolidated its own position in the Baltic ? by the conquest in 1809 of Finland , which was set up as a Grand Duchy within the Russian Empire , but allowed its own constitution , laws , and tariffs . In the south , before the end of the eighteenth century , Russia had won control of the grass steppe to the shores of the Azov and Black Seas and of the Crimean peninsula , which facilitated Russian sea power in these waters . In 1812 its boundaries in the south-west were pushed beyond the Dniester to the Pruth river and the Danube delta by the absorption of Bessarabia from Turkey . Russian expansion in the south involved winning control of Cossack groups and peasant colonization , and also wars with the Ottoman Empire . Despite many successful campaigns spread over a century and a half , and despite its championship of the Slav and Orthodox subjects of the Turkish Empire , Russia never succeeded in reaching its main objective , Constantinople and the Straits , which controlled access to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Asia with remarkable vigour on three sectors  --  in the Caucasus region , in Turkestan , and in the Amur region of the Far East , where Vladivostok was founded in 186o . Railway building began to give some cohesion to the territorial hugeness of Russia . The end of the nineteenth century saw Russia controlling railways across Chinese Manchuria and established ( by leasehold tenure ) at Port Arthur . But defeat by the Japanese in 1904 ? 5 and by the Central Powers in the first world war ( 1914 ? 17 ) , coupled with fatal internal weaknesses , brought the tsarist empire to its end . That it contained enormous , if latent , material strength has been shown by its successor , the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics . Footnote  | Footnote  | The **26;1428;TOOLONG Patterns of the Soviet Union THEODORE SHABAD MORE than cursory examination of some of the **25;1456;TOOLONG problems of the Soviet Union would appear to be justified by its unusually complex federal structure and the geographic importance of its political divisions . In the Western world we are apt to regard @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ geographically because such units generally owe their delineation to historical accident or administrative convenience and seldom reflect the realities of either physical or human geography . Internal political divisions in the West usually antedate the Industrial Revolution and the profound geographic changes that ensued . It is not unusual to find new integrated , homogeneous economic regions dissected by old administrative boundaries or even newly established cities situated astride a rigid political divide . In exceptional cases , the opposite sides of well-traveled urban thoroughfares may find themselves under different administrative jurisdiction . Not so in the Soviet Union . There , as an integral part of the Soviet conception of political administration and economic planning , the territorial divisions of the country have come to reflect the dynamic character that typifies much of Soviet geography . No longer are we dealing with immutable historical lines that cut across the fabric of present-day activities ; instead we find an extremely unstable structure of politicaladministrative units that keeps pace with , and sometimes even anticipates , changes wrought by man on the land .  | The Autonomous Administrative Unit As would be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ purposes of governmental administration , as do their Western counterparts , but are true instruments of governmental policy fulfilling a multitude of functions . Some Soviet administrative units , for example , serve as areas of ethnic autonomy . In fact , it is the principle of national autonomy that determines the primary division of the Soviet Union into its sixteen constituent republics . National autonomous units are among the most stable administrative divisions of the U.S.S.R. , since they delineate the more or less permanently settled regions of ethnic groups or minorities . It required an upheaval such as the second world war to produce significant changes in the pattern of Soviet autonomous units . A number of ethnic groups situated in or near the area occupied by the German Army in its deepest advance into the U.S.S.R. were accused by the Soviet Government of collaboration with the invader . The Kremlin retaliated with collective punishment , abolishing the autonomous areas involved , depriving the ethnic groups of their rights as distinct cultural entities , and resettling the population elsewhere in the U.S.S.R. On other occasions changes in the boundaries @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Following the Soviet acquisition of the three Baltic countries ? Estonia , Latvia , and Lithuania ? several changes were made in the boundaries of the new Soviet republics on ethnic grounds . Both Estonia and Latvia contained small Russian-majority areas that were handed over to the adjoining Russian Soviet Federated Socialist Republic ( R.S.F.S.R. ) , the largest and most important of the sixteen constituent republics . While Lithuania 's two northern sister republics thus lost areas held during their existence as independent States , this southernmost Baltic republic gained a Lithuanian-majority belt from the adjoining Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic . Another illustration may be found in the case of the Moldavian S.S.R. Following the loss of Bessarabia to Romania after the first world war , the Soviet Union created a small Moldavian Autonomous Soviet Socialist Republic on the left bank of the Dniester river , which marked the boundary with Romania . Inasmuch as the Soviet Union never relinquished its claim to Bessarabia with its large Moldavian population , the area of the Moldavian A.S.S.R. was slightly inflated for propaganda  | reasons through the addition of some Ukrainian-majority @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in 1940 , when Romania was forced to return Bessarabia to the U.S.S.R. , a new Moldavian S.S.R. was formed out of the greater part of Bessarabia and the old Soviet leftbank districts . In the ensuing shuffle of boundaries the Ukrainianmajority districts on the left bank were returned to the Ukraine , as the Moldavian S.S.R. had come to assume a sufficient stature . These and similar changes were justified on ethnic grounds and generally reflected the areal distribution of a particular minority . It is more unusual to find boundary changes in national autonomous areas that are based on economic considerations . However , one such instance may be cited . In the late 1930 's the U.S.S.R. began the development of the Vorkuta coalfield in north European Russia , within the Arctic Circle . The site of the future city of Vorkuta was situated just north of the Komi Autonomous Soviet Socialist Republic , which contained the greater part of the coal basin about to be exploited and the access railroad to be built . Because of its economic integration with the Komi A.S.S.R. , Vorkuta was therefore @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ northern border . The Soviet Union distinguishes various categories of national autonomous units in its administrative hierarchy . The category held by any given ethnic group depends on a number of factors , including size of population , location , and the degree of political and economic development . The hierarchy ranges from the sixteen constituent republics ( Soviet Socialist Republics , or S.S.R. ) through the autonomous republics ( Autonomous Soviet Socialist Republics , or A.S.S.R. ) and the autonomous oblasts ( provinces ) to the national okrugs ( districts ) . There are also the very minor national rayons ( counties ) and national village areas . Generally speaking , an ethnic group with a population of about a million constitutes one of the sixteen constituent or union republics , subject to the overriding factor of location . The present Soviet Constitution , promulgated in 1936 , states that the constituent republics form a voluntary union of nations with the right of free secession . Of course , it is highly unlikely that any of the republics will ever raise the question of secession in such a rigid , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interpretation of the right of secession requires that every constituent republic be located along the periphery of the country , with at least a section of its territory bordering on a foreign State . According to such a literal interpretation of the Constitution , no constituent  | republic could be formed , say , in the heart of the U.S.S.R. , where enclosing Soviet territory would preclude possible secession in the physical sense . So it happens that a number of ethnic groups numbering far more than 1,000,000 in population and with a high degree of political and economic development are not likely to achieve the highest rung of the nationalities ' ladder because they lie far from the Soviet border . Such groups , which are perforce relegated to the status of A.S.S.R. , are the Tatars and Bashkirs situated in the country between the Volga and the Urals . National autonomous areas send delegates to the Soviet of Nationalities , one of the chambers of the bicameral Supreme Soviet of the U.S.S.R. , the country 's highest , though entirely nominal , legislative body . The relative importance and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ representation assigned to each : union republics send twenty-five delegates , autonomous republics eleven , autonomous oblasts five , and national okrugs one each . The second chamber , the Soviet of the Union , contains representatives elected on a population basis , one delegate per 300,000 persons . We have seen how the principle of national autonomy determines the initial basis for a political division of the Soviet Union by assigning units of varying degrees of administrative standing to major and minor ethnic groups . Needless to say , the concept of autonomy discussed here must be viewed against the background of the specific Soviet situation . Soviet autonomy clearly does not imply self-rule or rights of self-determination in the Western sense . The concept is restricted largely to the cultural sphere , in which the ethnic groups are entitled to the use and development of their native languages , literature , and customs through the medium of the schools and the Press . But even such a cultural development is rigidly confined by the precepts of Soviet ideology . We are dealing here with cultures that are " national @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a Soviet slogan . The influence of Communist party doctrine and of the predominating culture of the Russian ethnic body thus directs the different peoples of the U.S.S.R. , welding them at the same time into a solid entity . The Economic Administrative Unit The function of Soviet **26;1483;TOOLONG units is not limited to comparting the country 's ethnic groups and minorities . That is a  | rather static purpose , of interest geographically only in so far as it reveals changes in the distribution and settlement of nationalities . Of greater significance is the dynamic function fulfilled by Soviet administrative divisions in their capacity as economic regions . In the late 1920 's the Soviet Union embarked upon a program of economic planning and forced industrialization that is still continuing , though evidently at a reduced rate . The five-year plans , of which the sixth is currently in progress , served as the framework of this program . As part of this program , there was need for functional territorial units to be used in planning the economic development of the country . These units were visualized by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a framework that would be flexible enough to be adapted to the rapidly changing situation in the industrialization drive . And thus , as a result of the close integration of government and economy in the Soviet planning system , territorial divisions assumed a dual role as administrative-economic regions . This role must be viewed as being supplementary to the national autonomy function . Every territorial division in the U.S.S.R. , whether autonomous or not , is designed to handle the customary problems of governmental administration , as well as the additional economic functions of economic planning and statistical reporting . We have referred to Soviet political divisions as economic regions . The author has discussed elsewhere ' in some detail the Soviet concept of economic regions . For the purpose of this discussion a few summary remarks will suffice . The common Western concept of an economic region implies uniformity or homogeneity . Homogeneity with respect to certain economic conditions has been the principal criterion in the classification and delineation of such regions . We speak of the Ruhr as an economic region , because of its homogeneous coal-mining and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the United States as an economic region , because of its broadly uniform crop aspect . In the Soviet Union economic regions are regarded as heterogeneous or complementary areas , consisting of one or several industrial focal points , or perhaps an industrial area , with an associated agricultural hinterland . Soviet regional policy requires that any such economic region be developed to the utmost in all branches of production within the limits of available resources with the aim of ultimately achieving 1 Theodore Shabad , " The Soviet Concept of Economic Regionalization , " in The Geographical Review , vol. xliii ( 1953 ) , pp. 214-222.  | regional self-sufficiency . This many-sided or complex ' development of the economy of Soviet regions is explained by considerations of national defense . The aim is twofold ? to further the security of the country through regional autarky and to strengthen the economy by industrializing under-developed areas and by reducing the long-distance haul of commodities that can be produced locally . We thus find that the Soviet administrative units are truly multipurpose territorial divisions . They serve as national autonomy areas @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ economic regions for planning and statistical reporting and for the ultimate achievement of autarky ; and finally they fulfil administrative functions customarily associated with such divisions . It has already been stressed that units of the autonomous type determine the initial division of the country . Now , within these autonomous divisions , smaller administrative-economic units are found . The largest division of this type is the oblast , which is found in most of the large union republics of the U.S.S.R. The oblast is apt to vary greatly in size , ranging from about 2000 square miles in densely populated oases of Central Asia to vast expanses of 500,000 square miles in sparsely settled Siberia . The administrative capital of an oblast is generally an industrial center . Soviet policy stresses the industrialization of the regional center , because industrial workers constitute historically the main source of support for the Soviet regime . When local conditions permit , the oblasts are so delineated as to provide the maximum prerequisites for the development of a heterogeneous economy . Let us assume , for instance , that a Soviet area containing well-defined @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ oblasts for administrative purposes . The Western administrator , schooled in the principle of the homogeneous economic region , might well be inclined to divide this hypothetical area into an industrial oblast and into an agricultural oblast . The Soviet authorities , always concerned with the manysided development of an area and the achievement of autarky , delineate the two oblasts so as to include in each an industrial and an agricultural section . This example finds illustrations in many parts of the Soviet Union . Whether in a densely populated coastal belt backed by sparsely settled mountains or an agricultural zone adjoining a forested area Soviet oblasts will always be found enclosing the greatest variety of natural conditions . A unit similar to the oblast , known as the kray , is found only in the  | Russian S.F.S.R. 's administrative structure . The kray differs from the oblast only in that it usually contains an autonomous oblast . An unusual situation existed in Khabarovsk kray and the Maritime kray of the Far East . These two areas once contained a special type of intra-kray oblast . These internal oblasts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no international oblasts since 1943 and Khabarovsk kray lost its last such unit in January 1956 ( see p. 383 , note 6 ) . The administrative-economic division of second order in the hierarchy is the rayon . The rayon serves not only as a subdivision of the oblasts and krays , but also of autonomous units , such as small union republics , the autonomous republics , the autonomous oblasts , and the national okrugs . The rayon is actually a miniature oblast . Its center is usually the largest populated community , industrialized in so far as local conditions permit . Rayons are delineated so as to produce heterogeneous economic regions on a small scale . Like oblasts , rayons vary greatly in size , ranging from less than ioo square miles in densely populated areas to nearly 150,000 square miles in Siberia . Rayons , in turn , contain urban areas and rural areas . The rural areas , generally known as village councils ( Russian sel'sovet ) , each contain a number of collective farms and constitute the lowest rural level of local government . Urban Administrative @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ structure , because urbanization is so intimately linked with the industrialization process . Four types of urban areas of increasing importance are distinguished . The lowest type of urban center is the so-called workers ' settlement , which may arise in the vicinity of a new mine , a new industrial plant , or any similar economic production unit , and is identified with the initial stage of industrialization . A workers ' settlement is expected to have a minimum adult population of 400 persons , 65 per cent . of whom are employed in industry . As the workers ' settlement develops , population increases , and a greater proportion of the labor force enters into industry , the urban area reaches the status of city . ' A city is expected to have an adult population of at least i000 persons , 75 per cent . of whom are employed in industry . Both the workers ' settlement and the city in its initial stage come under the jurisdiction of the rayon . Larger cities , of the order of  | 25,000 to 50,000 population , or cities of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rayon and placed under the administration of the next highest administrative unit , which may be an oblast or kray , an autonomous republic , an autonomous oblast , or a national okrug . Finally , the largest cities in the Russian S.F.S.R. , with a population of about 300,000 or more , are removed even from oblast jurisdiction and placed directly under the republic government . Such cities are Moscow , Leningrad , Sverdlovsk , Novosibirsk , and others . Since this urban administrative structure reflects economic and demographic conditions in urban areas , any changes in existing conditions are reflected in the administrative pattern . Inversely , changes in the administrative structure provide valuable clues to Soviet economic development , which is so often veiled for security reasons . The relationship has its obvious applications in military intelligence , and is useful to the foreign geographer interested in keeping abreast of developments in the U.S.S.R. Changes in administrative structure are published systematically by the Soviet authorities . **26;1511;TOOLONG guides listing all political divisions , including urban areas , in great detail are published annually or at longer intervals . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Vedomosti Verkhovnogo Soveta ( Herald of the Supreme Soviet ) , which is the Soviet journal of laws and decrees . How do these urban changes provide clues to economic development ? The interested observer is first alerted by the announcement of the creation of a new workers ' settlement . This means that at the stated locality an industrial enterprise is in the initial stage of its development . In perhaps the majority of cases the enterprise will not grow , and its modest size will continue to be associated with a workers ' settlement . Such industries , which may range from saw-milling to mining , are not of unusual significance . Assume , however , as frequently happens , that after a certain time interval the workers ' settlement is raised one notch to the status of city under rayon jurisdiction . Such a change , based generally on the growth in population and industry , may mean either that the original industry has grown and attracted a larger labor force or that a second industry has been added to form a larger urban area . Although the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an adult population of I000 persons , in practice the average city of such status has a population of ro , 000 to 25,000 . Most cities remain under rayon jurisdiction  | after their initial demographic and economic growth has leveled off to a more or less stable condition . Occasionally such a city rises one more rung on the administrative ladder and becomes independent of the rayon in which it is situated , falling directly under the jurisdiction of an oblast , an autonomous republic , or similar unit . Such a rise may be caused by mere population growth , or the expansion of existing industry , or the addition of a new outstanding economic activity . Whatever the basis , the city has now reached a point where it may well be regarded as one of the leading industrial centers of the country . There are about 500 such cities in the Soviet Union . Although such centers are expected to have a population of about 50,000 , other factors , such as special economic importance , frequently put a city in that category before the 50,000 limit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ raised directly to the status of city under oblast jurisdiction without passing through the intermediate stage of the rayon city category . Such an advance is invariably a clue to rapid economic growth and forced development . Industrial booms of this type marked the development of Almetyevsk , a new petroleum center of the Second Baku in the Tatar A.S.S.R. ; Novokuibyshevsk , an oil town near Kuibyshev on the Volga ; and Angarsk , a city with a synthetic fuels industry on the Angara river near Irkutsk , to cite only a few recent examples . It has already been stressed that administrative changes in urban areas provide merely clues to economic development . No specific description of the nature of the economic development is normally associated with the administrative announcement . It remains for the observer to canvas all available literature , Soviet and non-Soviet , to obtain additional data about the rising industrial center . It is only through the meticulous assemblage of scattered bits of information that the full picture emerges . The importance of the administrative information lies in the fact that it places the industrial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this type less attention would normally be devoted to a workers ' settlement than , say , to a city that is directly under oblast jurisdiction . Frequently , even the most assiduous combing of overt sources fails to uncover the nature of an indicated economic boom or other industrial development . In many such cases it is safe to assume that the city in question harbors an industry of more or less direct military application .  | Some such centers can be identified . For example , the cities of Kotovsk , a southern satellite of Tambov in central European Russia , and Chapayevsk , south-west of Kuibyshev near the Volga , appear to be concerned entirely with the production of munitions and similar military items , according to a German military intelligence source2 that became available after the second world war . In other cases , the name of the city provides a clue . In Dagestan , just south-east of the capital of Makhachkala on the Caspian shore , lies the city of Kaspisk . No economic information has been published about this center , which became a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in status it had been a workers ' settlement named Dvigatelstroi ( engine construction ) . The name , its maritime location , and economic secrecy all indicate some kind of industry producing military marine engines , torpedoes , or similar items . About twenty miles south-east of Moscow , on a main rail line , lies the city of Zhukovskiy . This city has undergone steady administrative growth since pre-war days . In 1938 a workers ' settlement of Stakhanovo was built on the site of the railroad station of Otdykh ( meaning rest , ' recreation ' presumably a summer excursion stop ) . In 1947 this urban area was raised to the status of city under rayon jurisdiction and was renamed Zhukovskiy . Finally , in 1952 , the city was raised one more notch and placed directly under the administration of Moscow oblast . Throughout the rise of this new urban center no economic data came forth to throw light on the nature of this development . The name of Zhukovskiy , however , provided a clue . He was a noted Russian aerodynamicist . The award @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an aircraft center , probably engaged in experimental work . History of Soviet Administrative Geography It has been deemed of interest to go in some detail into these case studies to show how administrative urban changes closely reflect various types of economic developments . In the absence of explicit information much can thus be deduced from bare administrative announcements . While the meaning of urban growth has been unequivocal throughout the Soviet period , the significance of changes in larger administrative Footnote  | areas has not always been so clear . In fact , several stages can be distinguished in the development of the present administrative-economic divisions ( oblasts , krays , rayons ) . At the time of the Bolshevik Revolution in 1917 the Soviet regime inherited the Tsarist administrative structure , which served strictly administrative functions along the lines of its Western counterparts . The structure consisted essentially of a three-level hierarchy : guberniya , uyezd , volost . It was stressed soon after the revolution that the guberniya division was antiquated and no longer corresponded to the distribution of economic activities , that many small and unimportant towns @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lacked administrative functions , and that under the new regime administrative centers were expected to shift to the more important Soviet ' ( i.e. , proletarian ) cities engaged in economic activity of one type or another . The first two years of the Soviet regime were marked by haphazard administrative changes left largely to the local authorities without centralized guidance . The general trend was toward a splitting up of areas into smaller divisions to facilitate the introduction of Soviet control . While many new guberniyas , uyezds , and volosts were thus formed to bring the new government closer to the people , administrative functions were transferred to economic centers where the regime had proletarian support . While these indiscriminate changes proceeded ? they were slowed after 1919 ? a government commission formulated rules for the creation of new administrative-economic regions . The new policy was ratified in March 1921 by the All-Russian Central Executive Committee . It noted the pressing need for a new type of region in view of the lack of correspondence between the existing administrative structure and the new political and economic requirements of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ period in which the existing guberniya structure was to be replaced by the new economic regions . In 1922 the newly established State Planning Commission ( Gosplan ) proposed that the country be divided into twenty-one large economic regions . The Gosplan proposal was not adopted in its entirety , because it clashed with the division of the U.S.S.R. along national autonomous lines . But where no conflict existed Gosplan regions were in fact introduced . In the following discussion the complex Russian S.F.S.R. and its simpler sister republics will be treated separately .  | In the course of the 1920 's , the guberniya system was gradually replaced in the Russian S.F.S.R. by the Soviet system of administrative divisions . ' The transition involved the following adjustments : ( 1 ) Consolidated volosts and reduced uyezds were converted into the new small economic region known as the rayon ; ( 2 ) guberniyas were replaced by okrugs , a larger type of economic region consisting of a number of rayons ; ( 3 ) the giant type of Gosplan region was introduced through the merger of a number of okrugs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contained no autonomous units and as kray if it included autonomous republics or oblasts . ( After 1936 only autonomous oblasts remained in the krays . ) By 1929 the last guberniya had been abolished , and the guberniya-uyezd-volost structure had been replaced entirely by the new oblast ( or kray ) - okrug- rayon system . For about five years , from 1929 to 1934 , the Russian S.F.S.R. , the most complex of Soviet republics , was divided into the smallest number of oblasts and krays in its history . Based in part on the Gosplan project , this vast republic was divided during this period into fourteen major economic divisions in addition to its autonomous republics . But whereas consolidation of administrative units had preceded this simplified structure , a period of further subdivision was to follow . In 1930 the okrug echelon was eliminated in the new administrative structure . The okrug had been regarded as a transitory unit to be preserved during the change-over period of the 1920 'S . Now , with the new system well established , its usefulness was no longer apparent . A more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ collectivization of agriculture . The tremendous upheaval in the countryside that was associated with the agricultural revolution at this time required more direct Soviet control in the rural areas . " Bring government closer to the rayons " was the slogan in 1930 , and the okrug , as an intermediate division between the oblast and the rayon , was clearly superfluous . The elimination of the okrug administration and the increased collectivization of the countryside soon drew attention to the excessively large size of the rayons . The number of collective farms and stateowned machine-tractor stations ( M.T.S. ) multiplied rapidly in the rayons , and administration at the lower levels became unwieldy and difficult . Many of the rayons contained two or three M.T.S. and twenty to thirty collective farms , while the optimal rayon size was held to be Footnote  | that of an area served by a single M.T.S. The M.T.S. , which controlled the agricultural machinery required by the farms , was envisaged as an arm of the government at the collective-farm level . Large rayons began to be broken down accordingly during the early 1930 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such a point within the oblasts that oblast administration in turn became inefficient . That was the signal for the splitting up of the large oblasts of the Russian S.F.S.R. , a trend that has continued to the present day . About thirty new oblasts were carved out of the large Gosplan units during the late 1930 's , with about half formed during 1937 . After a war-induced lull in administrative shifts , fifteen more oblasts were established in 1943 and 1944 ? The reasons for these subdivisions of large oblasts were closely associated with the general economic growth of the country . The progress of collectivization continued to be an element in the 1930 's , but the general industrial development of the country under the five-year plans and associated population increases and redistribution must also be taken into account . In his analysis of this period , Morrison attached special importance to the factor of administrative efficiency and discounted the Soviet policy of economic regionalization in this splitting-up process . Administrative efficiency in the sense of easier handling of smaller governmental areas undoubtedly played a role in this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ planners never lost sight of the principle of administrative-economic regionalization . Every new oblast was created with a strong industrial ( proletarian ) center at its nucleus and with a varied economy to ensure a degree of self-sufficiency . The number of economic regions thus kept increasing far beyond the relatively few originally envisaged by the Gosplan project , but the principle of economic regionalization was maintained . In the union republics outside of the Russian S.F.S.R. , the administrative reorganization was much less complex . Like their great sister republic , these smaller peripheral units were converted in the course of the 1920 's from the old guberniya-uyezd-volost structure to the okrugrayon system . The smaller union republics did not include any oblasts at that time , for they themselves were treated as economic oblasts in the Gosplan sense . With the abolition of the okrugs in 1930 , the republics were divided directly into rayons . The immediate subdivision into a hundred or more rayons proved to be as unwieldy as were the large Gosplan oblasts of the Russian S.F.S.R. Accordingly , starting in 1932 with the Ukraine and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as an intermediate division above the rayon level . The smaller republics , such as Armenia , Azerbaidzhan , and Georgia in Transcaucasia , because of their size , retained the direct rayon subdivision . The major role played by the Soviet administrative structure as an arm of Government policy was illustrated once again in 1940 ? 41 and immediately after the second world war in the new union republics annexed by the U.S.S.R. along its western frontiers , in particular the three Baltic republics of Estonia , Latvia , and Lithuania , and the Moldavian S.S.R. , carved out of Bessarabia . In these areas the Soviet rayon system was not introduced at once . Instead , the Soviet authorities preserved the existing structure of these areas as a transitory measure . For many years the countryside was not collectivized , and the former administrative system appeared suited to the continuing private farming . It was only with the completion of collectivization in 1950 that the Soviet system of rayon administration was introduced into the Baltic area , Moldavia having been converted as early as 1947 . Recent Administrative Developments @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ war , except for the creation of Sakhalin ( 1947 ) and Amur ( 1948 ) oblasts in the Soviet Far East , when a flood of changes suddenly occurred in 1952 in the last year of Stalin 's regime . Not only was the oblast system introduced in all the small union republics that had been divided directly into rayons , but oblasts were even formed in three major autonomous republics of the Russian S.F.S.R. ? the Tatar , Bashkir , and Dagestan republics . A new period of instability appeared in prospect . The new oblasts were short-lived , however . In April , May , and June 1953 , after Stalin 's death , the new Malenkov regime abolished all the oblasts created in 1952 , stating that an oblast system had proved to be unnecessary in the small republics . Subsequent oblast changes by the post-Stalin Government continued to reflect new administrative policies . In December 1953 , for example , the formation of Magadan oblast in the Soviet Far East was announced . This oblast was organized in the Kolyma gold-mining area , which had been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's Ministry of Internal Affairs . After the fall of Beria the ministry  | apparently lost much of its power , including its complete control over forced-labor reserves , and the integration of Kolyma into the normal Soviet administrative structure appears to reflect this shift . More recently , in January 1954 , five new oblasts were established in the black-earth zone of European Russia , with their seats at Arzamas , Lipetsk , Belgorod , Balashov , and Kamensk.4 A sixth oblast ? Cherkassy ? was added in the Ukraine.5 As so often , reasons for this shift can only be inferred . The creation of new divisions in a predominantly agricultural zone suggests a connexion with the ambitious agricultural program announced by the post-Stalin regime in the fall of 1953 . The creation of new oblasts may be regarded as an attempt to form more efficient units to carry out this program and to strengthen control at the rayon level . But it must be stressed once again that , while administrative efficiency may have been the deciding criterion in the establishment of these new oblasts , the new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ economic regions . For the new oblast centers are at the very least important for agricultural processing , with Lipetsk , moreover , the site of metallurgical and tractor plants and Kamensk the center of the easternmost wing of the industrial Donets Basin . Other administrative consolidations are less easily explained , and must be attributed to efficiency and economy motives . Thus , in January 1954 , the twelve oblasts of the Byelorussian S.S.R. were merged into seven oblasts . In August 1955 the Garm and Kulyab oblasts of the Tadzhik S.S.R. were abolished , and their rayons placed directly under the Tadzhik republic administration . Late in February 1954 the Soviet Government transferred the Crimea from the Russian S.F.S.R. , in which it had been included since the advent of the Bolshevik regime , to the Ukrainian S.S.R. Before the second world war the Crimea had been one of the autonomous republics of the Russian S.F.S.R. , established in 1921 on the basis of its Tatar population . The Crimean Tatar khanate had been one of the remnants of the Golden Horde until it was absorbed by the Russian @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ revolution the Tatar element had been greatly reduced and was only 25 per cent . of the total population , the rest including Russians , Ukrainians , Germans , Greeks , and Jews . However , in spite of the minority of the Tatars , the autonomy of the Crimea was presumably based on the historical status of that population Footnote  | group . At first the Tatar language and culture were stressed , in the early 1920 's , but soon the Soviet Government had to face the realities of the Crimean population situation , and during the 1930 's the predominant role played by the Tatars earlier gradually faded away . The Tatars of the Crimea surely resented their loss of prestige in the republic , and during the second world war , when the Crimea was occupied for three years by German troops , collaboration was widespread . In retaliation , the Soviet Government dissolved the Crimean autonomous republic in 1945 , resettled the remaining Tatar elements elsewhere in the U.S.S.R. , and brought in new settlers , predominantly Russians and Ukrainians . The Crimea became a simple @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Ukraine can be explained in terms of political and economic factors . Politically , the cession may be regarded as a symbolic act , strengthening the ties between the Ukraine and Russia , which celebrated in 1954 the three-hundredth anniversary of their union . The Ukraine has been playing an increasingly important part since the death of Stalin , and the annexation of the Crimea may reflect this gain in stature . Economically , the Crimea is closely tied to the Ukraine , of which it always has been a southern appendage . Much Kerch iron ore , though phosphatic , is used in the ferrous metallurgy of the Ukraine , while Donets Basin coal and coke are shipped across the Sea of Azov to the Kerch iron and steel plant . Agriculturally most of the Crimea is largely a continuation of the south Ukrainian steppe , growing hardgrained spring wheat and some cotton . The cession of the Crimea to the Ukraine , a logical step , was the first territorial change affecting boundaries of Soviet constituent republics since the agitated period of 1939-40 , except for minor adjustments @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Crimea to the Ukraine would have been justified economically and politically immediately upon the abrogation of the area 's autonomous status in 1945 , the more rigid policies of the Stalin era prevented the cession at that time . The minor adjustments in the Caucasus involved the boundary between the Russian S.F.S.R. and the Georgian S.S.R. In the Caucasus several ethnic minorities had been accused of wartime collaboration with the German occupying forces . Their autonomous areas , like the Tatar republic in the Crimea , were abolished in 1944 , and at least part of the minority population was exiled to other regions of the U.S.S.R.  | Some of the former minority territory passed from the Russian to the Georgian republic . In this connexion , interesting developments occurred in 1955 . One of the exiled Caucasian minority groups , the Chechen-Ingush nationality , was officially disclosed to be residing in Kazakhstan and Kirghizia . The announcement of the publication of Chechen-language newspapers was an indication of the cultural rehabilitation of the exiled minority under the more relaxed policies of the post-Stalin regime . In the Caucasus itself some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The territory formerly inhabited by the Karachay and Balkar peoples had been transferred to Georgia following the charges of wartime collaboration . In 1955 , about the same time as the news of Chechen-Ingush rehabilitation in Kazakhstan , the former Karachay-Balkar areas were returned from Georgia to the Russian S.F.S.R. One year later , in June 1956 , it was announced that Karachay and Balkar peoples had been banished to Khirgizia and were regaining their minority rights under the Soviet liberalization policy . In summary , the complex Soviet administrative hierachy can be tabulated in three groups : the Russian Soviet Federated Socialist Republic , in a class by itself ; the larger union republics ; and the smaller union republics . The Russian S.F.S.R. has undoubtedly the most complicated administrative system of any of the republics that make up the Soviet Union . Its special position is clearly expressed in the nomenclature that designates it as a federated ' republic . In contrast to the other union republics , which are far more homogeneous ethnically , the Russian S.F.S.R. contains a large number of major nationalities in addition to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of peoples . The purpose of the following table is to illustrate as clearly as possible the successive levels of administration in the Russian S.F.S.R. Level A : Russian S.F.S.R. Level B ( subordinated directly to the Russian S.F.S.R. administration ) : Autonomous Republics ? Oblasts  --  Krays6 ? Large Cities ( with more than 300,000 inhabitants ) Footnote  | Level C : Autonomous Oblasts ( subordinated to Krays ' ) and National Okrugs ( subordinated to Krays or Oblasts ) Level D ( subordinated directly to any unit in Levels B or C , except the Large Cities ) : Medium Cities8 and Rayons Level E ( subordinated to the Rayons and occasionally to some Medium Cities in Level D ) : Small Cities ? Workers ' Settlements ? Village Councils The larger union republics , other than the Russian S.F.S.R. , that are divided into oblasts are : Byelorussian , Ukrainian , Kazakh , Turkmen , Uzbek , Kirghiz , and Tadzhik republics . Their administrative structure can be generalized as follows : Level A : Union Republic Level B ( subordinated to Level A ) : Autonomous Republics @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ capitals of the republics ) Level C ( subordinated to Level B ) : Rayons and Medium Cities Level D ( subordinated to Level C ) : Small Cities ? Workers ' Settlements ? Village Councils The smaller union republics that have no oblast division are : KareloFinnish S.S.R. , the three Baltic republics ( Estonia , Latvia , Lithuania ) , Moldavian S.S.R. , and the three Transcaucasian republics ( Georgia , Armenia , Azerbaidzhan ) . Their administrative structure can be generalized as follows : Level A : Union Republic Level B ( subordinated to Level A ) : Autonomous Republic or Autonomous Oblast Level C ( subordinated to Levels A or B ) : Rayons Large Cities Level D ( subordinated to Level C ) : Small Cities ? Workers ' Settlements  --  Village Councils Footnote  | The Soviet Union : Demographic and Economic Aspects THEODORE SHABAD THE preceding discussion of the **26;1539;TOOLONG geography of the U.S.S.R. will have made clear the unusually close relationship between the demographic and economic evolution of the country , on the one hand , and the resulting political-territorial pattern , on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the dynamic nature of the administrative pattern is merely a reflection of equally rapid change in the human geography of the country . In this chapter it is proposed to examine the nature and extent of demographic and economic changes in the Soviet Union , particularly during the second world war and the post-war period , when published information was less plentiful than theretofore . Both in the demographic and the economic fields , geographic change generally proceeded along two directions : increases in total numbers for the country as a whole and a territorial redistribution of the components , usually associated with an eastward displacement . The factors behind this development can not easily be generalized and will be treated separately for each element discussed . In general , however , the specific character of human geographic change in the Soviet Union in the last fifteen to twenty years can be described as the product of rigid , State-directed industrialization effort , under a planned economy spurred and modified by the exigencies of the second world war . Demographic Geography It has been indicated in the discussion of the administrative @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Soviet population is its multi-national character . Other aspects that distinguish the  | demographic evolution of the Soviet Union are ( a ) its relatively high rate of natural increase ? 1 ' 6 to 1.7 per cent . annually since the second world war ; ( b ) the spectacular urbanization that proceeds hand in hand with the continuing industrialization drive ; ( c ) the State-directed internal migration of relatively large segments of the population . Demographic evaluation of the Soviet population is necessarily based to a large extent on available Census data . The Soviet Government carried out two Censuses , in 1926 and 1939 . The 1926 Census was published in considerable detail and in many volumes . The 1939 Census , on the other hand , was published in very rudimentary form in a few Press releases . Since 1939 official information on demographic developments has been extremely spasmodic , usually in the form of scattered references in speeches by Soviet leaders . In the absence of explicit data students of Soviet affairs began to resort after the second world war to a study @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inferred . On the occasion of any Soviet election the Government delimits election districts on the basis of the current state of the population . Under the Soviet electoral system a single candidate is nominated ( and subsequently elected ) in each district . The election district lists are widely published in the Press for the information of the electorate . Since the population norm for an election district in any given election is set by law and the number of districts in any given area is published , simple multiplication yields a rather close approximation of the total population of the given area . ' Let us assume that an election in a given area provides for the setting up of eighty districts and that the population basis per district is set by law at 50,000 . The population that can be inferred from this information is eighty times 50,000 equals 4,000,000 . Let us assume further that in a subsequent election in the area under consideration ? say , after four years ? eighty-five election districts are delimited . It can be inferred that the population has risen to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are by no means to be taken as precise demographic information . For one thing , the exact date of the basic population data is unknown . It must be assumed that the delimitation of election districts is based on a population register taken some time before the election . Furthermore , such inferred figures are subject to a considerable margin of error . In our example , although the Footnote  | population norm is set at 50,000 , not every district can be expected to be delimited in such a fashion as to include precisely 50,000 persons . Some districts may range as low as 35,000 or 40,000 , others as high as 6o,000 or 65,000 . For working purposes in using this material it is assumed that the margin of error is plus or minus half the basic population norm . Thus , if a district is declared to have a legal population norm of 50,000 , the population in various districts can conceivably range from 25,000 to 75,000 . If the population of a prospective district were to fall below 25,000 it is assumed that no separate district @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to an adjoining district . If , on the other hand , the population of a prospective district were to be in excess of 75,000 , it is assumed that two districts would then be created or that the excess would be attached to an adjoining district . These comments have been presented because many estimates of the demographic situation in the U.S.S.R. after the second world war were based on precisely such election district data . Students of Soviet affairs were aware of the defects and the approximate nature of the source material , but , in the absence of official data , the election material was the only consistent source on Soviet population . In June 1956 the Russians published the first statistical yearbook since 1939 , including population data . It showed that . the population figures derived from the election data had in effect been inflated . The following discussion takes account of the newly released Soviet findings on population . The Census taken in January 1939 yielded a total population figure of about 170,000,000 . During 1939 and 1940 the U.S.S.R. annexed large sections of Eastern @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Northern Bukovina , and Bessarabia , with an estimated total population of 23,000,000 as of early 1939 . The annexations brought the total Soviet population to 193,000,000 . On the basis of the pre-war rate of increase of 1.5 per cent . the population of the U.S.S.R. at the time of the German invasion in June 1941 can be estimated at 200,000,000 . During the ensuing conflict the Germans swept through territory inhabited by 85,000,000 persons , or about 43 per cent . of the total Soviet population . Tremendous losses in manpower included not only military deaths , but also civilian deaths , a deficit in births , and emigration , forced or voluntary , to the western countries of Europe . If no war had . occurred the population of the Soviet Union probably would have risen to about 212,000,000 by the summer of 1945 . Actually , the total population of the U.S.S.R. was about 165,000,000 when the war came to a close  | in that summer . The Soviet population was thus set back by more than 45,000,000 as a consequence of the war . During the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at a rate exceeding 3,000,000 annually . Late in 1949 and early in 1950 Soviet publications hinted that the nation 's population had hit the 200,000,000 mark . This seemed supported by data released in connexion with the national elections in 1950 . The elections provided for the delimitation of 671 electoral districts , each with a population norm of 300,000 , thus indicating a population of 201,300,000 . According to data published in the Soviet statistical handbook in June 1956 , the population of the Soviet Union in early 1950 was 18o,000,000 . This would indicate that many election districts in 1950 had a population far below 300,000 . On the occasion of the 1951 anniversary of the Bolshevik Revolution , Lavrenty P. Beria , then one of the Soviet leaders , disclosed that the population of the Soviet Union had been increasing at a rate of more than 3,000,000 for a number of years , thus confirming earlier speculation to that effect . In the 1954 national elections , the electoral districts numbered 700 , which suggested , on the basis of the standard 300,000 norm , a total @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ number and the circumstance that it was not in conformity with an annual increase of more than 3,000,000 suggested that the figure inferred from the election did not represent the true population . In effect , according to the statistical yearbook , the population in early 1954 was 192,200,000 . According to the same source , the population in April 1956 was 200,200,000 . In addition to the electoral districts , outside students of the U.S.S.R. attempted to use the published numbers of registered voters for their post-war population estimates . Voting registration for all persons of 18 and over is compulsory in the Soviet Union , so that the number of registered voters represents with reasonable accuracy the number of persons of 18 and over with the exception of those who are disfranchised because of insanity or prison sentences . Before the second world war the proportion of the number of registered voters to the total population of the U.S.S.R. had been given as 55.4 per cent . in 1937 . Post-war population estimates were frequently based on the same percentage . The new Soviet statistical yearbook shows , however @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ period produced a major change in the age  | distribution of the post-war Soviet population . In early 1954 there were 120,750,000 registered voters , or 62.8 per cent . of the total population of 192,200,000 , indicating a major decrease in the proportion of young people . The vital statistics for 1955 showed a crude birth rate of 25.6 per 1000 , a crude death rate of 8.4 per I000 , and a natural increase of 17.2 per 1000 . The spectacular drive for industrialization , initiated with the first five-year plan , resulted in an equally striking rise in the urban population of the country . Urban population rose from 26,300,000 , or 17.9 per cent . of the total population , in 1926 , to 55,900,000 , or 32.8 per cent . of the total , in 1939 . Rural-urban migration to fill the increasing need for industrial manpower was undoubtedly a major factor in the doubling of the urban population . However , changes in the definition of urban ' resulted in the reclassification of former rural ' communities that were involved in any industrial activities . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on entirely economic criteria , was discussed in the preceding chapter . ) Urbanization continued at a rapid rate after 1939 , particularly in the eastern regions of the U.S.S.R. , which were not occupied during the second world war . The urban population of the unoccupied areas rose from 15,600,000 in 1939 to 20,300,000 in 1943 . In his speech of April 1954 Mikoyan declared that the urban population of the Soviet Union was about 8o,000,000 . Later that year the Soviet Press said that the urban population in 1953 had been three times that of 1926 . In February 1955 Nikita S. Khrushchev , Soviet Communist party secretary , said that the nation 's urban population had increased by  | 17,000,000 since early 1950 . These scattered figures make it possible , in conjunction with previous Census data , to trace the growth of the Soviet Union 's population during the last three decades , ( Table 1 ) . The foregoing table shows that the urban percentage was set back somewhat as a result of Soviet annexations in Eastern Europe in 1939 ? 40 of areas predominantly rural @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ urban percentage decreased as a result of the war . The peacetime trend returned after 1945 . From 1950 to 1955 the natural urban increase was 8,000,000 and an additional 9,000,000 migrated from the rural areas to the cities . Just as the most spectacular phase of Soviet urbanization was associated with the initial five-year plans , the greatest individual city growth occurred in the 1930 's . The prototypes of Soviet boom cities are the two great eastern steel centers , Magnitogorsk in the Urals and Stalinsk in the Kuznetsk Basin of Western Siberia , and Karaganda , the new coalmining city of Kazakhstan . The following table shows the growth of a number of new Soviet cities : Table As this table shows , by far the greatest population rise in these new cities , with the possible exception of Karaganda , took place before the second world war . There was no repetition in the post-war period of spectacular city growth similar to that of the great steel centers of Magnitogorsk and Stalinsk before the war . Nevertheless , urban population rose , though at a more modest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the war and the post-war period no longer rocketed from village to city of ioo , 000-population rank . Instead , whatever urban rise did occur is reflected in the growth of existing centers or in the appearance of new medium-size cities reaching a population of , p 391 say , 50,000 at most . As would have been expected , new city growth during the war and after the war was most evident in eastern U.S.S.R. , where industrialization proceeded unimpeded by the military operations in the west . The foregoing comments apply to the largest metropolitan centers of the U.S.S.R. as well as to new cities that emerged in the 1930 's . In the post-war period growth of the largest Soviet cities continued , although at a lesser rate than during the 1930 's , when the rural-urban migration was at its peak . It should be noted , however , that cities unaffected by German occupation , such as Gorki , Kazan , Kuibyshev , and Saratov in the Volga valley , Sverdlovsk in the Urals , and Novosibirsk and Omsk in Siberia , grew more rapidly than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which had suffered a setback during the war . The following table lists the cities of the Soviet Union with a population exceeding 500,000 . The figures for 1897 , 1926 , and 1939 are based upon Censuses in those years ; the 1956 estimate upon the new statistical yearbook . Table  | The industrial development of the Soviet Union under the five-year plans brought about not only a great increase in the urban population of the country , but also a regional redistribution of the population . While urbanization is related directly to the growth of new industrial centers and the expansion of older cities , the general redistribution of the population resulted from the new regional allocation of industry and a systematic settlement of sparsely populated regions . Before the start of the industrialization drive most of the Soviet population lived within the steppe and mixed-forest area roughly denoted by a triangle with apexes at Leningrad , Odessa , and Sverdlovsk . Most of the Soviet population still lives within this triangle , where natural and historical factors have been most favorable to settlement . However , as a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the country , a significant part of the population has been shifted to formerly sparsely inhabited regions . The principal direction of this population shift has been eastward , both into the Asiatic regions of the Russian S.F.S.R. and into the Central Asian republics . To a lesser extent population has moved northward in European Russia . Emigration did not occur uniformly throughout the population triangle ' of European Russia . In fact , major industrial areas within the triangle , including the Moscow , Leningrad , and Donets Basin districts , increased in population at a rate about equal to that in the eastern regions . It was the overpopulated agricultural regions of central European Russia , Byelorussia , and the Ukraine that served as the Table  | principal areas of emigration eastward , northward , and to the cities . Table 4 shows the distribution of Soviet population , with special reference to the northern and eastern regions , according to Census and election district data . Economic Progress of the Soviet Union Before the Bolshevik Revolution of 1917 Russia was primarily an agrarian nation . To-day it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Before examining the dominant economic position that the Soviet Union occupies in the world to-day , it is well to recall the main stages of economic development that followed the political upheaval of the first world war . The Russian economy emerged from the years of revolution and civil war in a chaotic state . The period of so-called War Communism ( 1917-21 ) , during which the State assumed rigid control of all phases of the economy , but was unable to maintain it , was followed by Lenin 's New Economic Policy ( N.E.P. ) . Under this program , which was to effect a temporary concession to free enterprise , domestic trade and small and medium industry were partly returned to private hands , while the State retained control over all key industries and transportation . Under this type of mixed economy the nation gradually raised its output , and by 1928 had regained or even exceeded its pre-war levels . In that year began the vigorous industrialization movement designed to raise the Soviet Union to the forefront of the world 's industrial Powers . This drive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sixth of which ends in 196o . The main effort was concentrated on the development of heavy industry , meaning metallurgy , fuels , power , machine building , and chemicals . This was essential , according to Soviet thinking , for economic and military reasons . In the Soviet view only the development of heavy industry made possible the subsequent rise of industry as a whole , of agriculture , and of transportation , thus ultimately insuring a rise in the standard of living of the people . The emphasis on heavy industry was necessitated , moreover , according to this view , by an international situation in which the Soviet Union stood alone in a generally hostile world . As a result of this economic and strategic motivation the consumer in  | the U.S.S.R. has had to take a back seat , for while heavy industry rose steadily at an impressive rate , consumer industries and agriculture were either relegated to far lesser rates of growth or stagnated at or near pre-industrialization levels , as did animal husbandry . It was evidently in an effort to placate the long-neglected @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1953 inaugurated an intensified program of consumer goods and agricultural output . The results of this program were not very successful , and there can be little doubt , that , as before , it is heavy industry that continues to grow most rapidly . Industry . Our survey of current Soviet industrial developments might well begin with the nation 's power resources , the basis of any industrial system . They are , in their order of importance , coal , water power , firewood ( used mainly for domestic heating ) , petroleum and natural gas , peat , and oil shale . We shall mainly consider the situation in coal , petroleum , and water-power , which play the leading role among the power sources for the Soviet economy . The coal industry is typical of Soviet heavy industry on two counts : the extraordinary rapid rate of increase of output and the development of new fields that have brought about an eastward shift in the centers of production . Table This table clearly shows that the Donets Basin , while still the uncontested leader among Soviet coal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than in 1913 . Its contribution to the nation 's production dropped from 87 per cent . in 1913 to 35 per cent . in 1955 . In contrast , the new eastern fields of the Kuznetsk Basin and Karaganda have risen both in absolute terms and as a percentage of Soviet total output . The great increase in the output of other fields ' demonstrates the increasing  | decentralization of Soviet coal production as additional fields , mainly of low-grade local coals , are being opened up . While total Soviet petroleum output increased at a lower rate than coal after 1913 , the recent shift in the geographical distribution of production centers has perhaps been even more spectacular . Table Until the second world war Baku 's position in the petroleum industry was comparable to that of the Donets Basin in the coal industry . Although Baku 's share in total output dropped from 84 per cent . in 1913 to 71 per cent . in 1940 , actual output almost tripled within that period . However , the war ended the unchallenged dominance of Baku . A number @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ steel , German interdiction of shipping routes , the exhaustion of wells , and the lack of new drilling , combined to force a decline of output from 23.8 million tons in 1941 to about T1 million tons in 1944 . After the war , in spite of the exploitation of new offshore wells in the Caspian Sea , the Baku production falls short of its pre-war level . In the meantime attention had shifted to the so-called Second Baku , a vast petroliferous province between the Volga river and the Urals discovered in the early 1930 'S . Its great potentialities , of which the nickname was a hopeful expression , failed to materialize at first , and at the outbreak of the second world war the production of the Second Baku was only one-tenth of that of Baku . However , in 1944 , just when Baku reached its lowest point , deeper drilling in the Second Baku disclosed rich Devonian oil-bearing strata that sent the area 's output soaring . By 1952 the Second Baku had caught up with its limping predecessor and has now become the leading @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of electric power production the most noteworthy development in the post-war period has been the marked shift to sources of hydro-electric energy .  | Table Soviet economic development is clearly reflected in the figures of electric power production , which is the backbone of any modern industrial economy . The stress placed by Soviet planners on this branch of the economy is evident from wartime developments . Although German occupation of the western part of European Russia resulted in the loss of five million kilowatts of power station capacity , or 44 per cent . of the Soviet total , new construction in the east virtually compensated for this loss , and by the end of the war both power output and capacity were nearly at pre-war levels . Since 1945 the Soviet Union , both by rebuilding destroyed stations and constructing new ones , has been raising power-generating capacity at the rate of 2.5 to 3 million kilowatts a year . Within this rapid growth , hydro-electric power has been assuming an increasingly important share . According to the fifth five-year plan ( 1951-55 ) , total electric power generating @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has been proceeding in recent years on giant power plants on the Volga river , including the stations of Gorki , Kuibyshev , and Stalingrad on the Volga itself and the station of Molotov on the Kama , a major affluent . Construction is also to be started on the Cheboksary plant , the final link in the Volga power-station system , and on the Votkinsk plant , on the Kama river . But of almost greater interest than these European projects are the large undertakings in Soviet Asia . Foremost among these is the long- - planned Angara power system at the outlet of Lake Baikal . This project , which had been on Soviet books ever since the start of the five-year planning period , is finally beginning to be realized . In February 1954 the Soviet Press announced that construction of the first Angara station at Irkutsk with a planned capacity of more than 1,000,000  | kilowatts was under way . Other major Asiatic power projects are at Novosibirsk on the Ob river and at Ust-Kamenogorsk and Bukhtarma on the Irtish river . In November 1955 the Soviet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would be built at Bratsk . Probably foremost among the consumers of these sources of fuel and power has been the Soviet iron and steel industry . Here , again , the development under the Soviet industrialization drive has been marked both by a rise in total output and an eastward redistribution of production . Table Table 8 illustrates the steady rise of ferrous metallurgy in the Urals , particularly at the Magnitogorsk plant , and in Siberia , where most of the output stems from Stalinsk in the Kuznetsk Basin . During the second world war , when the Germans occupied the Ukraine , it was the eastern plants that supported the Soviet war effort . It is noteworthy that , while the Ukraine now produces little more than one-third of Soviet steel , it still accounts for one-half of the nation 's pig iron . This continuing importance in blast-furnace production is evidently the result of favorable conditions , particularly the proximity of coal and iron-ore sources . In contrast to heavy industry 's rapid rise of output and geographical  | decentralization , the development of consumer goods industries @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by a very slight rate of increase if not stagnancy under the five-year plans . Table The trend shown in Table 9 is a slow rate of increase during the prewar planning period , when emphasis was clearly placed on the development of heavy industry ; a major drop during the second world war , frequently to the original 1932 levels or less ; a return during the first post-war five-year plan to pre-war levels , and continued slow rise or stagnancy until 1953 . Following the death of Stalin , the new Soviet regime introduced a policy of consumer goods expansion that set high goals for 1956 far exceeding levels previously achieved . Some of the consumer goods output figures become more meaningful when calculated on a per capita basis ; for example , total Soviet output of leather shoes in 1940 and 1950 provided about one pair for each Soviet citizen . The output of food items must be related to the urban population ( 6o millions in 1940 and 8o millions in 1954 ) , since only products of State industry or State-owned sales channels appear in food @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to city dwellers or consumed by the farmers themselves are excluded . Major geographical shifts , such as those observed in heavy industry , have not been evident in the consumer-goods field . Soviet literature often points to the exploiting character of Tsarist policy in having conCotton Cloth ( million  | centrated industry in the heart of European Russia and having relegated peripheral areas to the role of raw-material suppliers . Soviet policy , by contrast , has been represented as one that brings industry to the sources of raw materials , thus raising the economic level of under-developed areas . In fact , however , relatively little such movement has taken place . The Moscow-Ivanovo textile region , which accounted for more than 90 per cent . of all Soviet cotton cloth output before the Revolution , still accounts for about 75 per cent . of the production . And Uzbekistan , which supplies three-fourths of the raw cotton , produces only about 4 per cent . of the nation 's cotton cloth . Agriculture . The Soviet Union is , as it was before the Revolution , one of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ heavy industry , agriculture has not received much attention during the fiveyear plans , and together with the consumer industries has made little if any progress under the Soviet regime . The U.S.S.R. is nevertheless by virtue of its size the world 's greatest producer of wheat , rye , barley , oats , flax , and sugar beets , with potatoes , sunflowers , and cotton other leading crops . In contrast to the United States , corn plays a minor role in the Soviet Union . However , a major corn-growing program was begun in the Soviet Union in 1955 ? Although only about 7 per cent . of the total area is under cultivation , the total Soviet arable area is about 16o million hectares , or about 10 per cent . more than the arable area in the United States . The greatest part of the Soviet cultivated area lies in the black-earth steppe belt , extending east and west through the western half of the country , and in the adjoining sections of the podzol forest zone to the north and the drier steppes with chestnut-brown @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ coincides with the area of greatest population concentration , forming a triangle with the base along the Leningrad ? Odessa line and the apex in Western Siberia . At the start of the first five-year plan , the dominant Soviet farming unit was the private farm with an average sown area of 4.5 hectares . There were about twenty million such farms . As the industrialization drive gathered speed and the urban population increased by leaps and bounds , the Soviet Government was faced with the problem of insuring an adequate food supply for the industrial workers and proceeded to collectivize agriculture . The emergent organizational pattern included about 250,000 collective farms with an average area of .. 5oo hectares  | under cultivation and 5000 State-operated farms with an average sown area of 2500 hectares . In 1950 the Soviet Government amalgamated many small collective farms into larger units , with a corresponding increase in the average farm area . After consolidation there were about 100,000 farms with an average sown area of 1300 hectares . An initial plan to associate the farm amalgamation with resettlement of the peasants in a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the farmers and abandoned . Throughout the five-year plans the major concern in Soviet agriculture has been to increase output either by raising yields per hectare or Table Footnote expanding the sown area . In order to raise yields the Government has stressed the use of mineral fertilizer and the application of improved agricultural methods , such as moisture conservation and crop rotation . Quick-ripening and drought-resistant types of grains , for example , have been developed to enable the extension of the crop area into marginal  | lands with less favorable growing conditions . In spite of these measures , agricultural production has lagged and remains one of the problems in the Soviet economy . Table io illustrates the trend in the sown area and gross output of some major crops during the Soviet five-year plans . In 1953 the total Soviet grain area was 3.8 million hectares less than in 1940 , partly through the abandoning of land and partly through the diversion of the land to other crops . In view of this reduction in area and since grain output over the years had barely been able @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the population of the Soviet Union , the Government launched a major grain area expansion program in 1954 . The program called for the plowing and planting in grain of thirteen million hectares of abandoned and virgin lands during 1954 and 1955 . The expansion is taking place chiefly in the steppes of Western Siberia and Northern Kazakhstan . A great share of the expanded area is being organized as State farms , staffed to a large extent by workers from the European part of the Soviet Union . In the spring of 1954 , 124 new State farms with 2,532,000 million hectares of arable land were thus added to Soviet agriculture . In view of the apparent success of the expansion program the goals were raised late in 1954 to fifteen million hectares of new land by the end of 1955 and twenty-eight to thirty million hectares by the end of 1956 . As this program has been achieved , the expected output at the rate of one ton of grain per hectare will be a welcome addition to the Soviet food supply . The share of wheat has been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ accounted for 43 per cent . of all grain in 1940 , its share in 1952 was 61 per cent. , with the rest made up of rye , barley , oats , and other cereals . The main wheat-producing areas of the Soviet Union , nearly all situated in the black-earth belt , are the Ukraine and the Kuban , which grow winter wheat , and the trans-Volga , West Siberian , and North Kazakhstan areas , which produce hard-grained spring wheat . Cotton is the most important vegetable fiber of the Soviet Union . Its main producing areas are the irrigated regions of Central Asia ( chiefly Uzbekistan ) and Transcaucasia , where yields per hectare reached an average of two tons in 1953 . Under the Soviet regime , cotton was expanded into the non-irrigated areas of the Southern Ukraine and the Northern Caucasus . But , while these areas occupy about 20 ? 25 per cent . of the total cotton area of the Soviet Union , their low yield under  | non-irrigated conditions contributes only about 10 per cent . of the total cotton output . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reverse shift in production has taken place in the case of sugar beets . The basic beet-growing region includes the Ukraine and Kursk and Voronezh Oblasts of the Russian S.F.S.R. However , new sugar-beet areas in southern Kazakhstan and in Central Asia ( particularly Kirghizia ) are providing an increasing share of total Soviet output under irrigated conditions . While the Ukrainian yield is about eighteen to nineteen tons of beets per hectare , the irrigated yield in Kirghizia under normal conditions is as high as forty tons per hectare . In view of its far larger area , however , the Ukraine continues to account for about 65 ? 70 per cent . of all Soviet sugar beets . The U.S.S.R. has long been the world 's leading producer of flax , the raw material of the linen industry . But flax has been in recent years one of the problem crops in the U.S.S.R. A plant that requires a high input in labor , flax suffered greatly during the second world war , when its main producing area ? the north-west of European Russia ? was overrun by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by 1950 , but since that time decreased at an alarming rate . In March 1954 the Soviet Press announced that the sown area in flax had dropped by one-third since 1950 . A flax-expansion program was promulgated , calling for a gradual return of the sown area to two million hectares by 1957 , or approximately the level of 1940 and 1950 . The 50-per-cent. increase in area is to be achieved by expanding flax holdings in the Urals and Siberia , outside of the main producing regions of the Baltic republics and Byelorussia . Sunflowers , whose seed is the most important source of Soviet vegetable oil , are generally associated with the grain-growing areas of the dry and sunny south-eastern part of European Russia . The major areas are the Northern Caucasus , the Lower Volga , the south-eastern part of the Ukraine and Voronezh Oblast of the Russian S.F.S.R. One of the most stagnant sectors of agriculture has been animal husbandry . Initially high numbers of livestock were greatly reduced in the early 1930 's during the collectivization period , when farmers preferred to slaughter the stock @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ eve of the second world war , Soviet livestock numbers were still below pre-collectivization levels . The war further reduced livestock holdings , but during the post-war period 1941 levels were generally  | reached by 1951 . In view of the continuing slow increase or even some decline during the early 1950 's , the post-Stalin regime introduced a number of measures in 1953 designed to speed the rate of livestock increase . The Government expected to raise livestock levels by encouraging , , the increase of private holdings ( theretofore discouraged ) , reducing forced livestock deliveries to the State , expanding veterinary aid , and so forth . Table Most of the Soviet livestock , as of the sown area , is found in the European part of the country . Hogs are reared chiefly in the potatogrowing areas of central European Russia and Byelorussia , as well as on the basis of by-products of the food-processing industry in the Ukraine and the Northern Caucasus . Dairy cattle are raised in the moist meadows of the central and northern parts of European Russia , as well as in Western @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is oriented toward milk production , while in more remote areas butter and cheese are marketed . The steppe belt is the chief meat-cattle zone , with the animals reared on fodder crops in the west and on natural pastures in the east . Sheep-raising and wool production increase in import ance toward the drier areas of Kazakhstan and Central Asia . In its efforts to increase agricultural output , the Soviet Government is placing its hope in the major shelter-belt program initiated in 1949 . This program is designed to provide a series of windbreaks in the southeastern part of European Russia against scorching winds from the deserts of Central Asia . In addition to the great State-sponsored windbreaks , totaling 3500 miles in length , the program envisages the planting of trees on individual farms in the drought-ridden area to act as local windbreaks and to prevent soil erosion . The completion of this grandiose program is scheduled for 1965 , but the Soviet Press has been silent in recent years on progress , if any , of the shelter-belt program . Indications are that parts may have been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in any future evaluation of the Soviet agricultural potential is a series of irrigation projects being carried forward at the present time . These projects , though greatly reduced in scope from the initial Stalinist plans , still call for the irrigation of the southern Ukrainian and Crimean steppes with water from the Dnieper river and of the Lower Volga and Caspian steppes with water from the Volga . Among the projects begun under Stalin 's rule but abandoned after his death are the Turkmen Canal from the Aral Sea to the Caspian through the Kara Kum desert and the major canal linking the Volga and Ural rivers in the Caspian steppe . Instead , work has been resumed on the Kara Kum Canal in the southern part of the Turkmen Republic . Transportation . The U.S.S.R. is one of the world 's leading railroad Powers . A number of physical factors have favored railroad transportation over other means . The predominantly low relief has offered little obstacle to the building of railroad lines . The freezing of the rivers from three to nine months a year decreases the value of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the large rivers , such as those of Siberia , flow through economically undeveloped areas into hostile seas of the Arctic Ocean that are frozen the greater part of the year . Highway transportation is negligible , because of the lack of good roads and the small number of motor vehicles . And , finally , the continental nature of the Soviet Union and the lack of an indented coastline in temperate seas largely reduces the importance of coastwise shipping . It is not surprising , in view of these factors , that railroads in the Soviet Union account for 8o ? 85 per cent . of all freight carried and that the five-year plans should have placed great emphasis on the expansion of the rail network . The Soviet regime inherited about 44,000 miles of railroad from Tsarist Russia . This network covered almost entirely only the European part of the country , with the Trans-Siberian and the Trans-Caspian railroads the only links with the outlying regions of Siberia and Central Asia . As a result of new construction during the five-year plans the Soviet rail mileage had risen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mainly in the peripheral regions of the U.S.S.R. , where largescale industrial development was undertaken . One of the significant aspects of Soviet railroad geography has been the gradual decline of new construction during the five-year plans . The  | heyday of railroad building was just before the second world war and extended even into the war . Alone during the 1938 ? 42 period about 6000 miles of new line were completed . This building boom did not extend into the post-war period , and it is likely that similar construction rates will not recur . The first post-war plan of 1946 ? 50 called for the construction of about 6000 miles , including the restoration of 2300 miles of war-damaged lines . The key project among the new lines to be built was the so-called South Siberian Railroad , which was to provide a second route between the Urals and the Kuznetsk Basin in Western Siberia running south of and parallel to the Trans-Siberian Railroad . Although sections of this trunk line had been completed before and during the war , the 1950 target could not be met and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ completion of a second link between the two steel centers of Magnitogorsk in the Urals and Stalinsk in the Kuzbas , inter-regional ties have been greatly strengthened and the load on the old Trans-Siberian has been eased . The completion of the South Siberian Railroad is bound to have a major effect on the development of the areas it serves . This is already evident in the grain expansion program under way along the right of way in Kazakhstan and in the Altai Krai of the Russian S.F.S.R. The original South Siberian project envisaged a line from Kuibyshev on the Volga to Taishet at the junction with the Trans-Siberian . However , difficulties in determining the optimum track alignment have delayed construction on the Magnitogorsk ? Kuibyshev section of the line . Originally , the South Siberian was to join the existing network at Abdulino on the Kuibyshev ? Chelyabinsk railroad . Subsequently , however , an alternate alignment to Buzuluk was considered before the Abdulino variant was finally adopted . At the easternmost end of the South Siberian the Stalinsk ? Abakan section is under construction through difficult mountainous terrain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ traverses even more rugged areas and was originally scheduled to be completed after 1950 . It is not even mentioned in the sixth five-year plan and has probably been postponed . Other new post-war construction included the Mointy-Chu section in southern Kazakhstan . The completion of this railroad provides for the first time a north ? south line through the middle of that republic and greatly speeds the shipment of coal from Karaganda to the southern  | part of Kazakhstan . Parallel to the Amu Darya , the ChardzhouKungrad project was undertaken after the war both to provide a rail line to the major irrigated farmlands of the lower Amu Darya and to supply the Turkmen Canal construction project . Work on an extension of this line north-westward to Makat , near Guryev on the north-east shore of the Caspian Sea , has been postponed . The sixth five-year plan ( 1956 ? 6o ) calls for the construction of the Astrakhan ? Guryev railroad , which had been originally scheduled for the fifth five-year plan , but was not built . This line will fill a major transportation gap along @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ railroad project is the Achinsk ? Abalakovo line in Siberia , which replaces the Krasnoyarsk ? Yeniseisk railroad , another project that was scheduled under the fifth five-year plan and was not built . A total of 1900 miles of railroads was built in the course of the fifth five-year plan ending in 1955 . About 4000 more miles are to be completed by 196o . Table The rise in Soviet freight traffic reflects the tremendous industrialization effort under the five-year plans . The increase in the physical output of the major transported commodities accounts for a seven-fold rise in. the amount of freight carried by the railroads , the so-called tons originated . Foremost among these commodities is coal , which in 1955 ; accounted for 33 per cent . of all freight carried by the railroads . Other major commodities are ores and metals , petroleum , lumber , and grain . The rise in the average length of haul of all these commodities is a reflection of the development of outlying regions and the increasing distances separating producers and consumers . The average figure conceals major differences in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , cotton is carried regularly over a distance of about 2000  | kilometers from the major producing areas in Central Asia to the textile mills of the Central Industrial Region of European Russia . A rise in the average length of haul of cotton from 1814 kilometers in 1940 to 2375 kilometers in 1953 demonstrates that by far the greatest share of Soviet cotton still travels huge distances from the fields to the mills . Other long hauls of about loon kilometers are typical of the transportation of lumber , metals , and coal . Building materials , on the other hand , being generally available locally , are carried an average of 275 ? 300 kilometers . Because of the limiting physical factors stated above , Soviet waterways account for only 6.3 per cent . of all freight carried . Moreover , about 70 per cent . of all waterways freight is carried in the Volga river system . Although the Volga empties into a closed inland sea , the Caspian , its canal links with other rivers systems have made it the main artery of the Soviet river transportation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the old Mariinsk system connecting the Volga and Leningrad on the Baltic , the Baltic ? White Sea Canal , the Moscow ? Volga Canal , and the Volga ? Don Canal , the last of which was completed in the summer of 1952 . The leading types of freight on the rivers , in particular on the Volga , are petroleum , grain , and salt ( moving upstream ) and lumber ( downstream ) . These four commodities , which make up less than 6o per cent , of the railroad freight , account for more than 90 per cent , of the goods carried on the waterways . Other forms of transportation are maritime shipping , trucking , and air freight , as well as pipe-lines . The Soviet Union is not an important maritime nation , and by far the greatest part of the maritime freight moves in inland seas , particularly the Caspian . Here the shipping of crude oil from Baku to Astrakhan for trans-shipment up the Volga constitutes the most important item in Soviet maritime transportation . Trucking is restricted to short hauls to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ longer distances in some peripheral areas that lack railroads . Airlines play a key role in supplying distant parts of Siberia , especially outposts in the Far North , where frequently no other means of transport are to be found . Footnote  | Land Frontiers and Frontier Problems of the Soviet Union* W. GORDON EAST The Territorial Expansion of the U.S.S.R. THE Soviet Union emerged from victory in the second world war with enlarged territories both in Europe and Asia . The effect of ideological factors on Soviet policy receives so much attention to-day that one often forgets how strong an influence territorial changes themselves exert upon subsequent policy . New boundaries may settle quarrels ? or may exacerbate them . They may mark the limits of the expansion of a Power ? or the jumping-off places for further advances . A careful scrutiny of the territorial acquisitions of the U.S.S.R. and of the strategical significance of the new frontiers which they have traced on the map of Europe and Asia may offer clues to the direction of future Soviet moves . A British Foreign Secretary , Lord Curzon , himself @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ indeed the razor 's edge on which hang suspended the modern issues of war and peace , of life and death to nations . " And although it is probably now true to say that frontier incidents alone are unlikely to be the cause ? they can , of course , always be the pretext ? of a major war , it is only too evident that certain frontiers , and not least those of the Soviet Union , give local expression to international tension . Of the danger spots of the years following the second world war ? Greece , Berlin , Yugoslavia , Tibet , Indo-China , Formosa , Turkey , and Korea ? only the last two lie strictly adjacent to the frontiers of the U.S.S.R. , but it is not easily forgotten that the power of the U.S.S.R. , thanks to its occupation forces in Germany , its permitted Footnote  | defence of its lines of communication through Romania , Hungary , and Poland , its creation of satellite neighbours , and its privileged position in Manchuria , extends territorially far beyond its own frontiers both in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ extent and continuity as the Soviet Union has necessarily a great length of international boundaries , and , although these are only about half as long as its coastline , they stretch for Io , 000 miles and delimit eleven bordering States , six in Europe and five in Asia . The sheer length of international boundaries and the physical geography of the frontier regions in which they lie ? which may be such as either to facilitate or to minimize contact between the contiguous States ? afford , of course , no criteria of frontier tension . Witness , for example , the war which Bolivia waged against Paraguay in 1932 ? 352 in the Chaco , a tropical frontier zone which should have provided , so forbidding was its geographical character , natural and effective insulation between the settled and developed areas of the two States . Witness , too , in contrast , the peaceful stability of the long open frontier of contact between the United States and Canada , where such problems as do arise do not endanger friendly relations . But in the light of what @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ now appear to be subsumed in Soviet foreign policy , and also of the international character of Soviet Socialism ( misnamed Communism ) , the great length and wide distribution of the frontiers of the U.S.S.R. acquire significance , since they provide a tempting choice of theatres for diverse action designed towards a common end : action in the form of propaganda , ideological infiltration , sabotage , allegedly civil ' war ( here , again , is a phrase that takes on new shades of meaning ) , and direct warfare undisguised . " The old Europe has gone . The map is being rolled up and a new map is unrolling before us . " So spoke Field-Marshal Smuts in 1943 . The territorial expansion of the U.S.S.R. since 1938 has taken place mostly in Europe but also in Asia ( Fig. 1 ) , and in both there were other considerable gains which assumed less obvious forms . Along its frontier , Io00 miles long , between the Barents Sea and the Gulf of Finland its gains were secured first by the Treaty of Moscow with Finland in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the second Soviet-Finnish war , by the peace treaty of February 1947.3 Those made Footnote  | in the area of similar length between the Baltic and Black Seas were first effected under cover of the Nazi-Soviet non-aggression pact of August 1939 ; they were subsequently lost , but recovered during the Soviet-German war of 1941-45 . There are peace treaties made in 1947 with Romania and Hungary governing some of these territorial changes ; for the rest they are mainly based on the Three-Power decisions made at Yalta and Potsdam in 1945 . By its expansion in Europe the Soviet Union projected itself westward into the politically unstable shatter zone ' of East-Central Europe , but less far west than Tsarist Russia did in 1914 . It was effected by the  | incorporation of the three Baltic States , brought into the Union as constituent soviet socialist republics , and by accessions of territory from no fewer than five states ? Finland , Germany , Poland , Czechoslovakia , and Romania . In area these additions amount to about 190,000 square miles : if they enlarge the U.S.S.R. by little more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ larger than California , made up of lands strung out through 25 degrees of latitude ? from the latitude of northern Alaska to that of Portland , Oregon . Moreover , the population of the Union is increased by some twenty-four millions ? about half of whom are either Ukrainian or White Russian ? which represent an increase of nearly 15 per cent . in Soviet man-power . U.S.S.R. 's maritime position is substantially improved ; its boundary between the Baltic and the Black Sea is shortened , and in the extreme south overlaps the watershed of the Carpathian Mountains . At the same time Soviet territories conveniently flank Poland on its north-eastern side . Not the least important result of the Soviet gains in Europe is the establishment of direct contact with three states ? Norway , Czechoslovakia , and Hungary ? which were formerly separated from the U.S.S.R. , the first by Finnish and the last two by Polish and Romanian territory . Soviet Territorial Gains in the North The U.S.S.R. advanced its boundaries at the expense of Finland in three sectors ( Fig. 2 ) , although 400,000 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Finland.4 The most important adjustment was in the Karelian isthmus ? the neck of land , narrowing to less than fifty miles in width between Lake Ladoga and the Gulf of Finland , at the head of which lie Leningrad and the insular base of Kronstadt . When , after the first world war , the Grand Duchy of Finland , attached to the Russian Empire since 1809 , was replaced by an independent Finnish republic , the boundary was drawn across the isthmus favourably for the Finns , advantage then being taken there , as elsewhere , of the weakness of the new Bolshevik Russia . Behind this boundary , making full use of the constriction of the isthmus , Finland built its main defence works , known as the Mannerheim Line , which lay only about thirty miles from Leningrad . The vulnerability of Leningrad from this landward side , Footnote  | should Finland become an enemy base , was doubtless the prime reason for the Soviet attack on Finland in November 1939 . Leningrad , with its suburbs , was a city of over three million inhabitants ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ high latitudes ( 6o ? N. ) ? and it actually accounted for fully one-tenth of the whole of Soviet industrial production , while it contained important ship-building yards and commanded the only Soviet outlet to the Baltic . The area annexed from Finland in the Karelian isthmus extends from the head of the Gulf to and beyond the northern and eastern shores of Lake Ladoga : the southern part of it has been added to the Leningrad oblast of R.S.F.S.R. , and the rest to the Karelian-Finnish S.S.R. , which , as a result , obtains an outlet to the Baltic through the port of Viborg , formerly Viipuri . The U.S.S.R. therefore now holds not only the whole of the isthmus ? possession of which alone made the military defence of Finland possible ? but also the thriving seaport and water and rail focus of Viborg . Soviet control of the Gulf of Finland was confirmed by the acquisition , by the 1947 treaty , of a lease for fifty years of the Porkkala area and its peninsula , which commands marine access to Helsinki , for the U.S.S.R. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Estonian coast , notably from the port of Tallin , which is linked by rail to Leningrad . Porkkala was , however , returned to Finland in 1955 . The second area detached from Finland lies astride the Arctic Circle at the waist of Finland between the White Sea and the Gulf of Bothnia . This area is part of a great wilderness of lakes and forests , scantily peopled by Finns , Karelians ? themselves a Finnish people ? and Russians , which forms , in contrast to the well-populated Karelian isthmus , a frontier of separation between Finland and the U.S.S.R. The Soviet territory abutting this frontier consists of the Murmansk oblast of R.S.F.S.R. in the Kola peninsula , which was created in 1938 , and southward of this , between the White Sea and Lake Ladoga , the KarelianFinnish S.S.R. , which , after the first Russo-Finnish war , replaced the Karelian-Finnish A.S.S.R. , 5 set up in 1923 . These two areas cover 113,000 square miles , but only 760,000 inhabitants were recorded there in 1939 , despite substantial mining , hydro-electric , transport , and urban @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Karelian-Finnish A.S.S.R. were becoming mixed with immigrant Russians , whose speech was becoming dominant . These territories were Footnote                     