@@774360

txt  | ALMOST everywhere in Europe in the middle of the fifteenth century the form of government was monarchical . The tradition of kingship had been derived from the Germanic tribes and was nourished by classical political theory . With the exception of the Italian signories , the Swiss cantons , the cities of the Hanseatic League and some few free cities of the Empire , men lived under a monarchy whether hereditary , as in most countries of western Europe , or elective , as was the case of many of the states of eastern and northern Europe , including Hungary , Bohemia , Poland , Sweden and Denmark . Elective or hereditary , these monarchies were organized upon a basis which defined in specific terms the rights and duties of a king . Territorially the kingdom was usually composed of an agglomeration of feudal principalities , seigneuries and towns , each with its own local history and particular privileges , brought together by the results of war , the ambition of a dynasty or the divisions of inheritances , and having a common bond in their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Politically and socially the subjects were divided into a complicated hierarchy of individuals , groups and orders , determined in theory by the functions performed for the group as a whole and endowed with certain privileges reflecting the political and juridical recognition of those functions . The highest expression of such privileges was to be found in the assemblies of estates ; not only the estates , however , but other groups and individuals within the body politic were regarded in theory as endowed with rights which the monarchy had to respect . The structure of government in fifteenth-century Europe therefore commonly presented a dualism . On the one hand were the defined powers of the crown , which enabled it to fulfill its function of government ; on the other hand were the privileges of subjects , the guarantee of which was regarded as one of the chief purposes of monarchical rule . In practice the chief theme of the internal history of government in this period therefore followed the  | fluctuations between the advance of the monarch 's power and the successful assertion of privileges against the monarch . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ relations between the crown and the nobility . The latter saw their functional position in the state and their real power being undermined , and attempted by a variety of means to recoup their losses . The monarchy on its side discovered that one of the secrets of greater popular strength was the application of its expanding powers to cutting down the privileges of the feudal baronage . The emergence of strong monarchies was accompanied by the suppression of the political role of the nobility . To this extent a common pattern can be perceived in most of the great states of western Europe , although it appeared with variations in methods and time . To the anarchy of the first part of the fifteenth century ? the Hundred Years ' War in France , the Wars of the Roses in England , the troubles in Spain ? succeeded the relative order of the final decades of the century , wherein the growth of the internal powers of government paralleled the course of territorial expansion . The Spanish monarchs were perhaps the first to realize lasting success in the regulation of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ towns . In the Middle Ages there had existed an organization known as the Hermandad , a league of municipalities which provided mutual assistance and protection to its members . This organization was now utilized by the crown and transformed into something like a national militia for the preservation of order . As the public peace was primarily threatened by the feudal nobility this development amounted to an alliance between the crown and the burghers against the magnates . The reorganization of the Hermandad was begun by Isabella in Castile . After it had proved its usefulness in providing a militia paid for by the municipalities it was extended to the kingdom of Aragon in 1488 . The creation of a police force primarily directed against the nobility was accompanied and followed by other measures . In Castile Isabella ordered the destruction of baronial castles and strong places . Lands that had been alienated to favorites in the disorderly period early in the century were now resumed . Perhaps most important of all , the crown took over direct control of the three great orders of Spanish chivalry . This was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ each  | of the orders . In this way the monarchy received the great financial benefit resulting from the revenues of the orders as well as the political advantage of eliminating a series of offices that might have been a focus of rivalry and disaffection . The result of all these measures was that the Spanish nobility came increasingly to identify its political fortunes with those of the monarchy . This submission , which was already so largely prepared by Ferdinand and Isabella , was furthered by their grandson Charles when he came to the throne . The traditions of the Burgundian court which he had inherited and in which he was brought up had created a ceremonial or symbolic substitute for the functional position of the nobility . Gorgeous banquets and elaborate rituals became ends in themselves ; a court etiquette began to evolve ; the ritual that surrounded the chapters of the Order of the Golden Fleece led in a direct line through the Spanish monarchy to the courtiers at Versailles . Hence when Charles received his Spanish inheritance in 1516 he brought with him to his new kingdoms @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ferdinand and Isabella . One of the corollaries of the suppression of the political role of the nobility was the increasing importance of professionally trained lawyers in the king 's councils . The alliance between the monarchy and the towns was productive of other organs of administration . Educated administrators of bourgeois origin took the place of nobles whose position had been determined by birth . The identification of interest between the monarchy and the towns gave the crown an increasing control over the municipalities . In these circumstances the representative assemblies like the cortes ceased to have the importance they had enjoyed in the medieval period as a makeweight to the crown . With appointments to the higher clergy increasingly in the royal control , with the nobility more subservient to the policy of the court and with a third estate whose representatives were nominated under royal influence , the independence of the historic assemblies was rapidly disappearing . For long periods during the reign of Ferdinand and Isabella the cortes did not meet with any regularity and when they did , it was to confirm plans for the succession @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ This last purpose remained the greatest bulwark of the privileges of the cortes and was the ground for their opposition to Charles V at the beginning of his reign , when efforts were made to recover the medieval liberties . In reality , however , it was already too late . The battle had really been lost in the reign of Ferdinand  | and Isabella and the decisive superiority of the crown had destroyed the medieval balance ? In England , by an institutional development which offers in many ways striking parallels with that of Spain , the Tudors furnished another example of the aims and methods of the new monarchy . The founder of the Tudor dynasty , Henry VII , confirmed his questionable genealogical claim by conquest at the battle of Bosworth in 1485 . Behind him lay twenty-five years of civil war and intermittent bloodshed . The great need was for the establishment of order , which could only be undertaken by the crown . Henry VII was able to meet this need although not without having to deal with repeated conspiracies from disaffected elements and with attempts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of his reign . As in Spain , the Tudor program included a direct attack on the abuses of privilege among the high nobility and the strengthening of the administrative and judicial machinery available to the crown . The capacity of the English nobility to disturb the peace rested principally on the practices of livery and maintenance . The higher nobles had supported bands of retainers equipped with the badge or livery of their patron , who were often in fact no more than groups of desperadoes whose services could be used for any reckless purpose . Although these armed bands had been the subject of much complaint and there had been attempts to remedy the situation , Henry VII was the first to achieve any substantial measure of success . This he did by using the judicial powers of the council , giving in 1487 to a part of the council jurisdiction over cases involving livery and maintenance and disturbance of the peace . This court which became the Court of Star Chamber functioned under the direct control of the king and without the procedure of the common law . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gentry and the bourgeoisie looked upon as the tyranny of the nobility and not for many years was it regarded as an instrument of tyranny on the part of the crown itself . The establishment of the Court of Star Chamber was accompanied by other measures designed to extend the scope of royal authority . Illegitimate castles and fortifications were destroyed ; royal domain which had been alienated was recovered ; lands and fortunes of overmighty subjects were confiscated . In this way the king 's revenue was augmented and it became unnecessary for him to call on parliament for financial support ,  | a call which was bound to alienate the sympathies of the class upon which the Tudors most relied for political support . Thus it happened that Henry VII used parliament as little as possible , yet when he died in 1509 he left one of the largest treasuries of any Christian monarch . His internal policies were substantially continued in the first period of the reign of Henry VIII , though the accumulated treasure was rapidly spent in support of an extravagant and pretentious foreign policy . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ acquired an extraordinary degree of political and social control and parliament was not again to play an irnportant role against the monarchy until the seventeenth century a France was slower than either of the two great neighboring monarchies to adapt the position of the nobility to the new authority of the crown . The consequences of this delayed reaction are to be observed in the history of the civil strife in France during the sixteenth century . A promising beginning was made under Louis XI . The internal history of his reign was punctuated with the recurrent warfare between the crown and the greater vassals , of which the War of the League of the Public Weal in 1466 was the most notorious example . By skillful manipulation Louis was on the whole able to prevail over his enemies and to secure the same kind of advantages for the crown that his contemporaries in Spain and England were winning . Yet at the end of his reign the whole position was brought again into question . His successor was a minor and a weakling . The great nobles became rivals for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ kinds were reasserted . The high point of this reaction was the meeting of the estates-general summoned at Tours in 1484 to debate the question of the regency and to present the grievances of the kingdom . ' This assembly produced the most significant assertions of the privileges of the subject in the whole late medieval history of France . In one speech it was maintained that the kingship was a dignity which could not be expected to follow the ordinary rules of private property and that no taxes could be levied without the consent of the estates . Actually these fine statements seem to have been inspired by the attempt of the high nobility to retrieve their own position . By proclaiming constitutional doctrines which had a certain breadth of popular appeal the feudal interests attempted to strengthen their own  | case for privilege against a strong monarchy . In actual fact , however , the crucial battle over the power to tax had been fought many years before and the French assemblies had during the Hundred Years ' War lost that control over supply which their English counterpart was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ king had a position envied by his contemporary monarchs ; yet in spite of his better control of the purse , he had to confront a feudal nobility still able to offer a greater degree of effective political opposition . During the reigns of Charles VIII and Louis XII and during the early part of the reign of Francis I , the energies of that nobility were drained off in the campaigns of the Italian wars , yet the problem remained to become one of the principal factors complicating the history of the kingdom during the wars of religion . What the monarchy accomplished in varying degree in the three great national states of western Europe was repeated on a different scale in the smaller countries . Most of them showed the same pattern : increase in the . scope of the crown 's authority , attack on the feudal nobility , restriction of the meetings of the medieval assemblies and alliance between the king and the middle-class servants who entered the bureaucracy . In Portugal , during the reign of john II , the powers and property of the nobility @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ established under the reigns of his successors . In Denmark , Christian II accomplished much the same results in the period from 1513 to 1523 . Even in the eastern countries there were brief periods , such as the reign of Mathias Corvinus in Hungary , when a similar pattern of development seemed to be assured . Wherever a strong monarch appeared , he had to meet the threat of the higher nobility , and in the ensuing struggle relied chiefly on the lesser gentry or the town burghers . On the whole the political and social evolution of Europe was on the side of the new monarchies . Their cause was so popular that they were able to minimize or in some cases dispense altogether with the traditional representative institutions of the Middle Ages . ' Yet there were important areas which illustrated an opposite current . The Empire could not be expected to follow the pattern of development of the national kingdoms . Throughout the fifteenth century there was a continuing struggle between the electors and the imperial authority for control of the emerging organs of administration . As @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ put forth a program for the attain- ment of a greater degree of order in government . This program was backed by the desire of certain of the electors to secure a larger share of participation in the actual process of governing the Empire . Thus the struggle in Germany was not so much a difference of ends as it was in the contests between monarchy and nobility elsewhere . It was rather a conflict to see who would get possession of instruments of government that all were agreed were indispensable . In spite of his precarious position , Frederick III consistently refused to accept the electoral demand for a supreme council in which it was proposed the emperor and electors would have a joint responsibility . This struggle reached a crisis in the last decades of the fifteenth century , when the reform party was led by the archbishop of Mainz , Berthold von Henneberg . Maximilian 's needs for subsidies to meet the Turkish threat and support his dynastic program gave an opportunity to the electoral party to put pressure on the emperor to agree to a series of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1495 , subsidies were granted in return for certain reforms . An eternal Land f riede was proclaimed , that is , a ban on private warfare without limit of time , so as to ensure the maintenance of elementary order . Still more important in its effects , a new court of justice , the Reichskammergericht was established . This was to consist of members nominated by the diet and of a president appointed by the emperor . It was to be a court of first instance for disputes among the princes and also a court of appeal for certain kinds of cases . In a series of further reform diets the struggle between monarchy and electors was continued . In 1500 there was set up the Reichsregiment , virtually a regency council created for six years . This move amounted to putting the imperial authority in commission . If the council had continued to exist it would have represented a great victory for the electors and the estates . Maximilian therefore made every effort to sabotage the council and extend imperial control over the judicial system . In the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In the end Maximilian triumphed over the more extreme demands of the reform party and was able to dispense with the regency council and the estates ' control of the judicial system . There remained some very real gains from the reform effort , principally the Lan d f riede and the organization of the imperial circles , but the result was a compromise . Maximilian was never able to make against the estates of his German realm the same progress that had been achieved by his contemporaries in France and Spain . The Empire remained a political unit  | dominated by the uneasy balance between the great feudal element , now become the princes of states , and the imperial authority e Farther east , Poland provided the classic example of a country that followed the extreme opposite of the pattern of development of a strong monarchy . During the fifteenth century the whole body of the gentry secured privileges of immunity and the right to participation in authority at the expense of the crown and the great nobles . The competence of the general assembly , which was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and confirmed . Assurance was given that district and provincial assemblies would be held prior to the general assembly of the estates , so that delegates might be instructed on the agenda and the opinions of the class might be formed . Thus the gentry as a class enlarged its gains at the expense of other classes in the state and came finally to wield an authority greater than that of the monarchy itself . The aristocratic Polish republic of the eighteenth century had an elected king as a figurehead and a diet whose liberum veto had become a famous symbol of parliamentary inefficiency . In these circumstances Poland became an easy mark for more aggressive and better organized neighboring states . Although three hundred years separated the triumphs of Casimir Jagellon from the first partition in 1772 , the foundations of Polish weakness were laid at , the beginning of the sixteenth century in the social and political changes which gave the gentry so much power at the expense of the monarchy on the one hand and of the commercial middle classes on the other . ' Poland remained the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ estates acquired political power beyond that of the king . For most of the European monarchies the same period showed an increase in the prestige and power of the crown . In those countries where the political evolution moved away from feudalism the scope of governmental activity broadened . The function of the medieval king had been defined in terms of the concepts of justice and peace . The former implied in practice the preservation of existing rights and privileges , and the latter the maintenance of order . Operating with these concepts , royal government superior to other kinds of feudal government , but not supreme , was in fact often very limited . The natural corollary of increasing power was a redefinition of the objectives of government , giving to the crown a wider sphere of action and a more comprehensive control over subjects which  | would never even have been considered in a medieval court . Victory ? at least partial victory over the nobility ? control of more sources of revenue , a greater degree of political independence of the estates : all these were reflected in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ armies and innovations in the character of government at home . The techniques of administration were still far from sufficiently developed to permit the regulation of all departments of life in the state by a central administration . Compared to the experience of even nontotalitarian governments today , early sixteenth-century royal governments would seem very limited and inefficient . But the trend of evolution toward greater centralization was already producing decisive results . The growth of an army and a bureaucracy , the twin pillars of the absolute state , accompanied the increase in the power and resources of the monarch . The states in which this process had been most effective were now in a position to undertake external expansion and to overwhelm the older , smaller governments , whose whole organization was on a different scale and who were unable to compete with the national monarchies . The major unit in western Europe where the government was not organized on the basis of monarchy and estates was Italy . For a number of historic reasons Italy showed the greatest deviations from the common European pattern . Even there , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the system of estates as in the larger monarchies . In the duchy of Savoy , for example , the estates met and functioned very much as they did in France . Clergy , nobility and bourgeoisie were assembled from the several provinces to negotiate with the ducal power the assessment of financial aid . The dukes also showed the same tendency as contemporary kings to find means for dispensing with meetings of the representative assemblies and in fulfilling this aim they were largely successful . The government of the papal territories also made use of assemblies of estates . In the various provinces of the papal states all who had seigneuries and all ecclesiastics who were bishops and abbots appeared in person and were accompanied by representatives of the cities and countryside . The chief occasions for such assemblies were no different under the papal administration from what they were under secular states . Money was needed to support the troops who were the chief instrument of papal policy in Italy . Finally in the kingdom of Naples , the only really  | territorial state in Italy , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ medieval times . Already in the thirteenth century the Hohenstaufen emperors had summoned representatives of the third estate to their assemblies . The Neapolitan and Sardinian parliaments were like those of England in acting as courts in which judgments were decided and laws published . The greater ecclesiastics and barons were required to attend in person at the provincial estates , together with representatives of the larger towns . Some of the powers of these bodies remained effective in the fifteenth century even while the Aragonese kings were trying to build up a system of absolutism , supported by humanists whose ideal was derived from imperial Rome . After the Spanish occupation Ferdinand began to introduce some of the practices which had been successfully developed at home . The estates became less important , but the political structure of the kingdom of Naples remained more like that of the northern monarchies than most of the other states of the Italian peninsula . Savoy , the papacy and Naples were , then , the exemplars in Italy of the more general European pattern based on a balance between monarchy and estates . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ like Florence , Milan , and Venice , as well as the smaller lordships and principalities , were characterized by a much greater flexibility of political form . The opportunity for political improvisation , the relative independence of traditional institutions , the disregard for " legality , " the consciousness of politics as an autonomous area of activity marked off especially from ecclesiastical control ? all this led Jacob Burckhardt to see in the Italian scene the birth of the state as a " work of art . " Following Burckhardt 's interpretation , many historians have emphasized the critical importance of the history of the Italian states in this period , attributing a " political Italianization " to the northern monarchies , from which date the beginnings of modern politics . From the institutional point of view the thesis that the origins of the modern state are to be sought in Italy can not be sustained . But the political history of Florence , Venice , Milan and the lesser Italian city states did provide an environment in which certain attitudes toward political activity and certain norms of statecraft were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ origins apart , it is in a sense not too fanciful to see in the experience of these states , as in the city states of ancient Greece , a microcosm of the issues which confronted the great national states of Europe at a later period , both in their internal development and in their relations with one another . Because , further- more , the decline and overthrow of the Italian city states mark the beginning of the European state system , it is instructive to consider the reasons why they were unable to compete with the larger territorial entities , whose political organization under even the most absolute of monarchies included some degree of representative institutions . The commune of Florence stood in the middle of the Tuscan territories that were subject to it . The rural inhabitants were entirely deprived of political rights . It was one of the most striking features of the government of the city states that active participation in citizenship was confined to a proportion of those who lived within the actual walls of the city . In the case of Florence in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 100,000 , no more than 3,000 were active participants in political life . The failure to develop a technique whereby the subjects and inhabitants of the countryside could be given greater participation in the process of government was in the long run one of the most serious weaknesses of the Florentine organization . The peasants , who in the early days of the commune had been willing to join forces with the burghers in the attack on seigneurial and ecclesiastical jurisdiction , found as time went on that they had exchanged one master for another . Since their loyalty was so tenuous , it was natural enough that the citizenry should prefer to depend upon a body of mercenaries rather than on the fighting capabilities and devotion of their own subjects . In the series of disasters occurring at the beginning of the sixteenth century , Machiavelli had to note the evil consequences of this policy , but by then it was already too late . It was impossible to create a local militia able to compete with the armies of France and Spain . Thus one of the chief factors @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ failure to achieve a satisfactory organization for the government of the subject territories . Whereas in France the people , even in remote provinces , felt some sense of participation ? even if only the grudging performance of a duty and not the exercise of a right ? when they elected procurators to represent their interests in the assemblies of the estates , the peasants subject to the government of Florence could only feel that they labored for a community which had no interest in their welfare beyond the continuance of their constant agricultural labor . It may well be charged that the sense of participation that existed in France or in Spain was a pure illusion , inasmuch as the effective right to consent to grants had disappeared . But so long as the assemblies were held at all , even if it was felt that they were not in a position to oppose governmental demands or  | governmental requests , there was nevertheless a greater basis for a sense of community than existed in the territories subject to the government of Florence . Within the city itself , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from an earlier democratic period served in the fifteenth century only to mask a rigid oligarchic control . As in the subject territories , there was a failure to effect a representation of various interest groups such as was achieved on a so much larger territorial scale in many contemporary kingdoms . For purposes of government the city was divided into quarters that dated from the middle of the fourteenth century , and had been preceded by an earlier division into sixths . Each quarter was then further subdivided . The representation of these territorial fractions formed an essential element in the composition of all governing bodies , but it was not a representation based on territorial principle alone . Twenty-one recognized trade guilds constituted what might be called the social basis of representation , which was even more important than the territorial basis . Of these guilds seven were so-called greater and fourteen lesser guilds . The former were represented in the lists of elegible candidates for office at the proportion of four to one . This was the result of the diminution of the power of the lesser guilds @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Ciompi had failed . Of the bodies elected to govern Florence on this territorial and social basis , the signory was the most important . This was composed of two priors from each quarter and the gonfalonier of justice , making nine in all . These officers were elected by lot from purses filled with the names of the eligible candidates in due proportion to represent the quarters and the guilds . A new signory was installed every two months , with the result that Florence had six principal changes of government annually . The signory was advised by two subordinate colleges , the twelve boni homines and the sixteen gonfaloniers of companies . In addition there were the two greater councils : the council of the people and the council of the commune . The latter was the only body of which the membership was not confined to representatives of the guilds . Both councils had the function of approving proposals laid before them by the signory of nine during its two-month term of office . On an extraordinary occasion a parlamentum or assembly of all citizens was summoned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ parlamentum was generally the appointment of a reform commission , to carry on the functions of government during an emergency . This commission was ordinarily given power to appoint a certain  | number of its members to revise the lists for the priory and sometimes to designate , instead of electing by lot , the incoming signory . Finally , there were committees appointed by the signory , such as the eight who were responsible for police , the six who constituted a committee on commercial affairs , and the ten who were put in charge of war and peace and whose appointment was generally tantamount to a declaration of war . It is obvious that this constitution , although democratic in form , was by its very complexity susceptible of manipulation by powerful groups . In effect , from the time of the suppression of the Ciompi , the oligarchic party had been able to realize its policies almost unhampered , without attacking or abolishing any of these basic institutions . In the same way Cosimo de ' Medici simply substituted for the oligarchic domination behind the facade of democratic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and grandson provided a remarkable example of the control of a government . Cosimo took no public office that did not come to him in the ordinary course of events . The only innovation he made was the appointment of a more or less permanent body of inspectors to comb the electoral lists and revise them in the interests of the Medicean party . During a period of thirty years Cosimo served three times as gonfalonier of justice , that is , a term of six months altogether ; but without holding any regular office at all he managed to secure control of foreign affairs and succeeded in so confounding the revenues of his family with those of the republic that it was impossible to tell where one left off and another began . The chief source of revenue was a property tax of the same percentage , levied on all citizens and instituted by the oligarchy in 1429 . This levy , however , had been supported also by Cosimo de ' Medici , and during the period of the Medicean domination graduated taxes were introduced , especially during the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ alliance with Venice against the advances of Filippo Maria Sforza of Milan . A succession of indirect measures therefore ensured to Cosimo the practical control of the government of Florence . This control was maintained by a policy of encouraging the rise of new men whenever conspicuous ability seemed to demand it . A pretense of democracy was achieved by socially exalting some of the lowly men , and even the former nobility were conciliated by being on occasion admitted to public office . The flattery of all shades of opinion , together with the exercise of a minimum amount of political manipulation , assured to the Medici an enormous popularity during the lifetime of Cosimo and that of his son and  | grandson . When Cosimo died , no title could be found for him except that of Pater Patriae , but he was not the less surely succeeded by his son and grandson than were the Visconti and the Sforza in Milan , who had founded a dynasty . Yet in spite of the fact that the succession descended thus regularly , the Medici government only gradually developed the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ brief tenure of power was marked by insecurity and Lorenzo tightened his control after the Pazzi conspiracy had revealed the strength that might rally to an opposition party . At that time ( 148o ) , in place of the usual baba or five-year commission , he instituted the council of seventy , a self-perpetuating body with wide powers for the conduct of government . As the members of the council were made up of Lorenzo 's personal friends and supporters , the Medici position was secured , though at the cost of more obvious manipulation than had been indulged in by Cosimo . After Lorenzo 's death in 1492 the heritage of popularity and the whole carefully built structure of influence were thrown away by the carelessness of Lorenzo 's eldest son , Piero . His pretensions , his aristocratic marriage , his withdrawal from the common people , all alienated many of his father 's supporters . The crisis was finally precipitated in 1494 by Piero 's surrender to the French invaders . After this event the Medici were expelled and a period of constitutional debate ensued about what @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ government . Impressed with the stability and success of the Venetian constitution , several citizens put forward proposals to copy some of the principal Venetian institutions in Florence . In particular , it was proposed that there should be a council and a senate . In order to make the council a manageable body it was argued that it should be restricted to those having any ancestor in the last three generations who had occupied one of the major magistracies in Florence . Even with this restriction it was discovered that the council would be unwieldy , and it was therefore suggested that it be divided into three bodies with rotation three times a year in order to assure a more workable assembly . These proposals were vigorously debated and finally adopted owing to the influence of Savonarola , who in his famous series of political sermons really established the new constitution . For the remaining four years of his life Savonarola dominated the political as well as the spiritual activities of the city . He succeeded in keeping down both the partisans of the Medici and the representatives of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ debate was renewed after the death of Savonarola ,  | and , in the face of the danger presented by the aggressions of Caesar Borgia , it was proposed that the office of gonfalonier of justice be established for life . Thus for a chief magistrate who had changed every six months was now substituted an executive who had some expectation of continuity . Piero Soderini was elected to this office in 1502 and continued to be the director of the Florentine government for eight years . At the end of this time the fortunes of the Florentine republic were involved with the successful attempt of Julius II to drive the French out of Italy . The persistence of the Florentines in maintaining their French alliance cost them the independence of the republic . At the congress of Mantua in 1512 it was agreed by the victorious league that the Medici should be restored . Within the following months this decision was enforced . Cardinal Giovanni de ' Medici entered Florence with a victorious army , Soderini and his supporters were exiled , and the whole constitutional structure built up in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reform commission was appointed , which proceeded to the restoration of the Medicean constitution , including the appointment of a permanent body of inspectors for the electoral lists . By the time the Cardinal de ' Medici was elected to the papacy in 1513 , the position of his family was again secure in Florence . ' The Medici domination of Florence had begun with the return of Cosimo in 1434 to a stronger political position than he had occupied before his exile . This pattern was repeated in the restoration of 1512 . The period of exile had been longer but it ended in the establishment of stricter control . The logical culmination of this process was to be reached in 1527 , when the last attempt to create a Florentine republic was followed by the end of independence and the emergence of the Medici as grand dukes of Tuscany . The history of the Medici family thus provides an unusual and direct example of the progress from economic to political power . The basis of the Medici position was the wealth derived from banking and control of the textile @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ except in the framework of institutions provided by the city state . In the feudal monarchy , as we have seen , bankers like Jacques Coeur and even the Fuggers , who supplied the necessities of Charles V , had remarkably little influence on policy . Only in a political unit which was outside feudal and monarchic traditions was it possible for a family like the Medici to develop so comprehensive a political power .  | If the political experience of Florence is an outstanding example of the extent to which a family of bankers could acquire almost complete control of the political life of the community , the constitution of Venice demonstrated the vitality and political acumen of an oligarchy whose economic interests resembled those of the Medici , but who were able to govern as a class where the Medici governed as an individual family . Venice provided an unprecedented example of stability . Its constitution continued for centuries to be widely admired , long after the actual power of the city had begun to decline . In its origin the Venetian constitution revealed the elements that were common @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is , there was an executive element , comparable to the gonfalonier of justice in Florence , who in Venice came to be called the doge . There were , in addition , two councils , one large , which eventually embodied all the noble and patrician elements , and one small , which consisted of the doge and his immediate advisers and which acted as the real ruling body . In the course of its evolution the position of the nobility in both councils grew stronger at the expense of the doge on the one hand , and of the representation of popular elements on the other . From the time when the great council at the end of the thirteenth century had been closed to all except those who could prove that their ancestors had sat in that body , membership became hereditary . Nevertheless , this body still remained so large as to be unwieldy , and , although in theory its function was the control of all public affairs , in practice its principal activity came to be the election of the important officials . The doge @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that there should be no undue influence from any one family or group . Although he presided over the government of Venice and was clothed with all the magnificence of a reigning monarch , he came to be in fact more and more the ceremonial representative of the state and the mouthpiece of the patricians . The real executive authority rested in the senate , a smaller body elected in part for a term by the great council and in part consisting of officials who had a more or less permanent tenure . In all , it consisted of about three hundred persons who managed the finances and the public administration , decided peace and war , and debated treaties . It received the reports of the ambassadors , which were regularly sent from the countries to which they were accredited . The senate worked under an executive committee composed of a select number of its members , which was called the college . Finally , parallel to the senate in power ,  | were the famous ten who had originally been established as a kind of committee of public safety @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the senate , and their principal function was the detection and punishment of any attempted treason in the state . In the end they became an all-powerful body whose precept gave them an excuse for interfering in many departments of Venetian government and life . In sum , the Venetian constitution reflected the power of a ruling class to maintain its position unquestioned for several centuries . The Venetian oligarchy was remarkably successful in keeping the majority of the people happy in their share of the benefits of the society to which they belonged . This sense of community was however really achieved only in the city of Venice itself , because in the area of their mainland conquests , as well as in many of the islands of the empire , the subject population had no more sense of identification with the government than did the Florentine contadini with the magistrates of Florence . The morale of the Venetian aristocracy , combining as it did the qualities of a successful business corporation with those of a ruling caste , was maintained by a severe inculcation of the idea of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interests been so successfully intertwined . The young Venetian nobleman was educated to labor for both the profit and the power of the group to which he belonged . For many generations the highest standards of ability and loyalty were preserved . The attention of political theorists was particularly directed to what was considered to be the classic exposition of mixed monarchy in the Venetian constitution . The doge , the senate , and the great council were assumed to represent the monarchic , the oligarchic , and the democratic principle , and to generations of students in the classical revival , who had read Polybius on the success of the Roman constitution , it seemed as if an ever more brilliant future lay before the Venetians . Actually , although Venice continued to be one of the great powers of the western world until far into the sixteenth century , the voyages of discovery and the revolutionary changes in the routes of trade had begun to undermine the republic 's economic position , while at the same time the successful demonstrations of the powers of national monarchy indicated that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ broader allegiance and could create a more vivid and continuing sense of identification between ruler and ruled .  | The third of the great Italian city states , Milan , had been a medieval duchy . When the last of the Visconti died in 1447 there was proclaimed the Ambrosian republic . This romantic venture was a product of classical reading and nostalgia for the earlier , heroic period of the Lombard communes . Those responsible for the government were not distinguished for political wisdom and the whole episode was based on hopes that bore very little relation to contemporary reality . One of the first acts of the new commune was to hire as the condottiere in the war against Venice Francesco Sforza , who had himself been one of the principal claimants to the Visconti succession . Within three years Sforza had turned on his employers , captured the government , settled the war and been recognized by the peace of Lodi as duke of Milan . As a small concession to appearances the government of the Sforza preserved some of the institutions of the Ambrosian republic , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ strong man who was able to impose his rule by his capacity rather than his title.1 ? For such a ruler a program of public works and military expenditure was a necessity . In the next generation , when Francesco 's original usurpation was compounded by his younger son , Lodovico , who took over the government from the rightful heir , the maintenance of a brilliant court became even more a matter of policy . If the Burckhardtian conception of the state as a work of art means anything it must be understood in terms of freedom from the historic mold of institutions , of the opportunity for improvisation that was enjoyed by such a figure as Ludovico Sforza in comparison with contemporary northern monarchs . The smaller Italian principalities followed much more closely the Milanese pattern than the Florentine or Venetian . Whether the ruler was hereditary or a usurper , he exercised a direct personal control largely independent of traditional institutions . The Este at Ferrara , Gonzaga at Mantua , Montefeltre at Urbino , Bentivogli at Bologna , sometimes as benevolent despots , sometimes as unbelievably cruel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . So strong was the inherited pattern of individualism and particularism that in spite of countless and continuous marriage alliances between the rulers of these city states , political connections never developed beyond the point of military alliances . Far from reaching the kind of unification toward which the monarchy in France was moving , the Italian city states did not even develop those federal leagues which might have served as a substitute and been a bulwark against disaster when the northern invasions began .  | Indeed it was not in the advanced civilization of the Italian city states , but in the economically and culturally backward cantons of Switzerland that Europe found the first successful example of federal institutions since antiquity . The nucleus of the Swiss system was originally made up of the three forest cantons of Uri , Schweiz and Unterwalden , which had made a compact of mutual assistance as early as the thirteenth century and had won practical independence from the encroachments of the Hapsburg at the beginning of the fourteenth . In the case of a national state like France the growth of the central @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a reciprocal growth of political consciousness on the part of the territories over which the central power was extending its claims until both the central power and its subordinate territories were finally assimilated in one body politic . In the case of Switzerland , on the other hand , although the first phase of the evolution followed the French pattern , the final result was a separation from the control of the central power of the territory in which political consciousness developed . Thus the Hapsburgs , endeavoring to assert their privileges over the forest cantons and having to meet in response the development of a local diet , were in a way comparable to the French crown in its dealings with the provincial estates , let us say , of Brittany ; but in the case of Switzerland , geographical considerations as well as the general political weaknesses of the Hapsburg position , in contrast to that of the king of France , made possible the emergence of a new political entity , although its final independence was not assured until the Treaty of Westphalia in the seventeenth century . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and territories which shared their position and their sentiments . By the middle of the fourteenth century eight small states were grouped in a loose confederation , bound together by a complicated system of allegiances , the terms of which varied from case to case . Further additions were made in the early fifteenth century when Appenzell and St. Gall were brought into the confederation by treaty and part also of French Switzerland was added . The most brilliant period of Swiss history fell in the second half of the fifteenth century , in the age of Charles the Bold . The growing power of the Swiss had encroached on the Hapsburg territories in the Black Forest , and the current representative of the Hapsburg family , Duke Sigismund of Austria , was forced to make an arrangement with the Swiss , by which he promised to pay a large sum within the year in order  | to redeem the territories the Swiss had threatened . It was further stipulated that if he did not redeem these territories they would be forfeited to the Swiss . This bargain was completed in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ soon turned to Charles of Burgundy and borrowed money from him to pay the Swiss , but on terms requiring the cession of a portion of the disputed territories to the Burgundian power . This situation provided Louis XI of France with an opportunity to intrigue to bring together the Austrian and Swiss interests against the aggressive designs of Burgundy . By 1470 this new system of alliances was achieved , and in 1474 the Swiss began their war against Charles . In the years 1476-1477 were fought the famous battles of Grandson , Murten , and Nancy , in the last of which Charles of Burgundy was killed . From this experience the Swiss emerged as a leading military power of western Europe , and Switzerland soon became a celebrated recruiting ground for mercenary soldiery , the need for which was acutely felt by the great powers . At the end of the fifteenth century , between 1495 and 1499 , the Swiss became involved in war in Germany . In spite of the fact that they were still theoretically part of the Empire , they refused to participate in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ imperial circles established by Maximilian in the period between 1495 and 1502 . Needless to say , they refused also to pay the taxes imposed in connection with these reforms . Their strategic position enabled them to play a crucial role in the struggle for the partition of Italy and , although they began in alliance with the French , at the time of the invasion by Charles VIII and also during the period of Louis XII 's first military adventures , they were eventually brought into opposition to the French by the policy of Julius II in the period from 1510 to 1512 . Cardinal Schiner was closely allied with the prosecution of the designs of Julius II , and by his influence the pope was able to recruit a Swiss army that played a critical role in the events leading to the expulsion of the French from Italy in 1512 . In this way , by the time the European state system was beginning to emerge along lines familiar in modern times , the Swiss had established a practical independence that was associated with an impressive display of military @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ loose . In the age of the Swiss triumphs in Italy the original nucleus of forest cantons had grown to thirteen confederated states . In addition there were four allied territories and three subject or conquered lands . All these territories sent delegates to diets that met at regular intervals . There was , however , no  | central directing body or executive authority , and decisions of the diet were additionally hampered by the fact that the voting procedure required unanimity . Thus , one state could defeat the intentions of twelve others and prevent the adoption of a common policy . Furthermore , even when a common policy was adopted , the absence of an executive authority meant the possibility of one or more states refusing to put into practice decisions voted by the diet . Very slowly the Swiss federal system evolved in the direction of a more effective control , but it was to be a long time before the federal authority developed to any appreciable extent against the particularist tendencies of the several members . The Swiss confederation remained a unique example in Europe of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the existence of a central executive power . " While the Swiss league was moving toward the establishment of a permanent political power , a league of city states which had been far more powerful in the medieval period was undergoing decline . The Hanseatic League can not , of course , be compared to Switzerland except in terms of the development of organizational association between political units having a common interest . From the compact organization of the cantons nothing could be more remote than the far-flung cities of the Hanse ; but although it had appeared at one time during its earlier history that the Hanseatic League might provide a basis for a more comprehensive political organization , by the end of the fifteenth century it was clear that other types of organization would prevail . In almost every area of northern Europe in which the Hanse had been dominant in the earlier period it now began to retreat . In the Netherlands the city of Bruges had been the great capital of the Hanseatic organization and had been privileged by the grant of the staple to maintain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ variety of factors undermined the position of Bruges . In the first place , the river Zwyn on which the town was situated began to silt up , and it became increasingly difficult to undertake engineering works on a scale sufficiently comprehensive to keep open from Bruges to the sea a channel adequate to the volume of commerce coming into the Netherlands . From many points of view Antwerp offered more advantages as a harbor , and more and more merchants began to be attracted to Antwerp . Bruges was hidebound by rigid municipal regulations derived from an earlier period .  | of medieval commerce , which the burghers were reluctant to change , even in those cases where they perceived the possibility of a more liberal arrangement . Gradually , therefore , Bruges sank into decline , frozen in a framework of legal and commercial arrangement designed for an earlier period ; Antwerp , manifesting more vigor and initiative , emerged as the economic capital of the future . During this transition period the Dutch and the English increasingly refused to observe the regulations of the Hanseatic staple at Bruges @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ these national interests . In the North Sea , also , the competition the Hanse had to meet from the commercial activity of emergent national groups was a serious factor restricting its power and prestige . From the time when the Dutch came under the protection of the Burgundian dukes in 1433 their commerce had been increasing . They began to seek an ever larger share of the Baltic and Russian trade that previously had been a monopoly of the Hanseatic League . The cities of Danzig and Lubeck continued to oppose the intrusion of the Dutch , but less and less successfully . In addition , the League was increasingly threatened from Scandinavia . The peace of Copenhagen in 1441 was both politically and commercially disadvantageous to the League , and the increasing power of Denmark constantly menaced the position of Lubeck . This threat culminated in open war in the first decade of the sixteenth century and by the time Christian II succeeded to the Danish throne in 1513 , with an avowed policy of bringing the whole commerce of the Baltic under Danish leadership , it was clear @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were numbered . In spite of the fact that Lubeck was still able to take a decisive part in installing the house of Vasa on the Swedish throne , the city was presently faced by an alliance of Denmark , Holland , and Norway against which it was impossible to prevail . The Hanseatic diets were , like the Swiss , an interesting variation on the pattern of corporative organization . They represented , naturally , the interests of a single class , and had not therefore the organization of estates , which was the usual characteristic of assemblies on a territorial basis . Their organization was highly informal ; every member city was required to send delegates under penalty of being eventually " unhansed . " Excuses were accepted only in such cases as a violent visitation of the plague or the involvement in war or domestic revolution . It was considered that the diet could take decisions binding those who were not present . It had no actual regular time of meeting , but met most often at  | Whitsuntide , when the weather was fair for traveling , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the activity of the League and where its archives and documents were kept . The fate of the Hanseatic League raises interesting questions as to the extent to which a political organization can be built on economic interest alone . Certainly in the period of its glory the Hanseatic League disposed of more wealth and even more military power than many contemporary monarchies . Yet in the long run the burghers who had in their charge the destinies of the League developed a narrow-minded , oligarchic point of view that put them at an obvious disadvantage in a competitive struggle with territories in which a national political consciousness , with all the power that such a consciousness implied , was beginning to emerge . Whether kingdoms or city states , all governments of the fifteenth and sixteenth centuries , like governments of other periods , were constantly in need of regular sources of revenue . In some states like Milan , Florence , and Venice , where there were large accumulations of capital and where , as in the case of the Medici , there was a practical obliteration of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was not acute . The role of the public authority was well defined and that authority was on the whole able to command revenue sufficient to enable it to perform its assigned functions . In those states organized on a corporative basis , however , and among them especially those whose scope was expanding both territorially and administratively , the situation was different . The ordinary sources of revenue available to medieval governments were no longer sufficient to meet developing political and military needs . European monarchies attempted to solve this problem in different ways and with varying degrees of success . The king of Poland had certainly as much reason for demanding an increase of revenue as the king of France or England , but the Jagellons were never able to establish their claims as securely as the Valois and the Tudors . The solutions of the financial problem that had the most important social and political consequences depended on the complex interaction of the common European political inheritance and the differences in regional and local circumstances . Comparative study of this problem is a most important key to understanding @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ culture .  | The great issue of the rights of the monarch over the property of the subject , or , in more general terms , the relation between authority and property , had been one of the central themes in the history of all the states of Latin Christendom . The views inherited from feudal institutions as well as from feudal theory had insisted that a king " should live of his own , " and that only certain emergencies justified requests for grants from his subjects . The famous maxim of Seneca ? " To kings belongs authority over all ; to private persons property " ? which Professor McIlwain has declared best embodies the living political conceptions of the later Middle Ages , continued to have vital relevance to political practice as well as to political theory , even though the meaning of both " property " and " authority " was being transformed . In many ways the theoretical separation of the functions of property and those of power paralleled the dichotomy between the privileges and powers of the monarch and those of the individuals , groups @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ domanial or ordinary revenues failing , governments were confronted with the task of increasing the extraordinary grants from their estates or else finding new sources of revenue . The appeal to the estates of a realm was the traditional recourse for financial assistance . Such grants might be of several kinds , but were usually limited to the duration of a defined emergency . The estates were almost everywhere in Europe increasingly reluctant to make grants of this sort , even in the most pressing circumstances . There was widespread public opinion in favor of increased governmental action , as of the crown against the nobility , the extension of public order , the prosecution of an aggressive foreign policy and other aims , but when it came to footing the bill , those who had the money were , perhaps not surprisingly , more attracted by the possibilities of further capital accumulation or the necessities of maintaining a position than they were by the needs of contributing to the interests of the wider community to which they belonged . Chancellors exhausted themselves and their audiences in pleading for amounts sufficient @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In some cases , notably that of the French monarchy , there had been established permanent taxes which had originally been emergency grants but which could now be collected annually without the necessity of recourse to the estates . Such was the celebrated taille as well as numerous aides . For this achievement the French kings were envied by neighboring monarchs . Maximilian , for example , is reported to have described Louis XII as the king of beasts , because he could get from his  | subjects what he wanted , Ferdinand of Spain as the king of men because he was granted a reasonable sum , and himself as the king of kings because he was not able to extract anything at all from his subjects . Yet , even on this favorable view , the revenues collected by the French monarchy were entirely insufficient to meet its commitments . In the absence of an adequate regular revenue established by the consent of the estates , many governments resorted to the kind of borrowing from bankers and private capitalists that we have already discussed in considering the position of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more necessary , even when the regular taxes brought in a considerable amount , because the way in which the revenue was collected did not permit the accumulation of an immediately available sum of capital . The taille , for example , was collected over a period of a year , came in driblets , and was almost invariably spent before it had been received . Hence the resort to tax farmers or bankers , who could advance the estimated sum to be collected , in return for themselves taking over the rights of collection or at least a mortgage on the results . Similarly , custom duties such as those on woolfells and leather were collected over a long period , and did not supply the want of immediate cash . Such cash could usually be secured only by loans from bankers , often at exorbitant rates of interest and at the price of a lien on some source of government revenue . The relationship between impecunious monarchy and the merchant capitalist has already been considered . It developed during this period with many variations . Loans were secured by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in some cases , as in France during the reign of Francis I , the beginnings of government bond issues are to be found in the allocation of the revenues of the Hotel de Ville in Paris to the payment of interest and amortization charges on short-term loans . In addition to grants from the estates and loans from bankers and private individuals , many other expedients were adopted by early modern governments to increase their revenues without violating too openly the property rights of the subjects . A method much resorted to , especially by Henry VII in England , ably served by Empson and Dudley , was the interpretation of legal precedents so as to justify confiscations of the property of the nobility . These measures served the double purpose of depressing the overmighty subject and improving the economic status of the crown . Among the methods for increasing governmental revenue none was  | more interesting and fraught with more consequences than the sale of public office . This was classically developed in France , where it eventually became one of the regular sources of funds for the ancien @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were declared irremovable , and from this it was but a short step toward regarding them as the dispensable property of the incumbents . As more and more offices were offered for sale , entrepreneurs who had accumulated some capital found that it could be profitably invested in buying an office . In this way capital , originally derived from commercial or industrial activity , was deflected from further utilization in such activity . The opportunity to improve one 's status by association with the royal service was a powerful attraction to many of the bourgeoisie . A life of commercial or industrial adventure was exchanged for security , and the wages paid for fulfillment of the duties of the office could be regarded as a more than reasonable return on an initial investment of capital . From the point of view of the monarchy sums of ready cash were thus acquired , the repayment of which to individuals took the form of disbursements that the monarchy would in any case have had to make . In the long run the whole system became an elaborate mechanism by which new forms @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and the practice is an illustration of the social and economic consequences of the monarchies ' search for revenues . It flourished most completely in France , but it was practiced also in Spain , where it was partially applied to municipal offices , and to a lesser extent in the Netherlands , in Germany , and in Italy . Seen as a European phenomenon , the development of property in office represented a stage between a feudal and a bureaucratic society Another source of wealth for the state was the attempted regulation or control of various forms of economic enterprise . The activities of the Portuguese and Spanish governments in the commerce of Asia and the New World have already been mentioned . Needless to say , these activities were among the principal sources of revenue for the Iberian crowns , and it was eventually upon wealth derived from the New World that the Spanish effort to dominate the continent of Europe was based . In addition to the obvious wealth derived from overseas enterprise , the control and encouragement of wool-growing in England , responsible for the enclosure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as a whole , but certainly added to the royal exchequer  | through the export taxes on wool . Similarly in Spain the organization known as the Mesta was granted a succession of privileges because of its financial importance to the government . In all these ways and many others the economic and social divergences within the system of European states were conditioned by the nature of their solutions to the fiscal problem . There was a very wide variation in the degree of success achieved by these efforts to increase the resources of government . Henry VII of England left a full treasury to be dissipated by his successor , in contrast to the condition of practical bankruptcy that so constantly frustrated the Emperor Maximilian . Yet it is important to reflect that no state in western Europe , however devious and persistent the methods adopted by its ruler , succeeded in getting the kind of control over the property of the subject that was enjoyed by the Ottoman sultan , so strong was the western tradition that property was one thing and government another . It may indeed be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ institutional limits to state authority , the struggle between government and property was to fill much the same kind of function in the coming period as the struggle between state and church had done in the earlier . As the real wealth of the European world increased in the late medieval period the concept of property changed . What had been the ownership of defined rights tended to be transformed into the ownership of defined things . Roman legal ideas prevailed over medieval . Those rights which came to be thought of as functions of government were still regarded as " owned " by the rulers , while tangible property , which had been the focus of a variety of rights , became the subject of exclusive ownership by single individuals . Medieval dominium was becoming divided into sovereignty on the one hand and property on the other . One of the important effects of this dualism was to create sanctions , moral , legal , and institutional , for the proprietary rights of subjects . It can not be too strongly emphasized that the existence of these sanctions was one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dynamic activity of the western European people in this period . Clearly , the fact that the increasing capital accumulations were not developed under direct control of the state made more difficult the task of finding resources to supply the needs of governments . The solution arrived at in the various ways described above had the merit of maintaining the institution of property with all its sanctions as a makeweight to the authority of the state , and at the same time making available to the  | government through a series of expedients a share of the generally increasing wealth , in amounts sufficient to make possible territorial consolidation and political and military action on a larger scale . These changes were reflected both in political theory and in the emergence of the European state system . Political theory , whether legal or philosophic in form , had necessarily to take into account the institutional changes described in preceding chapters . As the scope of political action increased and its content changed , older ideas about the nature of the state were modified . These modifications centered chiefly on an analysis @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of an autonomous and secularized realm of political activity . The modern state began to take shape in theory as well as in fact ; indeed , many students have considered this the most striking characteristic of the age of Machiavelli . In spite of significant innovations , however , the older traditions naturally persisted . Fundamental ideas on the nature of political authority and the purpose of . political organization had been shaped by the long tradition of classical and Christian thinking on these subjects . In every western European country secular authority was distinguished from ecclesiastical , but society was universally believed to be directed to a spiritual end . The state existed to support justice , and one of the most important aspects of justice was the maintenance of the Christian religion . Another aspect was the maintenance of the rights of the subject , which were , as we have seen , defined in proprietary terms . Thus , both the sphere and the object of the state were interpreted in terms of specific institutions like the church and property , as well as in terms of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reiterated ; yet side by side with the traditional analyses ? and even among those who considered that they were only stating past truths ? there appeared significant new descriptions of the powers of government . Political theory vacillates between the effort to set before mankind an ideal commonwealth and the attempt to describe the general rules governing political behavior as it is . Both realist and idealist may deviate from traditional lines , but those whose business it is to define the actual functions of government can not depart too far from surrounding fact . Perhaps lawyers are , of all such theorists , the most closely attached both to circumstances and to inherited tradition in an especially rigid form .  | For this reason the views of legal theorists are sometimes particularly symptomatic . Many among fifteenth-century authors whose political writing was cast in legal terms recognized the claims of the new monarchies . In England Sir John Fortescue was the author of a series of important treatises on the government and laws of England . A portion of his work was dedicated to the exposition of a program @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the crown be endowed with revenues sufficient to meet the ordinary expenses of government and he emphasized also the importance of a council , selected on the basis of ability , to advise the king in the making of policy . It was also necessary to have a sufficient staff of well-trained administrative servants to carry out the policies determined by the king in council . All this reflected the contemporary need for order , acutely felt during the period of the Wars of the Roses . In spite of his understandable desire to strengthen the monarchy on lines later realized by the Tudors , Fortescue was concerned also to defend the rights of the parliament . Particularly , he reiterated the traditional doctrine that the estates had an inalienable right to consent to grants of money required by the crown for extraordinary expenditures . In this respect Fortescue considered that there was a great contrast between the French and English practice ; in his terms England was a dotninium politicum et regale while France was a dominium regale . Fortescue 's analysis of France , however , was far from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Commines , for example , the famous servant of Louis XI and Charles VIII , asserts in his Memoirs ? in terms quite as strong as those used by Fortescue himself ? that no king in Christian Europe , unless he be a tyrant , has a right to exact monies from his subjects without their consent . The same doctrine was upheld , in fact , at the estates of Tours in 1484 , when Philippe Pot made a stirring address in which he maintained that the kingship was a public dignity and that its support concerned the representatives of all the estates of the realm . It is apparent that many men , like Commines and Fortescue , practical men of affairs , were very clear-sighted in perceiving and analyzing the needs of contemporary government . They all agreed that the powers of the monarchy ought to be extended in order to permit  | the state to preserve a greater degree of order . What they were not willing to face was the reluctance of assemblies of estates to grant means to the governments in anything like the amounts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the kind of program they wanted government to undertake . The need for order was deeply and widely felt , but , as is not infrequently the case , people were reluctant to pay the price . Where this reluctance secured the redress of grievances in return for a grant ? as in England ? it provided a basis for political control . Elsewhere , as the government was frequently driven to resort to measures of getting money that would avoid the control of the estates , a basis for a more absolute and comprehensive state power emerged . Those who were in favor of a more absolute conception of governmental authority found support in the teachings of Roman law . As political power emerged more and more in fact from its connection with feudalism , many theorists discovered that texts of the Roman law were more adaptable to the new situation than the current coin of medieval custom . Such a work as Peter von Andlau 's Monarchy of Caesar emphasized the extent to which all power must be regarded as emanating from the state . His work was of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ law in Germany , and also in developing the concept of the imperial authority that lay behind the reform movement of the great diets at the end of the fifteenth century . Not alone in Germany , however , but everywhere in Europe the Roman law tended to be accepted in lieu of the customary traditional law . This was a process that was realized to the maximum in Germany and to the minimum in England , with a wide range of variation between these two poles . Side by side with those who hoped to solve the problem of government by an appeal to the Roman legal tradition , and by emphasizing the legal and institutional framework of the state , were those who appealed equally to tradition but emphasized the moral training of the individual rather than the legal basis of the state . The Institution of a Christian Prince of Erasmus was perhaps the leading example of this type of literature . Written in 1516 for the instruction of the future Charles V , who was then being prepared to receive his vast political inheritance , Erasmus 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Prince " literature extending back beyond the writings of St. Thomas and Egidius Romanus . The usual pattern was a description of the duties of the prince , followed by an  | analysis of those qualities that would best enable him to fulfill his responsibilities . Many of the humanists produced pieces of this sort upon commission from contemporary rulers , but in spite of their edifying character these treatises were increasingly unrealistic and had little effect upon the actual conduct of government . Erasmus ' work was the product of the scholar 's study and far removed from the experience and insights of such men as Commines and Fortescue . Yet even here the signs of the times were to be found . The comparison between the position of God in the universe and that of the prince in the state was old and familiar , but it was developed by Erasmus with such richness of detail and allusion that we seem to be already on the way to the triumphant cry of Bossuet : " 0 Kings , you are gods on earth ! " Precisely because the position @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be directed toward providing him with a proper education . Here Erasmus reflected the humanist faith in what could be accomplished by education . If only rulers could be rightly taught , then the age of the philosopher-kings dreamed of by Plato would have arrived . For a brief moment in the second decade of the sixteenth century it seemed as if this age were dawning . Charles V , Henry VIII , and Francis I had among their preceptors and friends the greatest representatives of the new learning . If they controlled more power than their predecessors , they also had more opportunities for enlightenment . Within a short span of years , however , these bright hopes were blasted and it became clear that even the best of educations was not enough . While the hope lasted , however , the homilies and moral treatises directed to the edification of the prince mirrored not only an intensified moral tradition but also the growing importance attached to the position of the ruler 1S Thus in different ways the lawyer like Fortescue , the statesman like Commines , and the humanist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ governmental activity . Yet all these men maintained traditional views about the purpose and limits of governmental authority . In their works the old and the new were balanced , but among their contemporaries was one whose break with the past was far more decisive , and whose name has ever since been associated with the beginning of the theory of modern politics . Nicolo Machiavelli was born in 1469 , the year in which Lorenzo de ' Medici came to power in Florence , and the year in which Ferdinand and  | Isabella were married . His youth was passed in obscurity , and he emerged as a politically active figure only in 1498 when he was appointed secretary to the council of ten of the Florentine republic . He continued in this office , with numerous diplomatic missions and with many opportunities to observe the course of practical politics , until the restoration of the Medici in 1512 . He was then forced to leave office and for the remainder of his days , in spite of numerous attempts to re-enter political life and to gain the favor of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ All his work was produced during this period of retirement and some of it was directed to the immediate end of recapturing a position in politics . He died in the year of the sack of Rome , 1527 , disillusioned with the course of affairs in Italy and embittered by his long exclusion from useful political activity . The latter half of Machiavelli 's life fell in the period of the Italian wars . From 1494 until his death , in a span of a little more than thirty years , Machiavelli saw Italy devastated by the invasions of the French , the Spanish , and the Germans . He was able to look back on the age of Lorenzo de ' Medici as a golden age of political stability . He had seen governments rise and fall ; he had seen great powers league together to destroy smaller powers ; he had seen examples of the success that attended bad faith and the violation of treaties . It is natural , therefore , that his greatest concern was to find some formula for retrieving a sense of security , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ requirements of civil order would be met . In order to find the answer to his questions Machiavelli turned to history . As has frequently happened in time of great crisis , when revolutionary events seem to deny the basis of historical continuity , men adjust themselves by seeking a reinterpretation of the past . More than a century of humanist tradition had concentrated upon glorification of the classical past , and therefore it was to Roman history that Machiavelli directed his analysis . Looking back over the centuries he was profoundly impressed with the long and successful course of the Roman republic and the Roman Empire . If any light could be shed on why the French and Spanish were defeating the Italians , and why Florence was failing in the sixteenth century , it could perhaps be found by asking why Rome succeeded . Could not historical rules , uniformities , be extracted from the history of Rome , and might these not be applicable to political success in all times and in all places ? In his approach Machiavelli was following a good humanist example . Argument from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ most important in explaining the continuity of Roman political institutions was the ability of the founders ? or , in his terms , the virtu of the legislators . Men like Romulus and Numa Pompilius , who presided over the foundation of the Roman state , or Moses , the lawgiver of Israel , had exemplified a combination of intelligence and will , thought and action . This quality , the ability to carry out in practice an abstract scheme , was what Machiavelli primarily meant by virtit . It was a quality historically possessed by all great leaders and , in Machiavelli 's opinion , conspicuously absent in the Italy of his own day , though possessed by the Ottoman Turks , the French , and the Spaniards . From this he concluded that there was a static amount of this kind of ability in the world . When it was concentrated at a single time and in a single place , as it was at the foundation of the Roman republic , it bore fruit in a marvelous set of institutions that endured through centuries . In addition to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Machiavelli considered that great importance attached to the maintenance of the Roman religion among the people . Religion was a binding force that kept alive the loyalties of a people living together in a community . When the old Roman religion began to decay , it brought about also the decay of the civilization of the republic . Another factor , part cause and part symptom of the healthy condition of a republic , was the existence of a citizen army . The devotion of men to the fatherland , and their willingness to die for it , was a measure of the soundness of its institutions . Here again it was obvious how great a contrast existed between the past and the present which Machiavelli saw all around him . Warfare in Italy was then typically conducted by mercenary armies instead of by citizens . This was in part a natural result of the oligarchic constitution of the Italian city state . It was felt to be dangerous to arm the poorer citizens and the inhabitants of the countryside , lest they turn against their rulers and dispossess them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ equally dangerous to entrust the fate of a government to an army of mercenaries . If the mercenaries failed , all was lost anyway ; but if they succeeded they were only too likely to dominate the state for which they had fought . Thus , from his analysis of Roman history Machiavelli concluded that among the principal factors of stability in a political society were leadership , religion , and patriotism . Where these qualities could be realized there would be both a powerful and a peaceful society , one in which the  | individual might expect a certain degree of liberty and the protection of life and property . Yet there remained a great question . Rome had possessed all these advantages in the beginning ; and yet Rome had fallen . How was the decay of Roman society to be explained ? Here Machiavelli drew on a philosophy of historical change . This philosophy was primarily based upon a view of the nature of man that was interestingly related to both Christian and classical traditions . Machiavelli accepted a large measure of the Christian tradition on the nature @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ corrupt and had to be coerced to do good . Because of the evilness of man the institutions he creates are always bound to decay , no matter how firmly established they seem to be . Thus , a belief about the nature of man which is essentially Christian was combined with a belief about the course of human affairs which was essentially cyclical and classical . There exists a cycle of human institutions in which fortune plays a considerable part . Those favored moments in history when good institutions have been established and a happy life is possible are bound to wither away . In his emphasis on inherent evil in the nature of man Machiavelli was appealing to a continuous element of the Christian tradition . His description of good , on the other hand ? especially social and political good ? was limited to the interest of the community . Thus Machiavelli defined the good solely in terms of whether or not the individual is acting in the interests of the community as a whole . He pointed out that every man has a temptation to serve his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to serve , and if necessary should be compelled to serve . Now , it was certainly in the tradition of western Christian political thought to emphasize the general interests of the community , and this teaching can be found in the great writers on political theory from St. Augustine to St. Thomas Aquinas . In addition , however , there is found in this Christian tradition an emphasis on a higher law beyond that of the interest of the community , a law to which the individual can appeal . This part of the Christian tradition of political theory is not found in Machiavelli . In his identification of morality with action in the interests of the community ? especially the community defined in terms of a particular state ? lies his greatest departure from the Christian tradition . Because of the existence of a historical cycle , in which good times are bound to deteriorate and bad times are likely to last for a considerable period , it is necessary to act in accordance with the morality that prevails  | at the particular stage of the cycle that has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time . The first necessity was , therefore , to recognize that action was only possible within certain limits . The kind of security Machiavelli would have liked was the kind provided by the Roman republic ; but , living in Italy in 1513 , he saw that this kind of society would be impossible to create . The only kind of public order that could be achieved in a time when morality was decaying was the public order created by a prince who was feared . It was necessary to act in accordance with the times . It was no good longing for the existence of religious and patriotic feelings that could not , in the nature of things , be attained overnight . Therefore , limiting himself to what was possible under contemporary conditions , Machiavelli tried to point out in The Prince what could be accomplished by intelligence and will . Even in the worst of times leadership need not be lacking ; and extraordinary leadership might struggle with fortune and improve the situation . The methods that would have to be used in such a struggle were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had seen Florence defeated and brought nearly to ruin by the perfidy of the French , the papacy , Caesar Borgia and others . In a time when your enemies are using every subterfuge and bad faith against you , you can not observe traditional morality . Hence , Machiavelli wrote a program for an Italian prince who might take advantage of the favorable conjunction of events existing in 1513 . Shortly after the Medici had been restored in Florence , Leo X , son of Lorenzo the Magnificent , was elected to the papacy . Thus there was created a situation in which a single family controlled both the papacy and one of the most important governments in Italy . A somewhat analogous situation had existed under Alexander VI , when his son Caesar Borgia had been nearly successful in building a large territorial state in the Romagna . Hence , when Machiavelli wrote The Prince he recurred to the example of the Borgias , in order to point out how near they had come to success and in the hope that the younger Lorenzo de ' Medici , to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Borgia had failed . Machiavelli hoped that , if such a leadership could be found , Italian national feeling would rise to the occasion . The famous last chapter of The Prince is an appeal to the national sentiment of the Italians , and an apostrophe to the savior who will deliver Italy from the barbarians . It voices the hope that such a liberator will be welcomed everywhere in  | Italy and hailed as the father of his country . Whether or not this chapter was written separately from the rest of the book , it hardly accords with the realism Machiavelli had shown throughout the earlier chapters . In many ways these earlier chapters may be interpreted as a refutation , chapter by chapter and page by page , of the ethical and idealistic treatises on the virtues of the prince , characteristic of humanistic literature . It almost looks as if Machiavelli , when he came to the end , made a desperate appeal to the existence of a patriotic sentiment which his whole observation of the Italian scene must have proved simply was not there . He @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Roman history ; he had invoked the dictator in Italy precisely because the sense of community was wanting . Yet he seemed in this last chapter to feel that an Italian national sentiment could be created overnight by the provision of forceful leadership . The great analyst of the methods of political realism yielded here to a romantic view of nationalism , the other great force that was to dominate the modern political scene . Realpolitik could use nationalism , and indeed became far more powerful when based on nationalism ; but it could not create nationalism . Louis XI and Ferdinand of Aragon could accomplish what they did , not only because of what they were in themselves , but also because of a certain sense of community in their realms . Caesar Borgia was no Romulus . The forceful union of people under a prince who was feared ? a dictator ? was a substitute for the sense of community and genuine patriotism that might have flourished in other historic conditions . Had Machiavelli been consistent to the end , he would have realized that , where nationalism @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to evoke it were , at least in the short run , doomed to failure . At the very time when Machiavelli was proposing the remedy of the strong man for the evils of his time and country and holding up to admiration an ideal derived from the study of Roman history , a younger contemporary in England was also engaged in examining contemporary politics and society . As in all times of crisis , there was a widening gap between the way things ought to be and the way things were . If Machiavelli applied himself to the latter , Thomas More described the former . The older traditional approach to the problem of government was thus neatly split into a realist and an idealist tradition . In the work of More the traditional materials of political thought were used to con-.  | struct a frankly unreal Utopia , existing neither in time nor in space , contrasting with the real world of European monarchies , while in the work of Machiavelli the new realistic analysis was used to describe the contemporary scene . Both drew on the inspiration of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the immediate future of the European situation while More represented the optimistic hopes of the Erasmian circle . This optimism was not without qualification and there were many aspects of the coming capitalist society that More condemned . In the first book of the Utopia what More was against was made very clear . Hythlodaye 's long speech , describing what he would do if he were in the council of the French king , was More 's great plea against the Italian wars . It was argued that all this activity and expenditure of men and money might in the end be of no effect , and that a king would do better to devote himself to the realm God had given him and the improvement of the condition of his subjects . More and Hythlodaye join in the bitter recognition that if any such advice were given , it would not be heeded . The same book contained the famous indictment of the enclosure movement in England , already noticed in an earlier chapter . There were also complaints against interference with the status of the clergy . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ new economics , and expressing fear of their effect upon the church . He made these protests in the name of justice ; and the ideal of justice that he cherished was a medieval one . Every estate as well as every smaller group , and even every individual , was regarded as having certain rights . The existence of the civil society of Christian Europe was maintained by the protection of these rights . It was the duty not only of rulers but of all men of good will to resist their infringement . Thus , the More who pleaded in the Utopia for restraints against the greedy landlord , and who deplored the wars of Francis I , Henry VIII , and Maximilian , was the same More who ultimately refused to recognize the oath of supremacy and who considered it beyond the competence of parliament to separate England from the corpus of Christian Europe . But if the Utopia was in part an attempt to restate Christian social and political ideals which More felt to be passing away , it was also an attempt to establish rational norms @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ judged . The second book contained the description of the imaginary community described by Hythlodaye . The territory of Utopia was divided into fifty-five cities with their surrounding regions , each of which had a  | large degree of autonomy . It was ruled by an elected prince and senate . Property was held in common , and one of the chief functions of the government was the just regulation of economic affairs . In each city there were also elected priests who were charged with the direction of the spiritual life of the people , a life organized for the worship of a supreme being , with a wide latitude for individual variations in belief . Under these institutions the community led a prosperous , pacific existence . Now it has often been argued that the characteristics of this Utopian community may be taken as evidence that More believed in toleration , in a communistic distribution of property , in pacifism , and in the whole range of institutions and scale of values there described . It has been maintained that his actions as chancellor in later life were wholly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Utopia , and that we have here one more example of a young radical gone conservative in old age . Argument of this sort , as Mr. Chambers has shown , 21 misses the point . What More was really trying to do in the second book , aside from some humanistic jeux d'esprit , was to show how far a community of men , operating on a basis of natural reason , could proceed to the development of a good society . If the pagan virtues of wisdom , temperance , justice , and fortitude could accomplish so much , then Europeans who had the advantages of Christian revelation ought to be the more ashamed that they had not risen to a higher level than the contemporary scene represented . In the light of reason as well as in that of revelation , in the light of the classic as well as the Christian tradition , the abuses in European institutions were condemned . But the basis of those institutions , their true and proper use as distinct from their abuse , was left untouched by More 's excursion into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ remarkable fact that , at the moment when the national state was in fact emerging as the dominant force in the political life of Europe , the greatest theorists of their generation misunderstood , denied , or deplored the current trend in politics . Machiavelli and More both recognized that monarchies like France , Spain , and England disposed of the decisive power in the world of the sixteenth century , and they recognized further that that power was being arbitrarily used , unchecked by the moral laws of the Christian tradition . To this extent they both recorded an existing state of fact . The realm of political behavior was more cleanly  | separated than ever before from the world of ethics , just as economic activity was also achieving a separate compartment , though the latter process had not then gone so far . Machiavelli envied France , but he had his eye fixed on the city state . His patria was Florence , and his ideal was the expanding city state of antiquity , the Roman republic . He never really understood the impossibility of an effective national @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his predilections led him to put far too great an emphasis on what could be accomplished by an individual state . The thinking of Erasmus and More also revealed an admiration for the kind of city state that had been discussed by Plato and Aristotle . The Utopian community was made up of a league of city states and Erasmus praised this form of polity even in the work he wrote for Charles V. All his life he significantly signed himself Erasmus of Rotterdam and shunned the capital cities of the monarchies in order to live in the semi-independent communes of the Netherlands and Switzerland . More of course lived under a national monarchy and served it well but ultimately went to his death rather than yield to the claims of the new nationalism . The admiration for the institutions of the city state was not entirely nostalgic . The constitution of Venice was widely admired , and the Swiss cantons were considered to have as free and healthy a government as was to be found in Europe . Even the Hanseatic League had not as yet entirely decayed , while @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ many ways rivaled their Italian counterparts . There were many indicatons that the day of this city-state civilization , which had had its most brilliant period in the fourteenth and fifteenth centuries , was done . Yet those who perceived this most clearly were still free to regret it ; Machiavelli looked with nostalgia on the golden age of Lorenzo de ' Medici , which was destroyed by the aggression of the northern barbarians ; and More , with a far wider horizon , deplored the growth of the monistic power of the state at the expense of a medieval pluralism in which he found a greater guarantee of the rights of individuals as well as groups . Far apart as were their ethical systems , both realist and idealist were in substantial agreement about the actual forces governing international political action . Their analyses reflected the facts of the relations between the powers , and provided the framework within which evolved the European state system .  | IN TRACING the internal political history of the European states in the age of the great discoveries we have so far considered the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the ruler in practice and in theory . Equally important is the question of the relation between states and the beginnings of what may be called the European state system . Although this problem must be studied over the whole range between city states and national and supranational monarchies , it is convenient to begin with some consideration of the system of alliances among the smaller units in Italy . Many students have found in the political experience of the Italian states in the second half of the fifteenth century not only a significant contribution to the rationalization of government , but also the real beginnings of systematic international relations as we know them in modern times . Among others Mr. Toynbee has recently given a suggestive analysis of the growth and operation of balance-of-power politics . He has pointed out that in Italy earlier than elsewhere conditions favored the development of a systematic equilibrium . A multiplicity of city states had achieved practical independence of the Empire . In the absence of unification or a federal system these states regulated their relationships by a series of combinations which produced @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Intense competition for territory and influence had the effect of generating coalitions or alliances against any one state which seemed to be gaining a momentary advantage over the others . Particularly in the forty years preceding the French invasion of 1494 there seemed to prevail an equilibrium during which the diplomatic or military gains by any one power were offset by a combination of other powers . During these forty years of relative peace in Italy , which created the political environment of Italian Renaissance culture , the greatest territorial consolidation of the northern monarchies was taking place .  | This situation has led Professor Toynbee to discern a general law governing the workings of the balance of power . He finds that " in any given constellation of states in which the political units are in this dynamic relation with one another the pressure is greatest at the heart of the constellation and relaxes progressively towards the periphery . " I The unequal distribution of political pressure meant in the Italian fifteenth century that the contending states were unable to make any but the most insignificant territorial gains while @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ periphery of the system , grew enormously until these new larger powers came into the Italian scene to upset the balance which had been theretofore established . The history of the balance of power in Italy has thus been represented as a prefiguration of the course of modern international relations . The system of alliances in Italy in the fifteenth century can be compared to the system of alliances in Europe in the nineteenth . Just as Florence , Venice , and Milan were overwhelmed by the northern monarchies , so France , Germany , and England are now in the twentieth century overshadowed by the great powers of the United States and Russia . Such a comparison may well help us to understand the tragedy of Italy in the sixteenth century and of Europe in the twentieth , but we must be careful not to press the parallel too far . The attempt to find a conscious application of the principles of balance of power in the fifteenth century may be as unhistorical as the claims made for modern nationalism in the same period . The relations between the Italian @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have an importance transcending the conflicting and often petty interests of the Italian peninsula , but we may still ask how far these relations were governed by the concept of an equilibrium consciously understood and applied . It will be remembered that by the middle of the century five great powers had come to dominate the Italian peninsula , although not to the complete exclusion of the smaller principalities and city states . In the south were Naples and Sicily , at the beginning of the period united in the Aragonese Empire , but separated in 1458 when Alfonso the Magnanimous died and was succeeded by his illegitimate son Ferrante in Naples , while Sicily reverted to Aragon . In the center was the papacy , governing the states of the church . The republic of Florence lived during these years under the most brilliant period of the Medici domination . In Milan the Sforza had usurped the dukedom in 1450 and retained it in their family  | until the fall of Lodovico fifty years later . Thus three of the greater powers entered , in the middle of the fifteenth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reign of Ferrante in Naples and the undisturbed succession of the Medici and the Sforza in Florence and Milan respectively were powerful factors in the comparative peace of the period . Venice alone among the secular states was ruled by an oligarchy rather than a single family , but the Venetian constitution had a deserved reputation for its success in preserving internal order . The Treaty of Lodi ( 1454 ) ended the war that had begun over the question of the succession of Francesco Sforza to the duchy of Milan . It was a war fought chiefly between Milan and Venice , as the latter had used every opportunity to enlarge her dominions on the mainland at the expense of the territories controlled by the Milanese . In this struggle Cosimo de ' Medici , who had previously found in Venice the most useful ally of the Florentine republic , reversed his position and decided to give his support and friendship to Sforza . This decision , so important for the peace of Italy during the remainder of the century , was taken not only out of conviction that Sforza @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a continuing rivalry between Milan and Venice would provide too good an opportunity for intervention in Italy by outside powers . By the terms of the treaty , Venice received some territorial compensation , and in return accepted the Sforza succession and joined a league for peace , adhered to also by the other Italian powers . This was not , however , entirely a national manifestation , because some governments outside Italy , like the Swiss cantons , also entered the league . In this way Francesco Sforza came to power in Milan , supported primarily by the diplomatic assistance of Naples and Florence , who together were able to overawe the interests of Venice and the papacy . The pattern established at Lodi remained the fundamental alignment of Italian interstate politics throughout the remaining years of the fifteenth century . Those who have upheld the theory that this half-century saw the beginnings of balance of power politics have emphasized the maintenance among the major Italian powers of an unstable equilibrium , disturbed by a series of crises but restored by the conscious efforts of statesmen , chiefly Cosimo and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the problem of succession in one or another of the larger states . Only four years after the peace of Lodi , for example , Alfonso the Magnanimous died in Naples . The fact that he left the kingdom to his illegitimate son Ferrante gave an opportunity to the house of Anjou to put forward its  | historic claims . These claims were supported by the French king and a French army was sent to attack Genoa . In order to resist the threat from the French an alliance was concluded between Francesco Sforza and Ferrante which upheld the latter 's claim to the Neapolitan succession . Again , in the middle sixties , after the deaths of the two principal architects of the peace of Lodi , Francesco Sforza and Cosimo de ' Medici , the famous condottiere , Bartolommeo Colleoni , attempted to carve out a little state for himself in territory which had previously been held by Milan and Florence . Pressure brought by these two states , under the terms of their alliance , and supported by Naples caused this attempt to fail , and a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ relatively minor disturbances , which must be seen against the background of more or less constant pressure from the Turks , the most serious attempts to upset the status quo occurred during the pontificate of Sixtus IV ( 1471 ? 1484 ) and were occasioned by the aggressive and ambitious plans of the pope himself . Sixtus IV had a large number of relatives for whom to provide , some of them able and all of them grasping . In pursuit of the family interest , to which he was devoted , he succeeded in arranging an alliance with Naples which had the effect of detaching that kingdom from its by now almost traditional alignment with Florence and Milan . With Florence thus in a more isolated position a plot was set on foot in the curia itself , and probably with the knowledge and encouragement of the pope , to overturn the Medici regime and seize additional territory for the papal family in the Romagna , particularly the lordship of Imola . The conspirators in Rome were allied with the Pazzi , the leading rivals and opponents of the Medici @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had been planned for Easter Day , 1478 , and the attack was actually made in the cathedral of Florence on that date . Giuliano de ' Medici was killed but Lorenzo escaped , immediately re-established his position , and took vengeance on the Pazzi . The situation remained threatening , however , because Florence faced the combination of Naples and the papacy in the south and the hostile designs of Venice in the north . It was in these circumstances that Lorenzo de ' Medici undertook his celebrated expedition to Naples to make a personal appeal to Ferrante to maintain the peace . This gesture was widely interpreted as a chivalrous and gallant undertaking and convinced many of his contemporaries of Lorenzo 's sincerely peaceful intentions . But this effect was to some extent calculated and it must be mentioned that the risks taken by Lorenzo  | were actually of the slightest , as the expedition had been prepared by secret diplomatic negotiation and was carried through more as a brave show to influence public opinion than as a stroke of Realpolitik . Furthermore , this presumed triumph of Medicean @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an acute phase of the Turkish pressure , for Otranto had fallen and the ultimate intentions of Mohammed II seemed to include the conquest of Italy . The momentary sentiment toward union among the states of Christian Italy in the face of greater threat from outside may well have weighed more heavily with Ferrante than the pleas of Lorenzo . Yet in spite of these considerations Lorenzo 's expedition restored the old system by bringing Naples back to the Florentine alliance , and it has therefore been most frequently cited as an example of the operation of an equilibrium within the peninsula . Only momentarily thwarted by the failure of the Pazzi conspiracy , Sixtus IV renewed his aggressive attempt a few years later . This time , in 1482 , he planned in direct alliance with Venice the dismemberment of Ferrara . Again the alliance of Milan , Florence and Naples held and was able to apply sufficient pressure to defeat the pope 's plans . Only a little more than a decade later the precarious system of security by which the independence of the Italian states was maintained came @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ armies of Charles VIII . The crisis of 1494 was in part the direct result of the break between Naples and Milan and it can be argued with some plausibility that if this alliance had been maintained , foreign intervention could have been staved off at least for a time . In this way the history of the relations between the Italian states in the second half of the fifteenth century can be represented as the history of two systems of alliances by which a series of crises were resolved by diplomatic means . ' There are certainly instances like the intervention of Lorenzo de ' Medici in Naples which appear to have preserved the peace by restoring the balance of strength between the two sides . Yet there are many aspects of the Italian scene which make it impossible to find in it merely an anticipatory microcosm of the later diplomatic experience of the European powers . In the first place , there is very little evidence that Italian statesmen of the fifteenth century were operating with the conscious aim of maintaining a balance of power . The effort , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prestige of the individual state was not connected with any concern for the collective group of states . Those who have sought for the origins of the system of balance of power in the Italian fifteenth century have appealed most often to the testimony of Guicciardini , whose History of Italy , written in 1536 after a quarter of a century of disasters , looked back to the golden age of Lorenzo de ' Medici as one in which the affairs of Italy were maintained in balance . Even before Guicciardini wrote , the humanist Bernardo Rucellai had used the phrase " balance of power " in his history of the invasion of Charles VIM If , as is generally claimed , Rucellai was the first person to use this phrase , then it seems arguable that the theory of a balance of power was first elaborated by Italian publicists and historians in the early decades of the sixteenth century as they looked back and interpreted the political experience of the preceding half-century . Their own preoccupation with ways of maintaining peace led them to seek an explanation for the comparative @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the whole process of interpretation was governed by the desire to find an applicable lesson of history which might better the increasingly hopeless Italian situation of their own day . Hence the idealization of such a figure as Lorenzo de ' Medici ; hence also the theory of a systematic equilibrium among the Italian states which could be maintained only by neglecting some of the most important realities of Italian politics . One of these realities was the inequality in strength and position among even the five greater Italian powers . Venice especially had ranked and continued to rank as one of the first powers of the western world . Her colonial empire gave her resources equal to those of a great territorial monarchy ; she was on occasion able to stand alone against the Ottoman Empire , and at the time of the League of Cambrai in 1508 her strength was still such that an opposing coalition of all the great powers of Christendom did not seem entirely unequal . Neither Florence nor Milan nor Naples could pretend to such a position . The total resources therefore available to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ balanced as is ordinarily implied when the term is used . Another major factor was the extent of foreign influence in Italian politics even before the invasion of Charles VIII . Under the influence of Guicciardini 's interpretation , the relations between the Italian states are often discussed as though they were a closed system isolated from the  | rest of Christendom . Actually several of the Italian courts and chanceries maintained the closest contacts with powers outside the peninsula . The long connection of Aragon with the kingdom of Naples was only temporarily interrupted during the rule of Ferrante , and provided the background for eventual Spanish domination . The Venetian Empire and commitments in the eastern Mediterranean meant that there was more concern in the grand council over what went on in Constantinople than over the possible maneuvers of the king of Naples . Indeed , the threat of Turkish invasion had been present for all the Italian powers since the capture of Constantinople and at least once seemed an imminent reality . And in addition to the Spanish influence on the one side and the Turkish danger on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The dynastic claims to Naples and Milan were pretexts ready to be taken up and prosecuted at any moment . Francesco Sforza and Cosimo de ' Medici threatened Venice with an appeal to French intervention and Louis XI , as we have seen , actually sent French troops to Genoa in 1458 . If Michelet went too far in claiming that it was the divine mission of France to conquer Italy and so spread the culture of the Renaissance to northern Europe , he was at least right in declaring that Italy was bound to be conquered and that the choice lay between Spain , France and the Ottoman Empire . The existence of these constant threats from the outside makes it clear that the Italian system of states was not so isolated and independent as is often maintained . Consequently it seems improbable that rulers like the Medici and the Sforza could have looked upon their relations with other Italian states as a separate compartment of political activity . It is impossible to deny that there was a feeling for Italy and Italians against the " northern barbarians , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ forty years between Lodi and Charles VIII 's invasion must be understood and studied in the context of the general European scene . The theory that Italian statecraft in the fifteenth century was the seedbed of modern politics is one of those comprehensive generalizations which must be analyzed before an attempt is made to judge its validity . We have already seen that the fundamental institutions of the modern national state-monarchy , centralized administration and representative assemblies of the estates ? were shaped in the medieval period . The innovations of the sixteenth-century monarchies lay in a direct line of   development which extended back to the Germanic invasions . To this development the example of the Italian city states contributed only very indirectly . In this sense the search for the origin of the modern state in Renaissance Italy is doomed to failure . If the generalization is interpreted to mean that Italy saw the emergence of balance-of-power politics which foreshadowed the subsequent course of the European state system , then this assertion also must be qualified , as set forth in the preceding section . Yet even if these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which the hypothesis of Italian influence can be substantiated . To speak , as Mr. Toynbee does , of the " political Italianization " of France , England and Spain in the age of Louis XI , Henry VII and Ferdinand and Isabella is an enormous exaggeration , but it nevertheless remains true that the careers of these monarchs do illustrate the theory of politics as a rationalized autonomous activity developed by the school of which Machiavelli was the most celebrated product . While it would also be an overstatement to claim that the divorce of politics and ethics was a novelty , still it can not be denied that Italian thought and Italian example powerfully contributed to the consciousness of their increasing separation . One way to put it would be to say that Italian terms became fashionable and that traditional modes of behavior were tricked out in a new language . The pattern of politics in northern Europe in the first decades of the sixteenth century might in fact be compared to one of those elaborate chateaux on the Loire constructed by the French monarchy and nobility . Many @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fundamental structure remained French and medieval . The area where this borrowing from Italy was most apparent was in the practice of diplomacy . There is no doubt that the technique of carrying on relations between states was first developed to a high degree and perfected by the Italian states . By the time of Machiavelli and Guicciardini diplomatic practice had already been institutionalized , and it is obvious that both of these authors owe to their diplomatic experience a great deal of the stimulus and substance of their thought on the nature of statecraft . The development of techniques of communication and information between governments had been stimulated by the multiplicity of the Italian states and the intensity of the competition between them . A shift of alliances , a betrayal by a paid military leader , a new negotiation for a marriage contract all had a more sudden and serious effect in the life of  | the city states than was possible in the relations between large territorial governments . Hence from an early date there was a tendency to use every means to acquire knowledge about the possible @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the regular and formal channels of diplomacy there developed the use of the secret agent , the spy , the paid informer at another court . The secret archives of Venice are filled with records illustrating the extremes to which such practices were carried . Often the council haggled with an individual over the amount of his reward for the successful accomplishment of a mission , including perhaps even an assassination . Merchants and bankers who had to maintain agencies in other capitals were useful contacts for the gathering and transmission of political information . When the Portuguese voyages were opening up the African route to the east , Venice maintained agents in Lisbon as well as in Alexandria to keep the closest touch with the developments which were likely to be so damaging to her commerce . It was the age of the elaboration of codes and ciphers , and geniuses like Alberti contributed to the art of cryptography . In the field of formal diplomatic relations the Italian powers were the earliest to employ regular envoys , whose term and training were subject to special legislation . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the papacy of course had an elaborate code governing the use of the legatine authority . But it was Venice which played the leading role in the evolution toward modern diplomacy . At a very early date Venetian envoys had been sent to the court of Constantinople and Rome , and the system had become so regularized and extended that by the end of the fifteenth century the republic had its ambassadors in most of the courts of Europe . These envoys were chosen from among the patrician oligarchy , whose sons were educated with emphasis on the ideal of service to the state . Their conduct was governed by a series of minute regulations drawn up by the senate and council . An ambassador was required to send a dispatch weekly containing all information about the court to which he was accredited which might be of interest to his government . The dispatches were read in council , so that the Venetian government had spread before it regularly an up-to-date survey of the international scene . At the height of the system an ambassador was accredited to a foreign government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ too attached to his new environment and lose sight of the honor and advantage of his own government . In addition to the regular dispatches he was required upon his return to deliver a relation to the doge  | and senate giving a summary account of his mission and describing his journey in some detail . These relations , which are conserved in consecutive series from the beginning of the sixteenth century , are among the most valuable documents for the history of the period . They constitute a mine of information on geography , climate , industry and commerce , intellectual life and the religious situation , as well as shrewd portraits and character sketches of the leading figures in the governments of Europe . A single example from the first decade of the sixteenth century will illustrate the comprehensive character of the information contained in the relations and serve to explain why they have been found so invaluable by historians of all aspects of the period . In 1506 Vincenzo Quirini gave to the doge and senate an account of his mission to the court of Burgundy occasioned by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Castile , which he claimed in right of his wife Joanna , daughter of Isabella , who had died in 1504 . Quirini began his recital with a description of Philip and Joanna and their family . He commented on Joanna 's jealousy and seclusion , and on the difficulties created by her warped personality . From the royal family he turned to the great officers of the court and gave a summary of their functions and salaries . The expenditure of the court , not only for the maintenance of officials but also for military purposes , was characteristically reported in detail . The description of the court and its principal figures was followed by comment on the lands subject to the Burgundian rule , the number of provinces , the general aspect of the principal cities , estimates of the population , nature of the economy , products of special excellence , among which was included in addition to the cloth of Holland and the tapestry of Brabant , music . There followed an analysis of the characteristics of the Burgundian peoples , their temperament , political sympathies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . On top of all this there was a fairly detailed account of the judicial and ecclesiastical system , interspersed with penetrating remarks on how well the civil and ecclesiastical bureaucracies were performing their jobs and on those parts of the system that stood in greatest need of reform . ' This mass of information , roughly comparable to that provided for a odern government by an intelligence agency , ensured that the Venetian government approached the consideration of any particular problem of foreign policy provided with enough background knowledge to make   reasonable decisions that took into account a wide range of variables in the situation . As the contest between the various states of the European community became more accelerated and more acute , it became more than ever necessary to have up-to-date information of this kind . An understanding of the dominant personalities at a foreign court and the intrigues which were being carried on there might make it possible to anticipate one of those shifts of alliance which sometimes seemed to come with bewildering suddenness . Knowledge of an enemy 's resources and of the details of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ obvious importance in calculating the probabilities of continued resistance . These necessities were perhaps first experienced in the intensity of competition among the city . states and republics of Italy , and it was therefore in this environment that the practice of diplomacy began to be institutionalized . In addition to the Venetian successes , the Roman curia provided a constant object lesson in both the means and ends of diplomatic activity . By the end of the fifteenth century many of the governments in the Italian peninsula maintained a regular and permanent system of envoys at foreign courts . If the northern monarchs still tended to send ambassadors only on special occasions and for special purposes , the pressure of events was rapidly compelling the adoption or development of the techniques which had been so successful in Italy . As soon as most of the great powers of Europe were involved in a struggle which linked them more closely together , diplomacy , like war , was bound to be intensified . This result was brought about by the rivalry for the control of the Italian peninsula . The Italian @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The rivalries among the larger territorial units began to assume a definite pattern and were brought out in sharp relief against the declining sense of community . The French invasion of Italy in 1494 , regarded even by contemporaries as opening a new era , has always been advanced as one of the dates dividing medieval from modern times . If the Hundred Years ' War may be taken as the last of the great conflicts between feudal monarchies , the Italian wars can be described as the first of these internecine struggles in which the issues were fought out by all means of war and diplomacy on a European scale . The problems crystallized by the action of Charles VIII were not settled for over half a century . Viewed comprehensively , these problems  | were the result of the accumulation of power by the northern monarchies at a rate surpassing that which could be attained by the states of the Italian peninsula . The resulting disparity of means was a constant invitation to invasion . The conflicts of French , Aragonese and German ambitions in Italy were in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ forces that sent Castile and Portugal to the New World and to Asia ; what took the form in the latter of aggressive adventure overseas led in the former to the conquest of weaker territories within the bounds of Christian Europe . It is a remarkable fact that the age which saw the discovery of new worlds and the most acute pressure from the Ottoman Turks should have been most preoccupied with the internal struggle in Italy . Yet the implications of great events on the periphery of Christendom entered slowly into the consciousness of ruler or peoples , while the outcome of a Ravenna or a Marignano continued to claim more attention than the fall of Egypt or Persia to the Turks or the continuing exploration of the American continents . For all these reasons an analysis of the circumstances surrounding the first invasion of 1494 illuminates more than the ephemeral adventure of Charles VIII . The French monarchy had acquired its direct legal claim to the kingdom of Naples at the death of Rene of Anjou in 1480 . This claim derived ultimately from the thirteenth-century grant by which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ younger brother of St. Louis . During the intervening centuries there had followed the long , complicated history of the rivalries between the Angevin and Aragonese houses for the Neapolitan inheritance . By the fifteenth century the question of right had been so confused by a succession of additional grants , retractions , adoptions , legitimations , and recognitions of conquests that it could hardly be unraveled by the keenest legal minds of Europe . What was important was that a historic claim existed which could be asserted and acted upon at any time . Seen against this background , Charles VIII and Ferdinand of Aragon may appear to be merely the last protagonists of an almost " colonial " rivalry , dating back to the thirteenth century but now prosecuted on a larger scale and with all the resources of monarchies established on a more truly national basis . But it would be an illusion to consider that this inheritance determined the Italian wars of 1494 and the subsequent years . Behind the pretext lay the realities of the moment , personalities and political and social pressures . Charles VIII @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ affairs of the French crown was very limited . He was dazzled  | by the traditions of chivalry , personal honor , and the ideals of a crusade , and only too willing to entertain grandiose projects in which he saw himself as heir of the crusading tradition , being crowned king of Jerusalem and leading victorious armies against the Turk . Achievement of the position in Naples would be a step on the way to conquest of Constantinople . It appears probable that Charles sincerely believed in the rightness of his claim and viewed his whole Italian expedition as a vindication of justice that would at the same time serve the cause of the Christian religion against the infidel . The crusading tradition in the later Middle Ages had expressed itself not only in such sterile symbolism as the Feast of the Pheasant at the court of Burgundy , but also in many exponents of missionary zeal , from Raymond Lull to Nicolas Clenard . Whatever his motives , it was evident that the French king had but a feeble understanding of the actual situation he would meet in Italy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his advisers were men whose aims were far more realistic . Commines , as a survivor of the regime of Louis XI and an opponent of the new direction of French policy , described in terms of great bitterness the " new " men whose influence on Charles VIII was , he felt , so unfortunately decisive . From his point of view the king 's favorite advisers , De Vesc and Briconnet , were arrivistes , men of no family , who abused their favor with the king for what they could get out of it.5 However prejudiced this testimony may be , it is clear that their enthusiastic support of the king 's Italian policy rested in large part on hopes of personal advancement , both financial and political . They provided the obvious channel through which Italian diplomacy could work to put pressure on the French government . Individual motives found a wider support in the condition of the country . In many respects France was ahead of her neighbors in the organization of monarchical power . Charles VIII inherited from his predecessors a bureaucracy and an army @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ policy abroad . In addition , however , he had inherited a social problem that was perhaps an even more important determinant . The higher ranks of the feudal nobility had for generations opposed the increases in the power of the crown , and , although they had been successfully suppressed from time to time , particularly during the reign of Louis XI , their disaffection remained one of the principal problems of the kingdom . The functional position of the nobility had been  | undermined at the same time that the basis of their economic support was contracting . Incomes derived from the land , as we have seen , were less and less adequate to the support of a class whose style of life was becoming ever more expansive . The position of the nobility thus constituted a major political and sociological problem ; it was of first importance to find a way to occupy the nobility and to expend their energies . Foreign adventure was the alternative to domestic revolution , as the history of the sixteenth century was to show . In spite of the existence in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ class in want of occupation , and a country organized to support military adventure , it is obvious that the timing of the invasion depended on developments in Italy . Here the key figure and principal instigator of the French was Ludovico Sforza , the admired impressario of political intrigue , who ruled in Milan by a double usurpation . His father , Francesco Sforza , had acquired the duchy by conquest , putting an end to the Ambrosian republic which the citizens of Milan had vainly tried to establish after the death of the last Visconti . The inheritance thus acquired descended to Francesco 's eldest son , Galeazzo Maria . At the latter 's death , however , Ludovico usurped the reality of power although the title of duke was left to his nephew , Galeazzo 's son , Gian Galeazzo . Ludovico 's position , thus originally insecure , was still further threatened after the death of Lorenzo de ' Medici . The historic alliance between Milan , Naples , and Florence , which dated from the peace of Lodi , began to fall apart in circumstances resulting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ personalities at the three courts . Gian Galeazzo , the rightful duke of Milan , kept in the shade by his uncle , was married to a Neapolitan princess , Isabella of Aragon . This lady , a good deal more strongwilled than her husband , bitterly resented her position at Milan , where Ludovico and his wife , Beatrice d'Este , presided over one of the most brilliant courts in Renaissance Italy . Accordingly she appealed to her grandfather , Ferdinand of Aragon , and stimulated at Naples maneuvers directed against Ludovico . This orientation of Neapolitan policy was discreetly followed by Florence , where Piero de ' Medici was much influenced by his wife , whose Orsini relatives held high position at Naples . Behind this interplay of personal attachments and jealousies lay hopes of aggrandizement and a new alignment of powers in Italy . Ludovico was thus confronted with the possibility of a coalition directed against the territories of Milan . At the very least it appeared that the  | hereditary enmity of Venice could no longer be kept in check by the system of alliances . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and appealed to Charles VIII to prosecute his claim to the kingdom of Naples . It was an appeal supported by various kinds of bribery and persuasion , furthered by all the arts that had won Ludovico the reputation of a master politician and diplomat . He was widely admired for a master stroke , by which it was considered he had removed the Neapolitan threat and at the same time diverted the attention of the French from their claims on the duchy of Milan itself . It is entirely possible that he himself intended his manipulations to remain in the realm of threat . After all , there had been earlier examples of appeals to the French and other powers which were merely intended as weapons in the game of Italian diplomacy . If this was the case no one could have been more surprised and alarmed than Ludovico himself when his intrigues produced the reality of the French invasion . Whether he intended it or not his triumph was brief . Five years later the French took up their claim to Milan itself , Ludovico was driven out , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ spent the rest of his life in a French dungeon , with ample opportunity to meditate before he died on that favorite theme of Renaissance speculation , the wheel of fortune . The success of Ludovico 's appeal to Charles VIII was of course furthered by the fact that the ground had been prepared to receive it . The disposition of the French king and his advisers , and the social condition of the nobility have already been noticed . But there was yet another factor that made possible the realization of the plan to intervene in Italy . The monarchy had not available the ready resources to finance the invasion and , in order to supply its needs , turned to the Italian bankers who controlled more ready capital . Commines describes how , before proceeding , it was necessary to borrow , at fourteen per cent interest , roo , 000 francs from the bank of the Sauli at Genoa . It was the perennial problem of the relationship between public authority and private property . The power of the state , although growing , did not extend so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the government unlimited freedom of action . Just as the governments of Spain and Portugal were forced to resort to private sources of capital to finance their overseas expeditions , so the government of France had to turn to the bankers . The fact that most of the banks in France were then in Italian hands established a connection that became one of the determinants of French foreign policy for over half a century . The initial loans were followed by  | others . As the government was more and more committed , the political influence of Italian capital mounted . For it was always possible for those who made the loans to refrain from pressure for repayment , provided the active intervention of the French in Italy was continued . Thus Italian exiles who had an interest in the overturn of a particular regime at home could use their financial power to restore their position under French protection . The wealth of Italy was not only a goal the attainment of which entered into the calculations of the northern powers ; it was also a means that in some cases @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ VIII in 1494 was thus the product of an exceedingly complex set of historical circumstances . Motives ranged from Charles VIII 's dreams of a crusade through the insecurity of Ludovico , the cupidity of Charles 's advisers , and the hopes of the Italian exiles . Behind these individuals the historian can discover economic and political factors of which contemporaries were only partially aware ; yet least of all , perhaps , is this event to be explained in terms of nationalism interpreted in anything like its present sense . Modern French historians have been divided in their judgment . There are those who have condemned the policy of Charles VIII and his successors because it deviated from the " historic " policy of expansion toward the " natural " frontiers . Yet surely neither at this date nor for a long time to come did any one think of a French state comprehending all the territory within the boundaries Caesar had defined for Gaul . The dynastic policy of Charles VIII can not be judged in terms of the aspirations of the Third Republic . On the other hand @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ grounds of the historic medieval connection between the French monarchy and the Italian peninsula , and on the grounds of the cultural services performed by France for the rest of the European world , are equally unhistorical in a different way . There had indeed been many French interventions in Italy from the time of the Norman conquest of Sicily onward , but there had also been analogous interventions in other directions that had not had similar consequences . The connection of the French monarchy with Flanders and with England had been at least as close as the connection with Italy , without producing the same kind of expansionist effort in those directions . And to believe that France had a manifest destiny to disseminate Italian culture is to accept Charles VIII 's own conception of his mission , with the terms transposed . The new learning had already had its representatives in Paris and other places in the north before 1494 . French , German , and English scholars had been  | in Italy , and Greek had been taught in several of the northern centers . The direct cultural @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and it is certainly possible to argue that , without military and political conquests , the culture of the Italian Renaissance would have been as widely accepted . Modern judgments , whether in praise or blame , have thus often been equally wide of the mark . The French expedition of 1494 can not be understood in terms of nationalism . It took place in an environment still largely conditioned by the medieval inheritance . It was surrounded with prophecies and appeals to a savior , of which Savonarola 's are only the most famous . The notion of a decisive role to be played by a particular king or people had many parallels in earlier centuries . In France the tradition extended at least as far back as the Gesta Dei per Francos and included many writings of the period of Philip the Fair , especially the De recuperatione sanctae terrae . But if the aims of Charles VIII are to be on the whole understood in a medieval context , the methods by which those aims were realized , the concentration of power , the dependence on financial capital @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . And if we are to seek a judgment we can hardly find one more penetrating than that given by a contemporary . Sir Thomas More , writing his Utopia some twenty years later , put into the mouth of Hythlodaye in the first book a description of the aims of contemporary international politics . Hythlodaye imagines himself included in the French king 's council , and asks how his advice should be taken on the problem on which : they beat their brains and search the very bottom of their wits to discuss by what craft and means the king may still keep Milan , and draw to him again fugitive Naples . . If I , silly man , should rise up and will them to turn over the leaf , and learn a new lesson ; saying that my counsel is not to meddle with Italy , but to tarry still at home , and that the kingdom of France alone is almost greater than that it may well be governed of one man . . . . Further ? more if I should declare unto them that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nations for his sake should be brought into a troublesome hurly-burly , when all his coffers were emptied , his treasures wasted , and his people ; destroyed , should at the length through some mischance be in vain and to none effect ; and that therefore it were best for him to content himself with his own kingdom of France as his forefathers and predecessors did before him . . . and with other kingdoms not to meddle seeing that which he hath already is even enough for him , yea , and more than he can well turn him to ? this mine advice , Master More , how think you it would be heard and taken ?  | So God help me , not very thankfully , quoth I. When More wrote this judgment the struggle for Italy had been going on for twenty years . It was to continue for almost another half-century . Mores analysis might have been better applied to 1559 than to 1515 . Yet , by the earlier date the pattern was already clear . The consequences of the first French expedition of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the period from Fornovo to Marignano , when the characteristic operation of alliances within the European state system first became apparent . Few periods in the history of European diplomacy were so complicated as the age of the first Italian wars . The years between 1494 and 1515 furnished endless examples of the statecraft of princes . The existence of a common object of ambition in the domination of Italy , the consciousness shared by many rulers of the increased means at their disposal , the search for advantage in the shifting alliances and betrayals provided a framework for the development of a Machiavellian virtuosity . But behind the confusing maneuvers of individuals and the bewildering series of momentary triumphs there can be discerned the beginnings of that pattern of international organization that was to replace the medieval community . The principle of a coalition formed to resist the swollen power of a single state was invoked as soon as the extent of the first French victory became apparent . The armies of Charles VIII had encountered no serious resistance ; at the end of the year 1494 they had already @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the kingdom of Naples . Confronted with the prospect of French rule permanently established in the southern part of the peninsula , the papacy took the initiative in a diplomatic effort to undermine the French position . In spite of the fact that Charles had attempted to secure a free hand by a series of deals with Ferdinand , Maximilian , Henry VII , and Ludovico of Milan , most of his newly won allies were ready to desert him and associate themselves in a coalition powerful enough to force the French to retreat . The Holy League was formed in 1495 . It consisted of Venice , the papacy , Maximilian , the Catholic kings , and Ludovico . Its ostensible purpose was the convenient pretext of the defense of Christianity against the Turks . Commines , then acting as French ambassador in Venice , was not deceived , and as soon as he reported the true situation to his master at Naples it was clear that the French position had become untenable . The  | retreat was even more rapid than the conquest . Charles VIII succeeded in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ indecisive battle of Fornovo , fought in July , 1495 ; but the League rightly celebrated its victory , since it had forced the abandonment of the prizes of the conquest . The French returned home , dazzled by the glories of Italy , stricken with the new epidemic of syphilis , and determined to renew an attempt that had held so much promise . The Aragonese were restored in Naples , with the aid of Spanish troops , and Ferdinand remained in power and influence , the real victor of the first of the campaigns . Charles VIII died before he could fulfill his intention of resuming intervention in Italy , and it was left to his successor , Louis XII , to continue to support the French claims , this time directed initially not against Naples but against the former French ally , Milan . Louis XII inherited from the Visconti marriage of the Orleans family a direct claim to the duchy of Milan and , since Ludovico had betrayed the French cause in deserting the alliance and supporting the Emperor Maximilian , there was additional reason for attempting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Louis 's aims fell in with those of the Borgia papacy , and there followed a characteristic reversal of alliance in which France , the papacy , and Venice ? in spite of the commitments of 1495 ? now appeared leagued together for the despoilment of Milan . In July , 1499 , the second great French army entered Italy and , with the aid of Swiss mercenaries , swiftly conquered Milan and drove out Ludovico . This initial victory was compromised by the failure of the French king to keep his engagements with the Swiss . Ludovico was able , with their help and that of the Emperor Maximilian , to raise a new army and to return . He was finally defeated , however , at Novara in 1500 , where he was captured and taken to France to end his life in the dungeon of the Chateau of Loches . A French administration was installed in Milan and there seemed a prospect that the duchy would be permanently annexed to the crown of France . The initial success of Louis fed his ambition . The price of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ acquiring the kingdom of Naples . In the same summer in which the triumph over Ludovico was achieved , the French king made a deal with Ferdinand by which they agreed to partition the kingdom of Naples . The new system of alliances thus permitted French domination in Milan and a part of Naples , Borgia domination of central Italy , and Spanish acquisition of the southern part of the Neapolitan kingdom . The French triumph was brief . In 1503 the death of Alexander VI and  | the illness of Caesar Borgia brought about the end of the Borgia supremacy . Giuliano della Rovere succeeded to the papacy with a program incompatible with the maintenance of the French alliance . At the same time Ferdinand took advantage of every dispute over the new boundary established in Naples to press the Spanish interest . His great captain , Gonsalvo da Cordova , drove the French out of Naples by 1504 , and Naples became ? and this time remained ? an annex of the Spanish crown . The dynamic of the position of the powers in Italy forced the continuance of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the peninsula . A brief period of equilibrium succeeded the fall of the Borgia and the Spanish conquest of Naples . The interest of European diplomacy centered for a few years on the marriage schemes proposed for Charles of Burgundy , and on the relations between the emperor , Ferdinand , and Louis XII . In 1508 , however , under the auspices of the Archduchess Marguerite of the Netherlands , there was concluded the League of Cambrai , of which the ostensible object was the traditional one of a holy war against the Turks while the real purpose was the coalition of the great powers of Europe to reduce Venice . This famous league was initially concluded between Henry VII of England , Louis XII , Ferdinand , and Maximilian . Julius II adhered to it in spite of the increased Italian territory that was to be given to foreign powers , because it promised the readiest way to enlarge the territories of the church in the Romagna . In 1509 the campaigns began . Venetian territory was invaded by a French army , and the Venetian troops were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The fundamental rivalries between members of the coalition , however , prevented the realization of the program of Cambrai . Once his ambition had been attained , Julius II was anxious to make peace with the Venetians and turn to the problem of driving the northern barbarians out of the Italian peninsula altogether . In 1510 the pope absolved Venice and came to an agreement about the disposition of the territories Venice had taken from the Borgia inheritance . Shortly thereafter Ferdinand was brought into the agreement , and a new Holy League " was founded with the object of driving the French from Italy . The brilliant victories of the French captain , Gaston de Foix , at first defeated the plans of the coalition . The battle of Ravenna in 1512 was a victory for the French and seemed to promise the conquest of all northern Italy . But it cost the life of Gaston de Foix , and there was no general of his talent in the French service to replace him .  | At this critical moment , Maximilian , who had hitherto refused to join @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ signed a peace with Venice , and left Louis and the French to their fate . The pope , supported by the alliance of the Swiss under Cardinal Schiner and by the adherence of Maximilian , triumphed ; the French were driven out of Milan and had to translate to Lyons their council , called at Pisa to depose Julius II . In spite of a new defection by Venice and the momentary return of the French into northern Italy , it seemed , by the time Julius died in early 1513 , that his aims had been substantially achieved . The new pope , Leo X , peacefully inclined , was willing to accept the dissolution of the council of Pisa as a guarantee of French intentions , and it appeared that a new stage had been reached in the Italian question ? marked by the Spanish possession of Naples , the imperial possession of Milan , and the independence of the states of the church , with a close alliance between the papacy and Florence , where the Medici were restored . Any prospect of settlement along these lines @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the end of 1514 Louis XII died and was succeeded by the ambitious and dynamic Francis I , who was determined to prosecute the Italian claims of France . He immediately assembled an army , in which there were many mercenaries recruited from Switzerland and even from Albania , and crossed the Alpine passes in the spring of 1515 . The great battle of Marignano , which made such an impression on contemporaries , was fought in 1515 and , although the issue was long in doubt , the French finally conquered . Once more the Sforza puppet was expelled from his inheritance and a French administration installed in Milan . The victory of Marignano caused Leo X to desert the policy initiated by Julius II . The pope rushed to meet the conqueror and come to an arrangement with him , excusing himself to Ferdinand and Maximilian because of the imminent danger in which he found himself . In 1516 , at a meeting between Francis and Leo X , the French domination of Milan was accepted and the concordat of Bologna concluded . In the year following the death @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Cambrai , of March , 1517 , was the pact that seemed to Erasmus to promise a golden age of European peace . The definitive settlement of the Italian question seemed to be based on France in the north , Spain in the south , with the papacy dominating the territory in between . Actually this promising arrangement was no more permanent than the earlier truces . On the contrary , the rivalries forged in the Italian conflict were generalized  | and accentuated within the next two years by the problem of the imperial election and the conflict between the Hapsburg and Valois interests . Thus it can not be claimed that the period of a little more than twenty years between the invasion by Charles VIII and the Treaty of Cambrai produced a settlement of the Italian question . The military and diplomatic events of this period , however , did serve to define the interests and capacities of the European powers in relation to each other . In the years just before the Hapsburg threat came into existence the practice of European diplomacy was evolving a means to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conscious appeal to a theoretical principle of balance of power on a European scale , there had nevertheless developed a clearer realization of the interdependence of the European state system and a conviction that the independence of each and perhaps ultimately the security of all depended on common action against any one power which appeared to be acquiring too great a preponderance .  | THE economic and political changes which have been summarized in the preceding chapters produced serious strains in that most comprehensive of all governmental systems , the Christian church . The growing powers of secular states made compromises inevitable . Economic pressures and an expanding standard of wealth accelerated the scramble for the accumulation of benefices . The resulting decline in moral and institutional standards was felt in all parts of the great ecclesiastical organization , but was most dramatically apparent at the apex of the system in the papacy itself . To the long history of opposition to Roman financial exactions and papal control of appointments was now added an increasing lack of respect for the head of the church and his immediate court . Never had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ incumbents of the see of Peter and their actual performance . The two humanist popes of the mid-fifteenth century , Nicholas V and Pius II , had maintained a high sense of the responsibilities of their position , and if their patronage of the new learning had created precedents that in the long run might be dangerous , yet their pontificates had been free from serious scandals . Beginning , however , with the pontificate of Sixtus IV in 1471 , the decline was rapid . Sixtus IV , born Francisco della Rovere , was the son of a poor and large family . He had distinguished himself in the Franciscan order and in theological disputes on the currently debated doctrine of the Immaculate Conception . Strong , intelligent , ambitious , he embarked on a career of political activity motivated in part by the desire to provide in a suitably splendid way for his eleven nephews and two nieces . Melozzo da Forli 's celebrated picture of the pope receiving Platina , the papal librarian , shows us , symbolically enough , Sixtus attended by his favorite nephews , whose @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It was a family which had " arrived . " During this pontificate significant steps were taken toward enlarging the papal control of the Romagna , where lordships were  | created for the various nephews . In pursuit of these political aims the pope involved his name and position in the Pazzi conspiracy of 1478 . The ensuing war failed to bring him the extensive gains for which he had hoped and when he died in 1484 he left the inheritance of a papacy increasingly dedicated to its position as a princely power in Italy . The tone of his court had become more and more magnificent and an extravagant luxury the common order of high ecclesiastical life in Rome . His successor , Giovanni Cibo , who took the title of Innocent VIII , was elected at a conclave distinguished for the openly political struggle between the rival candidates . He was weak , compliant , undistinguished , and dominated by the influence of Giuliano della Rovere , who was considered pope in all but name . Innocent 's pontificate was notable because of the extent to which the pope @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ His death in 1492 fell at a critical turning point in Italian political history , but it can hardly be supposed that if he had continued to live he would have had a very great influence on the evolution of the system of alliances . Roderigo Borgia came to the throne in 1492 and took the name of Alexander VI . He reigned for eleven years . Although many of the famous scandals associated with his name and pontificate are highly colored versions of the truth , yet he has long since ceased to have any serious defenders . One of the most ambitious and aggressive of all the popes , he centered his hopes on the position of his family rather than on the institution which he presumably served . For over a decade his maneuvers , bargains and shifts of alliance occupied the center of the stage of European diplomacy , but in the end his favorite son , Caesar , failed to hold the position it had cost so much to win . This disastrous pontificate marked the lowest point of corruption and immorality in the Vatican itself @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ died less than four weeks after his election , Giuliano della Rovere at last came to the papal throne as Julius II . The most famous of Renaissance popes , the " papa terribile " devoted himself to the enlargement of the states of the church on lines laid down by his predecessors . By a tremendous effort of energy and will he triumphed over a series of crises and lived to see the defeat of the French and the failure of the attempted council of Pisa . He had in a sense delivered the church , but at the price of opening the way to the Spanish domination of the Italian peninsula . One of the greatest patrons in the whole history of the arts , Julius commissioned the work of Michelangelo ,   Bramante and Raphael . Indeed , the sudden flowering of the style of the High Renaissance in Rome has been attributed to his personal inspiration . It has been suggested that this style was the appropriate expression of the pontiff 's religious ideals , the product of a sincere conversion . ' Whatever the personal religious @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ achievements of his age , there were many contemporaries who considered the pope 's career and ambitions far removed from Christian example . Perhaps no document better illustrates this aspect of contemporary opinion than the satire , Julius Exclusus , attributed to Erasmus . This indictment was written , if Erasmus was the author , after his return from Italy in 1509 when he became a member of the circle of Sir Thomas More . Early in his Italian journey in 1506 Erasmus had been at Bologna and had stood among the crowd to watch the pope 's triumphal entry into the city after its fall . In a way the satire may be taken as a measure of the gulf that divided the beliefs of the northern observer , educated in the atmosphere of the devotio moderna , from the ideals of the Renaissance papacy . Although the satire was not published until 1514 and was always denied by its author , it had a rapid circulation and must have made a profound impression on all who read it . It is cast in the form of a dialogue between @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , contrary to his expectation , finds himself excluded from Heaven . Every resource of the author 's irony is directed to making manifest the incompatibility between the aims and achievements of this greatest of Renaissance popes and the . ideals of the founder of Christianity . Julius finds that he is equipped only with the keys of his money box and of his political power , not with those of the Kingdom of Heaven . Saint Peter refuses to recognize in the warlike figure with his magnificent tiara and pallium the representative of the apostolic succession he had established . The success of this satire , and of others like it , is an indication of the degree to which the prestige of the papacy was declining among the intellectuals . Julius 's successor , Leo X , the eldest surviving son of Lorenzo de ' Medici , brought to their culmination the classical and secular tastes as well as the religious irresponsibility of the Renaissance papacy . Leo had been brought up in the most cultivated circles in Italy and had been tutored by Poliziano and Marsilio Ficino . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ litterateurs , he was sensitive , pleasure-loving and easygoing . The interests of the pope and his circle  | centered on music and the theater ? especially on the comedies of Plautus , on the collection of books , manuscripts and gems , as well as on hunting parties and al fresco lunches accompanied by classical masques . In the midst of all this the serious business of the papacy was neglected and it is not surprising that the court was quite unprepared to meet the great blow that fell at the end of Leo 's pontificate . Yet in spite of all this , the " pagan " atmosphere of the papacy on the eve of religious revolution has been much exaggerated . The performance of the comedies of Plautus did not necessarily mean the rejection of the Christian religion . Sarpi 's celebrated description of Leo as possessed of all the qualities to make a perfect pope if he had but had the slightest interest in religion is unfair . Leo was a product of the religious thought of the neo-Platonic circle in Florence and within the terms of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ himself as entirely Christian . Yet his was not a type of Christianity which could be understood or even tolerated by most of the members of the church over which he presided . What was needed was a pope who would take a literal and serious interest in the need for reform within the Christian community . This Leo utterly failed to supply . During the first years of Leo 's pontificate the fifth Lateran council , originally summoned by Julius II , continued to sit . It met infrequently and was attended principally by representatives of the Italian clergy . The reform decrees of earlier councils were reaffirmed and solemnly issued by papal bull . Simony and plurality were condemned , and it was insisted that candidates for ecclesiastical office should fulfil the canonical qualifications . But at the very time when these old formulas were being reiterated , some of the most important sees in Christendom were being conferred on princely children and the practice of multiplying great benefices in the hands of a single person had never been more widespread . The council promulgated some interesting decrees on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ settle some of the longstanding controversies within the Franciscan order . ' On the whole , however , its work was negligible in the face of the needs which it confronted , and it perhaps chiefly served to demonstrate that the highest organs of the church were so caught in a network of vested interests that only lip service could be paid to the cause of reform . Leo X might congratulate himself in 1517 on the successful conclusion of the council , which was celebrated with ceremonies of characteristic magnificence , but nothing  | had been done to restore the moral prestige of the papacy or to make a real attack on the whole system of ecclesiastical abuses . The hour when reform might have met with successful response was slipping away while Leo enjoyed his pontificate , the last to preside over a united Christian community . The question how far and in what ways that community was affected by conditions in Rome is difficult to answer with any precision . The great majority of the inhabitants of Christendom remained ignorant of the realities of the situation at the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Roman Empire had been undisturbed by the corruption of a Nero or a Caligula . The complicated machinery of the curia 's business continued , and those pious communities and individuals who received dispensations , indulgences , privileges and confirmations from even an Alexander VI had little or none of the information even then being recorded by Roman diarists and diplomats which was to fix the character of these popes in history . Even a firsthand view of the Renaissance papacy did not always produce a revolutionary impact on the northern beholder . It is extremely doubtful whether Luther 's visit in 1510 and 1511 gave him the impressions he afterward described . ' If a serious Augustinian monk on the business of his order could have returned from a winter in Rome in these years with only so much sense of shock as could be recollected later , when it served his purposes , rather than registered at once , how much less affected must those have been who never made the Italian journey at all . To subsequent historians the papacy of this period has become a symbol for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the minds of most men , Rome was still remote and the papacy remained an institution of final appeal . Unhappily the very conditions which led to such appeals were the same as those which were corrupting the church at the center . Secularism , extravagance and immorality were not confined to Rome but appeared at all levels of the hierarchy and in all parts of the Christian world . Apart from conditions in Rome , the areas where disintegration was most seriously felt were in the episcopate , in the institution of monasticism , and in the compromises which it had been necessary to make with the new monarchies.  | The condition of the episcopate varied from country to country , but in general those states where a strong monarchy was established were the scene of a continuing struggle between the royalty and the papacy for control of the higher ecclesiastical positions . Kings frequently chose their chief ministers from among ecclesiastics of high rank or alternatively wished to reward their most faithful servants with appointment to episcopal station . There were obvious reasons for this relationship . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which the royal administration might select its bureaucrats . The monarchs on their side were frequently not in a position to dip into their secular revenues to find for their most reliable servants rewards commensurate with their status and services . Hence the familiar alliance between the royal governments and the higher clergy of which the period provided so many conspicuous examples . At the highest level of governmental activity four famous cardinals serve to illustrate the way in which this relationship was worked out . Wolsey in England , Georges d'Amboise in France , Berthold von Henneberg in Germany , and Ximenes in Spain were all principal ministers of their respective monarchs . Some of them served the state for years and derived their main revenue from their accumulation of benefices . It was an arrangement the pope had compounded , because the papacy received a profitable revenue from the dues and dispensations that permitted these departures from canonical rules . Thus both the monarchy and the papacy had a financial interest in the appointment to the higher ecclesiastical positions of men whose first interests and responsibilities were often not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ led many noble families to seek episcopal positions for their younger sons as a means of maintaining their standard of life or supplementing income derived from the land . It was the great age of pluralities among the higher clergy , and of increasing monopoly of the upper clerical ranks by the aristocracy . In these circumstances it was obvious that there was very little time for even those bishops most serious in intent to apply themselves to the affairs of their dioceses . Others , without any conflict of duty , simply preferred the life of the court or of literature to the obligations of their offices . Hence , episcopal duties were widely neglected in every country of Christendom . Visitations , ordinations , and in many cases the entire administration of dioceses were delegated to men of inferior capacity , whose financial rewards were inadequate and who had not the interest that might have  | been expected from the original incumbent in the performance of his high office . The tragic culmination of this development may be illustrated in the career of Wolsey , who entered his archdiocese @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his life , when he had already been disgraced . An even more striking example is provided by Antoine du Prat , chancellor of France and one of the negotiators of the concordat of Bologna . He was rewarded with the archbishopric of Sens and never entered his cathedral church until he was carried in for his funeral . The failures of the higher clergy were reflected and matched in all lower ranks . The system of pluralities left many parishes unprovided , and there were very general complaints of the ignorance and incapacity of the parish priests as a class . The question of the state of education among the inferior members of the first estate is one on which it is very difficult to generalize . The impression created by the caricatures of Erasmus is probably exaggerated . Both among the regular and the secular clergy there were men highly educated in the traditional sense , who opposed and feared the program advanced by Erasmus and his followers . Lack of the new learning was not incompatible with a profound training in scholastic philosophy and theology . Yet it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ education was of the most rudimentary kind and who were not even able to get through the necessary offices . The much discussed question of the status of the regular clergy has also probably been somewhat twisted by the emphasis put upon some famous scandals and the satiric attacks of the humanists . There were many kinds and degrees of failure in monastic institutions and in the mendicant orders all over Europe , but it may be questioned whether the abuses were so much worse than they had been in the past as to cause the general stirrings of doubt about the institution of monasticism itself . The failure of an institution to work as well as it is assumed to have done in the past may cause its intellectual rejection , but it is surely often equally true that the institution ceases to work and becomes riddled with abuses because people have stopped believing in it . In many places , notably in France , Spain , and the Low Countries serious reforms in the regular orders had been undertaken and carried through with a considerable measure of success , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have a significant effect on the general situation . If the most characteristic abuses in the ranks of the regular as well as the secular clergy had been recurrent throughout the whole late medieval period , what was really new at the beginning of the sixteenth century was  | the framework of ecclesiastical organization in which they occurred . Ever since the close of the conciliar period there had been an increasing decentralization in the institutional life of the church corresponding to the growth in the power of national monarchies in western Europe . It is therefore necessary to consider briefly the most characteristic variations in ecclesiastical organization from country to country with their corresponding effects on what may be almost called national churches . In England the organization of the church was more centralized than across the Channel either in France or in Germany because of the primacy of the archbishop of Canterbury . Furthermore , a legatine authority had often been granted and exercised for the Anglican church as a whole and in the extraordinary powers conferred on Cardinal Wolsey this tradition was carried even further . Assertions about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of resistance to papal financial and jurisdictional claims in which the statutes of provisors and praemunire represented the principal rallying points . At various times of crisis this tradition was revived and emphasized and the most fundamental questions on the position and prerogatives of the clergy were brought into discussion . One such occasion was created by the case of Richard Hunne in the winter of 1514 and 1515 . Richard Hunne was a well-to-do merchant tailor and freeman of the city of London . An altercation begun with a priest over perquisites for serving at Hunne 's infant son 's funeral led to suit and countersuit in ecclesiastical and civil courts . Hunne was condemned for heresy and put in prison where he was soon afterward found hanged , in all probability a suicide but in the opinion of the London jury the victim of a murder by ecclesiastical authority . The public discussion which followed involved the most prominent persons in the church and the government and raised in the sharpest form most of the issues between clergy and secular authority . It was asked whether a secular court @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ under what circumstances ; to what extent those who held minor orders could plead benefit of clergy ; whether a papal constitution could be binding in a country whose usages were to the contrary and whether a temporal ruler could restrain a bishop . In the end there was a compromise . Wolsey made a formal disavowal on behalf of the church of any attempt to interfere in the royal prerogative . The cleric who had been under indictment for the murder of Hunne was summoned before a royal court but allowed to plead not guilty and go free . Thus the issue was temporarily settled but alarming depths of  | disagreement and tension had been revealed . All the great questions of the relationship between church and state had been raised by a dispute begun over a piece of mortuary cloth whose value was insignificant ? questions involving a declaration of the royal supremacy , and doubts about the benefit of clergy , appeals to the pope and the validity of canon law in England . Already the ground in England was thoroughly prepared for the step ultimately taken by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ independence was certainly as strong if not stronger than the Anglican . Among the fourteen archbishoprics in lands subject to the French king at the beginning of the sixteenth century none enjoyed the primacy which had been established by Canterbury in England . The archbishop of Lyons inherited perhaps the oldest claim to a primacy in Gaul , but he was never able to assert it successfully . The archbishop of Rheims prided himself on the title of born legate of the pope , but , as in the case of Lyons , this was more a title of honor than a real manifestation of authority . Hence from the point of view of relations with the royalty there was no exact equivalent of the English situation where the king could deal with the higher clergy by means of a conference with Canterbury and York . And from the point of view of the internal organization of the French church , there was a lack of directive authority . Since 1438 , with some intermissions , the regime governing the Gallican church had been at least in theory that established by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ universally accepted propositions also affirmed the supremacy of an ecumenical council over the pope , the necessity for canonical elections in the Gallican church , and finally the inadmissibility of papal reservations and certain other fiscal rights . Although it was not found possible to enforce all these provisions , and although the Pragmatic Sanction was suspended under Louis XI and again under Francis I , it remained the theoretical basis of the liberties of the Gallican church . Not only did the church in France suffer some disorganization on a national scale because of the lack of a central authority , but within the dioceses , also , there had been a serious decline of the episcopal authority . Many benefices theoretically in the collation of the bishop were in fact at the disposal of a host of other authorities ; indeed , it has been calculated that the average French bishop controlled the patronage of not more than .  | half the benefices in his diocese . Many livings were in the gift of monasteries , of cathedral chapters and , in some cases , of lay authorities . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the episcopal jurisdiction and dependent only on Rome . Even in the case of those corporate groups presumably most closely tied to the jurisdiction of the bishop , there had developed a tradition of independence , and relations between bishops and cathedral chapters were embittered by continuing struggles in which the chapters constantly sought to attain a greater degree of practical independence . In some cases these efforts were so successful that the authority of the bishop was severely limited . In these circumstances one of the few weapons at the disposal of the episcopal authority was the attempt to obtain benefices in commendam : that is to say , if a rich abbey in the diocese fell vacant , instead of having a canonical election , which was theoretically assured by the regime of the Pragmatic Sanction , the bishop might apply to Rome and have the position bestowed upon himself , thus becoming abbot in commendam . In this way many of the secular clergy , especially in the upper ranks , actually controlled more and more positions which in right belonged to regulars . Only by this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the inconvenient movements for independence that might have centered on an abbey or convent within their jurisdiction . Thus at the end of the fifteenth century , both on a national and a diocesan scale , the Gallican church presented serious weakness The whole confused situation was to a great extent clarified by the conclusion in 1516 of the famous concordat of Bologna between Francis I and Leo X. Many clauses of the Pragmatic Sanction were in this new document reaffirmed , but there was significant omission of the statement of the conciliar theory that ecumenical councils were superior to the pope , and there was a still more significant alteration in the principles governing appointment to consistorial benefices . In fact , by the new arrangement the monarchy emerged with practical control over the highest positions in the French church . Henceforth the monarchy nominated , the chapter or convent elected , and the pope provided ; but of these three steps the royal nomination was by far the most important . In return for the papal concessions to monarchical control , certain fiscal rights of the papacy , such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ therefore satisfactory to both crown and papacy , although it was bitterly opposed by the parliament and by the Gallican church . These bodies felt that ancient  | liberties were being sacrificed to a business arrangement concluded by the crown and the papacy . In spite of the opposition , however , the concordat was accepted and eventually became the charter under which the Gallican church operated until the French Revolution . Its existence must be re-garded as one of the principal factors in explaining the failure of Protestantism to achieve a more definite success in France than it eventually did . The temptation that existed so obviously in Germany and in England for the secularization of ecclesiastical property was removed by the very considerable control already achieved by the French government in 1516 . In Spain also , and at an even earlier date , the government had secured a large measure of control over the ecclesiastical organization . The Spanish church had inherited from the long medieval struggle against the Moors a tradition of militant orthodoxy . During the reigns of Ferdinand and Isabella this tradition was manifested in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the expulsion of the Jews . In 1478 Ferdinand and Isabella asked permission of the pope to establish the Inquisition in Castile . Their purpose was primarily to set up a tribunal to deal with the problem of converted Jews who had relapsed . The bull granting their request was promptly issued by Sixtus IV and within a few years the organization had assumed form . Its special power lay in the fact that it combined ecclesiastical and civil authority and served actually as one of the principal means for extending the power of the Spanish kings over the church . Although in theory the Inquisition acted in the name of Rome , in practice it was the instrument of the monarchy , which exercised complete control over the appointment and dismissal of all its officers . Instructions for the use of its judges were drawn up under royal supervision and for many years the only administrative organ common to both the realms of Aragon and Castile was the Inquisition . ' By this means , therefore , Ferdinand and Isabella were able to accomplish more perfectly what was partially @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ national control of the church . To a degree unparalleled in any other western European country the Spanish church became independent of administrative control from Rome . Because of this independence , won at an earlier date and more completely than in the other national monarchies , the Spanish authorities were in a better position to deal with the problem of the reformation of the traditional abuses . The ecclesiastical hierarchy in fifteenth-century  | Spain had been no freer than other churches in western Europe from those evils which were the subject of common indictment . The same charges ? inflated wealth of the higher clergy , pluralities , simony , immorality , neglect of pastoral duties , ignorance , departure from monastic rules ? all were heard as often and probably with as much justification in Castile and Aragon as in France and England . Once a serious effort at reform of these abuses had begun , however , the extent of the administrative control of the Spanish church gave it a better chance of success . In Italy the lack of any strong centralizing secular power meant that there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as was carried on in England , France , and Spain . In some important ways the papacy took the place of the national monarchies elsewhere and it was natural that appointees to Italian bishoprics should have a loyalty to the papal cause that could not be expected of an archbishop of Toledo or Canterbury . The ruling families of Italy supplied candidates for the college of cardinals , for the episcopate and for the papacy itself . With the higher clergy so closely attached to Rome , whether by hope of patronage or by interest in the cultural activities of the curia , there was no possibility of developing an effective administrative leadership for reform movements outside Rome . As a consequence appeals for the reformation of abuses remained on an individual basis until the time when there came to be substantial changes in the personnel and interests of the papal court . If , among the countries outside Italy , Spain represented the maximum of secular control of the church , the German Empire , where the monarchy was weakest , gave most opportunity for the development of ecclesiastical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Empire one of the most important facts to be recorded is its enormous relative wealth . Not only had the number of foundations created by German piety always been large and well endowed , but the peculiar constitution of the Empire permitted the phenomenon of the territorial prince-bishop . Thus , in the highest rank the three spiritual electors , the archbishops of Mainz , Trier , and Cologne , functioned not only as metropolitans of the German church , but also as secular princes of great wealth and political importance . Their position at the apex of the hierarchy was paralleled by other ecclesiastical officers , abbots , and bishops , who similarly enjoyed a dual power , derived on the one hand from their ecclesiastical offices and on the other from their status as territorial princes . The closer ties existing between the upper ecclesiastical offices and positions in secular politics made it all the easier and more natural that the nobility should look upon the benefices  | of the church as a means of provision for their own families . Thus the upper level of the German @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ families , to an extent more extreme than elsewhere in western Europe . Such documents as the Onus ecclesiae indicate the amount of complaint created by this situation . In contrast to the upper clergy , the lower clergy and especially the parish priests were becoming increasingly poorer . There was a superfluity of clerics , especially in some of the towns where many had neither money to live on nor duties to perform . A larger proportion of these were products of educational institutions of very low standards . They eked out a living as vicars for those who had rich benefices or in other ways which only increased the contempt and unpopularity with which they were regarded by the populace . As elsewhere in Europe , the condition of the regular clergy varied considerably from order to order and from one monastic house to another . But if there were houses and individuals who maintained the old standards , there were many others that were veritable travesties of monasticism and furnished plenty of material to satirists and reformers . The manifesto of the Revolutionary of the Upper Rhine , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ obscurorum virorum made familiar the picture of the corrupt , lazy , immoral and unjustifiable monk . These attacks were the more serious because they were combined with strong sentiments against Rome and the demands of the Roman curia . Precisely because there was no national monarchy in Germany to find a solution comparable to that of the Inquisition in Spain or the concordat of Bologna in France , the papal exactions were greater in amount and more severely felt . The German situation was in sum a good illustration of the point that revolutions often begin not where the old institutions are at their weakest but where they are strongest , so that particular abuses assume a greater prominence and produce a correspondingly greater reaction . The incident which precipitated revolution was the indulgence controversy . Behind this lay the whole history of princely bargaining for ecclesiastical position and of papal financial exactions . The archbishopric of Mainz fell vacant in 1514 for the second time within a few years . The people subject to the archiepiscopal jurisdiction had already suffered from financial pressure as they had been taxed to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ incumbent on receipt of his pallium . When the new vacancy occurred Albert of Hohenzollern , younger brother of the elector  | of Brandenburg , was put forward as a candidate . What was unusual even in this period of plurality of benefices was that this young prince had already been given the two bishoprics of Halberstadt and Magdeburg . It was clear to all concerned that the new position to which he aspired would require a very particular dispensation obtainable only at an extraordinary outlay of cash . An arrangement was finally concluded by which Albert was confirmed as archbishop of Mainz and the Hohenzollern family assumed the charges for the payment of the dues to Rome both ordinary and extraordinary . To supply the Hohenzollerns with the cash necessary for such a payment , recourse was had to the Fugger bank , which managed most of the large-scale financial transactions of the curia with Germany . When Albert was installed as archbishop , therefore , it was under the burden of a large debt to the house of Fugger . In the same year in which Albert was elected @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the preaching of indulgences granted by his predecessor in favor of the building of St. Peter 's in Rome . Territories in Germany had not been included in this campaign before , but it was now proposed that a special indulgence be granted , to be preached for eight years in the territories of the archbishop of Mainz , the profits to be allocated partly to repayment by the Hohenzollerns of their debt to the Fugger and partly to the Roman court for the building of St. Peter 's . This arrangement , which included provision for a share for the emperor , was so complicated that the negotiations dragged and the actual preaching was not begun until early in 1517 . Johann Tetzel , who had had long experience as a preacher of indulgences and had frequently conducted such campaigns , had been selected to lead the preaching in the territories of Mainz . The efforts of Tetzel were so enthusiastic as to exceed contemporary ecclesiastical doctrine on the subject of indulgences . It had already long been maintained that Christ and the saints had accumulated a treasury of good @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the church , could draw in order to remit the temporal consequences of sin . It was in theory always maintained that the indulgence , whether plenary or partial , applied only to the remission of ecclesiastical and temporal consequences . Such an indulgence must also in theory be preceded by a genuine contrition and the act of penance , which alone were capable of removing by the operation of the sacrament the true guilt and the eternal consequences of the particular sin . When these doctrines were applied to the dead , numerous difficulties arose as to how far an act of contrition had to be performed .  | What Tetzel preached was , in fact , very close to the popular proverb that as soon as a coin tinkled in the money box a soul flew out of purgatory . Tetzel 's campaign had proceeded for only a few months when it was challenged by Martin Luther 's theses , tacked on the church door at Wittenberg . The drama of events that began in Germany in 1517 thus has seemed to many the direct outcome of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ amounts to saying that the culmination of abuses produced the Reformation is a very partial and inadequate view of one of the greatest revolutions in the history of western thought . In the first place , it is by no means clear that the abuses we have been discussing in this section were all so much worse than they had been fifty or a hundred years before . Tetzel was a scandal and it is true that the monetary demands of the curia in the age of Julius II reached a new high , but there had been indulgence scandals before and for the past three hundred years there had been many popes who could be and were accused of avarice . On the more general problems , like the condition of the monastic orders , simony and plurality among the higher clergy , neglect of pastoral duties , it is very difficult to generalize . If there were some areas where it is possible to prove a considerable worsening of the situation at the beginning of the sixteenth century , there were others which warranted the conclusion that many of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ complaints for two hundred years . Speaking of Europe as a whole , the picture was certainly not one of unrelieved and progressive decline until the situation became so intolerable that it produced a revolutionary reaction . Even if it be admitted that the incidence of abuses was greater in the age of the Renaissance papacy , we have to ask again the question how far the phenomenon of conversion on so considerable a scale can be understood in these terms . The failure of belief in the traditional system was not only a reaction against errors and abuses in accepted institutions ; it was far more an attempt to accommodate within an inherited framework the results of new thinking , the product of new scholarly interests which developed independently of the institutional defects in the church . ' In other words it was not only negative but also and far more significantly positive . Men do not cease to believe in so comprehensive a system as was inherited by the sixteenth century entirely or even mainly because of .  | the existence of scandalous monks or usurpations by secular powers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Behind the cessation of belief lay new needs and interests , expressed at their highest level in the intellectual history of the time but reflected also in countless changes in daily life . The existence of abuses and the organizational failures of the church were only the negative side of a far more comprehensive change . We can understand this change better if we first consider the limitations of those reform movements that were attempted within the traditional framework and then turn to those conditions that created at least in the minds of some the hope for a reformation of a very different kind than actually came to pass . The universal demand for the reformation of the church in head and members , which had culminated in the period of the councils , was not silenced by disappointment over the failure of the council of Constance to act on the subject . Again and again throughout the fifteenth century men of good will sought to make effective the traditional hopes for closing the gap between the ideals and the actual institutions of the Christian church . Indeed these attempts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Renaissance papacy increased . The theorists of the conciliar period had produced a body of conclusions on the constitution of the church and the prerogatives of an ecumenical council . The most formal expression of such conclusions had been enshrined in the decrees sacrosancta and frequens of the council of Constance . In addition to these " legal " statements , which maintained the superiority of a council over the pope and also provided for regular sessions of ecumenical councils , there was a large and varied literature , tracts , treatises and commentaries , which developed and defended the conciliar position . Among the important points in this position were the belief that a council could reform a pope , the subjection of the papal legislative and administrative authority to the canon law , the creation of sanctions against the misuse of papal power and in general the appeal to an older constitution of the church before the Plenitudo potestatis of the papacy had developed . This program commonly emphasized , as did Nicholas of Cusa in his De concordantia catholica , the active divine headship of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was of course opposed and with increasing effectiveness by the defenders of the papal monarchy who depended on Torquemada 's Summa de ecclesia , according to which a  | council was only an assembly of prelates under the authority of the pope . In spite of and in part because of the political victories of the Renaissance papacy the conciliar program was invoked throughout the fifteenth century and the continuity of this tradition was an important element in understanding the appeal to a council in the reformation period . As Jedin has pointed out , the conciliar ideas derived their strength less from their constititional principles than from the increasing need for reform and from the hope that a new council could succeed where those of Constance and Basle had failed . One of the principal centers of opposition to the papacy continued to be the University of Paris , whose theologians maintained the validity of the decrees of Constance . In France there was frequent agitation for summoning a council and the question was discussed also in Germany and Bohemia . Even within the curia itself , in the college @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ especially on the eve of papal elections . Amid all the multiplicity of proposals there were , however , only two actual attempts , both of which were feeble and ended in failure . The first was the product of individual impulse . In 1482 the Balkan prelate Zamometic appealed in Basle for the opening of a new council which should be a continuation of the old . He supported his appeal by claiming the right of the individual in the event the church fell into grave danger through the sins and errors of the pope . His manifesto received little encouragement and he was easily silenced . A more serious attempt was made in 1511 when a minority of the cardinals , backed by the French king , issued a summons to a council to be held at Pisa against Julius II . The unanswerable reply of the pope was to summon the fifth Lateran council himself and declare the Pisans schismatic . The history of the attempted council of Pisa illustrates one of the reasons for the failure of such appeals . The idea of a reforming council was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the secular governments in an effort to achieve purely political aims . This misappropriation of the conciliar purposes , of which the French action in 1511 is an example , did much to discredit the movement for organized reforming activity in the decades before the Reformation . The persistence of these efforts furnished the background for the Tridentine reforms of the Catholic Church and their failures and compromises are among the conditions which determined the success of Protestantism 1 ? To the tradition advocating reform on the basis of rational conviction ,  | in the hope of improving the Christian church and society and bringing a little nearer the realization on earth of the Heavenly City , was added an expectation of change derived from more mystical sources . Joachimite prophecies and the predictions of the Spiritual Franciscans had long provided a basis for expecting apocalyptic changes . In the second half of the fifteenth century the very defeat of what might be called the " constitutional " program for reform served to throw more emphasis on hopes that were based entirely on faith . To the moderate reformer there succeeded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of his program with the will of God . The relationship between this medieval current of reforming activity and the conditions that determined its success or failure can perhaps best be illustrated by considering the career of one of the most famous reformers of the period , a man who devoted himself to the cause of purifying the church . Savonarola was excommunicated by the pope and was hanged and burned by his opponents with the connivance of the church . In controlling the religious and political life of the republic of Florence for a period of four years , which began and ended in revolution , he was attempting to realize ideals inherited from the Christian past . Savonarola was born in Ferrara in 1452 , the son of a family who served the Este . From an early age he had a strong religious vocation and a preoccupation with the spiritual life . He had also conceived a distaste for the kind of life represented at a Renaissance court , as he had had opportunity to view it at Ferrara . These impulses finally led to his flight from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the strict observance of this establishment Savonarola found a refuge , and there he devoted himself to a career of study and meditation . Not unlike many other prophets and reformers , his active career was preceded by such a period of withdrawal and meditation . When he had completed his studies he appeared as a preacher dedicated to the mission of acting in the name of God to correct the evils he saw around him in the church and in society . At first his preaching was not a success . In his native city he was unhonored and at Florence , where he went to preach in 1481 , his sermons were thought to be too coarse and too lacking in polish . For a time he retired to smaller places , where he developed his own style and appeal , particularly making use of prophetic denunciations . He began to achieve a reputation as a prophet of doom , calling on men to mend their ways . At the same time he distinguished himself as an able administrator in the affairs of his order .  | With this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ intervention of Pico della Mirandola , who persuaded Lorenzo de ' Medici to offer him the priorate of the Dominican convent of San Marco , which was in the gift of the Medici family . This time his success was immediate . He began his preaching in the cloisters of the monastery , then moved to the monastery church , and finally to the cathedral itself as his fame spread and his audiences grew . The prophetic vein grew stronger and stronger . He proclaimed that the church would be punished and purified at the hands of an avenger , and that the crisis was at hand . His personality and the force of his message combined to give him an extraordinary degree of influence both within the Medicean circle and with the Florentine public at large . When the army of Charles VIII crossed the Alps in 1494 the prophecies of Savonarola appeared to be vindicated . A time of chaos and confusion was indeed at hand . The French king was hailed by Savonarola as the savior sent to purify the church . The Medici were expelled from Florence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ideas of constitutional development , Savonarola emerged as the spokesman of the popular party and the leading political figure . Under his influence was introduced the great council , modeled on the Venetian constitution , which was , as we have seen , widely admired as incarnating the ideal of a mixed constitution and providing for the maximum degree of stability . Savonarola 's practical political dictatorship within the framework of this constitution provided him with the opportunity to realize his religious ideals . The next four years were to show how uncomfortable the rule of a saint could be . The Kingdom of Christ was proclaimed in Florence , but Savonarola 's highest aim was directed not only to achievement of the rule of perfection in the Florentine republic , but also in Italy and in Christendom as a whole . The program involved radical reforms of the papacy and the curia , against which increasingly violent denunciations were directed . It was Savonarola 's hope that Charles VIII would prove the political savior under whose auspices the work of reform could be carried through . We have the series @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which recall the tone of the letters of Dante to Emperor Henry VII . In the end Charles VIII proved an even more feeble instrument for the salvation of Italy and the church than had the German emperor of two centuries earlier . Savonarola 's ecumenical program was matched by an intensified effort  | to direct every aspect of Florentine life . His sermons contained bitter denunciations of luxury and vice , in the tradition of medieval preaching . He painted a highly colored picture of the evils of Florentine society . Bands of young people were organized to go about the city collecting the symbols of vanity and evil living , with a view to their destruction . The results of these inquests were committed to the famous bonfires of vanities in 1497 and 1498 . It was inevitable that this powerful but individual movement for reform should collide with the interests and policies of the papacy . Savonarola 's appeals naturally had little effect on Alexander VI , who took little notice of him until it appeared that the reform program might be linked with an opposition to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's bitter denunciations of Alexander VI , their relations were not at first entirely hostile . After the murder of the pope 's son , for example , Savonarola wrote him a letter of condolence , in which he mingled sympathy with an exhortation to reform , based on the hope that the personal blow suffered by the pope would lead to his conversion . The hope was of course disappointed and , as Savonarola persisted both in his inconvenient religious zeal and in his alliance with the French , the pope proceeded to take strong measures to suppress the friar . Attempts to have Savonarola ordered away from Florence were followed by excommunication . At the same time that papal pressure against him was increasing , Savonarola 's political position in Florence became dangerous . Although his whole career as the dictator of the city lasted for only four years , one of the most remarkable things about him was that he was able to maintain even for so long the intensity of his hold over the Florentine populace . The later Middle Ages had seen many occasions when a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a community for a brief period , but no one had been able to sustain such an influence so long as Savonarola and especially over a community of the size and character of Florence . In the end , however , even his hold weakened and factions in the city , hostile to the friar , succeeded in bringing about his ruin . The ancient rivalry between Franciscans and Dominicans was used to provide a test of Savonarola 's miraculous powers . The extraordinary scene in 1498 , when the city assembled to see re-enacted an attempt to invoke a judgment by God , ended in the discredit of Savonarola and his supporters . He was seized and tried by the municipal court acting in conjunction with the  | papal legate . During the trial he was tortured , confessed , subsequently retracted , and was finally burnt at the stake . The period of Savonarola 's career as a reformer , thus brought to an end , covered hardly more than four years . His fanatical sermons and letters as well as his religious poetry and treatises remained to have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as a reform effort , as an attempt to purify the church , this episode had been a failure and nothing was left but the strong impression Savonarola had made upon his contemporaries , to which many of the greatest minds of his generation left testimony . The failure of Savonarola 's reforming effort illuminates the essential conditions surrounding the realization of such ideals at the beginning of the sixteenth century . His appeal was essentially in the medieval tradition . It made no compromise with the new learning and the new philosophy and it made no successful use of the new political forces . His exhortations to Charles VIII harked back to the earlier expectation that a savior would appear armed to reform the church , not looking to the actual use which might be made of the power of secular government within the bounds of a national kingdom It seems clear , at least in retrospect , that no reform program was likely to succeed unless it made certain compromises with contemporary ideas and institutions . The extent to which such compromises were possible , whilst still keeping the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dawning sixteenth century . Many of those all over Europe who had at heart the reform of church and society , and who were desperately seeking new religious certitudes , were willing to go far in attempting to combine in a new synthesis the new learning and the inherited Christian tradition . There was a moment of great optimism associated with the ideals of the Christian humanists . But before we can understand these ideals and the reasons they in turn were doomed to failure we must attempt to describe the achievements of scholarship and philosophy in the second half of the fifteenth century , achievements that profoundly changed both the intellectual and the spiritual horizon . Where Savonarola 's attack was entirely negative in the sense that it was prompted by the attack on traditional abuses , the hopes of the humanists were fixed more positively on the possibility of including in their reforming program the results of the intellectual achievements of the fifteenth century .  | THE positive religious ideals that were often linked with the protest against abuses in the church were only in part the heritage of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that of Savonarola . At the beginning of the sixteenth century such ideals had been far more often shaped by the rapid intellectual changes of the preceding period and especially by the growth in the knowledge of antiquity . Before considering the reform program of humanism we must therefore give some account of the scholarship on which it was based . The greatest age of discovery of manuscripts in the west had preceded the fall of Constantinople . The generation of Poggio , Niccoli and Nicholas of Cusa had brought to light the most important lost works of Latin antiquity and nothing quite like the experience of this age was to be seen again . But if the most important discoveries were over , the process of research was carried on in a more systematic and organized way and important finds were still made . Nicholas V and his successors subsidized attempts to find the lost decades of Livy in places as remote as Denmark and Crete . Humanists like Decembrio , Valla , Politian , Merula and others made investigations in the various great monastic establishments in Italy and Spain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ end of the century . The discovery of the Medicean manuscripts of Tacitus and the printing of the editio princeps in 1515 gave increasing popularity to the influence of Tacitus over Livy , who had been so favored by the earlier generation of humanists . Thus Tacitus , the resigned historian of imperial corruption , fittingly attained his greatest influence at the very moment when the Italian states were coming under increasingly despotic foreign control . ' Research for manuscripts in the west was matched by continuing efforts to acquire copies of Greek authors from the wreck of the Byzantine  | world . The enthusiasm for Greek in the world of Italian scholarship had begun long before the fall of Constantinople and it is as certain as anything can be that if the Turks had never taken the remains of the Greek Empire , the cultural exchanges which had begun with the west would have continued and grown . The point had been reached where agents and collectors of manuscripts would have been sent and Greek teachers would have been imported into Italy regardless of who ruled in Constantinople . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and a large number of manuscripts were brought to Italy by refugees and emigres . Cardinal Bessarion , who had adhered to the Roman Church after the council of Florence , made it one of his principal aims to acquire the largest possible library of Greek manuscripts , and his deputies were sent to many places throughout the Mediterranean world . The famous refugee scholar , John Lascaris , made two expeditions to the east for the Medici , returning from the second in 1492 with over two hundred Greek manuscripts . Such efforts were sustained by an enthusiasm for the increase in knowledge about classical civilization which for the extent of its appeal has had few parallels in the history of Europe . The new learning was taken up by kings and princes and its findings were communicated to an ever widening circle of the educated public . Had there been newspapers at the beginning of the sixteenth century we can imagine that the achievements of classical scholarship would have been reported on their front pages in much the same way as the advances of contemporary science are noticed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was communicated in the letter which a young Italian humanist leader wrote to a friend from Paris , where he had gone to lecture and to spread the gospel of the new enlightenment . On the thirtieth of July , 1511 , he wrote : I began to lecture on Ausonius . You know how impatiently these lectures were awaited . There was such a crowd that the portico and the two courts of the college could not contain it . And what a distinguished audience . Receivers general , counsellors , king 's advocates , rectors , theologians , jurists , heads of colleges , professors of every faculty , the number is estimated at more than two thousand . Never before either in Italy or in France have I seen a more august or a more numerous assembly of educated men . As I had more or less foreseen this I had prepared a discourse of some merit . I know this by the fact that though the lecture lasted two hours and a half , and the heat was suffocating , none betrayed the least weariness . Indeed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their places as if expecting something more .  | This account may well be said to reveal more about the humanist than it does about his audience . The complacency and self-assurance were particularly characteristic . Yet there is independent testimony to the excitement created by Aleander 's lectures and this incident could be matched by hundreds of others . If there should be matter for surprise in the fact that a discourse of such length on a third-rate ancient author could create such a sensation , we must remember that the popular appeal of humanist scholarship lay less in its content than in its method . Here was a new way of looking at literature , at history and at the world . It seemed to convey to its practititioners a heightened sense of vividness and reality . Absorption in the new ways of studying antiquity was far from monopolizing the contemporary attention of the learned world . The picture would be false if we forgot that side by side with an Aleander lecturing on Ausonius the professors of scholastic philosophy and theology continued their analysis of Aristotle and Aquinas @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ learning which captured the attention of the literate public was the kind of humanism Aleander and his like represented . The continuous growth of this enthusiasm for ancient texts stimulated the search for manuscripts and impelled princes and wealthy individuals to become collectors and to establish libraries . Many of the great libraries of Europe thus came into being in the fifteenth century . Not only scholars like Pico della Mirandola and Cardinal Bessarion and princely patrons like the Medici and the dukes of Urbino , but even the distant kings of Hungary and Poland were affected by the desire to accumulate treasures of literature and learning . In the space of a hundred years the number of considerable libraries in western Europe was at least doubled . ' The majority of the new collections were to be found in Italy and among the most celebrated was the Vatican , the pre-eminence of which began to date from the pontificate of Nicholas V. This pope employed a great number of scholars and collectors , with the ambition of making the Vatican collection unique . Despite the fact that many of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ work he subsidized remained the nucleus of the great papal collection . Other patrons achieved results of almost equal importance . Cardinal Bessarion in 1470 bequeathed his library to the republic of Venice , where  | it became the center of the Marcian collection . In Florence the library subsequently named the Laurentian had been built up by the activities of Cosimo de ' Medici and his grandson Lorenzo . These famous Italian libraries have remained largely intact , but others equally celebrated both in Italy and north of the Alps were subsequently widely dispersed . Pico della Mirandola , for example , had a library matched by few of his con temporaries , and north of the Alps the Hungarian king , Mathias Cor vinus , had made a similarly impressive collection . In France the beginnings of the royal library may be dated from the reign of Francis I , when Fontainebleau was enriched with the spoils of the Visconti-Sforza library from Milan . Insofar as the catalogues of these libraries remain or can be reconstructed , they give us an interesting index of the intellectual interests of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , as opposed to earlier collections , was of course the increase in the number of Greek texts . The library of Eugenius IV in the first part of the fifteenth century contained 340 books , of which only three were in Greek , but by the time Nicholas V died in 1455 there were in the Vatican Library almost twelve hundred volumes of which between three and four hundred , or roughly a third , were in Greek . This proportion was maintained , and in the pontificate of Sixtus IV , in a catalogue of 1484 , we have over a thousand volumes in Greek out of a total of 3,600 . The Laurentian Library in Florence and the Marcian in Venice reflected a similar growth in the number of Greek manuscripts . During the fifteenth century , however , this phenomenal increase in the available Greek texts remained largely confined to the Italian peninsula . Less marked , but in some ways of almost equal significance , was the increase in the number of Hebrew texts in Christian libraries . Pico della Mirandola , the foremost Christian Hebrew @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hebrew manuscripts in his library , and Federigo , the famous duke of Urbino , had almost as many . The papacy had collected Hebrew manuscripts at a very early period , and there were said to have been 120 in the library of Urban V at Avignon . The northern Hebrew collections , like the Greek , lagged behind the Italian at the beginning of the sixteenth century . Reuchlin , who was a greater Hebraist than his master , Pico , had only thirty-six Hebrew manuscripts in his library . ' The new resources represented by the collections of Greek and  | Hebrew manuscripts did not displace those works which enshrined the traditional culture of the Latin Christian world . The catalogue of the books of Cosimo and Lorenzo de ' Medici recently exhibited at Florence , on the occasion of the fifth centenary of the birth of Lorenzo , is in this respect a revealing document . ' The number of patristic and biblical texts was still greater than the Greek or Roman . Among the oldest and most valuable books in the library we find listed a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , a Greek Bible , the works of St. John Chrysostom , Eusebius , St. Gregory Nazianzen , Clement of Alexandria , Dionysius the Areopagite , Orosius , Boethius , a Psalter , St. Paul 's Epistles , St. Augustine and a collection of the lives of the saints . Such a list , matched with the Aristotles , Plutarchs , Homers , Vergils and Ovids , hardly indicates the sense of a conscious opposition between a " pagan " and a " Christian " past and between sacred and profane studies which has seemed to many a characteristic feature of the period . It is a noteworthy fact that the libraries of the great age of humanist scholarship were almost entirely formed by princes and private persons and that the great universities took a very small part in collecting the essential documents for the study of antiquity . Whereas the intellectual achievements of the Middle Ages were the product of work within the walls of a university , the center of research now shifted to the patron 's library . This enlargement and secularization of the area of scholarly activity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the growth of a lay reading public . The aristocratic libraries had to share with the printing establishments the function of laboratories of the most significant research the age was accomplishing . The invention and development of printing with movable types brought about the most radical transformation in the conditions of intellectual life in the history of western civilization . It opened new horizons in education and in the communication of ideas . Its effects were sooner or later felt in every department of human activity . There are very few scholarly subjects which have been more debated than the story of the beginnings of this transformation . In an age inclined to emphasize process rather than the single event and the social setting rather than the contribution of the individual , the figure of Gutenberg  | has diminished in importance . Attention has been rightly turned from the drama and legend of the poor printer of Mainz to the general conditions of the fifteenth century that permitted the development of typography . Among such conditions one of the first in importance was the growth of a secular reading public @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the clergy it is doubtful that any technical innovation would have been adopted , or applied even if it had been made . The very fact that the printing process spread so rapidly poses the same kind of problem already discussed in connection with the process of exploration and discovery . From the point of view of the general historian it has been proved again and again that the individual achievements of technology are far less important than the preparation of the environment in which they occur . Just as the Chinese had performed greater feats of navigation than the Europeans in the fifteenth century and yet their voyages had remained without effect , so also in the case of printing the Chinese had had for centuries paper and the art of printing on it with wooden blocks ; yet they had never developed the technique of book-printing for mass production . The social and economic evolution which made it possible for larger groups of people to be interested in reading also provided accumulations of capital in amount sufficiently large and widely distributed to set up printing establishments . These @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ investment . Here again the property structure of European civilization , including both the distribution of wealth and the sanctions against government , were of decisive importance . The rapidity with which printing spread over Europe depended upon the incentives to individual initiative . In addition to these general factors the state of technology too had reached a point where advances were possible . The art of making paper , originally invented in China , had been carried to Europe in the Middle Ages by the Arabs . As early as the thirteenth century paper was produced in Italy and southern France . Printing with inks from wooden blocks , also long known in the east , had developed in Europe with the arrival of paper . From this basic technology , the step to printing with movable types was gradually taken in the fifteenth century . Block-printing had been used as a device for illustrating devotional books and it had soon become a natural addition to cut a short inscription explaining the illustration . From the short inscription it was again a  | natural step to cutting a whole page @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it seems obvious that the idea of cutting up such blocks into movable type must have occurred to many workmen almost simultaneously . As a block-carver labored over a single letter in his page of type he must have thought with regret of the amount of time it had taken him to cut the same letter on another page the day before . Various experiments with interchangeable letters led to the discovery of metal types . ' It is here that Gutenberg 's innovations were probably of critical importance . Without going into all the controversial detail that has surrounded his career and his achievement , it seems today to be a conclusion accepted by students of the subject that sometime between 1440 and 1450 the critical step was taken in the process of improving the casting of type which made possible the assembling of fonts in sufficient quantity to undertake printing on a large scale . From the earliest work at Mainz ? the fragments of an astronomical calendar , the " Last Judgment " fragment , the indulgences of 1454 and 1455 , the Gutenberg Bibles and the Psalter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ western Europe . Workers from Germany in most cases introduced the process in other countries . By the end of the century there were seventy-three presses in Italy , fifty-one in Germany , thirty-nine in France , twenty-four in Spain , fifteen in the Low Countries and eight in Switzerland . Such a rapid growth in the space of fifty years , in an age when the growth of technological innovation was not nearly so rapid as it is today , is testimony to the prepared state of the general environment . In spite of the fact that the collectors of manuscripts and the aristocratic humanist scholars at first rejected the printed books as vulgar , most of these presses rapidly became workshops of scholarship and some of them were among the greatest centers of the new learning . The press of Aldus Manutius in Venice undertook the printing of the Greek classics and was conducted with a sense of dedication to a mission . " If you have to speak to Aldus be quick about it because time presses , " was the motto said to have been installed by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the greatest of western scholars ? with whom for a time Erasmus was associated ? the work of publishing the recovered Greek classics went forward with incredible activity . The Aldine press remained the outstanding example , but other printing offices too united the work of // the printer and the scholar . The sense of vitality and enthusiasm that had waned in the traditional lecturing of the universities now blossomed over the making of books by the new process , where typesetter and corrector bent over the sheets as they came from the press . The printed page was the first of those media of mass communication which have finally grown to the point where they dominate our lives . The anonymous appeal directed more to emotion than to reason became possible . The printed broadside became a weapon of political activity and played its first great part in the spread of the Reformation . Great masses of people were given for the first time an opportunity for vicarious participation in far larger areas of activity . The horizon was potentially widened for all , but the question may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ also lost in the process . Mr. Mumford has pointed out that what was true in print came to be equated to what was true in reality R Already before the sixteenth century was over there were educators who found it necessary to argue for more pictures in children 's primers so that the importance of the visual image should be restored . In all the legal relationships which knit together individuals and groups , public and private concerns , the written and presently the printed document came to be more important than unwritten custom . European society was moving toward a capitalist order and some of its new needs were served directly by the printed word . In print it was easier to keep a strict account of time and money , and the wider dissemination of the clock also paralleled the spread of the written word . At the beginning of the sixteenth century , however , none of these more general aspects was so important as the effect of the new invention on scholarship . In spite of the fact that the older generation tended to look with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vulgarity and a threat to the artistic and economic value of their manuscripts , scholars of all types soon adjusted themselves to the new possibilities . To apprehend how much this was true we have only to remember that the career of an Erasmus would have been impossible without the standardization and wide dissemination of the printed page . The mere fact that a single emendation by a great scholar could now be circulated in thousands of copies without the danger of a copyist 's error signified a complete revolution in the conditions of activity of the learned world . Thus , although the implications of printing were in the long run of critical importance for propaganda and for educational theory and practice  | in a capitalist society , its first revolutionary results were felt in the world of scholarship where a great impetus was given to the wide dissemination of accurate knowledge of the sources of western thought , classical and Christian . One of the principal results of the activity of scholars and printers was the rapid increase in the knowledge of Greek literature and philosophy . In the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ most important place . In the several centers of which Rome , Venice and Florence were the most important , the great texts of Greek thought were edited , published , translated and commented . At the Vatican in the mid-century Nicholas V presided over the great project of translating a large part of the corpus of Greek literature . In this effort the Greek exiles of the second generation played an important part . George Trapezuntios translated a large part of Aristotle and the Laws of Plato . Theodore of Gaza and Cardinal Bessarion translated other treatises of Aristotle , and Gregorio of Citta de Castello translated the Nichomachean and Eudemean Ethics . This work was , however , far from limited to the refugees from the east . Italian scholars , who had by now mastered the Greek language , co-operated with the Greeks : Leonardo Bruni translated Aristotle ; Lorenzo Valla , Thucydides ; Perotti , Polybius ; Poggio , Diodorus Siculus ; Guarino da Verona , Strabo ; and Piero Candido Decembrio , Appian . Well might Nicholas V say of himself : " In all things @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ purchase of books , in the constant transcription of Greek and Latin manuscripts and in the rewarding of learned men . " Many of the works which had been translated at Rome were published in the Greek text for the first time at the Aldine press in Venice . The fundamental labor of printing correct editions of the Greek classics was undertaken by Aldus Manutius and the scholars whom he gathered around him in the Venetian Academy . Nearly half of this group were exiled Greeks , and it was due to their assistance that Aldus was able to accomplish his great work in so short a time . When he died in 1515 not a single major Greek author remained unprinted . In the twenty-one years between 1494 and 1515 no less than twenty-seven editiones principes of Greek authors and Greek works of reference had been produced .  | Upon these achievements northern scholars could draw to spread Greek learning in the north Of all the aspects of the Greek revival the one which had the greatest influence on contemporary intellectual history was the interest in Plato , which in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ envoy and teacher , Manuel Chrysoloras , had translated the Republic at the beginning of the fifteenth century . His work had been continued by the secretary of state , Leonardo Bruni , and others . Here also Giovanni Aurispa in the thirties had brought back among the manuscripts he had collected in Constantinople the Greek texts of the whole Platonic corpus . And most important of all , at the council of Florence the aged scholar , Gemisthos Pletho , had kindled an enthusiasm for the study of the Platonic dialogues and initiated a controversy between the followers of Plato and those of Aristotle which continued throughout the century and served to crystallize the philosophic currents of the age . It was in this atmosphere that Cosimo de ' Medici , following the fashionable interests of the learned world , gave his support to Platonic studies . Marsilio Ficino was a young man in his early twenties when he first came into contact with the ruler of Florence . The son of one of the Medici doctors , he had studied in the grammar schools and at the University of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other young scholars , he had begun the study of Greek , in which there was now no lack of regular instruction , so that he might study the heritage of ancient thought in the original . Cosimo de ' Medici was favorably impressed with his promise and in 1462 furnished him with a villa at Careggi , a library , and an income , on the understanding that he would devote his life to the study of Platonic philosophy . Thus began the Florentine Platonic Academy which was to have such a pervasive and subtle influence on the artistic , literary , and spiritual life of the succeeding generations . Ficino first occupied himself with translations from the Greek to the Latin . Among his earliest significant works was the translation in 1463 of the Corpus hermeticum , by which it was assumed the wisdom of ancient Egypt lying behind the Greek tradition was made available . This was followed by concentrated work on the Platonic dialogues . By the time Cosimo died in 1464 ten dialogues were finished and the rest were completed by 1468 . Ficino then turned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The Theologia Platonica was finished in 1474 and was followed by the treatise , De Christiana religione . In his later years .  | he resumed translating various neo-Platonic sources such as Porphyry , Proclus and Dionysius the Areopagite . The life work of one man thus provided for Latin civilization a direct knowledge of the texts of some of the most important works in the heritage of classicism and Christianity . " The influence of Ficino 's work on the cultivated circles of Florence , Italy , and even Europe , was exercised without the benefit of an institutional setting . The name of " Academy " in fact implies a more formal organization than ever existed . Ficino did no regular teaching or lecturing . He did give discourses from time to time to large audiences in Florence and frequently entertained the intimates of his circle at Careggi with banquets and symposia . The Academy in fact consisted simply of the group who met at Careggi and who were united in their devotion to Plato and his interpreter . By personal influence of this kind , Ficino 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ school and the absence of notable successors , were spread to artists , poets , moralists , and religious reformers . One of the fundamental and most characteristic doctrines of the Platonic Academy at Florence was the emphasis on the traditional hierarchical principle in metaphysics . In Ficino 's interpretation of this principle there were of course elements directly derived from Plotinus , but there was an even stronger reassertion of the medieval idea of a hierarchy of species ranging from the lowest order of being up to God . In the great series of creation man occupied a middle position . The human soul imprisoned in the body was condemned to melancholy and to a cloddish existence until impelled by the will ; the intellectual had the duty to try to apprehend higher things and so to ascend toward that union with the divine which was the true end of man . In this process love was the operative force , not reason , for Ficino believed that the human intellect was powerless when confronted by subjects which transcended its scope . " We are united , " Ficino wrote @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , which transforms us into the beloved God , than through knowledge . . . . Furthermore , recognizing God , we contract His amplitude to the capacity and concept of our mind ; but loving Him , we enlarge the mind to the immense amplitude of divine goodness . There , so to speak , we lower God to our level ; here , we lift ourselves to God . For we know as far as we comprehend ; but we love both what we see clearly  | and what we expect as the remainder of the divine goodness beyond our dear sight . In his general optimism , in his emphasis upon the freedom of the will and the possible glory of man , and in the development of a theory of love Ficino has been regarded as the formulator of a Renaissance philosophy . The earlier humanists had lacked a metaphysic . Their interests had been primarily in grammar , rhetoric , ethics and politics . Science and philosophy they left to the Aristotelians and the despised scholastics . Through the work of Ficino the Platonic revival now @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of its developing interests and activities could be justified and understood . Yet it is a mistake to regard Ficino as marking a sharp break with the previous philosophic tradition . In recent years his true position has been much more appreciated and it has been pointed out that Ficino can not properly be understood as simply reviving a Platonic and neo-Platonic philosophy which had lain dormant for centuries in the heritage of the west . In the first place , there is a direct continuity between the medieval Platonic tradition and the work of Ficino . His perceptions of Plato were quite as much conditioned by the interpretations of St. Augustine , Dionysius the Areopagite , the German mystics , and Nicholas of Cusa as by his direct study of new texts . In the second place , there was a considerable influence of Aristotle and the great scholastic tradition from St. Thomas . There is indeed a story that in his youth the figure who most influenced Ficino was St. Antoninus of Florence ? who might be taken as the opposite of the archetype of the Renaissance man . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ emphasis and a new tone to religious thought and provided a wider horizon , but it did not represent a conspicuous change of direction . Ficino thought of Plato as belonging to a series of interpreters of the divine , beginning with Zoroaster and stretching on through Hermes Trismegistus and Pythagoras . All this ancient wisdom , of which Plato represented the culmination , only anticipated and confirmed Christianity . In various ways , indeed in more ways than could have been imagined a hundred years earlier ? it was still believed that a single truth could be discerned by those who were sufficiently learned . The Platonic tradition was the major part of the Greek revival which reinforced men 's understanding of the divine plan  | for the universe . And that understanding was at the same time further deepened by the exploration of the other great source of western thought , the Hebraic , equally an achievement of the scholarship of the fifteenth century . The knowledge of Hebrew among Latin Christians during the Middle Ages had been even slighter than the knowledge of Greek . Only a very @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were unique achievements without important cultural consequences . Nothing testifies more strongly to the isolation of Jewish culture in the midst of the European community than the fact that the whole Hebrew learned tradition remained a closed book to the Christians , the sources of whose own religion were nevertheless so closely connected with that tradition . The Jewish settlements in various European centers maintained an unbroken written and oral inheritance in spite of persecution and attempts at conversion . But this inheritance began to penetrate Christian thought only in the period before the Reformation , and the same fifteenth century that saw the revival of Greek studies saw also the development and expansion of Hebrew scholarship among Christians . In a sense there were interesting parallels between the two phenomena . The opportunity in both cases had existed all along . For centuries European merchants and travelers had been in touch with the Byzantine Empire , and colonies of Italian traders and administrators had been established in Constantinople and on the Black Sea . Yet all this intercourse resulted in no impetus to the study of the Greek language in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Jews had lived and taught in Frankfort , Toledo , Prague , and many other cities of the European world without European scholars being stimulated to learn Hebrew . Distances in space and time are far from being the only factors that prevent communication between cultural systems ; the direction of intellectual interests is determined by conditions affecting the whole of society , which are often far beyond the consciousness of the scholar . The expanding intellectual horizon of the fifteenth century brought both Hebraism and Hellenism into clearer relationship with the contemporary European world . The beginnings of Hebrew studies in this period were centered in Italy and Spain . In Rome , again at the court of Nicholas V , Gianozzo Manetti , who died in 1459 , was distinguished for his knowledge of both Greek and Hebrew and for his zeal in the collection of Hebrew manu- scripts . The famous monk , Ambrogio Traversari , also devoted himself to Hebrew studies among his other scholarly labors . Mention has already been made of the collections of Hebrew manuscripts assembled in the Vatican Library . Spain had been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Jewish community living there until the expulsion of 1492 , but also because of the direct influence of Arabic philosophy on Hebrew exegetical and mystical works . Jewish Cabala as well as the Talmud became influential on Christian thinking in the latter half of the fifteenth century . The most famous element in the former , the Zohar , had been elaborated in Spain by Moses de Leon in the thirteenth century . Written in the form of a commentary on the Pentateuch , it was in reality a compilation of cabalistic theosophy . It included some portions of great antiquity and some of fairly recent addition . Central to its doctrine was the theory of emanations , by which was explained the relationship of a transcendent god to the world . The importance of love as against the intellect and the will was also emphasized . In all these doctrines there was a strong current of neo-Platonism which had entered them by means of the Arabic tradition . Hence there were remarkable similarities between the metaphysical and theological doctrines expounded by the Florentine neo-Platonists and those of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Christian thinkers when it began to be made available is partially explained by the extent to which it seemed to confirm presuppositions already held . Among the Christian Hebraists of the Renaissance none was more important nor more influential than Pico , the prince of Mirandola . This dazzling and enigmatic figure has seemed to many to summarize in his life and work the intellectual interests and enthusiasms of his age . Born in 1463 , the heir of the princes of the little feudal principality of Mirandola , Pico was connected with half the ruling families of Italy . In addition to the advantages of his birth , fortune and good looks , he showed from his earliest years a precocious mind . The contemporary system of abuses allowed him to receive his first ecclesiastical appointment at the age of ten . The charge of lack of capacity at that early age was promptly refuted by the extent of the course of formal education upon which he embarked . Of all his contemporaries there were few who were exposed to quite so many educational influences . He attended many of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , as well as Paris ,  | which was still the capital of the scholastic world . At each center he stayed long enough to feel that he had exhausted what his masters had to give him , and then moved on in search of new truths and new methods . His curiosity was apparently insatiable , but it was matched by his ambition and assurance . When he was hardly twenty he conceived in Paris the idea of summarizing all human knowledge in a compendious summa in the medieval tradition , and decided to go to Rome to defend publicly the nine hundred theses into which he had compressed the philosophic wisdom of the ages . There he announced that he would dispute with all corners and generously issued an invitation to scholars to attend the disputation , promising to pay the expenses of those who came from a distance . The Oration on the Dignity of Man was written in Rome as an introduction to the nine hundred theses . Unfortunately the ecclesiastical authorities were not impressed with his capacity as an encyclopedist . Pope Innocent VIII was disgusted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into Pico 's work to see whether it was heretical . At the end of this inquiry a small number of Pico 's propositions were indeed declared heretical and others suspect . The number of those involved was no more than thirteen out of nine hundred to avoid arrest and condemnation left Rome and took refuge in France . There he was eventually arrested at the instigation of the papal legate and put in the prison of Vincennes , just outside Paris . Influential friends arranged his escape and from Paris he went to Florence , where he was enthusiastically welcomed by Lorenzo de ' Medici and the circle of the Platonic Academy . The rest of Pico 's short life was spent in Florence , where he quickly became the most celebrated member of the Academy . He devoted himself feverishly to scholarly activity . The exploration of the Greek and Hebrew philosophical traditions and their concordance with the Christian particularly engaged his attention . Under the direction of Savonarola , whom he had been instrumental in summoning to Florence , he began to lead a regular and devout Christian @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a fever in 1494 at the moment when Charles VIII and his invading army were about to enter the gates of Florence . His dramatic career was thus brought to an almost symbolic close . Considering the shortness of Pico 's life he left a remarkably large and varied body of work . All of it was written within a comparatively short space of time , which disposes of the argument that a series of " periods " is  | to be traced in his intellectual evolution . There is the commentary explaining the doctrines of the neo-Platonic cosmology , which was written in 1486 , and there are the nine hundred theses or conclusions written for the dispute in Rome . Of these a large number were taken from medieval philosophers like St. Thomas and Albertus Magnus and many others from the Jewish Cabala , from Arabic writings and from the Hermetic corpus . In connection with these theses the Dignity of Man and the Apology were written . From the Florentine period there is the Heptaplus , an esoteric and learned commentary on the Book of Genesis with a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Pico wrote in Florence his metaphysical treatise on The Being and the One , which dealt with the relation of God to the created world . Finally , just before he died , he wrote a treatise on astrology . Through all these works runs the great influence of Pico 's Hebrew studies . He had acquired the beginnings of his interest in this language from Johann Alemanno and Elia del Medigo . Both these Jewish scholars had migrated from the Levant ? Alemanno from Constantinople and Del Medigo from Crete . The latter taught at the University of Padua and supported Aristotelianism against the current fashionable Platonism . He was widely read in Arabic philosophy as well as being an authority on the Cabala . From such sources Pico derived his interest in Hebrew and his very eclecticism permitted the development of these interests side by side with the Christian , Platonic , and Arabic . In a sense he was . only building on the methods developed by medieval scholasticism , but it was through him that a consciousness of Hebrew and particularly cabalistic thinking entered the western world @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were being developed in the neo-Platonic school at Florence . Pico 's most celebrated pupil and the greatest Christian Hebraist of his generation was Johann Reuchlin . Reuchlin had already acquired a humanist education as well as a training in the law before his first Italian journey . This was undertaken in 1481 when he was at Rome and studied at the papal court . Nine years later he returned to Italy , this time to Florence , and it was then that he met Pico at Florence and became interested in Hebrew studies . He engaged Hebrew teachers and made rapid progress , the results of which were apparent in a work on the Cabala published in 1494 . By the time he published the first Christian-Hebrew grammar in 1506 he had become the foremost authority in Europe on Jewish literature . His reputation had hardly been established when the  | whole subject of the relation of Hebrew thought to the Christian tradition came under violent discussion in Germany . A converted Jew named Pfefferkorn had succeeded in acquiring from the Emperor Maximilian a mandate empowering him to supervise the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . As he carried out his task Pfefferkorn had aroused some scandal by the violence of his proceedings and also by the suspicion that he was compounding with wealthy Jews and synagogues to make a fortune by exacting bribes to buy immunity from his persecution . Protests to the emperor brought about an appeal and the opinion of Reuchlin was sought as an authority on Hebrew . Reuchlin submitted a temperate argument in which he proposed that some few Hebrew books particularly condemnatory of Christianity be destroyed , but at the same time he pled for increasing the understanding of both the Talmud and the Cabala , and maintained that such understanding could only result in benefit to the Christian religion . Reuchlin 's recommendation , intended to be confidential , was released by Pfefferkorn , who argued against it in a violent pamphlet . Reuchlin of course replied and the controversy presently became one of great violence , as each of the protagonists found supporters . Pfefferkorn was defended especially by the Dominicans of Cologne , who felt they had a vested interest in the maintenance of his program . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ learning flocked to the aid of Reuchlin . As a result the issue became a cause celebre dividing the intellectual life of Germany and to some extent of all Europe . The most celebrated document produced by the controversy was the famous satire , The Letters of Obscure Men , which did so much to discredit the church and the older system of university instruction in Germany . " The Reuchlin controversy was an extreme example of the disintegrating effect upon traditional modes of thought of a heightened consciousness of the Hebrew tradition . Although outbursts of anti-Semitism had been recurrent throughout the medieval period , Pfefferkorn 's particular attempt to destroy Jewish literature was stimulated by the extent to which knowledge of Hebrew sacred books was penetrating Christian thinking . Against such reactions , however , must be put the positive contributions brought about by this knowledge . Like the revival of Greek , Hebrew scholarship introduced changes of decisive importance in the evolution of the Christian tradition . The sources of that tradition were now available  | to an increasing number of trained scholars for textual examination in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ effort to interpret the original sources can hardly be overemphasized . Men felt that a new light had dawned . In spite of the fact that the sense of history was more acutely developed by philology and that the history of Christianity was therefore seen in greater perspective , the scholars who worked with the new tools felt themselves to be nearer the revealed word . At the same time an impulse was given toward a theory of natural religion . Ficino , Pico , Reuchlin and other explorers of diverse philosophical and religious experiences were convinced that behind apparent diversity lay unity and that the single truth was most perfectly expressed in Christianity . The assimilation of Greek and Hebrew learning could then in the long run only redound to the purification of Christianity . Scholarship had thus its practical uses in the service of the church . It was this conviction that underlay the hopes of the early sixteenth-century reformers and it was these ideals which inspired the Christian humanists . The first landmark in the application of philological techniques to the understanding of biblical texts dates from the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Valla were notes on the language of the Vulgate pointing out various errors , misunderstandings and doubtful translations from the Greek of the New Testament . This work was an attempt to apply to the fundamental texts of the Christian religion the same method for understanding which was already proving so succesful in eliciting the meaning of legal documents of the ancient world . Valla 's work remained in manuscript but was found and published by Erasmus in 1505 . Erasmus regarded himself as overwhelmingly indebted to the ideas and the method outlined in Valla 's work and from it came the major inspiration for his own work on the New Testament , which he regarded as a continuation of his humanist predecessor 's . The first decade of the sixteenth century saw , besides the dedication of Erasmus to the task of producing an edition of the New Testament in the original Greek , a great effort of biblical scholarship in Spain under the direction of Cardinal Ximenes . The great scholarly achievement of the University of Alcala , founded by the cardinal in the first decades of the sixteenth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ New Testaments were both printed with the original languages and the Vulgate in parallel columns , in order that difficulties in the interpreta- tion of the Vulgate might be cleared up and errors corrected . A learned staff labored on this great work for many years . Manuscripts were sent from the Vatican and were acquired from many other sources . The New Testament was actually printed in 1514 , two years before the Novum instrumentum of Erasmus , but its publication was delayed . To Erasmus the honor therefore remains of having given to the western world the first edition of the New Testament in Greek . The Complutensian Old Testament followed the New , and the whole was complete in 1522 . It is one of the great monuments of scholarship and of printing skill in the first half of the sixteenth century . It must be remembered , however , that the purpose of Ximenes was much more in line with the medieval tradition than it was with modern criticism . It is true that the preface to the first volume , outlining the scope and purpose of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and exactly represent the original , and that it is necessary to go back to the sources of sacred writings . But it is clear that the whole work was designed to reinforce the authority of the Vulgate rather than to correct it . In the Old Testament the versions were arranged in parallel columns , with the Vulgate occupying the middle place between the Hebrew and the Septuagint . This arrangement was introduced with the remark made by Ximenes that it had been adopted because it symbolized the middle place occupied by the Church of Rome between the synagogue and the Greek church , like the position of Christ on the cross between two thieves . This reveals the spirit in which the critical work was approached . Far more scholarship in the sense of searching of manuscripts was bestowed on the Complutensian Polyglot than Erasmus was able to put on his edition of the Greek New Testament , but the Erasmian edition , although almost exactly contemporary , represents far more nearly the ideals of modern scholarship . Just as Ximenes intended his university to be a nursery of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Bible was intended to strengthen the Roman tradition . The Novum instrumentum of Erasmus , containing the introduction and text of the New Testament in Greek together with Erasmus ' new Latin translation , was published in 1516 . Erasmus had neither a perfect mastery of Greek nor a sufficient number of manuscripts to make this famous edition a critical one by modern standards . Nevertheless , it repreents a landmark in the history of scholarship and a greater one than the Complutensian Polyglot because it raised questions about the authenticity of the Vulgate text .  | By the eve of the Reformation , therefore , the European learned world had been supplied with editions and commentaries on the Old and New Testaments which represented the application to scripture of the humanist techniques . Upon this achievement rested the hopes of a whole generation for a purification and restoration of the Christian church . The common denominator between Greek and Hebrew scholarship was a new understanding of history . The development of a sense of perspective on the past , the ability to place oneself in time with respect to an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , all this was a contribution essentially of humanist thought . It was of course a contribution built on the Christian inheritance , which stressed the linear evolution in which the Incarnation was the most important event and the Last judgment was the goal toward which society was tending . But in spite of this historic element in Christian thought the Middle Ages had singularly lacked a sense of the reality of time . Countless representations of biblical and classical scenes on manuscripts and portals testify to the fact that these distant events were thought to have happened only yesterday . The Flight into Egypt is the peasant family in the next village on their mule . This tradition had a powerful hold on men 's minds and indeed in many ways was not completely shaken off until the triumph of historicism in the nineteenth century . No popular representation today of imperial Rome or of Old Testament Judea such as Hollywood has from time to time given us would be attempted without all the apparatus that archeology and history , fake or real , could supply . But down through @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fact that Greeks of the Age of Pericles appeared in the costumes of Versailles . Yet the attainment of a sense of distance in time and space which is one kind of reality has been accomplished at the sacrifice of another kind of reality . Today the process has gone so far that we feel self-conscious about trotting out characters dressed in historical costumes as if for a fancydress ball . Shakespeare in modern dress or St. Joan in modern talk may come with a greater shock of recognition . At the beginning of the sixteenth century this sense of history , which was subsequently to triumph , was only beginning to be manifest in humanist thought . The tradition of the medieval chronicle continued in many forms . Whether such chronicles purported to give the history of a national group , a political entity , a city or a monastery , they began with  | the history of creation and pretended to universal scope . Among the most famous examples of this genre was the Nurnberg Chronicle of Hartmann von Schedel , published in 1493 and illustrated with woodcuts by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ realistic portrayal of German cities were representations of biblical events and wonderful prodigies . A work of this kind , still essentially medieval , exemplified the philosophy of history shared by the greatest number of the contemporaries of Columbus . Side by side with these interpretations of the past , however , there appeared increasing numbers of direct personal accounts of contemporary episodes and experiences . The Memoirs of Commines remains perhaps the most famous example , but diaries such as those of Burchard , Infessura and Marino Sanudo belong in the same category . Personal , secular , limited to the life span of the individual , these accounts are at the opposite extreme from the world chronicle . To those who were concerned with a more remote past they opened possibilities of a more individualistic and realistic treatment . In still another category was the formal humanist historiography modeled on ancient examples . The tradition which had begun in Italy with Bruni and Poggio was carried on in most of the Italian courts . Rucellai wrote his History of the invasion of Charles VIII , which Erasmus thought worthy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ begun as early as 1505 the collection of materials for his history of England which was finally published only in 1533 . The chief contribution of the Italian school of humanists was to limit history to past politics and treat it as an autonomous area for study . The emphasis was upon the pedagogic value of history and upon the belief that the record of the past was in reality philosophy teaching by example . In many of the more formal humanist histories the chief figures were described as personifications of abstract and traditional virtues and vices , and this approach was replaced only in the sixteenth century with the more realistic observation of the age of Machiavelli and Guicciardini . Divine intervention and prodigies of all sorts might still be allowed ? and even in some cases recommended ? but the thread of political action could be followed by the interpretation of human motives . Works of this kind were bound to raise by implication the question how far man controlled his own history . What areas in the past could be understood in terms of a secular understanding of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ history ? The question preoccupied the  | historical work of Machiavelli and Guicciardini and it frequently received a pessimistic answer . Yet in the long run these histories were written in the faith that men would learn from them . In the twenty-fifth chapter of The Prince Machiavelli considered how much fortune can do in human affairs and how it may be opposed . He felt that fortune is the ruler of half our actions , but that she allows the other half or thereabouts to be governed by us ... . I would compare her to an impetuous river , that when turbulent , inundates the plains , casts down trees and buildings , removes the earth from this side and places it on the other , everyone flees before it and everything yields to its fury without being able to oppose it , and yet though it is of such a kind , still when it is quiet men can make provision against it by dykes and banks , so that when it rises it will either go into a canal , or its rush will not be so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ If even the pessimistic Machiavelli could see that the study of the past might enable men to make this much provision for the future , the hopes of those who studied the distant classical and Christian pasts were still more comprehensive . Both antiquity and early Christianity were now seen as remote eras , but they could be known through the proper application of historical techniques and the fruit of the knowledge would be the restoration of the piety and learning that lay at the roots of western civilization .  | THE movements for the reform of the church and society at the end of the fifteenth century were diverse in origin and character . Yet , viewed as a whole , they can be conveniently divided into two main types . There was in the first place the pietistic and mystic approach to the problem of ecclesiastical reform , inherited from the Middle Ages . This tradition emphasized the reliance on immediate divine guidance , the role of inspiration and the importance of the sanctified individual , whose extraordinary piety made manifest the operation of grace . In a corrupt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ indirect attack could be successful ; the purification of society would be accomplished more by example than by precept , especially where the example was understood as the direct and immediate revelation of the divine plan , though exhortation and the imposition of discipline were not excluded . This conception of the nature of reform drew on the background of Franciscan and Dominican mysticism , on the piety of the Brotherhood of the Common Life , and in its more extreme aspects on the apocalyptic hopes of those heretics and prophets who had appeared outside the framework of orthodoxy in the late medieval church . The tradition was broad enough to include the mystic who withdrew from the world and the activist who applied his inspiration to a direct program for reforming abuses . From the point of view of their essential belief in the nature of man and his relation to God , individuals as various as Thomas a Kempis , Standonck and Savonarola can be grouped together . The other principal category of reformers was inspired by the new scholarship and the new philosophy . They were above all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ intellect to bring about institutional and moral improvement . The new Greek and Hebrew learning , they held , could be productive only of good , even when it seemed at first glance farthest removed from the Christian tradition . The program of Christian humanism was built on a conviction of the importance of the  | rational faculties of man and it exalted the role of an intellectual aristocracy . It emphasized nature rather than grace , ethics rather than theology and action rather than contemplation . The distinction between these two traditions does not imply that the European reform movement was sharply divided into two opposing camps which had no common meeting ground . If the contrast between an Erasmus and a Savonarola seems to reveal in a heightened form the differences between two approaches to the contemporary crisis in church and state , yet there were many in every European country who occupied an intermediate position . The reality behind the term " Christian humanist " covers a wide range of accommodation between Christian and classical ideals , but even the broadest interpretation of the humanist position can not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Erasmus was the leader . Among these intellectual reformers the results of assimilating the new learning had not yet reached the point of leading any to a conscious rejection of the Christian tradition . Much of what is commonly written and repeated about the paganism of even the Italian fifteenth-century humanists is misleading . There were some who moved in the direction of a theory of natural religion , and many who made a distinction between the observances of the uneducated and the beliefs of the intellectual aristocracy . But in an atmosphere still saturated with the forms , the thought and the daily ritual of Christianity it was impossible either to revive ancient paganism completely or to anticipate modern agnosticism . In whatever proportions the Christian , the classical and the Hebrew traditions were combined , the humanist of the age of Erasmus had as his most basic hope the more complete realization of the form of Christianity in which he believed . The philosophical and theological position of this group rested on the acceptance of the natural world . In this respect their thought was not very different from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nature and grace . But if the compromise was fundamentally the same as that of the scholastics , the philosopher who inspired it was no longer Aristotle but Plato . Neo-Platonism was to the humanists what Aristotelianism had been to St. Thomas and his followers . It provided Christian humanism with a philosophy the influence of which was subtly and pervasively felt in many forms of thought and expression , including those far removed from metaphysical speculation . Among the important implications of this disposition to come to terms                     