@@774354

txt  | curve very different from the one postulated . Indeed , the history of Egyptian art shows that it had not one parabolic " top , " but several " tops " and several " bottoms . " In other words , it follows a curve consisting of several waves rather than a single wave with one archaic , one classical , one declining phase . So far as sculpture is concerned , there was a classical period in the Old Kingdom , during the Second to Fourth dynasties , another in the Middle Kingdom , in the Eleventh and Twelfth dynasties , another in the New Kingdom , in the Eighteenth and Nineteenth dynasties ; and later on , in sculpture as well as in architecture and painting , there were several more " ups and downs . " 64 Any reasonable standard of judgment will disclose these ups and downs . To reduce this many-wave curve , with its several crests and troughs , to a single wave is impossible . Therefore , the form of the life curve of Egyptian art most sharply deviates @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The same may be said of Chinese art . Its beginning is observed to have either a very short archaic stage or none at all . It may be said of Chinese painting , as well as of other forms of early Chinese art , that it appears from the beginning almost fullfledged . The earliest specimen known today reveals an art which has reached a high degree of independence and maturity . We reach the same conclusion if we take the history of European art . The impossibility of reducing its life curve to the postulated uniformity may be seen in the work of Deonna himself . His table runs as follows. ? This table shows that somehow he was not able to find the Greek counterpart to the European art of the sixteenth and  | seventeenth centuries : he had to place this art outside his scheme . Moreover , he did not put the art of the nineteenth and twentieth centuries into his tables$ Without bringing forward further points for discussion , one can see that the life curve of European art is not identical with that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ curve . Like Paleolithic painting , the literatures of many cultures can not be plotted on a parabolic curve , because the greatest literary creations in such cultures appear " miraculously " almost at the initial stages of their life history and are not excelled in the later stages . In Greek literature , Homer 's Iliad and Odyssey , in the Hindu literature Mahabharata and Rarnayana , in the Finnish literature Kalevala , in the Assyro-Babylonian literature Gilgamesh , and in the Hebrew literature a part of the Bible , are cases in point . In such cultures the top , the most classical of all the classics , appears at an early ? at almost the initial ? stage but not at a later one . Something similar may be observed in the history of music in certain cultures . However limited our knowledge of Greek music may be , the existing evidences suggest that its great period , that of Terpander , was reached sometime in the eighth century B.C. during the archaic stage of Greek culture . This conclusion is valid not only in regard to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ phases , but also in regard to many , if not all , of the most important changes in the style of an art . Their character and sequence are different in the art systems of various cultures . Here are a few instances . ( 1 ) In some cultures the earliest art style is predominantly ideational , symbolic or ideoplastic ( Max Verworn ) , or expressionistic ( H. Schafer ) ; in other cultures it is predominantly visual , impressionistic , perspectivistic , illusionistic , or naturalistic ; in still others both styles are found simultaneously . ( 2 ) The alternation of these styles from the standpoint of the length of domination , of the frequency of alternations , of the intensity of the shifts from one to another , and so on , are again considerably different in various cultures .  | ( 3 ) The art of some cultures ( e.g. the Hindu ) remains predominantly ideational throughout its history , whereas the art of other cultures ( e.g. the paleolithic , the Creto-Mycenaean ) remains predominantly visual or naturalistic. ( 4 ) The same @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not to be confused with ideational ) and impressionistic ( as the extreme form of the visual styles ) , their presence or absence , their alternations , and so on . ( 5 ) The same propositions hold true for the linear and the malerisch styles ? in the sense that these terms are used by H. Wolfflin , and for classicism and romanticism . ( 6 ) Other differences , implying a lack of universal uniformity , occur in the arts of various cultures among many other important characteristics , such as : ( a ) the proportion of the religious and secular subjects of the art , and its changes in the course of the existence of a given art in a given culture ; ( b ) the proportion and intensity of the ascetic , of the Sensate ( with the sexual as a form of this ) mentality embodied in the art systems of various cultures at various stages of their existence ; ( c ) the relative place occupied by such classes of painting and sculpture as portrait , paysage , genre of various types @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ musical works as oratorio , sonata , opera , symphony ; by various forms of poetry and prose ; ( d ) the relative predominance of the spirit of individualism and of collectivity ; ( e ) the proportion of " pure " art or " art for art 's sake " ( which has never existed in the literal sense of the word ) and of art not divorced from other cultural values , like religion , morals , patriotism , and so on . In all of these and in many other respects the art systems of various cultures offer a considerable diversity and exhibit lack of rigid uniformity . If we grant that this is really the situation , then the laws of the uniform development of art in various cultures , of the uniform lagging of certain arts behind the others , of uniform curves of the quantitative and qualitative rhythms of the arts ? all these and similar claims so dear to the linearists , cyclicists , evolutionists , and uniform- ists , in the social sciences of the nineteenth and twentieth centuries , are at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) When such rules are not overstated , however , they have a highly important cognitive value . To a considerable degree they make intelligible an otherwise incomprehensible jungle of chaotic historical events . Without these approximate generalizations we are entirely lost in the jungle and its endless facts make little sense in their how and why . With the modicum of the main rules we have several roads crossing the jungle and orienting us in its unmapped darkness . Such is the cognitive role of these limited , approximate prevalent rules and uniformities . There is no doubt that several of the above generalizations are roughly valid , when they are not overextended beyond their legitimate boundary . Taken within the necessary limitations , Ligeti 's , Deonna 's , Lalo 's , Chambers ' and many other generalizations make comprehensible a large portion of the jungle of art-phenomena , art-types , art-rhythms , art-dynamics , and through art-phenomena their formulas make sense of thousands of incomprehensible facts of the historical process itself . Such also is the cognitive value of four main types of artphenomena and of their fluctuations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is not irreconcilable with other theories mentioned above . In a number of points it agrees with the best of other theories ; in the points where it deviates , the difference is largely due to the different goals of various investigations of art-phenomena . There is no need to outline here my rather extensive study of the painting , sculpture , architecture , music , literature , and drama of the Graeco-Roman and Western cultures , or my  | much more cursory study of paleolithic , neolithic , primitive , Chinese , Hindu , and ancient Egyptian art forms . " But some of the most general conclusions may be briefly mentioned . First , from the standpoint of art 's inner content , external style , and objective or functions , all art-phenomena easily fall into four main types . ( 1 ) Sensate art chooses sensory topics ( housewife , plant , portrait , animal , fight , kiss , etc. ) ; the style is naturalistic or realistic , and the main purpose is to give sensory enjoyment and pleasure . ( 2 ) Ideational art has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ God , angels , soul , devils , mysteries of Salvation , Redemption , etc. ) ; its style is necessarily symbolic ? " a visible sign of the invisible world " ? because supersensory phenomena do not have any sensory forms ; and its objective is to bring the human soul closer to God or to itself or to Tao , Nirvana , Brahman , etc. ( 3 ) Idealistic art has for its topics partly the supersensory , partly the noblest sensory phenomena ; the style is partly idealized naturalism , partly symbolic and allegoric ; and the objective is an ennoblement and beautification of the sensory world and man and the bringing of man 's soul closer to the Highest Value , i.e. God , Tao , Nirvana , etc. ( 4 ) Unintegrated Eclectic art shows no unity of topic , style , and objective . It is an incoherent potpourri or hash of all sorts of topics , styles , objectives . Second , though all four forms of art are found virtually in all cultures and at all periods of the same culture , one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a given culture at a given period and the dominant forms are often different in different civilizations . Thus the Hindu , the ancient Egyptian , or the Taoist-Chinese art has been preponderantly Ideational ; the known Creto-Minoan and Creto-Mycenaean arts were predominantly Sensate . The dominant art of some pre-literate tribes and paleolithic art are Sensate ; neolithic art and that of other tribes is mainly Ideational or Idealistic . Finally , the art of many groups and cultures has been predominantly eclectic and incoherent . Third , in practically all great cultures the dominance shifts from one art form to another in the course of time . For in- stance , the dominant art of Greece between the ninth and the sixth centuries B.C. was Ideational but in the fifth and fourth centuries B.C. became Idealistic ; from the fourth century B.C. to the fourth century A.D. Graeco-Roman art was predominantly Sensate ; from the fifth to the twelfth centuries A.D. , Ideational form dominated Western art ; in the thirteenth and fourteenth centuries the Idealistic art-form was dominant in Europe ; from the fifteenth to the twentieth centuries @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , this Sensate art is disintegrating and Western art is in a transitional , eclectic , incoherent state , manifested in so-called " modernism , " cubism , futurism , pointillism , dadaism , surrealism , etc . Though not so sharp , somewhat similar dominant waves can be observed in the art of India , ancient Egypt , China , and several other countries . Fourth , each form of art expresses a certain mentality or " soul " and is inseparably connected in each instance with a specific type of personality and culture . Cultures as well as types of personalities display the same four forms : Sensate , Ideational , Idealistic ( plus " Integral " ) , and Eclectic . ( See their brief characterization below , in Chapter XI . ) Sensate art occurs with a predominantly Sensate culture and in a society made up of mainly Sensate personalities ; Ideational art in a predominantly Ideational culture and society ; and so on . When a culture or civilization passes from one dominant type to another its art undergoes a similar change . When the Medieval @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ after the fourteenth century into a predominantly Sensate form , what had been predominantly Ideational Medieval art became predominantly Sensate . In other words , a given type of dominant art does not exist and change by itself , independent of the culture and the type of human personality that predominates in the society in which it appears and functions . Art is flesh of the flesh ; it is one with the society , culture , and prevalent type of personality which has produced it . Each type of art emerges , grows , changes , and declines with the emergence , growth , change , and decline of the given type of culture , society , and personality .  | Fifth , at the present time , the Sensate culture , society , and personality that have been dominant for the last five centuries in the West are disintegrating ; crumbling also is the Sensate Western art that has been dominant for these five centuries . Sixth , when studied in detail these patterns of the fluctuations of art do not fundamentally disagree with what some of the forementioned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their cycles or rhythms . Such in brief are the most general conclusions concerning art-phenomena reached in the course of an investigation of the main types of culture and of their dynamics . The foregoing outlines the main types of the aesthetic philosophies of history , their real contributions and their weaknesses . It shows that many general theories of culture or civilization have ( as we shall see ) been preceded by similar theories about the types and dynamics of art-phenomena . The total contribution of these art-theories to the recent " intelligible reading of historical events " is enormous . This is the reason why in the discussion of recent interpretations of historical events the aesthetic philosophies of history had to be mentioned , outlined , and given due credit . In addition they serve well as an introduction to the more general philosophies of history . Now we may turn to an outline and an analysis of these philosophies .  | Nikolai Iakovlevitch Danilevsky ( 1822 ? 1885 ) studied at the University of St. Petersburg , receiving a magister degree in Botany in 1849 . Soon after @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ affair , he was imprisoned for one hundred days in the Petropavlovskaya fortress ? a Russian Bastille . In contrast to Dostoievsky and others involved in that affair who were condemned to hard labor in Siberia , Danilevsky was acquitted and soon appointed by the government to the staff of the governor of Vologda and later of the Samara provinces . Thereafter his career was that of a government official in charge of fairly diverse functions , now an economist or engineer in the Ministry of Agriculture , now a special governmental representative to this or that governmental body or committee . His main official position , however , one he held between 1853 and 1885 , was as a specialist in fisheries ; he finally became head of the Russian Commission on Fisheries . The diversity of his official functions and a certain amount of leisure afforded him from official duties explain the variety and number of Danilevsky 's publications . Besides many special publications in the field of fishery , he published a twovolume work on Darwinism , two substantial works in economics called Devaluation of the Russian Rouble @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( 1878 ) and Russia and the Question of the Orient ( 1879 ) , a historical monograph on the Route Followed by the Magyars , a work in the field of linguistics ( on the Dictionary of the Grand Russian Language ) , and a number of papers on various topics of current interest .  | Erudition , plus a spark of real talent , enabled him to write his Russia and Europe ? a work which required and displays his wide range of interests and knowledge . Russia and Europe : A Viewpoint on the Political Relations Between the Slavic and Germano-Romanic Worlds was first published in 1869 as a series of articles in a Russian magazine , Zaria ( Dawn ) . Its first edition in book form appeared in 1871 , and seventeen years were required to sell out the first and second editions . But the third edition in 1888 sold out in a few months ? a very rare event in Russia at that time for this type of book ? and called for a fourth edition in 1889 . From its first appearance , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thinkers , writers , and statesmen . It was enthusiastically praised by Slavophils and conservatives and bitterly assailed by Russian " Westerners , " liberals , and partisans of " Progress . " Together with his other works , it made Danilevsky one of the leading proponents of Slavophilism and later of Panslavism in Russia . After its fourth edition the work began slowly to diffuse throughout Europe . In 1890 an abbreviated French translation appeared ( J. J. Skupiewski , La Doctrine Panslaviste d'apres N. J. Danilewski , Bucarest , 1890 ) and in 1920 a German translation was published ( N. Danilevskii , Russland and Europa , tr. by K. Notzell , Berlin , 1920 ) . The publication of Spengler 's Decline of the West greatly increased interest in Danilevsky 's work and augmented the considerable literature about it that already existed . Thus we have here an example of a work whose vitality has increased rather than decreased in the course of time , for two reasons : the character of Danilevsky 's philosophy of history in general , and the contemporary tension between Europe and Russia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ His Russia and Europe is more alive today than it was eighty years ago . Danilevsky 's theory of the structure and dynamics of " historico-cultural types " is set forth by him not so much for its own sake as for the sake of explaining the much narrower and more temporary problem of why Europe remains perennially inimical to Russia .  | Europe does not consider Russia as its own part . Europe sees in Russia and in Slays generally something quite alien to itself and at the same time something that can not be used as mere material to be exploited for Europe 's profit , as Europe exploits China and India , Africa and the greater part of the Americas , a material which Europe can fashion and shape in its own image and pattern . . . . Europe sees in Russia and in Slavhood not only foreign , but an inimical , force principle . No matter how great the sacrifices that Russia makes for Europe , Danilevsky goes on to say , or how great the services she renders either to Europe 's conservative or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . ' " The more sincerely and unselfishly we have accepted any European standpoint , the deeper Europe has hated us . It has not believed our sincerity and has seen some aggressive-imperialistic plans where there has been only the most sincere devotion to European interests . " The history of Russo-European relations , and especially the Crimean war , he adds , has shown that . . . Russia and Slavhood have been hated not by some single European party or faction , but by all European parties . . . . No matter what interests divide Europe , all its parties unite together in their animosity towards Russia . In this animosity European clericals shake hands with liberals , Catholics with Protestants , conservatives with progressives , aristocrats with democrats , monarchists with anarchists , the reds with the whites , the legitimists and the Orleanists with the Bonapartists . Danilevsky briefly surveys the history of Russia and points out that Europe has no rational basis for her animosity towards Russia . Russia has not threatened Europe . Russia has grown more peacefully than most European countries and in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by a few pre-literate tribes , and only in a few instances over areas inhabited by European Germano-Romanic peoples . It is not Russia that has regularly invaded Europe , but Europe that has invaded Russia many times and forced Russia to defend herself and expel her invaders . Thus the composition of the Russian state , the wars which it carried on , the objectives it pursued , and especially the most favorable situations , so often repeated , which Russia could use for its aggrandize- ment and did not , all go to show that Russia is not an ambitious power bent on conquest . In the recent period especially , Russia sacrificed many of her obvious , most just and legitimate interests in favor of European interests , often acting intentionally and dutifully not as a self-sufficient organism , having itself a justification for all its strivings and actions , but as a mere instrument of European interests . Whence then , and what for , I ask , does this distrust of , injustice toward , and hatred for , Russia exist on the part of all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we search for the reasons of this hatred of Europe towards Russia we can not find them either in this or that action of Russia , or in other rationally comprehensible facts . There is nothing conscious in this hatred for which Europe can account rationally . The real cause lies deeper . It lies in those unfathomed depths of tribal sympathies and antipathies which are a sort of historical instinct of peoples and lead them ( regardless of , though not contrary to , their will and consciousness ) towards a goal unknown to them . For , in the main , historical process does not proceed according to arbitrary human plans , which determine only its secondary patterns , but according to unconscious historical instincts . This unconscious tendency , this historical instinct , is responsible for Europe 's hatred towards Russia . . . . It also explains why the Germanic tribes easily blended with the Romance tribes , and likewise the Slavic tribes with the Finnish ; and why , on the contrary , the Germanic and Slavic tribes were mutually repellent and antagonistic , and when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , as did the Germans with the Polabian Slavic tribes and with the Baltic Slays . ' To sum up : The antagonism between Russia and Europe is unquestionable , and certain too are its deep roots ? unconscious historical instinct or drive reinforced by conscious considerations and historical conflicts . This raises the question of why and how this antagonism between the Russian and Teutonic-Romanic tribes appeared , why and how it has persisted , and whether it is a sort of temporary misunderstanding destined to disappear in the future , or is something perennial that is going to persist . These questions led Danilevsky to his " philosophy of history . " Whether Europe is right or wrong in viewing Russia as something alien to itself depends on Europe 's characteristics as a genus , and on whether Russia is one of its species . In analyzing this problem Danilevsky states that Europe is not a geographic unit because there are no natural geographic  | boundaries that clearly divide Europe from Asia . Geographically Europe is but the Western peninsula of Asia , much less clearly designated than many @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a geographic , but a culture-historical sort of unit . It is " an area of the Germano-Romanic civilization or . . . Europe is the Germano-Romanic civilization itself . These two terms are synonymous . " Europe or Germano-Romanic civilization is not universal human civilization . It is only one of many civilizations . Even Greek and Roman civilizations were Mediterranean and not European . Their areas lay partly on European , partly on Asiatic and African shores of the Mediterranean . Homer was seemingly born in Asia Minor ; there , too , began poetry , philosophy ( Thales ) , history ( Herodotus ) , medicine ( Hippocrates ) , and the sculpture of Greece . From there Greek culture crossed the Aegean sea and was planted on its European shore ; Athens became its center , and from there it spread to Alexandria . Thus in the course of its development ancient Hellenic culture diffused and acted on all three continents : Asia , Europe , and Africa . In no way was it the exclusive property of Europe . Graeco-Roman culture neither originated nor ended in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ civilization to barbarian countries , equally included the European , Asiatic , and African shores of the Mediterranean in the civilized area , and they regarded the rest of the world , including the greater part of Europe , as barbarian , in the same manner in which the Germano-Romanic people confront Europe ? the area of their historical activity ? to the rest of the world . ' Similarly , " Russia , fortunately or unfortunately , also does not belong to Europe or to the Germano-Romanic civilization . " Russia did not nourish herself on any roots of European culture . She did not form a part of the supernational , truly European Holy Roman Empire of Charlemagne and his successors ; she did not have , nor did she participate in , a supranational and generally European feudal system , nor did she take part in its liquidation for the sake of civic and political freedom . Neither did Russia accept either Cathol- icism or Protestantism . Russia did not experience the oppression of scholasticism , nor did she know the freedom of thought that created modern science @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ good or in European evil . Her life and activities have been entirely segregated from those of Europe . Russia does not belong to Europe either by birthright or by right of adoption , " affiliation , " or " apparentation " as an adopted child of Europe . The whole history of Europe 's policies towards Russia does not indicate any parental attitudes or feelings . Europe does not even allow Russia to play the role of an agent of European civilization in the Orient or anywhere else . As soon as Russia tries to play this role ? whether it be in Turkey , Persia , the Caucasus , India , China , or wherever ? Europe at once vetoes such an action and begins a cold or hot war against Russia in alliance with blatantly non-European and non-Christian nations like Turkey , Persia , and China , or even with pre-literate groups and savages . ' The widespread idea that the European or Germano-Romanic civilization is identical with the universal human civilization is based on several fallacious principles , such as a vague and untenable conception of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a linear theory of progress , or a belief that only European civilization is progressive , whereas all others are static and uncreative , etc . The generally accepted division of historical events into the Ancient , Middle , and Modern periods is an example and result of these wrong assumptions . It takes the downfall of the Roman Empire as the boundary event which separates the Ancient from the Medieval period , and the discovery of America or a similar event in European history as the landmark between " Middle " and " Modern " History . Thus some event in Graeco-Roman and European history is taken as the landmark to divide the whole process of human history into three periods . Logically as well as factually , this periodization is entirely fallacious . It is only a slight improvement over the division of all of history into the following periods : " Before I was born " ( ancient ) , " At the time of my graduation " ( middle ) , and " After I was married " ( modern ) . The utter inadequacy of this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ commonly accepted periodization is not much better . If its downfall was an important event for the Roman Empire , it was of no concern to China , India , or many Arab tribes . If 476 A.D. marked the end of the Western Roman Empire , this same year and the decades at the end of the fifth century did not signal any radical change in the life history of an incomparably greater part of humanity . Consequently , these dates are inapplicable and meaningless to all but those whom they concerned directly . Why , then , did the downfall of the Roman Empire unite into one group of events , referred to as " Ancient history , " ( by contrast to another group , the Medieval period ) the already defunct destinies of ancient Egypt and Greece and those of India and China , which continued their life-course undisturbed as though there were no Roman Empire ? . . . Generally speaking , there is no single event which could reasonably divide the destiny of all of mankind into periods applicable to all humanity , for there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that will synchronously mean the same and be of the same importance for all of humanity . . . . Even Christianity ? the event of the greatest importance to mankind ? becomes a historical boundary line of the destiny of different peoples at different times . If we take Christianity to be the main historical dividing landmark , then the history of the Roman nation would be split into two parts , whereas in fact the post-Christian period was an indivisible continuation of Rome 's pre-Christian period . . . . Ancient history is but a replica of the artificial Linnaean classification of plants ( which puts mushrooms and ferns into the same class because both have no flowers ) whereby Greeks , Egyptians , and Chinese are lumped together simply because they all lived before the downfall of the Roman Empire . ' While Egypt , India , China , Babylon , Assyria , Iran , Greece , and Rome , each of which passed through several different stages of development , are placed in one and the same group of Ancient history , the stages of development of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Modern periods " which represent one and the same group of phenomena , for Europe 's Modern history is either a development of what was started in the Middle Ages or its rejection carried on in the same civilization As a result of this senseless periodization , Cato , Constantine the Great , Solomon , Ramses , Pericles , and the Gracchi are united into one group and one period , while Rudolf Hapsburg ,  | the Emperor Maximilian , Philip the Fair , Louis XI , Richelieu , even the Sultans Bayaset and Soleiman , who did the same work and plowed the field of history with the same plow , are separated from each other and put into two different groups , stages and periods ( the Medieval and Modern ) . " Such a classification is identical to that which puts a crow and an oyster into the same species because both of them do not have four legs . " The whole matter of this periodization is due also to the historians ' faulty perspective : the close time proximity of European events and the fact @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the differences between the European Medieval and Modern periods appear so great to historians that they regard the numerous preceding centuries of the history of the rest of mankind as a mere background which they dump into one unit . The closer the object , the bigger it looms before us ; therefore the more easily we lose the correct perspective . And this is exactly what happened to historians and their untenable periodization . Strictly speaking , Rome , Greece , India , Egypt , and all historical peoples each had its own Ancient , Mediaeval , and Modern periods ; like any organism each of these had its own phases of development , though the number of these phases is not necessarily three , no less and no more . Just as botany and zoology gave up the artificial unilinear classification of plants and animals and replaced it by natural classification into a number of different types ( genera and species ) of organisms , each of which represents not a step in a unilinear hierarchic development on the ladder of gradual perfection of organisms , but rather entirely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ way ; just as there are not one but many great architectural styles each of which is perfect in its own manner ; so also there are not one but many civilizations or historico-cultural types , each perfect in its own way and all together manifesting the infinitely rich creative genius of humanity . Only within the life-history of each of these types of civilization can one talk of its ancient , middle and modern phases of development .  | Thus we arrive at the view that there are several different historico-cultural types or civilizations , that the total history of mankind is not a linear movement following one trend , one direction , and increasingly exhibiting only one kind of cultural achievement , but is in fact composed of multi-directional movements , developing along different lines , and exhibiting diverse aspects or values through several different types of civilizations . Each civilization emerges , develops its own morphological form , its own values , thus enriching the total treasury of human cultural achievement , and then passes away without being continued in its specific and essential form by any other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the natural system of history consists in distinguishing different culture-historical types of development as the main basis of history 's divisions . " Having reached this conclusion , Danilevsky proceeds to classify naturally the main culture-historical types or great original civilizations . In chronological order they are as follows : ( 1 ) Egyptian , ( 2 ) Chinese , ( 3 ) **36;2140;TOOLONG or Ancient-Semitic , ( 4 ) Hindu , ( 5 ) Iranian , ( 6 ) Hebrew , ( 7 ) Greek , ( 8 ) Roman , ( 9 ) Neo-Semitic or Arabian , ( 10 ) GermanoRomanic or European . To these may be added two American types , the Mexican and Peruvian , that perished by violent death and did not complete their life-course . Only the peoples of these culture-historical types were positive agents in the history of mankind . Each of these peoples developed in its own way the creative potential inherent in the particulars of their spiritual nature as well as in the specific conditions of their environment , and thus enriched the common treasury of humanity . Among these types @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and successive or transmittable civilizations or types whose fruits of activity were transmitted from one to another as material for nourishment or as fertilizer ( for enrichment and assimilation ) for the soil on which the successive civilization would develop . The Egyptian , **28;2178;TOOLONG , Greek , Roman , Hebrew , and Germano-Romanic or European civilizations are examples of such transmittable types . Since not one of these types is endowed with the privilege of endless progress , and since every people is eventually worn out and exhausted creatively , it is comprehensible that the achievements of these five civilizations that  | successively replaced one another , together with the supernatural gift of Christianity , greatly excels the solitary achievements of the Chinese or Indian civilizations , despite the fact that the longevity of these equals that of all five civilizations taken together . Herein lies the simple explanation of so-called Western progress and Oriental stagnation . However , these solitary historico-cultural types developed such aspects of sociocultural life which were not present to the same degree among their luckier " successive competitors , " and thereby these solitary civilizations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the creative human spirit , which in itself constitutes true progress . In further developing his theory , Danilevsky continues : These positive historico-cultural types ? successive and solitary ? do not , however , exhaust all the agencies of history . In a solar system , side by side with the planets , there appear from time to time comets which come and then disappear for many centuries into the darkness of space . Falling meteors , stars , and zodiacal light are other forms of the manifestation of cosmic matter . Similarly , besides the above positive cultural types or civilizations , there are in the human universe intermittent temporary agencies like the Huns , the Mongols , and the Turks who , having performed their destructive mission , having helped dying civilizations to die and then scattering their remains , return to their previous nothingness and disappear . We can call them the negative agencies of history . Sometimes , however , constructive as well as destructive missions are performed by the same tribe , as for instance , by the Germans and the Arabs . Finally , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for some reason , arrested at an early stage and who are therefore destined to be neither constructive nor destructive , neither positive nor negative agencies of history . They represent only ethnographic material , a sort of inorganic matter entering the historical organisms , the historico-cultural types . Undoubtedly these tribes increase the variety and richness of the historical types , but in themselves they do not achieve any historical individuality . The Finns , and to a greater degree , most of the tribes of mankind , are examples of this Sometimes the dead and decayed civilizations disintegrate to the level of this ethnographic material until a new formative ( creative ) principle unites their elements with a mixture of other elements into a new historical organism , until this principle calls them to an independent historical life in the form of a new historico-cultural type . The peoples that made up the Western Roman Empire serve as an example of this . They became ethnographic material after the disintegration of the Empire and re-emerged in a new form , known as the Romanic peoples , after experiencing the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ up : The historical role of a tribe or people is three-fold : it is either the positive creative role of a historico-cultural type ( civilization ) , or the destructive role ? the so-called whips of God that render the coup de grace to senile , agonizing civilizations , or the role of serving the purposes of others as ethnographic material . Such is Danilevsky 's morphologic-dynamic classification of all human tribes and populations into three classes and the historical role of each class on the incessantly changing stage of history . In a schematic way it can be summed up as follows : Having arrived at this stage , Danilevsky proceeds to study these types in detail and then to formulate the basic uniformities or laws of their development and dynamics . Here too , as in the preceding part , his ideas are clearly formulated , his logic is  | consistent , and his special knowledge as a natural scientist is evident in the manner of his thinking and of the exposition and demonstration of his propositions . In a sense his whole theory bears the marks of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ very best applications of the classificatory and other principles of natural science , particularly botany and zoology , to social and historical phenomena . In Danilevsky 's own words , the following are the main laws or uniformities of development and change that apply to his historico-cultural types or civilizations , to the destructive types , and to the ethnographic material in their relationship to one another : Law 1 . Every tribe or family of peoples identified by a language or by a group of languages whose resemblance is perceived directly , without deep philological explorations , constitutes an original historicocultural type if it is mentally or spiritually capable of historical development and has already outgrown its childhood . Law 2 . It is necessary that a people enjoy political independence if its potential civilization is to be actually born and developed . Law 3 . The basic principles of a civilization of one historico-cultural type are not transmissible to the peoples of another historico-cultural type . Each type creates its own civilization under the greater or lesser influence of alien ? preceding or synchronous ? civilizations . Law 4 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fullness , variety , and richness only when its " ethnographic material " is diverse and when these ethnographic elements are not swallowed by one body politic , but enjoy independence and make up a federation or political system of states . Law 5 . The course of development of historico-cultural types is similar to the life-course of those perennials whose period of growth lasts indefinitely , but whose period of blossoming and fruitbearing is relatively short and exhausts them once and for all . I shall mention a few points of Danilevsky 's fairly detailed comments on these laws . In the case of the first and second laws , he points out that of the ten great historico-cultural types whose development makes up the contents of human history , the Chinese and Egyptian each had its own language . Of the other civilizations , three were Semitic , each with its own language belonging to the Semitic group : Chaldean , Hebrew , Arabic ; five were Aryan ,  | each with its own language belonging to the Aryan family of languages : Hindu ( Sanskrit ) , Iranian @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ two other main branches of Aryan languages , the Slavic peoples are now becoming the eleventh great historico-cultural type , while the Celts did not make their own great civilization because they were conquered by the Romans and lost their political independence at an early stage in their development . No civilization has been conceived and developed without political independence , though after it has reached maturity a civilization can live for a limited amount of time after it has lost its independence , as is shown by the case of Greece . In the same manner as the development of personality is hindered in a state of slavery , so also the de-velopment of peoples who live in a state of political dependence is obstructed , for in both cases the person and the people are rendered a mere instrumentality serving the purposes of others . Thus the second law explains the exception of the Celts , de-spite their conforming to the first law . In accordance with the second law , conquest and subjugation , together with extremely unfavorable geographic and social conditions , account for the inability of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ civilization and to create their own historico-cultural type . " The third law seems to be clearly confirmed by history . Even the little known Egyptian and Hindu civilizations seem to have diffused only among the peoples of Egyptian and Hindu ( Sanskrit ) origin . Neither civilization was transmitted in its entirety to peoples alien to these " language " groups . Similarly , the Ancient Semitic ( **37;2208;TOOLONG ) civilization spread only among the peoples of this common origin and could not be transmitted to the aborigines of Africa ; the Chinese civilization diffused only among the Chinese and Japanese ( who were probably migrants from China ) ; the Hebrew culture-type could not be transmitted to any of the peoples that surrounded the Hebrew people . The numerous efforts to spread Greek civilization among non-Aryan or Oriental peoples ? even by means of Alexander the Great 's conquests ? all failed . Some seventy or eighty years  | after Alexander 's conquest the planted Hellenic civilization disintegrated , and the Iranian civilization was restored in the Eastern part of the Alexandrian empire . In its Western part , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for a longer time , although this blossoming was carried on not by Egyptians or other non-Greek aborigines from Asia Minor , Syria , etc. , but by persons and groups of Greek origin and Greek migrants , such as Greek kings and queens , philosophers , scientists , architects , merchants , artisans , and workers . These Greeks all spoke and wrote Greek instead of Egyptian , and established and operated famous libraries , museums , and academies in Alexandria . Learned Alexandria was but a Greek colony . Despite all the efforts of the Greeks , Greek civilization could not be transmitted to Egypt and the Orient . Today we can observe a similar failure by the English to transmit European civilization to India . The English established many educational , scientific and cultural institutions in India ; they have made many commendable efforts to " europeanize " India . And yet , these efforts have in the main borne no fruit , for India remains a Hindu , and not a European , type of civilization . The transmission of a civilization to another people evidently means @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , political , social , aesthetic , scientific , ethical folkways and mores ? of the transmitting people , must become permeated by these elements to a degree equivalent to that of the transmitting people , with whom they can compete , and whose transmitted civilization they will continue From this standpoint even the most successful case of the transmission of a civilization ? that of the Greeks to the Romans ? is not an exception to the rule . Despite the Hellenization of Rome , the Romans proved themselves great creators only in those instances when they remained Romans , such as in creating a great political empire and the greatest system of law ? fields in which the Greek genius was uncreative ? and in specific forms of original ( not imitative ) Roman architecture , poetry , and history ( Tacitus ) . In the fields of culture taken from Greece ? in philosophy , ethics , many forms of fine arts ,  | drama , epos , etc. ? the Roman nation remained uncreative , a mere third-class imitator . In these fields the diffusion of Greek @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ early Italic or Etruscan civilization . Similarly , the somewhat coercive imposition of Roman civilization on all conquered peoples remained ineffective . It only suppressed the promising development of the original cultures of several conquered peoples . Such is Danilevsky 's main thesis in his third law . Obviously this thesis sharply contradicts the prevalent theories of " acculturation " and " imitation . " Does this mean that Danilevsky denies that one civilization has any influence on another ? that he denies any " interpenetration " of the elements of one civilization into another ? No , for his third law applies only to the civilization taken as a whole , in all its essential individuality . This law does not apply to the elements of a civilization . These can be transmitted and can penetrate from one civilization into another . We pointed out that the successive historico-cultural types have advantages over the solitary types . How , then , does this succession go on ? It does not proceed by way of transmission ( which is impossible ) but by several specific ways . . . . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from one area to another , by colonization . In this way the Phoenicians handed their civilization to Carthage , the Greeks to Southern Italy and Sicily , and the English to North America and Australia . The second way of diffusing a civilization is by grafting . The prevalent understanding of this second method of diffusion is fallacious ; it forgets that the grafted scion or shoot and the plant into which it is inserted still remain what they were before the grafting took place . By grafting we only turn the plant into a means for the scion ; the scion remains an alien body in the plant which it exploits parasitically , from which it gets its nourishment , and which is cut and trimmed for the sake of the scion . The grafted scion does not at all benefit the plant into which it is grafted . Hellenic Alexandria , for instance , was such a cultural scion on the Egyptian tree , and so was Roman culture on the Celtic trunk . Grafting , then , occurs , but it usually  | suppresses the native culture @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the grafted cultural scion . The third way in which one civilization is influenced by another is through fertilization or mutual cross-fertilization . A given original culture enriches itself by using the material of another civilization as a sort of fertilizer or nourishment in building its own pattern or type . It can borrow the achieved results of another civilization , especially in the fields of science and technology , which are practical techniques not confined to any specific civilization . These neutral elements do not affect the specific individuality of any given civilization and do not threaten to erase or deface its type . Other , non-neutral elements of an alien civilization ? such as religious , philosophical , social , humanistic , ethical , and artistic systems ? can also be ingested , but only as fertilizing material that will be patterned according to the type of the borrowing culture . Any original civilization is thus a highly selective organism : it takes only that which fits it and rejects all that does not harmonize with it . Thus , colonization , grafting , and fertilization ( borrowing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The fourth law stresses the importance of the richness and variety of " ethnographic material " patterned and built into a growing civilization , and the autonomy of the political units that build the civilization . This richness , variety , and political autonomy of linguistically related peoples or states are necessary conditions if a civilization is to become truly great and historical . The absence of these constitutes one of the important reasons why many tribes and their " ethnographic cultures " can not grow into historico-cultural types . " The richest and fullest civilizations so far have been Greek and European , " precisely because of the variety of their " ethnographic material " and the autonomy of the several political units ( states ) that have been the human builders and bearers of these civilizations . All the Greek states ? Sparta , Athens , etc. ? were human bearers of one and the same Greek civilization ; therefore this Greek civilization , and not Athens or Sparta or any other  | Greek state , is the real unit of historical study . Outside of the context @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Sparta is possible . They are so interdependent that they can not be studied or understood as separate histories ; only as aspects of the same Greek civilization do they become comprehensible . Similarly , " we can hardly talk of a separate history of France , Italy or Germany ; there is no such history . Instead we have the history of Europe from the French , Italian , German , or English standpoints with special attention being paid to the events in each of these countries . " As soon as we pass beyond the boundaries of each culture-historical type , a common history of these different types becomes impossible because their histories have little in common , are non-synchronous , and remain quite different time-series of events hardly related to one another . Except for wars , the histories of Greece and Persia remain separate , as the historical series of Europe and Russia also remain separate . Finally , the fifth law states that the period of blossoming or the " phase of civilization " of each culture-historical type is comparatively short ; it exhausts all its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ By the " phase of civilization " Danilevsky means the last period of development of a culture-historical type . Its first or ancient period ends with its emergence from a merely ethnographic form of existence into a patterned form ; its second or " middle " period consists in building its cultural and political independence , this independence assuming the form of a state or a loose federation of states ; finally , its third " civilization " or modern period fully develops all its creative potentialities and achieves a practical realization of its ideals of justice , freedom , and social and individual wellbeing . This period ends when the creative powers of the peoples of this type of historical culture are exhausted . After that some nations , like China , either become petrified and begin to rest on their laurels while they senilely age in an apathy of self-satisfaction and view the traditions of the past as the eternal ideal of the future , or they reach the state of insoluble contradictions , conflicts and disillusion . They fall into an apathy of despair . Rome , during @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as such an example . The case of Byzantium shows that this second form can not last long and reverts to the first form ( from the apathy of despair to that of self-satisfaction and petrifaction ) . This period of blossoming or of " civilization " lasts on an average of four hundred to six hundred years , in contradistinction to the first , preparatory , or ancient period which is measured by millennia , and the medieval period which likewise is long ( though the number of these periods is not necessarily three ) . The first two periods are those of accumulation and organization of the creative forces of a given culturehistorical type . In the third or blossoming period these forces are magnificently spent . Like all spending , this proceeds rapidly and leads to the exhaustion of the respective peoples , followed by the decline and disintegration of the civilization in question . This decline is inevitable . One of the main reasons for it is that each great culture-historical type develops and realizes only one or a few of the great creative values ? none @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an extent unexcelled and hardly rivaled by any other civilization . The main contribution of European civilization is a realization of science ; of the Semitic civilizations , religion ; of the Roman civilization , law and political organization of an empire ; of the Chinese , the practically useful ; of the Indian , imagination and fantasy , together with some mysticism . The unfolding of any single value has its limit ; when this is reached the civilization has achieved its task and is bound to die . There is nothing more absurd than the idea of one endless linear progress . Real progress consists not of a linear movement in one and the same direction in the course of time , but of multi-linear and multi-directional movements that cover the whole field of humanity 's historical activities . And that is exactly what is being done by the totality of great civilizations , each of which crosses the whole field in one direction ( creating one sort of value ) and all of which together cover the field in all its main directions . Therefore not one of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the preceding ones in all aspects of development or progress . Nobody can  | say that the head of Cuvier was better than that of Aristotle ; that Laplace was more intelligent than Archimedes ; that Kant thought better than Plato ; that Napoleon was a greater military genius than Caesar or Hannibal ; or that Canova understood beauty better than Phidias or Praxiteles . Each of the great civilizations contributes its main value in its full form , which is unexcelled by subsequent civilizations . " The task of mankind consists in an unfolding of and realization , by different peoples at different periods , of all the aspects and forms of creativity that virtually or potentially underlie all humanity . " The stage of decline and disintegration comes after the period of blossoming , and it sets in somewhat earlier than is observable . The reason for that is the same as that which we know to hold true for many natural processes : In Europe the time of summer when the sun is at its highest and the day is longest , is June ; but the results @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as they concern the highest temperature , only appear in July and August . Still later , in autumn , its results appear in so far as they affect fruitbearing : as a fulfillment of the promise of spring , the above results occur when the days are already much shorter and the sun rises much lower on the horizon . In the daily cycle the highest culmination point of the sun is at noon , but its heat results continue to rise some two or three hours after the cause of them has begun already to go down . Similarly an individual reaches a full development of his physical and moral forces when he is about thirty years of age . Meanwhile the results of this development fully manifest themselves only after forty years of age . Generally the moment of the highest development of the forces or causes that produce a certain series of effects does not coincide with the moment of the maximum abundance of the effects , which follows from a gradual development of these forces : the moment when these effects are at their highest point @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ development of the causes . For these reasons the time of decay of a civilization already sets in when the civilization blooms and appears to be at its zenith . The decline is due not to the external conditions but to the inner causes of the civilization . What these are we do not exactly know , just as we do not know about the causes of aging and senility in the life of an individual .  | Such are the main laws of dynamics of sociocultural types or civilizations . There is neither time nor space to follow in detail the development of these laws and of many other of Danilevsky 's ideas . Briefly , however , I can mention a few of his theories . ( 1 ) A nation or a group of linguistically related nations that create the same type of civilization are the main instrumentalities through which the creative mission of humanity is carried on . From this standpoint each creative nation or group of nations definitely patterns science , philosophy , the fine arts , and generally all the main forms of creativity . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a sociology of knowledge and of a comparative psychology of nations . Not only are religion , philosophy , the fine arts , and social and humanistic disciplines stamped with the characteristics of a creative nation , but even science and technology , which are supposed to be identical for all nations , bear the marks of a respective civilization and its nation(s) . In this sense we can speak of the national character of science . This national character manifests itself in : ( a ) the sort of predisposition which each nation shows to certain branches of science ; ( b ) the point of view with which each nation approaches a scientific study of the reality ; ( c ) the kind of subjective peculiarities it mixes with the objective truth . Thus the three basic English theories of Thomas Hobbes , Adam Smith , and Charles Darwin all manifest the central trait of the English nation : the ethos and pathos of free competition and struggle . This central value of the English nation shows itself in the Hobbesian theory of bellum omnium contra omnes , in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ field , and in Darwin 's theory of the struggle for existence . Since beauty and aesthetic value is the central trait of Greek civilization and nations , this trait manifests itself in the Greek preference for " geometric , instead of analytical , method " in their thought and creativity . Danilevsky goes into considerable detail and supplies factual evidence to show that each of the leading nations has its own peculiarities and that  | even science and technology are greatly conditioned by , and stamped with , the national traits and values . Here again many of the characteristics which Spengler and Toynbee ascribed to several of the main historical civilizations are but a reiteration of Danilevsky 's ideas ( possibly without a knowledge of his theories ) . Likewise , several recent sociologies of knowledge , like those of Karl Mannheim and , in part , myself , are somewhat similar to the ideas of Danilevsky in a number of points . ( 3 ) There are several uniformities of a lead and lag . ( a ) The period of decline of a civilization sets in earlier @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ consequences of the decline-cause lags from the moment when these causes start their work ; ( b ) the political unification and independence of the peoples that are the agencies of a great civilization precede the cultural blossoming or " civilizational " period of a given culture-historical type ; ( c ) the development and blossoming of the fine arts precedes those of science in the same civilization . ( 4 ) Finally , Danilevsky , in answering his initial question , why Europe hates Russia , delineates in detail the nature , interrelationship , and the future of the European and Slavic culturehistorical types . Europe hates Russia and Slavhood because the European and Slavic civilizations are different types and because Europe has already entered the period of decline , whereas Slavic civilization is just about to enter its blossoming and most creative period . Not able to turn the Russian-Slavic peoples and culture into mere ethnographic material for its own use , and intuiting its own old age and coming dissolution , Europe can not help being envious of and inimical towards Russia and Slavhood . The European or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the political and **34;2247;TOOLONG fields . In Danilevsky 's analysis , the emerging Russian-Slavic civilization tends to be a triple or even quadruple type of civilization that creates in all the four main fields of culture : religious , **33;2283;TOOLONG , political , and economic , but mainly in  | the socio-economic field through the building of a new and just socio-economic order ; in other words , the Slavic culturehistorical type is turning into the first civilization that synthesizes in itself all four fields of cultural creativity . Because of this basic difference in the European and , Slavic types of civilizations , they have hardly ever understood each other and each has been unsuccessful when trying to interfere in the affairs of the other . Except for such " neutral " elements of culture as science and technology , all efforts ( both European and Russian ) to europeanize Russia and Slavhood have failed , remaining either ineffective or distorting the original Russian institutions and values . Slavic Poland , which allowed herself to be " europeanized , " did not get European values , but rather lost Slavic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and unbalanced cultural " mongrel . " On the other hand , when Russia , chiefly for altruistic motives , wanted to help Europe and took an active part in European affairs , the results were deplorable for Russia as well as for Europe . The European civilization is some five hundred years older than the Slavic-Russian civilization . This Russian type is just now passing from its second into the third stage ? the phase of maximal blooming or " civilization . " The European culture-historical type is at the end of its blossoming period . As a matter of fact , its decline started in the seventeenth century , but because of the lag between the moment of the apparent and that of the real decline , the first symptoms of European decay have begun to appear only in recent decades . This decline manifests itself in many forms : in a weakening of European creativity ; in the growing cynicism of Europe ; in her de-Christianization ; and especially in Europe 's insatiable lust for power and world domination , not only in the political and economic spheres @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ become the creative forces of Europe , the stronger grows its lust for world domination . Such domination by any single civilization would mortally endanger humanity : it would forever impose one type of culture on all humanity , would preclude the emergence and growth of a new type of civiliza- tion , and would put an end to the creative mission of mankind . For this reason alone real friendship can not exist between this aged European civilization that tends to dominate , and the fresh and youthful Slav civilization ; for it is this civilization 's great historical mission to oppose and to limit Europe 's lust for world domination . This is an additional reason why Europe can not help hating Russia and why the war between Europe and Russia ( the war with Slavhood ) is inevitable . Only united Slavhood can fight the united Europe . This united Slavhood does not threaten world domination but , on the contrary , it is the only possible guarantee for preserving world equilibrium and the only protection against the world domination of Europe . . . . As soon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Russia under the first handy pretext , as was the case in the Crimean War . However , federated Slavhood and its own emerging civilization will be able to withstand any onslaught by semi-senile Europe , will take up the torch of world creative leadership from the exhausted European civilization , and will carry it on in the future until the Slavic civilization itself begins to decline or to merge with the world civilization . Such are the essentials of Danilevsky 's work . Begun as a political pamphlet of the highest grade , it demonstrated its political contentions to such a degree that it became a brilliant treatise on the philosophy of history and cultural sociology , and ended up by being an unusually shrewd and essentially correct piece of political prognostication and prophecy . In reading its political sections , one can not fail to see a remarkable similarity between Danilevsky 's views on the RussoEuropean relationships and prospects , and those of the Soviet government on this same subject . If one removes the Marxist terminology and a few other insignificant details from the policies and political propaganda @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ leaders ' ideologies regarding Russo-European relations are essentially similar . Thus , in this respect , a most conservative Slavophil and the Communist Politbureau and International shake hands with each other . One can hardly imagine stranger bedfellows !  | Besides his main work , Spengler published several others , but all these are either variations on the themes of his masterpiece or elaborations of some of its detailed points . The titles of these works are Preussentum and Sozialismus ( 1920 ) , Pessimismus ( 1921 ) , Politische Pflichten der Deutschen Jugend ( 1924 ) , Neubau des Deutschen Reiches ( 1924 ) , Der Mensch and die Technik ( 1931 ) , and Jahre der Entscheidung . Of these Decline of the West , Hour of Decision , and Man and Technics have been translated into English by Charles Francis Atkinson and published in the United States by Alfred A. Knopf . The American edition of these books has been successful ; all of them have had from a few to fourteen reprintings and are in constant demand up to this time . Though Spengler 's type of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the West are quite different from Danilevsky 's work , the skeleton of Spengler 's philosophy of history resembles Danilevsky 's in all its basic points . ' Like Danilevsky he finds that the " current West European scheme of history , " divided into " Ancient-Medieval-Modern " periods from the standpoint of Western culture , is " an incredibly jejune and meaningless scheme . " It is a sort of " Ptolemaic system of history " that concentrates on Western history ; its " simple rectilinear progression and meaningless proportions become more and more preposterous with each century . " " Of course , " he ironically remarks , " the nineteenth century A.D. appears to us incomparably more important than the nineteenth century B.c. ; but the moon , too , looks much bigger than Jupiter or Saturn ! The natural scientist freed himself from this illusion of a relative distance long ago ; the historian still remains its victim . " ' He replaces it by the " Copernican viewpoint " in history , which admits no privileged position to the Western or Classical culture as against the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ China , Egypt , or of the Arabs , and which considers each High Culture equally as important in the scheme of history as Western or Classical culture . ' The main philosophical presupposition of this Copernican system of history consists in a dualistic division of reality , or  | " existence , " or cosmic energy , into two main aspects : the World-as-Nature and the World-as-History . Nature is the " shape " ( image ) in which the man of higher culture synthesizes and interprets the impressions of his senses . History is the " image " which he intuitively , instinctively , and then rationally creates in order to comprehend the world in relation to his own life . ' These aspects of existence differ from each other along many lines and lead to entirely different methods of cognition of the World-as-Nature and the Worldas-History . Here are the most important characteristics of both " worlds " and of the historical and natural science disciplines that deal with each of these aspects : These two aspects of existence or reality manifest themselves also in two different types @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ different " world-images , " and  | lead to two different morphologies of the historical and the natural science disciplines . The specific traits of the historical " physiognomic " and the naturalistic " systematic " ( as Spengler designates these two consciousnesses , ways of cognition , and disciplines ) may be summed up as follows :  | Such are the two orders of the phenomenal world . " Both orders , each on its own account , cover the whole world " ( or existence ) , or " cosmic energy , " which is the fountainhead of historical events . " The difference lies only in the eyes by which and through which this world is realized . " 8 Such are Spengler 's essential philosophical presuppositions . In addition to Goethe 's ideas , one can easily recognize in this dualistic division of the whole existence or phenomenal world a variation of the Hegelian dialectical " Idea in itself " ( the World-as-History ) and " the Idea in its otherness " ( the Worldas-Nature ) , Rickert 's and Wildenband 's division of the sciences into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) , Bergson 's theory of intuition and intellect , of full-blooded and " bleached " time , and several other philosophies and presuppositions that were formulated by some of Spengler 's predecessors . With Spengler 's philosophy and epistemology in mind , we can now turn to his " Copernican " philosophy of history , or the " historical physiognomic . " I pointed out above that Spengler , like Danilevsky , rejects and ridicules the linear history of mankind , derived from the Ptolemaic standpoint of recent Western culture , with its empty division into " Ancient-Medieval-Modern " periods , and with its linear theory of . . . the progress of painting from the Egyptians ( or the cavemen ) to the Impressionists , or of music from Homer to Bayreuth and beyond , or of social organization from the Lake Dwellings to Socialism , as the case may be , presented as a linear graph which steadily rises in conformity with the author 's values . . . . " Mankind " has no aim , no idea , no plan . . . . " Mankind @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . . . . I see , in place of that empty figment of one linear history . . . the drama of a number of mighty Cultures , each springing with primitive strength from the soil of a mother-region to which it remains firmly bound throughout its whole life-cycle ; each stamping its material , its mankind , in its own image ; each having its own idea , its own passion , its own life , will and feeling , its own death . . . . Here the Cultures , peoples , languages , truths , gods , colors , lights , movements , bloom and age like the oaks grow and age ? but there is no aging " Mankind . " . . . Each Culture has its own new possibilities of self-expression which  | arise , ripen , decay , and never return . There is not one sculpture , one painting , one mathematics , one physics , but many , each of which is different from the others , limited in duration and self-contained . The Cultures , in the same manner as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ history presents a picture of the endless formations and transformations of these cultures as organic forms . ' " The prime phenomenon " of history or , as Toynbee puts it , the primary unit of historical study , is that of the High or Great Cultures . " Cultures are organisms , and world history is their collective biography . " They emerge , grow , and having fulfilled their destiny , die : A Culture is born in the moment when a great soul awakens out of the proto-spirituality of ever childish humanity , detaches itself , and becomes a form from the formless , a bounded and mortal thing from the boundless and enduring . It blooms . . . . It dies when this soul has actualized the full sum of its possibilities in the shape of peoples , languages , dogmas , arts , states , sciences , and reverts into the protosoul . . . . The aim once attained ? the idea , the entire content of inner possibilities , fulfilled and made externally actual ? the Culture suddenly hardens , it mortifies , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ down , and it becomes Civilization . " Every Culture passes through the age phases of the individual man . Each has its childhood , youth , manhood and old age . " At childhood " it is a young and trembling soul , heavy with misgivings . " As it approaches its noon-culmination it becomes progressively virile , austere , controlled , and clear in its individual lineaments , and self-assured in its power . At that phase " every individual trait of expression is deliberate , strict , measured , marvelous in its ease and self-confidence . " Finally , when the fire in the Culture 's soul dies down , it enters its last phase ? that of Civilization . " Every Culture has its own Civilization . The Civilization is the inevitable destiny of the Culture . " Civilizations are the last , the most external and artificial states of Cultures : They are a conclusion , the thing become succeeding the thing becoming , death following life , rigidity following expansion , intellectual age  | and the stone-built , petrifying world-city following mother-earth and the spiritual @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , irrevocable , yet by inward necessity reached again and again . . . . They may , like a worn-out giant of the primeval forest , thrust their decaying branches towards the sky for hundreds or thousands of years , as we see in China , in India , in the Islamic world . In this " petrified form " they may even distort a newly emerging young culture ( so-called pseudomorphosis ) .1 " This stage of Civilization is marked by several characteristics quite different from those of the childhood , youth , and noon of a certain culture . The following are the general characteristics of the Civilization phase of each High Culture : cosmopolitanism and the megalopolis vs. " home , " " race , " " blood group , " and " fatherland " ; scientific irreligion or abstract dead metaphysics instead of the religion of the heart ; " cold matter-of-factness " vs. reverence and tradition and respect for age ; international " society " instead of " my country " and state ( nation ) ; " natural rights " in place of hard-earned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ earth and real ( living ) values ; " mass " instead of " folk " ; sex in lieu of motherhood ; panem et circences in place of religious and spontaneous folk-festivals ; imperialistic expansion , urbanization , internationalization , the outward direction of Civilization-man 's energy instead of the inward direction of the Culture-man ; the cult of bigness , syncretism , lust for power , class struggle instead of quality and unity ; and so on . In this late stage several imitative attempts to revive the values , patterns , and spirit of the earlier phase of Culture appear , but all remain fruitless . In the stage of Culture all struggles , even the bloodiest ones , are the actualization of an idea into a living historical fact . In the stage of Civilization all that remains is the struggle for mere power , for animal advantage as such . A Civilization can last for hundreds and thousands of years in such a petrified state ? witness the case of China , India , and the Islamic world . In this stage some Civilizations have an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ once more in a halfsuccessful effort and " produce the Classicism , common to all dying Cultures . "  | " Finally , weary , reluctant , cold , it Culture at the phase of Civilization loses its desire to be , and , as in Imperial Rome , wishes itself out of the overlong daylight and back in the darkness of proto-mysticism , in the womb of the mother , in the grave . " It begins to disintegrate and reverts , in Danilevsky 's terms , to " a mere ethnographic material " ? historyless and formless . Before its death , however , the Culture-Civilization experiences " the spell of second religiosity , " the fever of a new religious movement , a wave of mysticism or gnosticism , such as the spread of the cult of Mithra , of Isis , of the Sun , or , in ancient Rome , of Christianity . ( This last point should be stressed for reasons indicated further on . ) This " spell of second religiosity " marks the end of the life-course of the Culture-Civilization , its death @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Such are the essentials of Spengler 's life-cycle of Culture-Civilization . " Behind this life-cycle there is the mysterious " cosmic energy " that drives us , that vitalizes the Culture and determines its life-cycle . The foregoing shows that Danilevsky 's and Spengler 's theories are similar in a number of basic points . This similarity does not , however , preclude Spengler 's originality in the development and analysis of these points . Instead of Danilevsky 's ten great cultures , Spengler mentions only eight : the Egyptian , Babylonian , Indian , Chinese , Classical or Apollinian ( Graeco-Roman ) , Arabian or Magian , Mexican , and Western or Faustian ( which emerged around 1000 A.D. ) . He mentions the Russian as the next possibility . Of these nine Cultures the Mexican died by violent death ; the Magian and the Russian underwent a " pseudomorphosis " at an early age , a partial suppression or distortion under the all-powerful influence of the older alien Civilizations , which prevented their full and specific development . Factually , however , Spengler deals only with six of these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or Apollinian , Arabian or Magian ( a designation including Arabic , Islamic , Iranian , Jewish , Syrian , Byzantine , Manichean , and early Christian Cultures ) , and the Western 14 or Faustian . All these great Cultures have passed through the described life-cycle of the  | High Cultures and are now either dead or in the phase of their late Civilization . Each great Culture is based upon its own major premise or " prime symbol , " which differs entirely for each Culture . " The choice of prime symbol in the moment of the Culture-soul 's awakening into self-consciousness on its own soil . . . decides all . " This major premise or prime symbol determines the essential characteristics of the given Culture : the character of its science and philosophy , of its mentality , of its arts and beliefs , of its way of thinking , living , and acting . A given great Culture articulates its prime symbol in all its main compartments . There is not one concept of numbers or mathematics , not one concept of the soul or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , or of the fine arts , but instead many , and exactly as many as there are different Cultures with their different prime symbols . The idea that there is , or can be , only one mathematics , one psychology , one physics , one biology , or one sociology is a mere myth , denied by " physiognomic-historical " as well as " natural-science " evidence . Spengler develops this thesis much more fully than Danilevsky , and the bulk of Spengler 's work is devoted to unfolding and demonstrating these propositions . Let us briefly outline Spengler 's treatment of these problems , beginning with the prime symbols of the great Cultures . The prime symbol of the Classical or Apollinian Culture is " the sensuously present individual body as the ideal type of the extended . " " Pure and limitless space " is the prime symbol of the Western or Faustian Culture . Correspondingly , " the nude statue is Apollinian , the art of the fugue Faustian . Apollinian are : mechanical statics , the sensuous cult of the Olympian gods , the politically @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the phallus symbol . Faustian are : Galilean dynamics , Catholic and Protestant dogmatics , . . . the Baroque 's great dynasties , the destiny of Lear and the Madonna-ideal from Dante 's Beatrice to the last line of Faust II . . . . The painting that defines the individual body by contours is Apollinian , that which forms space by means of light and shade is Faustian " ( the difference between the fresco of  | Polygnotus and the painting of Rembrandt ) . The Apollinian Greek describes his ego as soma ( body ) having no history and inner development . Faustian man sees his ego as something infinite , inner , introspective . Faustian " space " is a spiritual something , rigidly distinct from the momentary sense-present . This sort of " space " is indescribable and incomprehensible to the Apollinian man . The Doric and Etruscan temple , firmly rooted in the ground , with mere inter-space between its columns , its separate bodies of sculpture , and its relief , is Apollinian ; a Gothic cathedral or an impressionistic painting , which completely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Classical gods is a real body on Greek soil . Valhalla , devoid of all sensory traits , floating in limitless space that contains unharmonious and lonely heroes , is Faustian . So is the solitude of the Faustian soul in limitless space . Siegfried , Parsifal , Tristan , Hamlet , and Faust are the loneliest heroes in all the Cultures . A hero who is at odds with himself and with God , who is a lonely pilgrim in the infinite universe , is a Faustian man . This solitude is equally felt in Rembrandt 's color and in Beethoven 's instrumentation . The Cosmos of the Classical Culture is the plurality of separate bodies represented by the antique polytheism of corporeal gods . Apollo and Athens have no souls . The Faustian God is an Infinite All that can be best expressed symbolically in the storm of an organ fugue or music that speaks of the universalia ante rem . No wonder that even Faustian modern physics dissolved the material world into bodyless energy in the limitless , void , and swaying indefiniteness of space-time ? This gives @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a great Culture and of its articulation through a multitude of important traits in all main compartments of the Culture discussed . " Stone " is the prime symbol of the Egyptian Culture . " Stone is the emblem of the Timeless Become ; space and death seem bound up in it . " Stone marks the burial place . The dead strive no more . They are no longer Time , but only static , unstriving space . The Egyptians ' life-course is like that  | of time and direction . The Indian Culture and man display in a different way " a perfectly ahistoric soul . " Nirvana is a perfect symbol of this . The Indian man forgot everything in his history and life . The Egyptian Culture and man , on the contrary , forgot nothing , remembered everything . But Western Culture and man are uniquely " historical , " with an unlimited projection into the past and future . The mechanical clock invented by the West ? the dread symbol of the flow of time ? and countless clocks on our towers chiming day @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ historical world-feeling of Western man . We men of Western Culture have this exceptional historical sense , and " the world-history " we construct is our world-picture and not all mankind 's . These fragmentary remarks on the type of personality created by each Culture give a very imperfect rendering of Spengler 's cultural typology of human mentality and personality . Even such seemingly precise and comparatively invariable notions as number and mathematics have quite different meanings in each of the great Cultures : There is not , and can not be , number as such . There are several number-worlds , as there are several Cultures . We find an Indian , an Arabian , a Classical , a Western type of mathematical thought and a type of number . . . . Consequently , there are more mathematics than one . For the inner structure of the Euclidean geometry is something quite different from that of the Cartesian , the analysis of Archimedes is something other than the analysis of Gauss , not merely in matters of form , intuition and method , but above all in essence , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . . The style of any mathematic which comes into being depends wholly on the Culture in which it is rooted , the sort of mankind it is that ponders it . In Apollinian Culture , in accordance with its prime symbol , " number is the essence of all things perceptible to the senses . " It is a measure of something near and corporeal . It is a thought process dealing not with spatial relations but with visibly limitable and tangible units ? with bodies . In Western Culture , in accordance with its prime symbol , " numbers are images of the perfectly desensualized understanding , of pure thought , and contain their abstract validity  | within themselves . " The Arabian indeterminateness of number is again something quite different from the Apollinian and the Western number . Spengler proceeds to develop these ideas in considerable detail by analyzing the development of Classical , Arabic , and Western mathematics . He connects their development with the character of the fine arts of each of these cultures . Finally , he shows that Classical mathematics , enunciated by Pythagoras @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reached their maturity one hundred years later ; and both , after flourishing for three centuries , completed the structure of their ideas at the same moment , " when each Culture passed into its phase of Civilization . This means that the time of great mathematicians in Western Culture is also over : only clever detail work , similar to that of the Alexandrian mathematicians of late Hellenism , can be expected in the future . A historical paradigm demonstrates this point : Still more glaring is the cultural determination of the notion of the soul and of the psychological discipline of a given Culture , in accordance with its prime symbol .  | First , Spengler states that so-called scientific psychology studies not a living soul , or consciousness , or mind , but instead the dead mechanism of these , which has nothing in common with the ineffable , inexpressible , ever-becoming pure experience covered by these terms . " Associations , apperceptions , affections , motives , thought , feeling , will ? all are dead mechanisms , the mere topography of which constitutes the insignificant total @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one found an ornamental pattern of notions . " 24 When we take this dead " imaginary soul-body " which each Culture possesses , we can see that it differs in different Cultures , and that each Culture creates its own image . " Each Culture possesses its own style of knowledge of men and experience of Life . " In accordance with the prime symbol of Classical Culture , the " Apollinian man looked upon his soul as a Cosmos ordered in a group of excellent parts . The soul of Plato or Aristotle is a well-ordered sum of tangible or bodily things in contrast to a space that was felt nonexistent . This Classical soul does not have any Will . " It is missing there for the same reason that space is missing in the Classical mathematics and force in the Classical physics . In contrast to this bodily ordering of the Classical soul , the Faustian soul is functional through and through . Thinking , feeling , and willing are functions and forces , not bodies , of which no Western psychologist can get rid . Associations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ y = f ( x ) ) , radically un-Classical even in their very form . Directional energy , the Will , denied in the Classical and Indian soul-images , is particularly characteristic of the Western soul-image . Dynamic voluntas superior intellectu , the " I , " Ego , the Will , with the corresponding individualism and enormous activity , are the specific traits of the Faustian Culture . It is a Will-Culture par excellence , with historic distance ? becoming projected into the future and the boundless world horizon in its achievements ( in the things become ) . As opposed to it , the Russian soul is " will-less , having the limitless plane as its prime symbol . It seeks to grow up ? serving , anonymous , self-oblivious ? in the brother-world of  | the plane . " It is not the soul and culture of the " I , " the Ego , nor of individualism , but of the " we , " of collectivity , of all , in the positive and negative traits of each person . It condemns " I " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ soul-image is a strict dualism of two mysterious substances , Spirit and Soul . Their relationship is neither static as in the Classical , nor dynamicfunctional , as in the Western soul-image , but specifically magian , ' mystic . " Soul is the individual substance permeating the body ; Spirit is the divine substance ( self ) that falls from the world-cavern into humanity . Man has a soul , and man participates in the Spirit . " Spirit " is that which evokes the highest world , the divine , and which triumphs over mere life , flesh , nature , and even the individual soul . This soul-image is expressed in St. John 's Gospel , in the writings of the Gnostics , by the early Church Fathers ( Spengler views Christianity from the first to the ninth centuries as the manifestation of the Magian Culture and not the Western Culture , which , after the tenth century , developed a new religion and new soul-image , also calling it Christianity ) , by the Neo-Platonists , the Manichaeans , the dogmatic texts of the Talmud , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and others . The schools of Baghdad and Basra developed this concept still further , as did the psychology of Alfarabi and Alkindi , and the late representatives of this Magian soul-image , such as Spinoza and Schirazi . The foregoing gives an inkling of Spengler 's typology of the soul-image , of the psychology and philosophy of the great Cultures . In a similar manner he shows that the fine arts , architecture , sculpture , painting , music ? in their character , their predominance , their composition , even in the prevalent colors used or in the kind of portraiture practised ? are each different in the different great Cultures , each Culture creating its fine arts in its own image as an articulation of its prime symbol , or of its own soul . On the other hand , the fine arts of each Culture pass through the same main phases in about the same number of decades or centuries , and congeal or become quantitative ,  | technical , imitative , repetitive , childish , and petrified at the phase of Civilization . The Western fine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ practiced as art today is impotence and falsehood . . . . We go through all the exhibitions , the concerts , the theaters , and find only industrious cobblers and noisy fools , who delight to produce something for the market , " something that will " catch up " with a public for whom true art has long ceased to be a spiritual necessity . ( What we have and are going to have in the field of art can well be seen from Alexandrian art in about the year 200 B.c . ) Today there is faked music , filled with artificial noises of gigantic orchestras ; faked painting , full of idiotic , exotic , and sensational effects , which concocts a " new style " every decade ; lying plastic that steals from the styles of Assyria , Egypt , China , or Mexico . This is the so-called art of the " man of the world . " In the Civilization phase this pseudo-art may last for millennia in a state of vacuous eclecticism and sterile imitativeness of the patterns of the art which prevailed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The Civilization art of Egyptian , Indian , Arabic-Persian , and Chinese Cultures serves as an example of such an " endless industrious repetition of a stock of fixed forms " that continued for centuries and even millennia . This has held true for the " last act " in all Cultures ; and the same is occurring with Western Culture-Civilization today . As with the fine arts , " there is no general morale of humanity . " Instead " each Culture has its own standards , the validity of which begins and ends with it . " The Classical ethics are ethics of attitude , whereas the Faustian ethics are those of deed . The Western ethics are those of the Will , of the moral imperative , of the " thou shall , " of the claim to power . Other ethics are the ethics of compassion , of catharsis , of purgation , and of complete liberation from any ego , any will , any individuality in the " empty Nirvana " or " divine nothing " or Brahman . Similarly , each Culture has its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ phase . The specific forms of this extinction through which all great Cultures pass in their Civilization phase is irreligion : mainly ethical Nirvana ,  | for the Indian and Buddhist Culture ; the Stoic form for the Classical Culture ; or the Faustian Socialist variety for the Western Culture . Finally , each Culture has its own Nature-Knowledge . Not one but many physics or chemistries have existed , each patterned on the respective Culture 's own image . From the prime symbol of the Classical Culture ? the individual nude body ? grew the Greek static of bodies , a physics of the near , the Classical atom as a miniature body , and many other characteristics of the Apollinian natural science . The Arabian Culture 's prime symbol ? the " cavern " or vault ? was the origin of alchemy with its mysterious " philosophical mercury " and elixir of life . From the prime symbol of the Faustian Culture emerged the idea of Nature as a dynamics of unlimited space , a physics of the distant , of the minimal quanta of energy . Thus , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the idea of substances with visible or secret attributes is the creation of the Magian , and the physics of force , mass , of quanta of energy belong to the Faustian Nature-Conception . Consequently it is a myth that physics and chemistry are the most objective sciences , for each is created by Culture in its own image . The Western physics of quanta is but an expression of the Will-to-Power of the soul of the Faustian Culture . In analyzing its evolution during the last three hundred years , Spengler comes to the conclusion that an increase of the role of statistics in physical sciences , which have replaced necessity by probability and chance , the emergence of the theory of relativity , the elimination of mass , abandonment of the absolute time and space , replacement of the atom by the complex universe of intra-atomic forces , the principle of indeterminacy , especially the notion of entropy , and so on , all indicate the beginning of the dissolution of Faustian physics and Nature-Knowledge . These new notions of modern physics and mechanics contradict " the Galilean-Newtonian @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Destiny and Causality , historical and natural science elements , are beginning to be confused . Formulae of life , growth , age ,  | direction , and death are crowding up . " Modern physics deviates increasingly from its " classical systematic " and tends to become more and more " historical physiognomic . " In this way the **26;2318;TOOLONG phase of Western physics unfolds to an ever greater extent , becomes increasingly confused , then skeptical , and finally gives way to " the second religiousness " of the Faustian Culture . Men dispense with proof , desire only to believe , and not to dissect . Thus the physical science which emerges from religion at the youthful phase of each Culture returns to its initial spiritual home ? religion . Such are the main High Cultures , their unique prime symbols , and the soul , science , art , philosophy , religion , and other important characteristics of each . After analyzing the life-cycle of the High Cultures and showing wherein and how they differ from one another , Spengler gives a concise synoptic summary of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ indicating the " contemporary " epochs in " spiritual , " expressive , and social forms through which they passed . An abbreviated summary of Spengler 's tables is given on pages 90 ? 92 . This picture is supplemented by a similar table ( pages 93 ? 95 ) of " contemporaneous " stages in the cycle of the " fine-art forms " in the life-cycle of the Egyptian , Classical , Arabian , and Western Cultures . Parallel with these forms unfold the respective forms of mentality or " spirituality " and of social organization of each of these Cultures . All are aspects of one living organism or a system , and all change in togetherness and in the same direction .  | Spengler 's analysis of the life-cycle of social forms is less systematic than that of the forms of Culture , but nevertheless the essential points are clear . Herewith follows a concise outline of Spengler 's dynamics of social forms , or forms of social organization , which succeed one another as the Culture passes from its emergence , to its early period , up @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ man is a carnivorous ranging animal , nomad , keen , and anxious in his senses , a beast of prey , unsettled and fighting the elements of hostile Nature . With the advent of agriculture a radical change takes place . Man becomes a peasant , a plant , settled and rooted in the earth ; the peasant soul discovers a soul in nature and in the countryside . Nature becomes Mother Earth . These stages are historyless . The peasant is historyless . The village is not a part of worldhistory . The peasant is the eternal man , independent of every Culture . He precedes it , he outlives it , a wise and dumb creature propagating himself from generation to generation , a mystical soul , dry and shrewd , the eternal source of the blood that makes world-history in the cities . Mistrustful of everything urban , he looks on urban life indifferently , accepts the city products , from religion to the latest gadget , and remains the same as he was in Charlemagne 's day . His piety is older than Christianity ; his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and spiritual history ? in fact , they have no history at all . In this pre-history or pre-Culture stage there are no politics , no classes , no mass , no state even . There are only the bloodrelated nomadic and agricultural tribes with their chiefs , with their own proto-mystical " soul , " serving as a sort of ethnographic material for outsiders . This pre-Cultural stage existed in Egyptian Culture about 3400 ? 3000 B.C. ( Thinite period , Menes ) , in Classical Culture about 1600 ? 1100 B.C. ( Mycenaean age , " Agamemnon " ) , in Chinese Culture around 1700 ? 1300 B.C. ( Shang period ) , and in Western Culture from 500 to 900 A.D. ( Frankish period , Charlemagne ) . "  | This period consists of two phases : feudalism and the aristocratic state . ( 1 ) Feudalism . The beginning of world-history , the emergence and early period of Culture , are marked by two epochmaking phenomena : the emergence of the city and of the primary classes of nobility and priesthood . With the advent of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ existence . The pre-cultural tribes and folk begin to organize into a feudal nation and a feudal state . The castle and the temple or cathedral appear on the countryside landscape . Along with the city and the priesthood there emerges the intellect , in the forms of religious-chivalric ideas , idealism , and values . The whole organization , however , remains feudal and agricultural . The city is still only a market , or a stronghold , or a religious center . The political life consists largely of the struggles of the vassals and feudal lords with one another or with an overlord . The prevalent spirit and values , economic and social , are still purely agrarian . ( 2 ) Emergence of the aristocratic state . Feudal , patriarchal forms , politics , blood ties and relationships , feudal economics and values undergo a crisis and dissolve . Instead there emerges a sort of nation , headed by an aristocracy and organized into an aristocratic state . The role of the city and of the intellect increases . The early period of the Culture begins to pass @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ phases of the early period occurred as shown in the table on page 98 . In this period the idea of the state and national government is realized in its mature and full form . A third class ? the bourgeoisie  --  emerges and grows . The city grows quantitatively and qualitatively . It begins to dominate the countryside politically , economically , technically , and intellectually . Urban values replace agricultural values . Money emerges victorious  | over landed property and values . The city begins to exploit the countryside . Blood ties become unimportant . The bourgeoisie elevates its position and grows in influence . This late period can be divided into three fairly clear phases : ( I ) Structuralization of states and their forms , with the Frondes bickering with the dominant state power . ( 2 ) Climax of the state form and its absolutization ; absolute monarchies ; unity of town and country ; co-ordination of " three estates " ( nobility , clergy , and bourgeoisie ) ; " unified nation . " ( 3 ) Break-up of the absolute state form and " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ city over the countryside , urbanization over agriculturalism , of " the people " over the privileged , of the intelligentsia over tradition , of money over property and most of the traditional values . The actual centuries in which these phases of the late period took place in the four Cultures are tabulated on page 100 . At this last stage of a great Culture the body of the people , now essentially urban in constitution , dissolves into formless mass . The state , the nation , the social estates , tend to disintegrate . The city grows into a pathological megalopolis , artificial , inorganic , cosmopolitan . With it there emerges the " fourth estate " ? the " masses . " In the process of revolutions and anarchy " Caesarism " emerges , a tyrannical dictatorship of various " upstarts . " Just as in the late period of Culture money became victorious over the policy of " noblesse oblige , " so now a rude force-politics triumphs over money and the money-policies , including the bourgeoisie . The period of Civilization can also be subdivided @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the four Cultures studied is given by the table on page 101 . This cut-and-dried presentation serves only as a lifeless skeleton for Spengler 's rich , colorful , often brilliant , and always thoughtful picture of the development of the social , economic , and political organization forms at various periods of  | the great Cultures . A few comments on the Civilizational social structures may give an inkling of this . At the Civilizational phase there arises the world city , the monstrous symbol and vessel of the completely sophisticated intellect , the megalopolis in which the life-cycle of the Culture ends by winding itself up . A handful of such world centers devalues the entire motherland and turns the rest into inferior and insignificant " provinces . " Babylon , Thebes , Alexandria , Rome , Constantinople , Pataliputra , Baghdad , Uxmal are examples of the early world cities . Paris , London , Berlin , and especially New York , are recent examples . " And the rise of New York to the rank of the world city may prove to have been the most pregnant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " wholly intellect . " They aim at the chessboard form ? the symbol of soullessness . They are not " home . " The birth of these cities entails their death by their growth and their contrast of riches and poverty , by their artificial stimulation and their toedium vitae , and finally by the increasing sterility of the megalopolitan man . The world city displays a metaphysical turn towards death . The man of a megalopolis no longer wants to live . The peasant woman is first of all and most of all a mother . The megalopolis woman is a childless Ibsen woman , Nora or Nana , whether in Paris or New York , in Lao-tzu China or Charvaka India . At this level all Civilizations enter the stage of depopulation which can last for centuries : The whole pyramid of cultural man vanishes . It crumbles from the summit , first the world cities , then the " provinces , " then the land itself whose best blood has poured into the city and exhausted itself . At the last , only the primitive blood remains @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ This residue is the Fellah type , dull , dumb , semi-serf , semi-free peasant-laborer . In today 's Western world cities , with their machine technics , we are the observers and actors in the last act of a great Culture 's tragedy . The lord of the world , the Nordic man , is becoming the slave of the machine . The mechanization of the world has entered a phase of highly dangerous over-tension . All organic things are dying in the grip of this megalopolitan  | machine organization . It begins to contradict even its economic practice . The machine in the end defeats its own purpose . In the great cities the motor car has , by its numbers , destroyed its own value : one moves faster on foot . In the stone-steel cage of the world cities the Faustian man begins to be sick of machines and civilization , and starts returning to simpler forms of life , nearer to Nature . Occultism and Spiritualism , Hindu philosophies and metaphysical gnosticism in Christian or other forms , are reviving . Second religiosity is already under @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has begun . The exploited colonial peoples are rising against the megalopolitan white man . This machine technics is beginning to destroy itself and one day . . . will lie in fragments , forgotten , our railways and steamships as dead as the Roman roads and Chinese wall , our giant cities and skyscrapers in ruins like old Memphis and Babylon . The history of the megalopolitan machine technics is fast drawing to its inevitable close . It will be eaten up from within , like the grand forms of any and every Culture . When , and in what manner , we know not . In a similar way money and " democracy " undermine themselves and are " eaten up from within , " giving way to the victorious policy of undisguised forces and Caesarism . In the early period of Culture the governing powers are pre-established , God-given , and unquestioned . They are represented by the aristocracy among the nobility and clergy . The policy of that period is the policy of these estates , and not the policy of the party . With the rise @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bourgeoisie take over the leading role . In place of the estate there appears the party . The prime party is that of money and mind , the liberal , the megalopolitan . Aristocracy in the completed Culture , and democracy in the insipient cosmopolitan Civilization , stand opposed until both are submerged in Caesarism . The forms of the governing minority develop steadily from the stage of the estate , through that of the party , towards the following of the dictatorial individual ( Caesar ) . The estate has instincts , the party has a program , but the following has a master .  | Democracy 's passage into Caesarism ? the government representing in its inward self a return to thorough formlessness , to dictatorial arbitrariness ? is marked by the following steps . At the outset of democracy the field belongs to the responsible , noble , and pure intellect alone . It introduces the bill of rights and equality under the law . Soon , however , it turns out that one can make use of constitutional rights only if one has money . The leadership @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the bourgeois . It begins to control the vote and the voters through its political machinery . The press , as a powerful propaganda weapon , becomes one of the most influential and insidious parts of this machinery . Democracy through its newspaper and mass magazine expels the book from the people 's mental life . Through the press , " mass education , " and mass propaganda , it teaches the people to think less and less for themselves and to accept more and more what is offered by the press ( and radio and television ) . The book world , with its profusion of standpoints that compelled individual thought to select and criticize , is now the possession of only a few . The people read the one paper , " their " paper , which spellbinds the intellect from morning to night , drives serious books into oblivion , promotes the books it wants , and kills the books it disapproves of . What is truth ( under democracy ) ? That which the press wills . Its commands evoke , transform , and interchange truths . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is acknowledged by everybody . Mass education tends to shepherd the masses into the newspaper 's power area . Of course , there is freedom of speech in democracy , but the press is free to take , or not to take , notice of what the " citizen " says . It can condemn any " truth " to death by simply passing it by in silence , by not communicating it to the world . In lieu of the stake and faggot there is the great silence . Such a press and such mass education pave the way for the Caesars . The dictature of party leaders supports itself upon that of the press . The leaders strive to train the bulk of their followers by whipping their souls with articles , telegrams , and pictures that are more effective than a physical whip or  | military service , until the masses clamor for weapons and seemingly force their leaders to an eventual dictatorship , which these leaders have carefully prepared . " This is the end of Democracy . If in the world of truth it is proof @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ success . Success means that one being triumphs over the others . " Through the press and other means , the masses , their minds , and their actions are kept under the iron discipline of the parties , which in turn are the retinue of the few bosses . Parliaments , congresses , and elections are a sort of preconcerted game , a farce , staged in the name of popular self-determination . " Through money , democracy becomes its own destroyer , after money has destroyed intellect . " Noble intellectual and moral leaders of the beginning of democracy are now replaced by unscrupulous and non-intellectual politicians . One boss is overthrown by another . Fights , disturbances , and insecurity become chronic . As a result men become tired and disgusted with money values , with all this bickering , and begin to hope for salvation from somewhere or other , from a revival of old values , unselfishness , honor , inward nobility , to the arrival of a new Savior . In this way Caesarism grows on the soil of degenerated democracy and sooner or later @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ political will-to-order . Caesarism is thus the final act of the Civilization in the field of social , economic , and political organization . Eventually barbarization sets in , and the Culture 's social form steadily disintegrates . It ends with the " second religiosity " and with the forms which it ? and its church ? impose upon the remnants of the Culture 's life-cycle . Its social history is ended . Such , in bare outline , is the core of Spengler 's philosophy of history . A few of the many important points of this grand conception must be briefly mentioned . ( 1 ) How and why does the High Culture originate ? Why did only a few great Cultures emerge from the multitude of " pre-cultural " elements and materials inherent in the pre-historic tribes and groups ? What are the factors that de- termine the emergence of a High Culture 's soul ? In accordance with his principle of Destiny and the World-as-History Spengler seems to find it impossible to apply the principle of causality and causal factors to these phenomena . Consistent to his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ matter ( like his Destiny ) is a mystery " that is not to be explained by any why and wherefore and yet is of inward necessity " ( grasped by intuition ) . The same is true of the difference between Destiny and incident in the whole historical process . " In the endless , self-repeating flows for evermore the Same . . . all the straining , all the striving is eternal peace of God . " " Any causal conceptions are applicable only to the World-as-Nature and are an outrage and unmitigated blunder when they are applied to the World-as-History . Here the inward necessity of Direction or Destiny ? incapable of being grasped through conceptual approaches ? reigns supreme and is an explanation in itself . " For only youth has a future , and is Future , that enigmatic synonym of Destiny . Destiny is always young . " He who replaces it by a mere cause-and-effect chain simply makes the non-realized future into a past , the young into old ; he kills the living destiny and eliminates direction . " Factually , the origin @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or animal ? are mysteries : they " appear suddenly and at once in their definite shape , " as Goethe and H. de Vries rightly indicated in their mutation theory . These sudden and profound changes , like the advent of the glacial age , are of a cosmic nature , originating beyond the earth 's boundary and incomprehensible in causal terms . The situation in regard to the Cultures is similar . " We observe that swift and deep changes assert themselves in the history of great Cultures , without assignable causes , influences , or purposes of any kind . " The pre-cultural world of humanity , of which we know little and understand still less ( the anthropologist 's collection of the fragments of this primitive culture possesses only a few dead shreds of what was alive long ago ) was something quite different from the High Cultures . The sudden emergence in this ocean of " primitive culture " of the High Culture of Egypt and Babylon ( c. 3000 B.c. ) , or Sumer ,  | is an unforeseen incident . Its emergence in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a mystery from a causal standpoint . It is not due to specific geographic , racial , or other " causal factors " because it is not a given tribe or race that selects the Culture ; but rather it is the suddenly emerging Culture which makes not only of custom , myth , technique , and art , but of the very peoples , races , and classes that it incorporates , the vessels or instrumentalities of one single formlanguage and one single history . The choice is made by cosmic forces . They determine which of the primitive cultures becomes a High Culture . Just as in the history of the Coniferae or other species we can not prophesy whether and when a new species will arise , so in cultural history we can not say whether and when a new Culture shall come into existence . However , as soon as it is conceived we do know the inner form of this new life-course . The intuitive life-experience opens to us a Culture 's logic of Destiny and its life-course . The actual number of High Cultures and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an incident whose roots are concealed in the cosmic universe beyond our causal understanding . But the destiny-course of these Cultures is known to us by way of the instinctive , intuitional , historical logic of Destiny . Such is Spengler 's answer to these problems ? an answer consistent with his philosophical premises and quite different from that of A. J. Toynbee and many others influenced by Spengler . After its emergence , the whole life-cycle of a High Culture , with all the numerous changes involved , is immanently determined by the Culture itself . Like an organism immanently passing from childhood to old age , the Cultures go through their **27;2346;TOOLONG stages by virtue of their own natures . Even their death is due to their own nature and is not caused by external conditions . It is the Culture 's natural death . The role of external factors consists essentially in favoring  | or hindering , accelerating or retarding the immanent unfolding of the life-cycle of the Culture ; now and then the external conditions can distort and , in exceptional cases , kill the Culture 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ form , or the stages of its life-cycle , or change its essential traits . The Arabian and the Russian Cultures ' full unfolding of their potentiality has been distorted , hindered , and partly suppressed by the alien , more powerful , and older Cultures . However , this distortion and inhibition has not been able to change basic , inherent traits of these Cultures . The external forces can distort and hinder the development of a given Culture , but they can not transform , say , the Classical into the Egyptian , or the Arabian into the Western Culture , just as the external conditions can not change a bird into a cow , though they can mutilate and even kill it . Of all the High Cultures only the Mexican died a violent death inflicted by the Western Culture ? a Culture alien to it . Besides these functions of the external factors , the Culture 's life-course , after its emergence , is self-determined. ( 3 ) The problem of diffusion and transmissibility of one culture to another On this point Spengler 's and Danilevsky 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and can only be understood by men of this Culture . As such it can not be transmitted and diffused in an alien cultural world . If one Culture borrows another 's material or pattern or element , it is as though J. S. Bach or another creator were writing a fugue on an alien theme . The element of the other culture serves as mere material for the self-expression of a given Culture . Even when one Culture seemingly takes a whole cultural system from another , be it Plato 's philosophy , Roman Law , Christianity , architectural form , sculpture , or what not , it is only the borrowing that is apparent . The Western interpretations of Plato are mainly misinterpretations . The Roman law taken by continental Europe is , in fact , fundamentally different from the real Roman law ; in addition , different European countries adhere to several different Roman laws . Christianity  | ( Spengler ascribes its creation to the Arabian or Magian , and not to the Classical or the Western , Cultures ) of the Western World after the eleventh century @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ spirit , would be rejected by St. Paul or St. Augustine ; it is basically different from the Magian Christianity of the first centuries of our era . Similarly , when the Italian Renaissance supposedly revived " the Classical Culture , " it in fact created its own Culture for which it used some material from the Classical world : the sculpture of Phidias or Praxiteles has nothing in common with that of Michelangelo or I ) onatello . Frequently such " borrowing " is but a " deliberate misunderstanding . " It is true that with the exception of the Egyptian , the Chinese , and the Mexican , all Cultures have grown under the influence of some alien , older Cultures . Each Culture shows some alien features . Most Cultures are thus interrelated , " affiliated , " or " apparented . " However , all such alien traits , borrowings , and influences are absorbed mainly as material patterned in the " borrowing " Culture 's image , or the material is given a quite different meaning from that which it had in its original Culture . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In brief , in all such cases ( except when , as discussed above , a younger Culture is killed or distorted by an older one ) a great Culture writes a fugue of its own on a foreign theme . To sum up , each Culture is closed to all who are alien to it , and is fully comprehensible only to itself and to its own human members . The same is true of different nations . ( 4 ) The problem of leadership in the Culture phase and the Civilization phase In the early , and to some extent in the late , period of a High Culture the leadership belongs to the creative minority ? the nobility and the priesthood , the castle and the cathedral . One symbolizes the World-as-History ; the other , the World-asNature . Their " plantwise and racewise " leadership is surefooted and creative ; in politics it is childlike , for " the best diplomats are the children . " They act intuitively , and in their feeling of self-vocation and inward obligation there is indeed  | something noble . Therefore @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ even those that seemingly involve an animal struggle , are an actualization of something spiritual , the translation of a creative idea into a living historical form , whether in the struggle between art forms such as Gothic and Renaissance , or philosophies like Stoicism and Epicureanism , or political forms like oligarchy and tyranny , or economic forms like land economy and abstract money economy . At the end of the late period of a Culture and at the stage of a Civilization , this creative leadership is gradually replaced by the epigoni of the nobility and priesthood ? by the bureaucracy of the state government , by party leaders , by the captains of industry and finance , and by various intellectuals , scientists , and scholars . The group of scholars and scientists descends from the group of the priesthood , while the state bureaucrats , party leaders , and captains of industry and finance are the epigoni of the nobility . Eventually the progressively sterile leadership of these epigoni is replaced by that of the Caesars and their henchmen , who lead the inchoate urban " masses @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " " cliques , " and an unorganized " public . " Such a leadership becomes increasingly uncreative , in spite of intellectual rationality , developed science , rational planning , and other devices of intellectuality . In contrast to the early period of a Culture , this Civilization period is devoid of the actualization of a creative idea in the concrete historical form . " Whereas previously power , even when to all appearance destitute of any inspiration , was always serving the Idea somehow or other , in the late Civilization even the most convincing illusion of an idea is only the mask for purely zoological strivings . " Even the noblest ideas of peace , brotherhood , love , and so on , remain powerless at that stage and serve mainly as a hypocritical screen for animal and selfish drives . This " uncreative minority " is one of the symptoms of the Civilization , and its decline parallels the disintegration and petrifaction of the Civilization .  | As has been mentioned before , this appears at the end of the Civilization phase of all great Cultures . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tired , the " masses " begin to look for salvation and peace of mind in a revived old , or in a new , form of religiosity ? mysticism , theosophy , gnosticism , astrology , and various ( domestic and foreign ) religious cults , sects , and movements , with their " Saviors " and " Messiahs . " Parallel with this there arises a wave of purified ? old or new ? ethical gospels , teachings , and movements ( of love , brotherhood , pacifism , etc . ) . These antiintellectual and anti-civilizational , anti-urban , anti-technological , anti-economic ideologies and movements grow rapidly and sweep away the civilizational ideologies and cults of utilitarianism , happiness and prosperity , scientism and technology , urhanism and machine progress , intellectualism and rationality . This second religiosity serves as the " Finis " of the Culture and sometimes as a harbinger of a new , awakening Culture . These Spenglerian ideas will be developed by Toynbee into his theory of the " Universal Church " as a bridge between the old and the new Culture-Civilization , or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contends that all Cultures pass through similar stages in their life-cycles ; and that each of them passes from one stage to another in about the same length of time . In connection with this , he claims that there are 50 , 100 , 300 , and 600 year periodicities in historical processes . " Every one of the Culture 's intrinsically necessary stages and periods has a definite duration , always the same , always recurring with the emphasis of a symbol . " Among other Spenglerian ideas we may note the following : ( a ) The development of the fine arts follows the temporal order : **37;2375;TOOLONG " ( b ) David  | Hume and Adam Smith are the creators of the Faustian economic world-picture . The psychology and soul of different nations are quite different and even more impenetrable than the souls of different Cultures : Athenian and Spartan spirits were quite distinct ; German , French and English modes of philosophical thinking are quite distinct not merely in Bacon , Descartes , and Leibniz , but as early as the age of Scholasticism . Even @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ method , the choice of topics , hypotheses , types of experiments differ markedly in these nations . German and French piety , English and Spanish social ethics , the German and English ways of life , are again quite distinct from one another . When different nations begin really to understand one another , then humanity ceases to live in nations , given nations cease to be individual organisms , and therefore cease to be historic . In Spengler 's extraordinarily rich and idea-laden work there are many other theories worth mentioning ; but the limitations of time and space prevent this and force me to limit the characterization of his masterwork to the above outline . Later I shall point out which of Spengler 's ideas may be considered valid and which may not .  | Born in London in 1889 , Arnold J. Toynbee studied at Winchester and at Balliol College , Oxford , where he was given an " old-fashioned education in Greek and Latin classics . " During a year spent as a student in the British Archaeological School in Athens he " walked over Greece @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in cafes about the foreign policy of Sir Edward Grey . ' " In 1912 he returned to Balliol as a Fellow and Tutor , and taught Ancient History until 1915 , when he entered the government service , working on Turkish affairs in the Political Intelligence Department of the Foreign Office and later at the Paris Peace Conference . From 1919 to 1924 he was Professor of Modern Greek and Byzantine Studies at King 's College , University of London , spending a year of that time traveling in Greece as war correspondent for the Manchester Guardian . Since 1925 he has served as Director of Studies at the Royal Institute of International Affairs . From 1939 to 1946 he devoted all of his time to government service as Director of the Research Department of the Foreign Office . During the spring of 1947 , Toynbee came to the United States to deliver the annual Mary Flexner Lectures at Bryn Mawr College . While in this country , he lectured widely . Publication of the abridgment of A Study of History was timed to take place during his stay . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , at the invitation of the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton , to work on the final three volumes of the monumental nine-volume A Study of History . He is the author of a number of books . With his wife ,  | Veronica M. Boulter , he is also co-editor of the continuing series A Survey of International Affairs . The six volumes of his main work , A Study of History , were published in the years 1934 ? 1939 by the Oxford University Press . Its abridged , one-volume version was prepared by D. C. Somervell and published in 1947 . A series of Toynbee 's essays related to his main work was published in 1948 under the title of Civilization on Trial . As mentioned above , three additional volumes of A Study of History are still to come . The ideas of A Study of History became widely diffused after the publication of Somervell 's abridged volume , which became a bestseller in the United States . A considerable literature has appeared about and around his main work . Toynbee begins with the thesis that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of singularistic happenings contiguous in space or time nor a history of the states and bodies politic or of mankind as a " unity " : The " intelligible fields of historical study " . . . are societies which have a greater extension , in both Space and Time , than national states or city-states , or any other political communities . . . . Societies , not states , are " the social atoms " with which students of history have to deal . ' Combining religious characteristics and territorial and partly political traits , he perceives " civilization " as the proper object of historical study , in which a " civilization " is a " species of society . " Of such civilizations , he takes twenty-one ( later on , twenty-six ) " related and unrelated " species : the Western , two Orthodox Christian ( in Russia and the Near East ) , the Iranic , the Arabic , the Hindu , two Far Eastern , the Hellenic , the Syriac , the Indic , the Sinic , the Minoan , the Sumeric , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the Yucatec , the Mayan , the Egyptiac , plus five " arrested civilizations " : Polynesian , Eskimo , Nomadic , Ottoman , and Spartan . ' Toynbee attacks , first , the problem of genesis of civilizations : Why do some of the societies , like many primitive groups , become static at an early stage of their existence and fail to emerge as civilizations , whereas other societies do reach  | this level ? His answer is that the genesis of civilization is due neither to the race factor nor to geographic environment as such but to a specific combination of two conditions : the presence of a creative minority in a given society and of an environment which is neither too unfavorable nor too favorable . The groups which had these conditions emerged as civilizations ; the groups which did not have them remained on the sub-civilization level . The mechanism of the birth of civilization in these conditions is formulated as an interplay of Challenge-and-Response . The environment of the foregoing type incessantly challenges the society ; and the society , through its creative minority @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . A new challenge follows , and a new response successfully ensues ; and so the process continues incessantly . In these conditions no possibility of rest exists , the society is on the move all the time , and such a move brings it , sooner or later , to the stage of civilization . Surveying the conditions in which his twenty-one civilizations were born , he finds that they emerged exactly in the foregoing circumstances . ' The next problem of the study is why and how , out of twenty-six civilizations , four ( Far Western Christian , Far Eastern Christian , Scandinavian , and Syriac ) miscarried and proved abortive ; five ( Polynesian , Eskimo , Nomadic , Spartan , and Ottoman ) were arrested in their growth at an early stage ; whereas the remaining civilizations grew " through an elan that carried them from challenge through response to further challenge and from differentiation through integration to differentiation again ? " The answer evidently depends upon the meaning of growth and its symptoms . In Toynbee 's opinion the growth of civilization is not , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the society . If anything , the geographic expansion of a society is positively associated with retardation and disintegration but not with growth . ' Likewise , the growth of civilization does not consist in , and is not due to , technological progress and to the society 's increasing mastery over the physical environment : " there is no correlation between progress in technique and progress in civilization . " The growth of civilization consists in  | " a progressive and cumulative inward self-determination or self-articulation " of the civilization ; in a progressive and cumulative " etherialization " of the society 's values and " simplification of the civilization 's apparatus and technique . " Viewed from the standpoint of intra-social and inter-individual relationships , growth is an incessant creative " withdrawal and return " of the charismatic minority of the society in the process of the ever new successful responses to ever new challenges of the environment . ' A growing civilization is a unity . Its society consists of the creative minority freely imitated and followed by the majority ? the Internal Proletariat of the society and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a society there is no fratricidal struggle , no hard and fast division . It is a solidary body . A growing civilization unfolds its dominant potentialities , which are different in different civilizations : aesthetic in the Hellenic civilization ; religious in the Indic and Hindu ; scientifically machinistic in the Western ; and so on . " As a result , the process of growth represents a progressive integration and self-determination of the growing civilization and a differentiation between the different civilizations in growth . Such is the solution of the problem of growth of civilization . The third main problem of the study is how and why civilizations break down , disintegrate , and dissolve . They evidently do so , for , of some thirty species of civilizations , " only four have miscarried as against twenty-six that have been born alive , " and " no less than sixteen out of these twenty-six are by now dead and buried " ( the Egyptiac , the Andean , the Sinic , the Minoan , the Sumeric , the Mayan , the Indic , the Hittite , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the Arabic , the Yucatec , the Spartan , and the Ottoman ) . Of the remaining ten civilizations living , . . the Polynesian and the Nomadic civilizations are now in their last agonies and seven out of eight others are all , in different degrees , under threat of either annihilation or assimilation by our own civilization of the West . Moreover , no less than six out of these seven civilizations . . . bear marks of having broken down and gone into disintegration  | The main difference between the process of growth and the process of disintegration is that in the growth phase the civilization successfully responds to a series of ever new challenges , while in the disintegration stage it fails to give such a response to a given challenge . It tries to answer it again and again , but recurrently fails . In growth the challenges , as well as responses , constantly vary ; in disintegration , the responses vary , but the challenge remains unanswered and unremoved . The author 's verdict is that civilizations perish through suicide but not by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the breakdowns of civilizations can be summed up in three points : a failure of creative power in the minority , an answering withdrawal of mimesis on the part of the majority , and a consequent loss of social unity in the society as a whole . " In an expanded form this formula runs as follows : When in the history of any society a Creative Minority degenerates into a mere Dominant Minority which attempts to retain by force a position which it has ceased to merit , this fatal change in the character of the ruling element provokes , on the other hand , the secession of a Proletariat ( the majority ) which no longer spontaneously admires or freely imitates the ruling element , and which revolts against being reduced to the status of an unwilling " underdog . " This Proletariat , when it asserts itself , is divided from the outset into two distinct parts . There is an " Internal Proletariat " ( the majority of the members ) and . . . an " External Proletariat " of barbarians beyond the pale who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a civilization gives rise to a class-war within the body social of a society which was neither divided against itself by hard-and-fast divisions nor sundered from its neighbors by unbridgeable gulfs so long as it was in growth . This declining phase consists of three sub-phases : ( a ) the breakdown of the civilization , ( b ) its disintegration , and ( c ) its dissolution . The breakdown and dissolution are often separated by centuries , even thousands of years , from one another . For instance , the breakdown of the Egyptiac civilization occurred in the sixteenth century B.C. , and its dissolution only in the fifth century A.D. For two thousand years between breakdown and dissolution it existed in a " petrified life in death . " In a similar " petrified " state up to the present time the  | Far Eastern civilization continues in China after its breakdown in the ninth century A.D. About 1000 and 800 years , respectively , elapsed between these points in the history of the Sumeric and Hellenic civilizations ; 14 and so on . Like a petrified tree @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of lifein-death for centuries , even thousands of years . Nevertheless , the destiny of most , if not of all , civilizations , seems to be to come to final dissolution sooner or later . As to the Western society , though it seems to have had all the symptoms of breakdown and disintegration , the author is noncommittal . He still leaves a hope for a miracle : " We may and must pray that a reprieve which God has granted to our society once will not be refused if we ask for it again in a contrite spirit and with a broken heart . " Such being the general nature of the decline of civilizations , a most detailed analysis of its uniformities , symptoms , and phases is developed in Volumes IV , V , and VI . Only a few of these uniformities can be touched on here . While in the growth period the Creative Minority gives a series of successful responses to ever new challenges , in the disintegration period it fails to do so . Instead , intoxicated by victory , it begins @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ idolize " the relative values as absolute , loses its charismatic attraction and is not imitated and followed by the majority . Therefore , it must increasingly use force to control the Internal and the External Proletariat . In this process it creates a Universal State , like the Roman Empire created by the Hellenic Dominant Minority , as a means to keep itself and the civilization alive ; it engages in war , becomes a slave of intractable institutions , and works its own and its civilization 's ruin . The Internal Proletariat now secedes from the Minority , becomes dissatisfied and disgruntled , and often creates a Universal Church ? for instance , Christianity or Buddhism ? as its own creed and institution . Whereas the Universal State of the Dominant Minority is doomed , the Universal Church of the Inner Proletariat ( for instance , Christianity ) serves as a bridge and ' foundation for a new civilization ( " apparented " by and ) affiliated with the old one . In his Civilization on Trial , however , Toynbee somewhat  | changes his position . Instead of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he now makes successive rises and falls of civilizations into a mere subsidiary means for the growth of religion . Now the successive civilizations become sort of " stepping stones to higher things on the religious plane . " The External Proletariat now organizes itself and begins to attack the declining civilization , instead of striving to be incorporated by it . In this way Schism enters the Body and Soul of civilization . It results in an increase of strife and fratricidal wars that lead to ruin . The Schism in the Soul manifests itself in the profound change of the mentality and behavior of the members of the disintegrating society . It leads to an emergence of four types of personality and " Saviors " : Archaist , Futurist ( Saviors by Sword ) , detached and indifferent Stoic , and finally ? Transfigured Religious Saviors , posited in the supersensory world of God . The sense of Drift , of Sin , begins to grow ; Promiscuity and Syncretism become dominant . Vulgarization and " Proletarization " invade arts and sciences , philosophy and language , religion and ethics @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ With the exception of Transfiguration , all these efforts and " Saviors " do not halt the disintegration . At best the civilization can become " fossilized , " and in this form of " life-in-death " can linger for centuries and even thousands of years , but its dissolution , as a rule , finally comes . The only fruitful way turns out to be the way of Transfiguration , the way of transfer of the goal and values to the supersensory Kingdom of God . It may not stop the disintegration of the given civilization , but it may serve as a seed for emergence and development of a new affiliated civilization ; and through that , it is a step forward to the eternal process of elevation of Man to Superman , of " the City of Man to City of God , " as the ultimate terminal point of Man and Civilization . The volumes close with an almost apocalyptic note : " The aim of Transfiguration is to give light to them that sit in darkness . . . it is pursued by seeking the Kingdom @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . into action . . . . The goal of Transfiguration is thus the Kingdom of God . "  | The whole human history or the total civilizational process thus turns into a Creative Theodicy : through separate civilizations and their uniform , but concretely different , rhythms , the reality unfolds its richness and leads from " under-Man " and " under-Civilization , " to Man and Civilization , and finally to Superman and Transfigured Ethereal Super-Civilization of the Kingdom of God : The work of the Spirit of the Earth , as he weaves and draws his threads on the Loom of Time , is the temporal history of man as this manifests itself in the geneses and growths and breakdowns and disintegrations of human societies ; and in all this welter of life . . . we can hear the beat of an elemental rhythm . . . of Challenge-andResponse and Withdrawal-and-Return and Rout-and-Rally and **29;2414;TOOLONG and Schism-and-Palingenesia . This elemental rhythm is the alternating beat of Yin and Yang . . . . The Perpetual turning of a wheel is not a vain repetition if , at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nearer to its goal ; and if " palingenesia " signifies the birth of something new . . . then the Wheel of Existence is not just a devilish device for inflicting an everlasting torment on a damned Ixion . The music that the rhythm of Yin and Yang beats out is the song of creation . . . . Creation would not be creative if it did not swallow up in itself all things in Heaven and Earth , including its own antitheses In Civilization on Trial Toynbee contends that the movement of civilizations may be cyclic and recurrent , while the movement of religion may be on a single continuous upward level . " It may be served and promoted in its Heavenwardly progress by the cycles of birth and death of civilizations . " Christianity appears to be the final goal of human history and the highest measure of man 's greatest good on Earth . The whole historical process thus becomes Theodicy ? a progressive realization , in this world " to come to know God better and come to love Him more nearly in His own @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Toynbee 's philosophy of history . He clothes it in a rich and full-blooded body of facts , empirical verification , and a large number of sub-propositions . The main theses , as well as the sub-propositions , are painstakingly tested by the known empirical facts of the history of the twenty-one civilizations studied . The work as a whole is a real contribution to the field of historical synthesis . p In any discussion of the recent " rhythmic " philosophies of history , which are concerned with the present state and interrelationship of the European and Russian cultures , Walter Schubart 's Europa and die Seele des Ostens should be mentioned . Its author is a German philosopher and historian who spent a considerable amount of time in Russia ( before and during the Revolution ) , and who is well versed in Russian history , literature , philosophy , politics , art , and the Russian way of living and thinking . Its publication in Switzerland in 1938 was little noticed at the time . A few years later it appeared in an abbreviated Russian translation ( outside @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ English translations . Greater attention has been paid to it and to his Dostojewski and Nietzsche ( 1939 ) and Geistige Wandlung ( 1940 ) in the last few years . Like Danilevsky 's work , Schubart 's centers around the problem of the present and future status of Russian and European cultures . Schubart 's general philosophy of history is presented as a means to unravel the East-West problem . Therefore Europe and the Soul of the East contains a sketch , rather than a fully developed theory , of social and cultural change . But the sketch is clearly outlined and well applied to the interpretation of the East-West problem . Its similarities and dissimilarities to other theories discussed are also interesting . Of these theories , Schubart knows well Danilevsky 's , Spengler 's , and Berdyaev 's ? not to mention many others ? and is notably influenced by them . The essential points of Schubart 's philosophy of history are as follows :  | ( 1 ) Historical processes are rhythmic . The old Hindu , Persian , Jewish ( the book of Daniel ) , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's , Nietzsche 's , and Spengler 's " cyclic " interpretations of sociocultural processes are essentially correct in their central ideas . ' ( 2 ) The most important historical rhythm consists in a succession of four aeonic prototypes of culture and of personality . The unfolding of each prototype in the course of time and its struggle against its predecessors and its successors constitutes the central process of cultural history , endows it with epochal rhythm , tension , and conflict . ( 3 ) Each aeonic prototype of culture transcends the boundaries of a nation or a race . Its area may cover the whole continent . Often it is difficult to define clearly the boundaries of its diffusion and domination . But within its domination-area each cultural prototype permeates the whole culture and every human being in the area with its specific character . Without losing his moral freedom , each person is forced to reckon with the dominant cultural prototype , either actualizing it or opposing it , but never ignoring it . After all , opposition is but a form of recognition . ( 4 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ new prototype , a great creative process repeats itself anew . The feeling of youthfulness sweeps over the respective culture . All that preceded the new prototype appears " antiquated " and obsolete . The new prototype is experienced as the supreme value , the end toward which all preceding history has been a mere preparation . The " new epoch " or the " modern period " begins . The emerged prototype in time unfolds itself and the values it was pregnant with are created and delivered . Having exhausted its creative mission , it ages and in its turn gives way to a new prototype . Thus the epochal rhythm continues : Behind this change of the prototypes some unknown law is probably hidden ? the law according to which the divine creative forces now pour themselves into the given empirical world of things , now withdraw from it . Not being able to explain them rationally in all their details , we can only guess at these uniformities ; we can either intuit them silently or hint at them by parables and symbols .  | ( 5 ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or " soul , " that replace one another in the course of time : ( a ) Harmonious , ( b ) Heroic , ( c ) Ascetic , and ( d ) Messianic . The Harmonious culture-mentality and Harmonious man experience the Cosmos as animated by inner harmony , as perfect , not requiring any human leadership or reconstruction . The idea of evolution or progress does not exist in such a cosmos because Harmonious man regards the purpose of history as achieved . The cosmos , being perfect , is viewed as eternally static and not dynamic . The Harmonious person lives peacefully in and with the whole world , as an inseparable part of it . The Homeric Greeks , the Confucian Chinese , and the Gothic Christians of the West from the eleventh to the sixteenth centuries are examples of this Harmonious prototype . Permeated by the feeling of eternity , the Gothic Christian trustfully looked up to heaven . His temples piously surged higher and higher into the sky . The earthly landscape was largely forgotten and Gothic man busied himself mainly with the salvation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ eternam in God 's kingdom . The Heroic culture-mentality and man view the world as a chaos which they must put in order by their organizational effort . The Heroic man does not live peacefully with the world but is set against it in its existing form . He is full of selfconfidence , self-pride , and lust for power . He looks at the world as at a slave ; he wants to master and mold it according to his own plans . The world is given the purposes determined by the Heroic man . He does not look up to heaven reverently ; instead , being full of lust for power and pride , he looks down at earth with inimical and jealous eyes . He goes progressively farther away from God and sinks deeper and deeper into the world of empirical things . Secularization is his destiny ; heroism , his main life-feeling ; tragedy , his end . In such a world , especially in such a culture and man , everything is dynamic . Nothing is static in the heroic universe . Like Prometheus , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is active , tense , and maximally energetic . Ac- cordingly , the Heroic or Promethean epochs are especially dynamic , mobile , and active . The Roman world at the zenith of Roman power felt itself to be thus , and in the GermanoRomanic West after the sixteenth century this prototype has also been dominant . The Promethean Western culture and man of the last four centuries are a good sample of this prototype . The Ascetic culture-mentality and man experience the empirical existence as an error , the sensory world as a mirage and evil temptation . They run away from both into the mystic realm of supra-essence or supra-reality . The Ascetic person leaves the sensory world without regret . He has neither desire nor hope for its improvement . He does not try to change it at all . Therefore the epochs of the Ascetic prototype 's domination are even more static than those of the Harmonious culture and man . The Hindu of Hinduism and Buddhism , the Neo-Platonists , and most of the truly ascetic groups and sects are examples of the Ascetic prototype of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ man feel themselves called upon to establish on earth the supreme divine order , whose idea they ineffably bear in themselves . The Messianic man wants to re-establish around himself the harmony which he feels in himself . He does not accept the world as it is . Like the Heroic man , he too wants to change it , not for his own self-will or self-satisfaction , but in order to fulfill the mission assigned to him by God . Like the Harmonious man he also loves the world ? not as it is , but as it ought to be . The goal of the Harmonious man is reached ; that of the Messianic man is far away , in the future . In contrast to the Ascetic man , however , he firmly believes that this goal can be reached . The Messianic man is inspired not by the lust for power , but by the mood of reconciliation and love . He does not divide in order to rule , but looks for the divided in order to unite it into one whole . He is not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the true reality . He sees brothers , not enemies , in human beings . He views the world not as booty to be grabbed , but as rough stuff in need of enlightenment , ennoble- ment , and consecration . He is possessed by a sort of cosmic passion to unify what is separated , to harmonize what is discordant , to make visible on this planet the Kingdom of God or his highest ideal . He works for a realization of this highest ideal here on earth . Like the Heroic man he is full of energy , activity , and dynamism . Accordingly , the Messianic epochs are dynamic too . The early Christians and most of the Slays are examples of this prototype . These four prototypes can be summed up by the following mottoes : consonance with the world ( Harmonious ) ; domination over the world ( Heroic ) ; running away from the world ( Ascetic ) ; and consecration of the world ( Messianic ) ! ( 6 ) Like Danilevsky , Spengler , and Toynbee , Schubart rejects the linear interpretation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ history by some future and final goal of progress . He states , as do all partisans of the rhythmical conception of sociocultural change , that " before God all times are equal , " even the Heroic epochs , which do not care for God at all . Each aeonic epoch contains its own value and justification , as great as those of any other epoch . Like a pause in a melody , even the Godless periods have their own raison d'etre . An incessant unfolding of the creative , divine forces occurs in each time-moment ; therefore each moment bears in itself the justifying reason of its existence , for otherwise no future goal can justify any past moment of history . ( 7 ) Especially breath-taking are the periods when one prototype dies out and a new one begins to emerge . These periods are the intermediary , apocalyptic moments of humanity . In such periods people feel that everything is crumbling and the end of the world is coming . In fact , such moments have been repeated many times and will be repeated many times @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is one of these intermediary , apocalyptic periods . For several decades now , a few seers have foreseen that something important was ending : the post- Atlantis humanity , according to Merejkovsky ; Christianity , according to Unamuno ; the thousand-year-long Western Culture , according to Spengler ; capitalism , according to Marx ; the epoch of the Renaissance , according to N. Berdyaev . It is precisely this transitory character of our age that makes it so dynamic and so self-contradictory . It is full of sadness and full of hope , of dark forebodings and of cheerful prospects . Before our eyes , accompanied by explosions and catastrophes , we see dying not a single race or nation , nor a single culture , but a whole preceding cultural epoch . Which epoch ? ( 9 ) During the last thousand years two epochal prototypes have grown on European soil : the Harmonious-Gothic and the Heroic-Promethean . The Gothic prototype was born of the catastrophes of the eleventh century and lasted up to the sixteenth century . It was a Harmonious culture with all its earmarks . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , between 1450 and 1550 a transition from the GothicHarmonious to the Heroic-Promethean prototype took place . This Promethean-Western man cared little for God or the salvation of his soul , and much for the conquest of the world . He wanted to be the master of the Earth . His ambition was such that he was ready to challenge any God and any power above himself . In the course of some five hundred years the Promethean man , through his most intense activities , has indeed succeeded in changing the surface of the earth and in pushing his ambitious plans far and high . He has indeed created a new sociocultural world in his own image . After five hundred years of the Heroic-Promethean epoch we are now at the threshold of a new epoch . The heavy clouds of Destiny are hanging over the Promethean culture . Lightnings and deadly tornadoes are sweeping over it . Europe is fatally sliding into her most bloody catastrophe ; she is approaching her end which was inherent in the birth of her Promethean culture . Nothing can stop its death . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ new epochal prototype , the Messianic-Johannian ( St. John of the Gospel ) , is beginning to loom . This Messianic-Johannian epoch will be congenial  | to the Gothic-Harmonious . While the Promethean man and culture hated and disdained the Gothic culture and man , the coming Messianic culture and man will admire them and love the Middle Ages of Europe . This Johannian epoch will be animated by the spirit of solidarity , reconciliation , love , and unity . The realization of a truly creative and friendly one world will be the chief mission of the Johannian man . ( 10 ) Which human groups will be the leaders or instrumentalities of the new prototype , and which are going to oppose it , depends upon the specific characteristics of these groups at the moment of the emergence of the prototype . The point is that at any given moment various contemporaneous human groups differ from one another in their racial ( blood ) , national or vital , mental , and moral traits . These differences are caused by the different geographic environments or different " landscape atmospheres @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which these groups live . These geographic differences are responsible for so-called racial and national differences in human groups . Contrary to prevalent opinion , racial and national traits are not constant but are derivatives of geographic conditions , changing with a changing " landscape atmosphere . " However , insofar as the geographic conditions change very slowly , and insofar as most of the human groups used to live each amidst the same " landscape spirit " for a long time , the racial and national traits are comparatively constant , and change much more slowly than the traits stamped by the change of the cultural prototypes . Thus the " landscape atmosphere " determines the group differences in space , while the cultural prototype causes the differences in time . The combination of these two factors ? the relatively constant geographic environment and the ever dynamic change of the prototypes ? determines the essentials of historical process and the " physiognomy " of each group , including the racial and national groups , at any moment of history . ( 11 ) When these relatively constant national traits coincide @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prototype , the nation in question becomes the leader in the rising culture  | and reaches the zenith of its cultural creativity , which may or may not coincide with the zenith of its political power . The congeniality of the " landscape spirit " of a given nation with the spirit of the new prototype reinforces both , while their antagonism leads to conflict between the new prototype of culture and the adverse national group with an uncongenial " landscape spirit . " For this reason the arena of the main historical processes and the national groups , as the main actors in the new epochal drama , also change when the prototypes change . A shift of the prototypes results in a shifting of the territorial stages and the main actors in the new historical tragedy . The role of " stars " falls to those national groups which , in their " landscape spirit , " have best developed the national traits necessary for a full realization of the new prototype . Thus , with the emergence of the Western Promethean man and culture , Prussia and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ states because their ethnic-national traits were most congenial to those of the Promethean prototype . Among the European nations the Prussians and the Anglo-Saxons became the leaders and the examples of this epoch . For the same reason the Jews have become increasingly influential during the last 150 years ; their relatively constant traits happened to be congenial to those of the Promethean man . While the preceding Gothic-Harmonious epoch created the spiritual unity of Europe , the succeeding Promethean epoch , according to its divide et impera , developed centrifugal , dividing forces , beginning with the division of Europe by the Renaissance and then by the Reformation , followed by the political division which Frederic II of Prussia carried out . With the development of the Promethean culture the initiative progressively comes from the North and the main historical stage shifts to the North . The leadership of the sixteenth century belonged to the Italians and the Spaniards , of the seventeenth century to the French , passing in subsequent centuries to the Prussians , then to the Anglo-Saxons and the Scandinavians . The Lower-Germans ( Niederdeutsche ) , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Americans )  | ? these are the titans of the Promethean technological epoch . Parallel with this change in leadership the main arena of the Promethean culture has also shifted northward , from ItalySpain to Northern Germany , England , and North America . ( 12 ) In the emerging Johannian-Messianic epoch the central stage of history again shifts and the leadership passes from the Promethean nations to those whose national character is best suited to the Johannian prototype : The most important event in the making is the rise of the Slays as the emerging cultural leader . However unpleasant this is for many , such is historical destiny ; nobody can stop it ; the next centuries belong to the Slays . The Nordic Promethean culture is dying ; its place is being taken by an Oriental Culture . Johannian epoch is Slavic aeon . ' ( 13 ) Having reached this conclusion Schubart passes on to an analysis of the West-East conflict as a cultural problem . His conclusion , as well as his analysis of the Russian-European relationships , is notably similar to Danilevsky 's main propositions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Herder , not to mention Von Baader , Von Humboldt , Von Hartmann , Ruckert , Neumann , and others , understood the one-sidedness of Promethean Western culture and man , their coming decay , the necessity of supplementing them with Eastern culture and man , beginning with the Hindu and Chinese and ending with the Russian ; and they saw the synthesis of the East and West as the only solution of the problem . Unfortunately Europe did not pay much attention to these warnings and , if anything , through increasing pride and superiority , continued to exploit , disdain , and neglect , sometimes to fear and hate , the East , especially Russia , as the " backward " country and people . The First World War and a series of subsequent events and catastrophes served as a rude awakening from this double illusion of Western superiority and Russian and Eastern inferiority . The West was forced to reconsider its illusion and to become aware of its astounding ignorance of Russia . With a better understanding of Russia it becomes clearer why and how Russia is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ :  | The Promethean West enriched humanity through the most perfect forms of technics , statehood and communication , but it deprived mankind of its soul . Russia 's mission consists of returning this soul to humanity . Russia possesses exactly those spiritual forces which Europe either lost or destroyed . Russia is a part of Asia , and at the same time a member of the Christian Commonwealth of nations . She is a Christian part of Asia . In this lies the specific peculiarity of Russia and the uniqueness of her mission . India and China are isolated from the Western man ; Russia is accessible through the ways and channels of a common Christian religion . Only Russia can spiritualize a humanity that is drowned in the swamp of material things and spoiled by the lust for power ; and this in spite of the Bolshevist agony that Russia is experiencing at the present time . The horrors of the Communist regime will pass , just as the night of the Tartar yoke passed , and the old motto , " Ex oriente lux , " will come @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the European nations will lose their importance ; they will only loge the spiritual leadership . They would no longer represent the dominant human type , and this would be a real blessing for humanity . An enormous multitude , and especially many of the finest minds , long for the end of the worn-out Promethean culture . They feel its present poverty and look for a new possibility . However reckless it may sound to many , it should be stated definitely that Russia is the only country which can and will free Europe , because Russia 's position in regard to all the vital problems is opposite to that of the European nations . From the unfathomed depths of her own crucifixion Russia is obtaining the deepest understanding of human beings and of their life values , in order to communicate it to all nations of the earth . The Russian nation has the necessary spiritual qualities for this mission . In its present form the West-East cultural problem appears as the problem of renovating mankind , as a possible spiritualization of the West by the East , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its primeval unity , as a mission to accomplish the creation of a perfect man . " ( 14 ) The realization of this goal will not be achieved peacefully , according to Schubart . Politically , the West-East problem signifies conflict and war . Some five hundred years would be required for its solution , a period similar to the one that was necessary to achieve a balance between the Germanic peoples and ancient Rome . One of the main functions of war is to bring the warring nations together and , contrary to their desire , interpenetrate one another ? culturally and mentally . War is not only a great destroyer , but also a great crossfertilizer . Hate can pass into respect and sympathy , but not into indifference . A grand reconciliation is often preceded by intensive political and military conflicts .  | Viewed in this light , the Russian-European relationship has grown increasingly tense . Though Europe invaded Russia several times before the twentieth century , was repulsed and ( by way of Russian self-defense ) invaded by Russia , these conflicts were few , sporadic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Napoleonic-European invasion of Russia in 1812 , the political conflicts with Europe have become increasingly important . The Western Promethean man began to be more and more attracted by the East , and the Eastern ? particularly the Russian ? Messianic man became ever more closely involved in the West 's affairs . In this way the process of increasing mutual interpenetration and equalization of RussianWestern souls and cultures has been under way . The most pregnant consequence of the French Revolution and the Napoleonic wars was not the execution of Louis XVI , but the conflagration of Moscow and the awakening of the Slays . In this manner the Russian East entered the history of Europe once and for all . Since that time " Europe has been worried mainly by two things : Revolution and Russia , " as a great Russian poet , Tutchev , said long ago . This " mutually interpenetrating " political conflict between Russia and the West has continued crescendo since 1812 . Europe has incessantly tried to weaken , stop , suppress , and crush Russia economically , culturally , diplomatically , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as a whole invaded Russia in 1854 ( the Crimean War ) , threatened to do so several times later on , and then invaded again in 1914 . After being repulsed and answered by the Russian Revolution , the West once more , in 1918 , sent its combined expeditionary forces to crush the Revolution , suffocate Russia by the cordon sanitaire , and destroy Russia Icy shearing from her as many of her Asiatic , Caucasian , PreBaltic , Western , and Eastern parts as it could . Failing in this , the West organized the Fascist , Nazi , and other anti-Russian forces and created a new gigantic military power for a new  | invasion . ( Schubart 's book was published in 1938 , before the Second World War . ) In brief , the war of 1914 opened a new " Hundred-Year War " between the Promethean West and Russia , or rather the East organized and led by Russia . The historical destiny of Russia is to revolt against the Promethean West and possibly to take the lead in unifying all humanity in the emerging @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in 1816 , Danilevsky in 1869 , and Spengler in 1918 , is unfolding before our eyes . The center of history is increasingly shifting towards the Orient and moving deeper and deeper into the East . All these tragic conflicts and various bizarre events , like Russian Communism or German Nazism , are but appearances through which and under which the basic process of interpenetration , harmonization , and unification of humanity in a new Messianic universal culture , based upon love , is progressively growing . Such is the meaning of the Eastern-Western ? or the Russian-Westernproblem as a political conflict . ( 15 ) In a subsequent part of his book Schubart gives a comparative history of the Promethean and Russian souls , and outlines the comparative psychology of various Western nations , specifically the German , French , Anglo-Saxon , and Spanish . The following are some of the traits he ascribes to the national soul of Russia , compared with the Promethean soul of the West . The Harmonious soul represents the national soul of Russia before it was somewhat weakened , distorted , and temporarily @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ These transformed it into the Messianic Soul of the later period . The Harmonious soul is manifested by the ancient Russian Orthodox religion . It is tolerant and it extols and practices humility , peace of mind , spiritual soberness , love , spiritual courage , moral nobility , and total inner harmony . These traits can be seen in the collective , spontaneous , and brotherly organization of the ancient Russian Church ; in its teachings and practices ; in its icons , music , and architecture . The same Harmonious soul shines through the persistent  | and dominant Russian philosophy and ethics ; through the free democratic organizational forms of life and of social institutions of ancient Russia ; through the federated union of Russian communities ( Mir , obschina , bratstva ) , " city-states , " and " free principalities " ; through the absence of any racial or ethnic persecutions ; through the population 's spontaneous enactment of customary laws and moral norms ; through the absence of any privileged knightly aristocracy , kings , monarchs , and czars in pre-Mongolian Russia ; through the domination @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the official " lawyers ' law " ; through the congeniality between the Russian soul and Plato , in contrast to that of the Western soul and Aristotle ; through the Russian-Orthodox teaching of " Man-Godness " of Christ and Christ as a real " brother " in contrast to the Western " autocratic God-Father " ; finally , it shines through the greatest Russian poet , Pushkin , whose poetry is a hundred times more harmonious than even Goethe 's . It is true that this Harmonious soul of ancient Russia has often been distorted , " jammed , " and " suppressed " by Byzantine influences that imposed on the Russian soul the ideas of an Autocratic Panto-creator God , a centralized and autocratic organization of the Church , the idea of an Empire , and so on ; by the Mongolian yoke , lasting some 250 years , which greatly disfigured the Harmonious soul and culture of the pre-Mongolian period ; by the Germanic-European invasions of the thirteenth and subsequent centuries ; later by the waves of Westernization started by Peter the Great ; during the last @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ culture which is incessantly passing over Russia ; finally , by Marxism , Communism , and materialism , which are the products of the Promethean soul and not the creations of the Russian soul . All these influences greatly changed and distorted the Russian soul , culture and institutions . In Spengler 's terminology , they called forth a " pseudomorphosis " of Russia . Along with producing disordered and ascetic souls in Russia , the pseudomorphosis consisted mainly of a transformation of the initial Russian Harmonious soul into a Messianic one .  | The religious , ethical , political , and socio-economic Messianism of recent centuries is the dominant form of the transformed Russian soul 's reaction to all manifestations of the Promethean culture . This Messianism permeates the great Russian literature of the nineteenth and the twentieth century , especially that of Gogol , Dostoievsky , Tolstoi , and others , up to Andreiev , Gorki , Chekhov , and even the Soviet writers ; the dominant Russian philosophy and metaphysics , represented by Skovoroda , Soloviev , up to Berdyaev , Boulgakov , Lossky , and others . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ herself in the Soviet-Communist policies : being Promethean in its nature , Russian Communism displays the most intense Messianic enthusiasm for a fundamental reconstruction of the World . Schubart lists a long series of fads corroborating his thesis . ' The Western soul and culture are those of the moderate middle , those of Russia are of the extreme poles . The European only wants to somewhat improve the world , which is in most respects all right ; the Russian wants to spiritualize it from the bottom to the top . The Western soul and culture are permeated by primeval fear and anguish ; the Russian by primeval confidence and trust in the inner , transcendental forces of the world . The Western prototype considers order as the basic value ; accordingly it is legalistic and formal . The Russian prototype builds on the principles of spontaneity and devotion ; he values little the formal and legalistic norms . The Western culture is the culture of law norms ; the Russian is that of superlegal , moral , and free efforts and ideals . The Western culture can easily degenerate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and virtue in the deadly norms of legality ; the Russian culture can easily fall into the chaos of normless anarchy , spiritual nihilism , and hysteria . The rational soul of the West thinks purposefully in its utilitarian and hedonistic nature ; the Russian Messianic soul thinks expressively . The Western ethics is that of the imperative ; the Russian is the ethics of spontaneity and of impulse .  | The Western soul is egoistic , self-centered , and individualistic ; the Russian is " brotherly , " " we-centered , " and collectivistic . The Western soul is permeated by competition , the Russian by co-operation . The Western Promethean Christianity is an imperialistic cult of the sword , power , and conquest : as such it represents an utter distortion of the early Christianity . Russian Christianity remains faithful to the Christianity of Christ : even under the Soviets there have been more Christians in Russia who humbly preferred to die as martyrs than in any country of the West . The Russian Church remains free from the elements of Promethean Caesarism while the main Western denominations ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ political machineries , permeated by the spirit of conquest and imperialism . The Russian Christ , so well presented by Dostoievsky , is free from any element of Caesarism , Imperialism , or Domination in any form whatever . The Russian protoype is " eternally feminine " while the Promethean prototype is essentially " masculine . " While the English national idea since Cromwell has been that of a chosen nation , the French idea that of intellectual leadership , and that of Germany something in between these ideas , the national idea of Russia has been the liberation and unification of humanity . ' ( 16 ) Schubart concludes his book by reiterating that the Promethean prototype of the West is coming to an end and a new Messianic soul is being born in Russia . This Messianic man is not simply the man of 1917 or of 1789 , but a new man with an oriental soul that has passed through the tragic test of fiery martyrdom . Though he is a real Russian , this man is at the same time heir to all the immortal values of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ being born ; his maturity and creative life are still in the future . But this future belongs to his leadership : The coming Russia is that refreshing wine which will revitalize the dried up life-stream of today 's humanity . The West is that strong container in which we can keep the wine . Without a strong , holding form  | the wine will be spilt and lost ; without the wine the precious container will only remain an empty and useless toy . Contemporary Europe is a form without life . Russia is the life without form . . . . The Englishman wants to see the world as a factory ; the Frenchman , as a salon ; the German , as a military barrack ; the Russian , as a Church . The Englishman seeks for profit ; the Frenchman wants glory ; the German , power ; the Russian , sacrifice . The Russian wants nothing from his neighbor except brotherhood . . . . This is the essence of the Russian brotherhood and of the Gospel of the future . . . . Only the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ free humanity from the superman 's individualism as well as from the sub-man 's collectivism of the masses . To the autonomous individual ? the ideal of the Renaissance ? he confronts the soul organically connected with God and the universe ; to the coercive unification of men he contrasts the spontaneous , mutually loving union of free souls . In this way he simultaneously creates a new concept and ideal of personality and freedom . . . . The Promethean man is already marked by the seal of death . Let the Johannian man arise !  | Nikolai Berdyaev was born in Russia in 1874 and died in France in 1948 . He graduated from Kiev University and attended Wildenband 's lectures at Heidelberg University . For a short time , at the beginning of his scientific work , he was one of the first Marxians in Russia , and the Czarist government arrested and banished him to Vologda Province . Eventually he freed himself from all unscientific elements in Marxianism and became one of the notable idealistic Russian thinkers . Among other positions , he occupied the chair of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the founders of the Russian Religious-Philosophical Society . In 1922 Berdyaev was arrested and expelled from Russia by the Soviet Government ( in the same group in which I was banished ) . Berdyaev is the author of many works in philosophy , social science , political economy and ethics : The Meaning of Creativeness ( 1916 ) , The Meaning of History ( 1923 ) , Philosophy of Inequality ( 1922 ) , The New Middle Ages ( 1924 ) , Christianity and Class Struggle ( 1931 ) , Solitude and Society ( 1930 ) , and many others . Most of Berdyaev 's books have been translated into several languages . Omitting the metaphysical part of Berdyaev 's philosophy of history , the following empirical points of his reading of historical events should be mentioned . ( 1 ) Methodologically , a mere description of singularistic historical events , persons , and objects only results in a dead corpse of history . " When one reads a scientific book on , say ,  | ancient peoples , one clearly feels that from the history of cultures of these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one gets instead only a sort of external photograph or picture " ? which does not in the least explain the why , wherefore , or even the how of all these events and persons . In order to understand these whys and wherefores , the soul and the inner logic of history , it is necessary " not only that the objectmatter of history be historical , but also that the cognizing subject of historical study experience and unfold in himself the historical . ' " It is necessary that the cognizing subject and cognized object of history become one , that the subject himself live history , not merely look on historical events from the outside . On this point Berdyaev , like Spengler and Northrop , insists on a direct intuitional identification of the cognizing subject with the cognized object , without which no adequate understanding of anything , especially of historical and sociocultural processes , is possible . ' ( 2 ) Like all the other authors under consideration Berdyaev rejects all forms of the linear interpretation of historical process and all linear theories of progress in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . ' Theories of progress are not tenable either metaphysically , logically , factually , or ethically. ( 3 ) All great cultures are simultaneously mortal and immortal in their existence within the limits of empirical history itself . They contain temporal as well as eternal principles . Each of the cultures experiences moments of emergence , florescence , and ups and downs , and eventually declines as a unity ; at the same time , each of the great cultures survives in its perennial , eternal values . Graeco-Roman culture did not disappear entirely at the time of its fall . Its perennial values , such as Roman law , Greek art , Greek philosophy , and so on , did not die ; they were incorporated into the culture of the Middle Ages , Arabian culture , and are still living a vigorous life . In other words , the temporal elements or values of a culture die ; the perennial ones persist and live as long as human history goes on . Even after its empirical end the transfigured perennial values will , in some transcendental , mysti- @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into the " transcendental great beyond . " Here Berdyaev points , in general terms , to what I call the lasting and dying elements in culture , with their indefinitely long and limited life-durations , a point that has so far been overlooked by social scientists and philosophers of history . ' ( 4 ) Independently of ? and possibly even earlier than ? Spengler , Berdyaev regarded the Western culture as already having passed its Barbaric , Medieval-Christian , and modern Humanist-Secular phases . Its Medieval-Christian phase was over in the thirteenth century , and its Humanist phase ended in about the nineteenth century . To Berdyaev the twentieth century is the transitory period from the dying Humanist phase to the emerging phase of the " New Middle Ages . " The main task of the medieval phase of Christian-Western culture , according to Berdyaev , was to discipline , manifoldly develop , and spiritualize man , or an accumulation of the " spiritual fission-forces " in the developed personality and the Western culture . Monkhood and knighthood fulfilled this function by disciplining and spiritualizing man . The images @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a disciplined , integrated , and manifold personality , spiritually free , unafraid of anything external , with enormous concentration on the inward through tense " fission-forces " centered around the Kingdom of God . This medieval phase had to end and did end because it did not supply a sufficient channel for releasing the enormously concentrated forces for a free , creative transformation of the empirical reality . The Middle Ages end with the marvelous Christian mystical Renaissance of the thirteenth century that serves as a bridge to the subsequent Humanist phase . Joachim of Floris , St. Francis of Assisi , Dante , Giotto , and St. Thomas Aquinas are the brilliant stars of this wonderful Renaissance , which is the summit and the end of the Medieval phase . Then follows the largely non-Christian , even increasingly anti-Christian , phase of Western culture 's secular Humanism . Humanism puts man in the center of the universe , makes him  | the measure of all things and the highest value . Its main function was to release and develop the free , creative forces of man : man 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ man 's own sense , reason , and self-control . It was , therefore , the period of man 's liberation from all " superhuman " controls , and deconcentration of his concentrated inner forces , the period in which he spent the creative funds accumulated in the medieval period , and abandoned the religious central value of the Middle Ages ; the period of secularization and external freedom . These tasks were accomplished in the course of some six centuries . Humanist culture spent most of the funds accumulated in the previous periods and exhausted its creative power . As a result in the nineteenth century this Humanist culture immanently produced the everincreasing germs of its own destruction . The Medieval-Christian and the Humanist-Modern phases both dialectically led to their own decay . The Medieval-Christian culture aspired only to the Kingdom of God and denied value to the empirical City of Man . But instead of becoming absorbed in the City of God , it ended ? dialectically ? by becoming enmeshed in the City of Man . The Christian Church itself grew into the most powerful empirical organization in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ glory , power , and creativity , and sought to make him both self-master and master of the empirical world . It finished by utterly demoralizing man , disintegrating the man-made universe and exhausting man 's creative forces : Here the dialectics of history consists of the self-affirmation of man that has led to his self-extermination , and the development of the free play of purely human forces , not connected with the super-human high purpose , that led to the exhaustion of purely human creative resources . . . . The passionate striving towards a creation of beauty and perfection of form , which marks the advent of the HumanistRenaissance phase , led to the destruction and distortion of the perfection of form . . . . The more proudly Humanist man relied upon himself , and the more he moved away from the Christian , Divine , Medieval foundations of personality , the less creative , less powerful , and less self-controlling he grew progressively . '  | The Humanist period opens with man full of joy and selfconfidence . It ends with a deep disillusion in all the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and culture . None of the great expectations were realized . ' The crisis and end of the Humanist phase was already quite apparent in the nineteenth century . The entrance of the machine and technology into man 's historical existence dealt a mortal blow to Humanism . Increasing loss of man 's control over the human race 's machine-made universe , decreasing selfcontrol and mastery of the lower , animal propensities in man , a growing distortion of the very image of a true humanist man in favor of a demoralized human mechanism and human animal so different from humanist man ? these are some of the signs that mark the end of the Humanist phase . The emergence and successful growth of anti-Humanist philosophies and ideologies are further signs . Nietzsche 's final verdict , " Man is a shame and disgrace ; man must be overcome and transcended " ? Humanism must be ended in order to open the way for the superman ? is one example of this . Marx also sacrifices man and humanism on the altar of the inhuman , superpersonal kingdom of collectivism . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Comte , Spencer , right up to Husserl , are anti-humanistic . Likewise , Humanist ethics and aesthetics , politics and economics , either developed into non-humanist forms or else disintegrated into fragmentary atoms , devoid of power , form , and control . Many mystic , explicitly anti-Humanist currents appeared . In the nineteenth century , socialism , anarchism , capitalism , futurism , " modernism " and theosophy all revolted against , and mortally weakened , the Humanist culture . At the present time the Humanist phase is largely over and mankind is entering the " New Middle Ages . " ( 5 ) In discussing the reason why all great cultures eventually disintegrate as unities ( surviving , however , in their perennial values ) , and why their creative power eventually declines , Berdyaev makes a highly suggestive generalization . " Culture is not a realization of a new life , of a new way of existence , but a  | realization of new values . All achievements of culture are symbolic rather than realistic . " At its creative period culture creates not for the practical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ life , but for the sake of the values themselves . It creates truth for the sake of truth and cognition , beauty for the sake of beauty , goodness for the sake of goodness . In all this there is little of " real , practical life , " of the passionate " will to live , " of the intense desire to organize " life , " to enjoy " life . " There is little of practical utility . Having created the values , however , culture immanently changes its direction and passes beyond culture into the Spenglerian " civilization . " Created values can not help entering real life and changing it ; with the change the culture itself changes . It now tends towards a practical realization of its power , towards a practical organization of life , towards a diffusion of its applied results . A mere blossoming of the arts and sciences , a deepening and refinement of thought , the highest flare-ups of artistic creativity , the contemplation of the kingdom of God and of genius ? all these now cease to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ highest goal . Instead , there grows an intense will to live , to enjoy the " full , real life , " to master , improve , and transform this life . This lust for " real life " eventually undermines the creative genius of culture . A period of cultural blossoming presupposes a severe limitation of the will to " live " ; it demands an unselfish , somewhat ascetic transcendence over the passionate " gluttony for life . " When such a " gluttony for life " develops in the masses , then this " life , " and not the cultural creativity , becomes the supreme end . Since they are always aristocratic , cultural creativity and culture cease to be the supreme selfvalues and become mere means for the " practical improvement of life , " for " prosperity and happiness . " With this degradation of culture and of pure creativity to the level of third class means-values , the will for culture and disinterested creativeness weakens and eventually dies . With it dies the will for creative genius , and genius becomes increasingly scarce @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ high level ;  | it is bound to slide down ; its quality tends to be replaced by quantity ; a sort of social entropy develops and culture turns into an uncreative " civilization . " Culture immanently declines and crumbles because it deviates from the purposes and tasks that were born at its creative phase . This explains why the highest cultural blossoming of Germany at the end of the eighteenth and beginning of the nineteenth centuries ? when within a period of a few decades the world saw Lessing , Herder , Goethe , Schiller , Kant , Fichte , Hegel , Schelling , Schleiermacher , Schopenhauer , Novalis , Mozart , Handel , Haydn , Beethoven , and dozens of other firstclass " stars " ? occurred in the period when the real life of Germany was poor , difficult , depressing , and bourgeois . Similarly , Italy 's real life of the Renaissance period was miserable and unenviable . Even the practical life of the great creators themselves ? be it Mozart or Beethoven , Leonardo or Michelangelo ? was painful and tragic . " Culture @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " There is a kind of oppositeness between culture and life . When life becomes " civilized , " " happy and prosperous , " then the creativity of culture declines and culture is replaced by " civilization . " " Culture is unselfish and disinterested in its highest achievements ; civilization is always utilitarian and interested . " Such is the dialectic of the decline of creative culture into uncreative civilizations . Although it is fairly general , this degradation of culture into civilization is not a creative culture 's only destiny . Culture can take another way ? the way of religious transfiguration of life , and through that the realization of genuine existence ( being ) . Such was the course that the declining Graeco-Roman culture followed . It resulted in the emergence and growth of Christianity . At its heroic and truly Christian period , Christianity led to the religious transfiguration of life and the creation of a great Christian Medieval culture . Eventually Christianity ceased to be truly religious and became largely verbal , ritualistic , an economic and political machinery ; as such it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ West 's transitional culture will choose this religious way of transfiguring life in  | order to perpetuate its perennial values and bring humanity closer to a genuine creative life . Russia may play an important role in this pilgrimage of culture ; however , this role still remains problematic and uncertain . Berdyaev is much less complimentary towards Russia than are Schubart , Danilevsky , and Spengler . " The traditions of culture have always been weak in Russia . We have built a rather ugly civilization . Barbarian forces have always been strong with us . Even our will towards a religious transfiguration of life has been infected by a sort of sickly day-dreaming . " Under these conditions only Russia 's potential religiosity , together with the most intense suffering and a consciousness of the epochal crisis , may help Russia find the way of religious transfiguration of life instead of decaying into an uncreative civilization or barbarism. '  | F. S. C. Northrop is a descendant of the Joseph Northrop who in 1638 came to New Haven and in the following year founded Milford . Born in Wisconsin @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , received his master 's degrees from Yale and Harvard and his Ph.D . degree from Harvard in 1924 . He also studied at the University of Freiburg in Germany , at Trinity College in Cambridge , and at the Imperial College of Science and Technology in London , England , later traveling extensively and studying in China , Mexico , Great Britain , and the Continent . The outbreak of the First World War found him in social work . Rising from the ranks , he was at the war 's end a commander of a tank corps . In 1923 he again returned to teaching , finally becoming Sterling Professor of Philosophy and Law at Yale University . He is author of Science and First Principles ( 1931 ) , The Meeting of East and West ( 1946 ) , and The Logic of the Sciences and Humanities ( 1947 ) . The volume entitled Ideological Differences and World Order appeared under his editorship in 1949 . Of all Northrop 's works , The Meeting of the East and West is for our purpose the most important , giving @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the interrelationship of sociocultural phenomena . In the first place , the work shows convincingly that the total culture of any nation , such as the United States , Great Britain , Germany , Soviet Russia , or Mexico , and even the total culture of the East and West , is not a mere dumping ground for numberless atomistic sociocultural phenomena , unrelated to one another ? not , in fact , a congeries . It consists , chiefly , of one or sev- eral large sociocultural systems , each based on certain philosophical principles articulated in all its chief aspects ? in its arts and philosophy , religion and law , economics and politics , manners and mores , in the prevalent type of personality and basic social institutions . Cultures with differing political , economic , aesthetic and religious ideals or values are grounded in differing philosophical conceptions of the nature of man and of the universe . . . . Actually in any culture there are as many different theoretical beliefs as there are different individuals or different opinions of the same individual at different times @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ opinion . As such , Northrop says , beliefs are articulated by the main components of a certain culture and society and give to them their individuality and specific " physiognomy. " 1 In the last analysis these " philosophical presuppositions " ( or " major premises " or " prime symbols " ) of each cultural system are in turn based upon the state of science or the basic scientific theories existing in a given culture . Mathematical and natural science , as its facts are made theoretically systematic and articulate , gives rise to a corresponding philosophy ; and this philosophy . . . gives technical meaning and ? since it is scientifically determined ? publicly valid empirical justification to the claim of a corresponding religion and morality ; and these in turn and the science and philosophy from which they stem , when applied , generate the corresponding arts of poetry , painting , music , sculpture , architecture , and governmental and ecclesiastical polity in their normative character , as well as engineering and technocracy . . . . In short , philosophy . . . is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the theoretical side . ' Several social scientists reached similar conclusions before and simultaneously with Northrop . The real significance of Northrop 's propositions is two-fold . By arriving at these conclusions independently he additionally confirms their validity ; he demonstrates this validity admirably , especially in the cases of the Mexican and the United States cultures . Having taken the total culture of Mexico , Northrop convincingly shows that it is made up largely of five co-existing  | systems of culture , each grounded in its own philosophical principles ( and a corresponding state of natural science ) . At Mexico City , he points out , one meets , within one square mile , shops and parks reminiscent of Paris , Manhattan skyscrapers , the Spanish Hotel Majestic , the colonial Catholic cathedral and National Palace , and the distinctly Mexican Zocalo , whose lawns cover the Aztec ruins : There they were . All within one square mile . Five distinct and unique cultures : ancient Aztec , Spanish Colonial , positivistic French nineteenth century , Anglo-American economic , and contemporary Mexican . Harmonious , yet competitively @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Indian , pre-colonial culture of Mexico in all its main variations and manifestations , with its underlying science and philosophy , its " theoretic " and " aesthetic " principles , beginning with the Place of the Gods ( Teotihuacan ) and Pyramid of the Sun , and ending with the kind of fresco , with its naturalistic colors , recently unearthed behind the Pyramid of the Sun . In a similar manner he analyzes the Spanish-colonial culture brought by the Spaniards , in place of the almost completely destroyed , very high Aztec culture . This Spanish Catholic culture , with its Thomistic philosophy and science , is manifested by the Spanish Baroque cathedrals and other buildings , in the Catholic cult , in the remnants of the hierarchical order of values and social ranks , and in many other details . A careful study of this Spanish-colonial culture , however , shows how it was modified by the impact of the pre-colonial Mexican culture . For instance , the painting of the angel at the Tepotzotlan Jesuit monastery , and especially the beloved patron Saint of Mexico , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as the style of some of the chapels , display a distinctly Indian influence . " The native Mexican appreciation of color and form , for their own sake , made of the Catholic churches of Mexico something unique in the history of art . " This Spanishcolonial component of the total Mexican culture is something apart from the typical , orthodox Roman Catholicism . The third cultural system of Mexico is a French , positivistic ,  | and democratic culture which lasted for some sixty years of the nineteenth century and to a large extent supplanted the Spanish-colonial culture . This French culture , based mainly upon the philosophy of Auguste Comte , has manifested in a thousands ways beginning with the nationalization of church property , the secularization of religion , which became positivistic , and ending with democratic and " enlightened " dictatorial political regimes . The fourth component-system of the total Mexican culture is that manifested by the Anglo-American system of economic and cultural values , which modified the French and other cultural systems and was articulated especially in the forms of economic organization and the material @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was dominated by " the Spanish-Catholic religious passion , " in the nineteenth century by the French " political passion , " and at the end of that century by the " economic passion " and the " economic democracy " of Bentham , Mill , Jevons , Marshall , Taussig , and others . The period of the Diaz dictatorship was the golden age of American and British capitalists , as well as of industrial progress as the main instrument of social progress . Finally , the fifth component of the total Mexican culture is the contemporary Mexican culture . It represents a sort of combination of the intuitive ( Bergson ) , phenomenological , and axiological philosophy of Husserl , Max Scheler , and Hartmann ? not to mention Mexico 's own notable non-positivistic philosophers ? with Anglo-American democracy and technology and Soviet Russian and Marxian economic , political and social values . The fusion of these elements into the passionate , thoroughly " aesthetic , " deeply religious ? and at the same time Marxian ? scientific and economic culture is clearly expressed in the frescoes of Orosco @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ integrated as yet ; it is still in the process of becoming , but it is already the most important component of the total Mexican culture . This summary gives an idea of how Northrop proceeds in his analysis of culture and how he validates his generalized propositions . Northrop 's analysis along these lines is incom- parably more factual and convincing than this outline can show . In a similar manner he analyzes the " free culture " of the United States . Concretely diverse , " the soul of the United States is basically Anglo-American , just as the soul of Mexico is Spanish-American in character . " In the total complex and diverse culture of the United States this dominant AngloAmerican cultural system is based largely upon the philosophy of John Locke ( supplemented by that of David Hume , Bishop Berkeley , and other English empiricists ) , a philosophy grounded in turn in the science of Galileo , Huygens , and especially Newton 's Principia . The Declaration of Independence , the Constitution of the United States , the main legal statutes concerning property and other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and of the rights of man , all these and many other basic traits and values of the United States culture are almost a verbatim articulation of the principles of Locke 's philosophy . So also , essentially , is the economic organization of this country as the " businessman 's world . " Its economy and ethics are , in a broad sense , the economy of Adam Smith , Malthus , Ricardo and Jevons , in addition to the utilitarian ethics of Jeremy Bentham and John S. Mill , which are a sort of application of Locke 's principles to the field of economics and ethics . Again , the predominant Protestant religion of the country is largely an enunciation of Locke 's principles in the realm of religion . Even such a detail as the policy of this country towards Mexico has consistently been an articulation of Locke 's idea that the main function of government is the protection of private property . In accordance with this principle , the United States tried to protect the rights of American corporations that owned almost all of Mexico 's oil @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into Mexico and protesting against the nationalization of these resources by the Mexican government . The main argument of our Secretaries of State , from the time of Woodrow Wilson 's administration through Secretary Cordell Hull , has been that the rights of  | property are sacred and inviolable , even when such rights rob Mexico 's native population of the necessary minimum means of subsistence and of the elementary rights of man and citizen . In brief , the central and largest part of the total culture of the United States has been but a consistent articulation of Galileo 's and Newton 's mathematics and physics as the foundation of the Lockean philosophy and the philosophical , economic , and ethical principles of other English empiricists , such as David Hume , Bishop Berkeley , Adam Smith , Bentham , J. S. Mill and others . The elucidation , development , and demonstration of this proposition is brilliantly set forth in one of the very best passages of Northrop 's book . Besides this central cultural system , the total culture of the United States of course contains aspects of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the culture of the Aristotelian-Thomist Catholic Church , and the emerging new culture that transcends the **26;2445;TOOLONG culture ; it is based on up-to-date natural science and a philosophy grounded in this modern science . So far , however , these have been minor cultural systems , the major one being the **67;2473;TOOLONG cultural system articulated in all compartments of American culture , up to Grant Wood 's picture entitled " Daughters of the Revolution , " which is an example of Locke 's tabula rasa of human soul or personality . ' In a similar way , though more sketchily , Northrop shows the unique British combination of Richard Hooker 's theology and Aristotelian philosophy as to the ends and ideals of government , with John Locke 's democracy in relation to the mechanics of government . This " combination of the organic , hierarchical , communal values from the old medieval order represented by Hooker 's theology-philosophy with the egocentric , laissez-faire individualistic values from the new order of Locke and other empiricists became the accepted practice of the British " and resulted in the typically British " middle @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ This combination , especially Hooker 's old principles , ex- plain the inroads that Marxism and the Labor Party policy have made in recent times , modifying but not radically changing this unique British cultural system . The philosophy in which Britain of the war and the post-war period is believing , notwithstanding the defeat of the Conservative party in 1945 , draws more heavily upon Hooker and the Church of England , than upon Locke and the non-Conformists , and incorporates more of Marx and working class socialism than of Bentham and the nineteenth century liberalism . Yet in truth Britain is being guided by both the individualistic and the organic doctrines. ? Passing on to German culture , Northrop indicates the basic role played by the German idealistic philosophy of Kant , Fichte , and Hegel in the main cultural system of Germany , in its predominant ethics and mores , in its notion of freedom , in its authoritarian government and in hundreds of other important cultural phenomena . ' In the case of Soviet Russia the author shows the decisive role of Marxian philosophy in establishing the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it is today not because there was any necessity that it be that way , but largely because , for the reasons indicated in the analysis , the leaders of the Russian revolution took the speculative philosophical theory of Marx , and by persuasive and forceful means brought others to its acceptance , and built political action and cultural institutions in terms of it . " Marxian-Hegelian philosophy ( and the natural science in which it is grounded ) is the main premise that is now articulated by thousands of ideological , philosophical , religious , political , economic , artistic , and other cultural phenomena of Russia 's main cultural system . This Marxian philosophy is the master key to a comprehensive explanation of millions of small and large enigmas of the total Soviet culture . Besides the cultures of nations , our eminent scholar similarly analyzes the culture of the Roman Catholic Church , especially in the thirteenth and subsequent centuries . In Northrop 's analysis the total Roman Catholic culture , in St. Thomas Aquinas ' marvelous Christian interpretation , represents the perfect articulation of Greek Aristotelian science @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the whole , consistent world-view on Aristotle 's science ( and philosophy ) whereas , for instance , John Locke partially , failed as the philosopher of Newtonian science and through this failure has been responsible for many subsequent difficulties and perplexities confronting Western culture . The synthesis of St. Thomas also explains the recent revival of Thomism and NeoScholastic philosophies in Europe , as well as in the United States and the Americas ( through Robert M. Hutchins and others ) . Thomist and Neo-Catholic philosophy , although antiquated by the enormous progress made by post-Aristotelian natural science , is still more consistent than the philosophy of various epigoni of Lockean and other empiricist philosophies ; the latter have failed to give as marvelous a synthesis of Newtonian and post-Newtonian mathematics and science as Aquinas ' synthesis of Aristotelian and Greek science . Almost the whole Roman Catholic culture , beginning with its theology and ending with its cult , economics , and politics , is an articulation of the principles of Aristotelian-Thomistic philosophy . Having shown the existence of comparatively vast cultural systems in the total cultures of separate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ farther and " unearths " the two most vast cultural systems or supersystems : one based upon " scientific " or " theoretic , " the other upon " aesthetic " or " intuitional , " components . The first is dominant in the West 's culture ; the second in that of the East . The aesthetic or intuitional cognition or knowledge is derived from , and refers to , objects directly arrived at through experience , the " pure facts " like " blue " or " love " or any other " pure experience " unmediated by any concepts , and properly knowable only to a person who has such an experience . " Blue " is inaccessible to the blind ; the music of Beethoven remains unknown to the deaf ; at best they can only have a substitute diagram for these . A person who never experiences love or hate remains ignorant of these emotions . All phenomena belonging to this category of the immediately sensed , perceived , apprehended , experienced phenomena make up the aesthetic  | reality . Any knowledge or notion derived in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ component in knowledge or cognition . The aesthetic continuum itself has two main forms : ( a ) the differentiated , like " blue , " " soft , " " lovely , " " warm , " or " cheerful , " when some of the infinite properties of the undifferentiated continuum are specifically distinguished , " picked up , " or differentiated by direct intuition as " pure fact " ; ( b ) undifferentiated aesthetic continuum , meaning the primeval aesthetic continuum out of which arises any directly sensed differentiation . It pervades all the differentiated " aesthetic phenomena . " It is neither A nor non-A , neither this nor that ; at the same time it is the coincidentia oppositorum that potentially embraces A as well as non-A . This undifferentiated aesthetic continuum is the Jen in Confucianism , Tao in Taoism , Nirvana in Buddhism , Brahman , Atman or Chit in Hinduism ; the " Divine Nothing " of true mystics , the " Infinite Manifold , " the coincidentia oppositorum and the Supra-essence of St. Augustine , Pseudo-Dionysius , J. S. Erigena , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It can not be expressed in words . It can not be described by any concepts or terms . It is truly ineffable . It can be experienced directly only as a " pure fact " through the specific technique of the Yogi or of the true mystics . It can not be conceptualized and analyzed scientifically . In this undifferentiated form the aesthetic aspect of the nature of things has been intuited or immediately apprehended in all its all-embracing indeterminateness , mainly in the Oriental cultures of China , India , and other Buddhist or Jainist cultures . And these cultures have been largely built on this aesthetic ? differentiated and undifferentiated ? continuum and the aesthetic component of human knowledge . Theoretic or scientific knowledge , concept , or cognition is indirectly derived from , and refers to , the component in the nature of things that is never presented as " pure experience . " It is postulated as an a priori hypothesis and is in part and indirectly verified a posteriori through experimentally checked deductive consequences . Any scientific theory , according to Northrop , always asserts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ never verified directly . To be scientific means , paradoxically , to be metaphysical , to transcend the immediately given experience . The theoretic or scientific component in reality or in the nature of things is therefore quite different from the aesthetic component : the theoretic component is never immediately sensed , perceived , intuited , or apprehended , but is always postulated , mathematically designated , and indirectly verified through its experimentally checked deductive consequences . Chairs , tables , or any threedimensional objects , electrons , molecules , universals ? everything up to God the Father ? belong to the theoretical component in the nature of things . Not one of them is immediately sensed , perceived , or apprehended . The two components of the nature of things or of reality are thus quite different from one another , but they are mutually supplementary . Each presents its own " aspect " of the nature of things , quite different from the other , but equally real and mutually supplementary . As a matter of fact , an adequate knowledge of anything requires its " epistemic correlation " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the respective theoretic component . Together they give an adequate knowledge of the nature of things . Separately they give at best only a one-sided comprehension or apprehension of things , either purely " aesthetic " or purely " theoretic . " Thus , what is " aesthetically " sensed as " sound " is theoretically a " vibration of air waves " ; the " aesthetically perceived " color " blue " is theoretically either a vibration of ether waves of a certain length or of light waves of a certain spectral composition . An electron can not be immediately observed . It is an a priori , postulated hypothesis . However , its reality and postulated properties can be experimentally verified through the Wilson cloud chamber where , on the chamber 's fuzzy aesthetic continuum , the electrons appear as " flashes " that follow one another in a certain order deductively calculated from the postulated hypothesis . The correspondence between the actual flashes and the calculated ones is an indirect , experimental confirmation of the theoretically postulated hypothesis of electrons . Aesthetic " flashes " and theoretic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ give a " two-sided , " adequate cognition of the nature of electrons . Having elucidated the aesthetic and theoretic kinds of knowledge and components in the nature of things and their epistemic correlation , Northrop proceeds to show that the Orient 's total culture , especially that of China and India , has been dominated mainly by the vast aesthetic cultural supersystem that is based upon aesthetic or intuitional apprehension . On the other hand , the total Western culture has been dominated by the vastest scientific cultural supersystem , based upon the theoretic or scientific ( postulational ) knowledge . Several theoretic cultural systems have played the role of minor systems in the culture of the East , and several minor aesthetic cultural systems have existed in the West 's culture ; but they are minor currents in these predominantly aesthetic and theoretic cultures . The main Oriental religions and ethics , such as Confucianism , Taoism , Hinduism , Jainism , with their absolutely indeterminate " aesthetic continuum " of Jen , Tao , Brahman , or " empty Nirvana " ; the Chinese , Hindu , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with its indeterminate " perhaps " or " maybe " ; the tolerance of these religions and ethics towards other religions and ethics as " differentiations " of the undifferentiated aesthetic continuum ; their laws and even many forms of their economic and political processes ; these and thousands of other phenomena are but articulations of the basic " aesthetic component " that lies at the foundation of these cultures . On the other hand , the remarkable progress of Western science and technology ; the determinate , theistic , and deistic Catholic and Protestant religions , supplemented by the Jewish and the Mohammedan , all claiming the monopolistic truth and all being theoretically postulated and indirectly rationalized ; the Western determinate ? rational ? ethics and law ; the Western fine arts , which are mainly a means to convey some theoretically conceived ideas and values ; the predominant Western philosophy ? Thomistic Aristotelianism , Cartesian rationalism , Lockean-Humean empiricism , Kantian criticism , Fichtean ethi- cal idealism , Comtian-Spencerian positivism , Hegelian-Marxian dialectic ; these and thousands of other cultural phenomena of the West are but the articulations of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's development and demonstration of this thesis , especially in the field of Western and Eastern fine arts , is brilliant . He does not deny that the total Eastern and the total Western cultures each exhibit enormous diversity and selfevident contrasts . Nevertheless , the more contrasting the various parts of each culture are , the more similar and congenial they are in the basic aesthetic or theoretic components that permeate all parts of each culture . The purpose of developing these theories is to find out whether diverse cultures are only diverse or mutually contradictory ; and , if they are conflicting , what is the scientific way of resolving the conflicts between the Anglo-American and the Latin-American ( specifically Mexican ) cultures ; between the " capitalist " and " communist " societies ; between the Lockean liberal , political democracies and the Marxian socioeconomic democracies ; between Roman Catholicism and Protestantism ; and especially , and most of all , between East and West . Since all the main cultural systems and social institutions are based upon their respective philosophies , which in their turn are grounded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) , the most effective way of solving the conflicts , according to Northrop , is to eliminate the apparent or real contradiction between the mathematical and natural science of conflicting cultures and societies ; and then the conflict between the basic philosophies , grounded in the different natural science of the conflicting cultural systems and institutions . When the conflict between these true foundations of the antagonistic cultural systems is removed , these cultures and institutions become mutually compatible and harmonious . Then peaceful coexistence , co-operation and mutual supplementation replace the conflict and struggle between the cultural systems and their human societies . In brief , when the **33;2542;TOOLONG foundations of previously incompatible  | cultural systems become compatible , then the cultural systems , their social institutions , and their human groups also become compatible . The transcendence of the conflict of the **33;2577;TOOLONG principles can be achieved only through removing their merely apparent contradiction or , when they are really incompatible , through new , more adequate , more embracing , **34;2612;TOOLONG principles which transcend both the conflicting science and philosophy , being freer from errors and one-sidedness @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of both competitors . More specifically , insofar as the conflict of the predominantly aesthetic culture of the East and of the preponderantly theoretic culture of the West is the main conflict of our time , and insofar as the science and philosophy of either of these cultures is one-sided and inadequate , the proposed epistemic correlation of the aesthetic and theoretic components into a mutually supplementing unity is the looked-for solution of the problem . Knowledge and apprehension based upon the correctly correlated aesthetic and theoretic components are obviously more adequate than those based on only one of these principles . A philosophy and culture built on the epistemic correlation of both components removes the contradiction of East and West , of Soviet Russia and the Lockean democracies , of the United States and the Latin-American cultures . Each culture and society gains immeasurably and enriches itself by being supplemented by the harmoniously infused different cultural values . Thus , for instance , the West can enrich itself enormously by taking in the Eastern aesthetic component as it appears in the Oriental religions , fine arts , the spirit of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ specific immediate intuition of the undifferentiated aesthetic continuum exemplified in the technical experience of the Yoga , Zen Buddhism , and so on . On the other hand , the East can benefit immeasurably by taking in Western science , technology , and other theoretic values of the predominantly scientific Western culture . The epistemic unification of both components  | is permitted to both parties and can be achieved without loss of dignity or any real value derived from its present one-sided culture and way of life . In a similar way the basic conflicts of our time can be solved . In each case the knowledge , the apprehension , the philosophy , and finally the cultural system erected upon the foundations of both components are more valid , more adequate , more perfect , beautiful and transcending than those based upon only one of the two components . The . author elucidates these ideas in considerable detail and applies them to the concrete solution of most of the important conflicts of our time . Such are the leading ideas of Northrop 's philosophy of history and sociology of culture @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ field of scientific methodology , philosophy , and epistemology . But since these theories do not directly concern our main problem , we can now pass them by without discussion . Some of these ideas , however , will be mentioned in Part Two .  | Born in 1876 at Hoboken , New Jersey , Alfred L. Kroeber received his A.B. , A.M. , and Ph.D . degrees at Columbia University and an Honorary Sc.D. at Yale University . He taught English and anthropology at Columbia University and participated in several anthropological expeditions . He became a full professor of anthropology at the University of California , where he was also curator and director of the Anthropological Museum . He is the author of several books in the field of anthropology : Zuni Kin and Clan ( 1917 ) , Peoples of the Philippines ( 1919 ) , Anthropology ( 1923 ) , Handbook of the Indians of California ( 1925 ) , Cultural and Natural Areas of Native North America ( 1939 ) , Peruvian Archeology in 1942 ( 1944 ) , and Configurations of Culture Growth ( 1944 ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ important . The main task of Kroeber 's study is to investigate the manner in which the high-level cultures change . Does their creativity proceed steadily or by bursts , now rising and now declining ? Is their creativity manifested simultaneously in all fields of cultural activity or only in some ? Do different cultures show themselves creative ( or uncreative ) in the same , or in different , fields ? Do they have only one or several creative growths and declines ? What are the durations of the periods of blossoming and of sterility ? How and why do the highest levels of cultures develop ? Do cultures die ? What are the factors that determine the cultures ' flowering and aridity ? Are these factors inherent in the culture or external to it ? Do the peaks of creativity come early or toward the end , or is the growth curve symmetrical ? Such , in brief , are the main problems with which the volume deals .  | The answers to these questions are sought inductively , through an analysis of the configurations of growth ? in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ philosophy , science , philology , sculpture , painting , drama , literature , music , and the state organization and power of ancient Egypt , India , China , Japan , Iran and of the Arab-Muslim , Graeco-RomanByzantine and Hebrew cultures , and of the separate Western countries ? France , Germany , Italy , Spain , England , the Netherlands , Switzerland , the Scandinavian peoples , Russia , Poland , other Slavic peoples , and finally , the United States of America . This brief enumeration indicates the enormous field covered . The specific procedure used to note and even roughly " measure " the changes in culture patterns for each country is to study the number and rank of men of creative genius . Insofar as an important pattern in any field of culture is most fully expressed through the men of genius , the appearance of a galaxy of creative geniuses of the first rank at one period , and their quantitative and qualitative decline at another period , can be taken as a good index of the flowering and decline of creativity in a given @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ quasi-objective mechanism for defining the timespace configurations of part of the culture-patterns I have used the roster of genius as generally accepted in dated history : individuals are dealt with , but not as an end : they are no longer personalities , but measures of culture growth . " They are viewed merely as " the indicators of realization of coherent growths of cultural value " or as " indicators of cultural phenomena . . . not as agents or even as if they were agents . . . .1 My rating of genius and values . . . is in the main the currently conventional one : I have followed the books , and their consensus is fairly close . " 2 In accordance with this material and procedure , Kroeber 's analysis opens with " philosophy , " beginning with the Greeks . Kroeber compiles a list of all the main Greek philosophers , carefully noting the years of their life spans and the place of their births . Accepting the prevalent evaluation of the rank  | of the philosophers he sums up the main creative movements in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Greek philosophy , two grand divisions must be distinguished : a productive period , little more than three centuries long ; and a period of essentially non-productive continuation , which is of indefinite duration . The productive period . . . runs from 585 to about 270 , when the Stoic , Epicurean , and Sceptic doctrines had taken shape . The culmination is universally set with Plato and Aristotle , and may for convenience be put at 350 , when both were alive and adult . Within fifty years of Aristotle 's death , nothing new was any longer being produced in Greek philosophy , even by able men . The patterns which it had developed were evidently exhausted . " They merely continued to be refilled , in more or less new combinations , thereafter " 3 until the last school of philosophy at Athens was closed by Justinian in 529 . Thus we have here one of the skew curves that are fairly typical for many creative movements : three centuries of rising development followed by eight of decline and final extinction . " An activity begins , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and there freezes . Thereafter it may continue indefinitely with imitation , repetition , or reduction " in an institutionalized form , or otherwise , as long as the culture that produced it survives . ' Kroeber goes on to note several details of the whole process , up to its overlapping with a different " reorientation movement " of the Neo-Pythagoreans , Gnostics , Neo-Platonists , all eventually merging into a cosmopolitan Christian Medieval philosophy . The foregoing gives an idea of how this eminent anthropologist proceeds to observe the creative ups and downs , growths and declines , integrations and disintegrations , stagnations and epigonic inertia of the life-movement of Greek philosophy from its beginning to its end . In a similar manner he follows the configurations of growth , fluctuation , and decline of Christian and non-Christian " later Mediterranean , " Arab-Muslim , Occidental ? Medieval and Modern ? philosophy ( German , French , Italian , English , Dutch ) , and of the Indian and Chinese philosophies . At the end of these explorations he sums up the significant conclu- sions concerning the configurations of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ particular forms specifically . Here are some of these conclusions . The contents of no two philosophic growths are ever the same . Most of the cultures under consideration have produced their important philosophies in two growths or separate movements . In some of these cultures ( the Greek and Chinese , for instance ) the first blossoming of philosophy was the greater while in others ( the Occidental and Arabic , for instance ) the second wave was more creative . In some cultures philosophy was born and moved within the main religion ; in others , philosophy grew up without a close tie with religion or with very loose ties . Equally diverse is the relation of philosophy to science . In some cultures , for instance the Arabic-Muslim , a philosopher was at the same time a scientist and vice versa ; in other cultures , like the Chinese , Indian , and the Medieval Occidental , philosophy emerged and grew without a close tie with science , because science remained as yet undeveloped when important philosophical systems had already appeared . In other words , in some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the development of science ; in others both emerge together ; in still others , great philosophical systems emerged and grew before science was developed . ' As to the duration of the creative pulse , it also varies , from the most frequent duration of some 300 years to as long as 400 or as short as 150 years . ' The culmination of the growth sometimes falls near the end of the growth period , sometimes early in the second half . The data show the rarity and spottiness of philosophical creativeness , and the spottiness is not random but highly concentrated . Philosophical creativeness in the five main cultures studied flourished during little more than a third of the duration of the civilizations in which it had become established as an activity . And it occurred in only a small fraction of the area of these civilizations : early Chinese philosophy flourished only in northeastern China ; the Hindu , in the Ganges Valley  | and later on in southern India ; Greek philosophy was mainly Ionic . Even in these fractions of areas , philosophy was blossoming @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ another . Considering further that many great cultures such as Egypt , Mesopotamia , Persia , Japan , not to mention a multitude of lesser cultures or civilizations , have not produced any truly significant philosophy , the rarity and spottiness of philosophical creativity becomes striking . It is significant that the great philosophies emerged simultaneously , about 600 B.C. , in three of the five cultures ? the Chinese , Indian , and Greek . Another moment of philosophical creativity occurred at about the same time , from 1050 to 1200 , in three cultures ? the Chinese Neo-Confucian , Christian Scholastic , and Arabic . Why this is so , and what the factors are that determine philosophical creativity , remains an enigma . Negatively we can assert that neither a certain civilization 's general flourishing state , nor its political power and economic prosperity , is enough to produce a great philosophy . The same is true of a flourishing condition of religion or science . In a number of cases when the cultures considered passed from lesser to greater economic prosperity , from lesser to greater political @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ religious state , no signs of philosophical creativity are observed . The significant factors are seemingly internal to the respective culture and the philosophy itself . Exactly what they are still remains in the dark . They are superpersonal and somehow related to " cultural energy . " But again the nature and the operation of this energy are as yet little known and do not , at present , allow more precise specification. ? In a similar way Kroeber proceeds to study the dynamics of creativity in science in the same main cultures ; then in philology , sculpture , painting , drama , literature , and music . Finally , he studies separately the movement of creativity in all these classes of cultural phenomena in each of the nations studied . This last investigation gives us the dynamics of the intellectual , philosophic , and aesthetic creativity of Egypt , China , Japan , India , Greece , Rome , the Near East , Islam ,  | and the main Western countries , including Russia and Scandinavia , the Jews , and the West as a whole . A @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ typical constellations of these classes of cultural phenomena within one nation , and their change in the course of time . ' Egyptian civilization uniquely rose and fell at least four times within the same patterned frame before it exhausted itself . This shows , among other things ( contrary to Danilevsky , Spengler , and Toynbee ) , that a given civilization can have more than one period of blossoming and decline . Of 2,790 years , about 64 percent were reasonably successful ? prosperous and politically satisfactory . In many cases , creativity paralleled political and economic prosperity in several fields of culture ; but this did not always happen , and in the case of science and literature the non-synchronicity of economico-political progress and flare-ups of scientific-literary creativity are fairly conspicuous . China had two big creative pulses ; Japan had four ; India , two ; the Graeco-Roman-Byzantine culture had several ; the Arabic , one big one ; France , three ; England , three ; and Germany , four . In most of these instances , the economico-political prosperity peaks did not notably coincide with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conclusions arrived at by Kroeber in this part of the study , we must now sum up the main results of his extensive and scholarly analysis of the haws and whys of change in culture or civilization . ( 1 ) There is no universal uniformity dictating that every culture must develop into the high-level culture with master patterns of this or that cultural value . Only a very limited number of cultures have developed such patterns . ( 2 ) There is not sufficient evidence " of any true law in the phenomena dealt with ; nothing cyclical , regularly repetitive , or necessary . " ( 3 ) There is no uniformity decreeing that every culture , having once flowered , must wither without chance of revival .  | ( 4 ) Each major culture displays " the existence of certain fundamental patterns characteristic " to it . The number of such " high-value culture patterns " is very limited . They occur only rarely , in a few cultures only , have a limited life-span , and are concentrated in time and space , with a usually continuous @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The life-span or duration of these " high-value culture patterns " seems to be shorter than that of " low-grade culture patterns , " that can go on with much less change and for a much longer time . " ( 6 ) The average duration of the growth and blossoming of these patterns fluctuates greatly , from a few decades to a few centuries , depending upon the class of cultural phenomena and their constellation. ( 7 ) The duration of a vaster ( embracing ) pattern tends to be longer and more continuous than that of a narrower sub-pattern , a part of the vaster one . ( 8 ) Though all the reasons for this transience of the highvalue culture patterns are far from clear , one is patent : it is inherent in or immanent to the pattern . To become and to stay " a high-quality pattern " it has to be selective , choosing among a number of potentialities . It must also specialize , adopting certain values and forms and rejecting others . Having become specialized , the high-value pattern either has to run @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a conflict with the rest of the culture , or both . Having run through all its possible variations , the pattern exhausts its potentialities and either dies or becomes aridly repetitive and ossifies . In either case its creative life comes to an end . In other cases the high-value pattern is smashed by the rest of the culture with which it is in conflict . Often the pattern 's creative life comes to an end in both ways . In other words , the main reason for the limited life-span of the high-value patterns is inherent in or immanent to them and is due to the limited possibilities of their variation and to their " saturation "  | and exhaustion in the course of time . " The pattern can be said to have fulfilled itself when its opportunities or possibilities have been exhausted . " 13 In all these cases the pattern disintegrates and its creative career ends . ( 9 ) As a detail , the high-value patterns of contemporary philosophy or fine arts have , since 1880 and more strongly since 1900 , displayed signs of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ patterns : " jagged rhythms and dissonance in music , free verse in poetry , plotless novels , cubism , abstractionism , and surrealism in sculpture and painting . " " Only science and wealth-production probably are holding up their heads . " However , until science becomes sterile and wealth-production shrinks , it would be rash to predict the impending death of Western culture . Revolt against the preceding " classical " patterns , whether Kantian philosophy , or Beethoven 's music , or Goethe 's style of writing , is due to the exhaustion of the possibilities of these patterns . Having been exhausted , their continuation inevitably results in an ever-increasing sterile and epigonic repetitiveness , which is deadly in its uncreativeness . Revolt against such " dead corpses , " with an attempt to remove them to the morgue of history and to replace them by some new patterns , is comprehensible and excusable . In other cases these outlived patterns become sterile and quietly die without being overthrown by any revolt . ( 10 ) In the life-course of a high-value pattern there is now only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ now three , and once in a while even a greater number of " pulses " or flowerings , with periods of " lulls " or creative rests in between . Sometimes the first " pulse " is the greatest creatively , sometimes the second , sometimes even the third . In brief , there is no uniform evidence that all " master patterns " of culture blossom only once , nor that they all have the same number of creative pulses . " ( 11 ) The duration of the pattern 's growth and blossoming is ordinarily shorter than that of the decline and " petrifac- tion . " Similarly , the total duration of all creative pulses in the total life-history of the pattern is usually shorter than the total duration of all the barren " lulls " in the total existence of the pattern . ( 12 ) The profiles of the patterns ' growth curve , as well as the points of culmination , vary : they are sometimes symmetrical , but more frequently asymmetrical , with the culmination peaks at times early , at other times @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is no " normal form of time-quality curve in florescences. " ( 13 ) In studying the life-curve of the pattern , one should distinguish the transformations , pulses , and lulls of the same pattern from those of different patterns often criss-crossing with one another . Sometimes it is difficult to decide whether we deal with the changes of one and the same pattern or with criss-cross pulses and lulls of different patterns . As a rule , all uni-lingual , uni-national patterns and the patterns with one main culmination are the changes within one and the same pattern . Likewise , the patterns with one " basic idea-system " ( religious or other ) that is only sketchily developed in the first phase and more fully developed in the subsequent phases ordinarily belong to one and the same pattern-system when they have such pulses and lulls . The presence of the " basic ideasystem , " articulated in all pulses and lulls , is a sufficient guarantee of that . ' ( 14 ) Practically all national cultures studied are deficient in creativity in one or more fields of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Egypt , Mesopotamia , Rome , Japan , and Renaissance Europe were uncreative in philosophy . So was Arabic civilization in sculpture . Rome , Medieval Europe , Japan ( excepting in algebra ) , and largely China , were uncreative in science . The economic and political blossoming of Greece , Germany , and Italy was absent during most of the cultural florescences of these countries ; and so on . Since cultural florescence occurs in some fields of culture , while creativity in other fields is absent , this means that cul- tural creativities in two different fields are hardly causally or functionally connected with one another . Such a conclusion openly contradicts the theories of the total integration of each culture , explicitly and implicitly claimed by the so-called " functional sociologists and anthropologists " and " the total integralists " of culture . " ( 15 ) Studying the relationship of the florescence of sculpture and painting ? generally considered particularly close to each other ? Kroeber finds that , out of thirteen instances , sculpture develops ( in the same nation ) earlier than painting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ four times one or the other is lacking . Similarly , the relationship between philosophical and scientific florescences also happens to be far from close . Twice ? in China and India ? great philosophical systems appeared before any tangible scientific progress was made , and subsequently scientific progress lagged behind that of philosophical creativeness in these cultures . In Greece , and in a few other instances , philosophy and science emerged together , flourished together for some time , and eventually separated from one another and followed different courses in their creative pulsations . In most of these cases the course of scientific creativity happened to be more continuous and of a longer duration than that of philosophical creativity . Generally , where ( as in India and Medieval Europe ) philosophy develops into religion or is closely connected with it , it is likely somewhat to impede scientific progress ; therefore the courses of their " ups and downs " are likely to be non-parallel . Where philosophy is " naturalistic , " does not develop into religion , and remains independent of it , there is a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ together " more frequently ( 16 ) A similar lack of close interdependence is shown between political-economic growth and the florescence of other cultural activities . First there were nations ( the Mongols , Turks , Lithuanians , Macedonians , Achaemenians and Sassanian Iranians ? except for the Iranian creativity in religion )  | that built powerful empires without either simultaneously or generally contributing much to most fields of culture . They represent what Danilevsky calls " the negative agencies of history . " On the other hand several nations , like Germany in its earlier cultural florescences , or Renaissance Italy , or even Greece , had their cultural florescences in a state of political weakness , disintegration or unintegration . Some others showed their cultural creativity in certain fields even after losing their political independence . The pre-Islamic poetry of Arabia ; Polish literature and music of the first part of the nineteenth century ; Chinese florescence about 200 A.D. ; the cultural creativity of Iran after it lost its independence to the Arabs and that of the Jews after they lost their " state " ? these are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and cultural creativity is less frequent than either a neutral or positive relationship between these variables ! ' In the history of Egypt and Japan , both rise and fall more or less together ; in the history of China , India , and most of the Occidental countries , they move together only partially ; finally , in the history of Sweden , Germany , Italy , and partly in that of the U.S.A. , the relationship is rather negative . Of various cultural activities , scientific florescence seems to go most closely with politico-economic florescences . " " After all , peace , population and wealth alone do not produce great achievement ; as second century Rome shows . . . . Ethnic or national energy and higher cultural energy tend to be related , but the relationship is not complete . " ( 17 ) Other conditions being equal , the richer the item-content of a culture the greater the chance of creating a more important qualitative pattern , or cultural value . Cultures that are poor in content have a lesser chance of such creativity . Hence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . If the cross-fertilizing culture ( such as Buddhism imported into Chinese culture ) is congenial and if the fertilized culture can " digest " and mold the imported elements into its own pattern , such an enrichment usually stimulates creativity . If these conditions are lacking , however ,  | an increase of the content-items of a given culture may lead instead to cultural " indigestion , " to a disintegration and decline of creativity . The same decline or " pseudomorphosis , " as Spengler calls it , of culture can take place when the foreign culture is too overwhelming and too rich in its content ( as well as in its patterns ) . This results in a suppression of the native culture or , in Danilevsky 's terms , it turns the native culture into a mere means for the grafted foreign culture . ( 18 ) Kroeber does not study religious creativity as he does the fine arts , science , philosophy , and to some extent politicoeconomic creativities , but in passing he does make several observations . One is that within the same national @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which first reaches its chief climax , and then the aesthetic and intellectual ( scientific and philosophical ) activities as they free themselves from religion . . . . I can not think of a single people which first evolved a high science , philosophy , or art , and thereafter a religious pattern which was important intrinsically and institutionally ; at any rate , not within the bounds of duration of what we customarily consider civilization . " Thus a definite time order of the blossoming of these cultural classes is stated here : first come religious , then **33;2648;TOOLONG florescences . This " uniformity " does not preclude the development first of a scientific , aesthetic , or philosophical creativity in the peoples who do not develop any important religion afterwards ; such cases , however , are comparatively rare . Another of Kroeber 's observations is that religion often produces its own philosophy and its own fine arts . Europe 's High Medieval philosophy , architecture , sculpture , and literature , culminating in Dante , are examples of this . Something similar happened in the life-course of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Compare my Ideational art and philosophy . ) The third observation is that a philosophy or art completely dominated by religion is not likely to be the highest or greatest form of philosophical or aesthetic creativity . Only when these acquire some degree of autonomy from religious control and become secular to a degree , do they seemingly reach the cut- mination point . " In the Italian Renaissance this process is clearly evident . Raphael , Leonardo , Michelangelo , represent at once the climax and the moment of liberation . So , correspondingly , does Phidias . " So also did Western music reach its peak at a similar point , when it became considerably liberated from religious control . The same is true of the culmination points of the pictive art in Japan and China in its relationship to Buddhist control . ( Compare my Idealistic art and philosophy . ) However , when this liberation is complete and the art ( or philosophy ) becomes completely secular and usually quite profane , the decline of creativity sets forth . " Room is made for the shallow and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and decline sets in . " ( Compare my overripe Sensate art and philosophy . ) The same is true of philosophy and , in a few cultures , even of science . Though these often flourish quite independent of religion , now and then these activities begin more or less to decline and this leads , as in the late Graeco-Roman world , to a revival of religious philosophy and then of religion . ( 19 ) As to the tempo of the change , or of the progress of growth , contrary to the prevalent opinion of its acceleration , " the data indicate rather conclusively that the rate has not gained in speed . " " So far as high quality growths are concerned , they seem to take about as long now as they did one or two thousand years ago . " Perhaps in regard to contentitems the belief in acceleration is valid ? " information material " may now be produced faster ? but it is wrong insofar as the high forms or great cultural patterns are concerned . The extraordinarily long , continuous , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be noted as an additional detail . " In the face of the eternal verities with which the Hindu is preoccupied , time perspective is bound to be a rather trivial consideration . " ( 20 ) " Owing to the accidents of where and on whom civilization alights " there have been many areas or peoples uncreative in culture generally , or creative only in regard to the  | lesser values , or actually retarded in cultural creativity . From the standpoint of total culture-history all the populations of Europe belong to the retarded group : none of them participated with distinction until less than three thousand years ago ; most , except the Greeks and Romans , entered the stage of cultural creativity much later , only from 1500 to 1000 years ago ; finally , the marginal peoples of the north and east of Europe began to contribute the highest cultural values only some two or three centuries ago . ( 21 ) The insular cultures of the East Indies , Japan , and Great Britain show some peculiarities of culture growth common to all three cultures @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ late in becoming civilized . ( b ) Their cultures are dependent upon and derived from the continental cultures of India ( in the case of the East Indies ) , China ( for Japan ) , and Europe ( for Britain ) . Only after 1550 , possibly , did Britain cease to be backward in Western cultural creativity . ( c ) The comparatively isolated insular position of the East Indies and Japan ( but not of Britain ) is possibly responsible for the leveled character of the configuration of their culturedynamics : it is comparatively free from sharp ups and downs . ( 22 ) By studying the culture growth in space , its two different types of expansion or diffusion are noticeable ; one from the center onward , the other from the periphery toward the center . The first type is more frequent than the second . The second , originating at the periphery , happens when a geographically marginal part of a given culture is exposed to crossfertilization or stimulation by another culture . The time precedence of Ionian creativity , compared with that of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ painting , literature , and possibly music , is an example . It was only in the fifth century B.C. that the mainland of Greece began to participate in the cultural creativity of Greece , whereas Ionia was already active in the sixth century . This inward diffusion continued up to about 330 B.C. After the Macedonian conquest of the East the opposite process took place : Greek cul- ture diffused outwards from its center , over the non-Greek countries and peoples . One result was a shift in the leadership in the arts and sciences from Athens to Alexandria , from Sparta or Corinth to Antioch or Pergamum . This diffusion continued through Rome and the Latin populations of Italy . Later on , however , " Italy and the Western provinces , which had entered Graeco-Roman civilization late , were also the first to drop out of it , " while it was continued in the East ( Byzantium ) , where the Roman empire as well as the arts and learning were " tolerably maintained " for centuries after the end of the Western Roman empire and Greek @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Graeco-Roman civilization was confined to the eastern Mediterranean . Thus , within some thousand years the Greek culture diffused enormously and then shrank enormously . Beginning on a unilingual basis it became bilingual ( Graeco-Latin ) , then multilingual , and then declined again to unilingualism . In this case we also observe that the territorial expansion of the Classical civilization occurred when the quality of its cultural products was declining . In other words , territorial and political expansion here lagged behind intellectual and aesthetic growth . In other cases two processes ? intellectual and aesthetic growth and politico-territorial expansion ? seem to proceed in parallel lines , more or less synchronously . " Normally it would seem , geographical expansion is a symptom of the growth , and contraction , of the decline , of a culture . " ( 23 ) Culture as such does not and can not die . But specific cultures , geographically limited , can and do die , not so much through the death of their populations as through replacement by different cultures . Today there is still a Mohican population , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ does not die ; but specific languages do die . Ordinarily the cultures die through being replaced by a " superior " ( under the circumstances ) culture , regardless whether this superiority is real or apparent . However , it remains unclear why a given culture can resist such smothering by another  | culture for a time and then succumb after a certain period . We are equally in the dark about whether cultures can die by themselves , without interference by other cultures . We know that biological organisms die by themselves , though we do not exactly understand why . The destiny of particular cultures may be somewhat similar : they , too , may die by themselves , though this is uncertain and the causes remain still less understandable than in the case of an organism 's death . ' Kroeber , non-committal on these points , says merely that . . cultures do not necessarily either age or progress , but they undergo variations in vigor , originality , and values produced . . . . Fluctuations of cultural vigor are normal . " These fluctuations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ value , with its limited possibilities of variation , with their exhaustion , and with the competitive cultural universe in which they function . However , even on this point he remains non-committal and adds that all these problems " I thus leave unanswered . " Kroeber does not share Spengler 's organismic conception of culture with all its parts tightly integrated around the prime symbol , nor does he fully share Spengler 's thesis that great cultures can never blend or be transmitted , and that they must die and be superseded by other cultures . Culture material is surely borrowed or transmitted ; with it some patterns are also passed from one culture to another . However , in regard to larger master patterns the situation may be different . Without further study of the problem the Spenglerian view can be neither discarded nor accepted . ( 23 ) Kroeber also finds it impossible to accept , without further evidence , the Spenglerian view that all great cultures pass through the same stages.33 He finds several valid points with which he agrees in the Spenglerian theory , but the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . ( 24 ) He admits that , as an infrequent phenomenon , a highvalue cultural pattern can be and is once in a while fundamentally reconstituted . Having reached a point of saturation  | along its previous line of growth , after a pause and through certain efforts , it resumes its growth along somewhat new lines . In other words , it transforms itself into something very different from what it was , without losing its sameness or identity . Such are Kroeber 's main conclusions . They have been intentionally outlined here in some detail for two reasons : to give an adequate idea about the conclusions reached and to show further that an overwhelming majority of these conclusions were also reached ? and now and then more precisely formulated ? in my own Social and Cultural Dynamics . Kroeber and I worked independently at about the same time , as inductively as possible ; we had and we have different starting points . The similarity of the conclusions reached reinforces their validity . In subsequent chapters this will be shown more specifically .  | Albert Schweitzer was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at the Universities of Strassburg , Paris , and Berlin . Before 1913 he was curate of St. Nicholas in Strassburg , organist of the Orfeo Catala in Barcelona , and visiting lecturer at several universities . He became a notable theologian , philosopher , and social thinker , as well as one of the greatest authorities on J. S. Bach and a most eminent performer of Bach 's organ music . In 1913 he left Europe and founded a hospital at Lambarene in French Equatorial Africa . Since that time , with the exception of a few visits to Europe and one to the United States , he has remained there , working as doctor , missionary , philosopher , thinker , and a foremost ethical leader . Albert Schweitzer is the author of The Philosophy of Civilization ( 1923 ) , The Quest of the Historical Jesus ( English translation , 1926 ) , J. S. Bach ( English translation , 1938 ) , Indian Thought and Its Development ( English translation , 1936 ) , and many other works . Only a few points of Schweitzer 's interpretation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in contrast to Spengler he uses these terms synonymously ) directly concern us . The bulk of his books in this field deal with ethics ? its nature , its role , and how it is to be realized ? rather than strictly with the reasons and ways in which civilizations rise and decline . ( 1 ) Schweitzer 's conception of civilization is pre-eminently ethical . " Civilization is twofold in its nature : it realizes itself in the supremacy of reason , first , over the forces of nature , and ,  | secondly , over the dispositions of men . . . " Moral control over men 's dispositions is much more important than control over nature . Mastery over human disposition means ethical mastery in the sense of willing material and spiritual good to mankind , to every individual , even to every living organism . Reverence for life is the essence of this ethical mastery . Such an ethics of unconditional will to live and reverence for life is " the essence of civilization . " Its progress is much more important than the material progress @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the sum total of all progress in all fields of man 's creative activity , insofar as it leads to ethically perfecting the individual and the community . ' This supremacy of the ethical permeates the whole theory of this eminent moral teacher of humanity . ( 2 ) Understood in this sense , contemporary Western civilization is in a state of deep ( though not hopeless ) decay . The decline began around the middle of the nineteenth century and has progressed steadily from that time up to the present . In contrast to previous decays of various civilizations , this decay is much more important because " the earth no longer has in reserve , as it had once , gifted peoples as yet unused , who can relieve us and take our place in some distant future as leaders of spiritual life . . . All of them are , like ourselves , diseased , and only as we recover can they recover . " In the present crisis it is not just the civilization of this or that people that must be given up as lost , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no rebirth takes place within the present civilization . ' ( 3 ) The main reason for this , as well as for previous decays of civilizations is ethical . " If the ethical foundation is lacking , then civilization collapses , even when in other directions creative and intellectual forces of the strongest nature are at work . " More exactly , this ethical foundation is twofold : the ethics itself is based upon the ultimate , directly given , unquestionable will to live as the universal principle , and upon a corresponding Weltanschauung or world-view that affirms this universal will to live and interprets the whole world in the light of unconditional reverence for life , whenever and wherever it appears in  | whatever form . Correspondingly , the indispensable conditions for the florescence of a civilization are an approximation to the ethics of reverence for life , preached and practised by the respective society , and a corresponding world-philosophy that rationalizes , develops , justifies , demands , and affirms such an ethics in the mentality , behavior , social institutions , and culture of social groups . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ethics were operative , the society or period flourished . Each time these forces were weak , or were altogether absent , or the worldview was of a wrong kind , the civilization or culture passed through a crisis . Of the past world-philosophies , Taoism , Confucianism , Hinduism , Buddhism in the Orient , and some of the Greek and subsequently European philosophies , only partly met the demand of the ethical world-view ; the Stoic philosophy , and especially the rationalist and empirical philosophies of the illuminati and the empirical rationalists of the eighteenth century , met the demand much better than did other world-views . As a result , the Graeco-Roman or Western civilizations of these periods were in comparatively satisfactory shape . Europe of the eighteenth century , permeated by an approximation to the ethics and world-view of life affirmation , was creatively growing and flourishing in almost all fields of Western civilization . Around the middle of the nineteenth century this creative elan came to an abrupt end . The reason for this and for the subsequent " suicide of civilization in progress " was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " philosophy 's renunciation of her duty . " The philosophy of the eighteenth century put forward ethical ideals and tried to embody them in practice by guiding thought and life in general , but in spite of its considerable success this philosophy could not meet acid criticism and succumbed because it too was vulnerable and inadequate . Attempts by Kant , Goethe , Schiller , Fichte , Hegel , and others to provide this tottering building with a new foundation were unsuccessful because their world-views were also vulnerable . As a result " the ethical ideas on which civilization rests have been wandering about the world , poverty stricken and home- less . No theory of the universe has been advanced which can give them a solid foundation . . . . Therefore , instead of being inspired by a profound and powerful spirit of affirmation of the world and life , " we are driven hither and thither by fragmentary and superficial ideologies and by fruitless practices . " We have entered a dark journey in a time of darkness . " Several secondary factors , derived from the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Western civilization . These are : modern man 's fettered economic position ; his being overworked and incapable of self-collectedness ; an increasing inability to concentrate on meditation ; a decrease in creative thinking and an increase in superficial " mobmindedness , " patterned by various " manufacturers of public opinion " ( newspapers , etc. ) ; lack of spiritual independence and humanity ; development of ethical nihilism and an unethical conception of civilization ; ' greater development of the material , rather than spiritual , part of our civilization ; a rapid advance in ethically indifferent knowledge and technology . ' All these are by-products of the main cause of the decline ; but after their emergence they , in their turn , contributed to the suicidal drift of our civilization . ( 4 ) This drift , however , is ' not absolutely hopeless . It can be stopped and reversed . An accomplishment of that purpose will require building up a new ethico-philosophical foundation for our civilization which can stand any criticism , is " full-proved , " logically impeccable , and factually unassailable . Schweitzer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ foundation . In surveying the history of ethics and philosophy , beginning with the Taoist , Confucianist , Hinduist and Buddhist " worldviews " and ethics , and ending with the modern EuropeanAmerican ones , he finds that all these ethics and world-views were inadequate to different degrees . They all suffered from a dualism between world-view and life-view ; between knowing and willing ; between the ethical aspirations and the physical world as it is ; they all tried to root their ethical values and imperatives in various properties and processes of the external world as it is presented by science . They all failed in this task  | because " if we take the world as it is , it is impossible to attribute to it a meaning in which the aims and objects of mankind and of individual men have a meaning also . Neither **26;2683;TOOLONG nor ethics can be founded on what our scientific knowledge of the world can tell us about the world . " We can not discover in it anything ethical , any evolution towards ethics , or any value precious for us . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the world as it is is just an anthropomorphism based on nothing and rejected by science . ' The world as it is can not serve as a basis or support for an ethics of life-affirmation or for any ethics whatsoever . The world as it is is ethically and humanely neutral . Therefore it is hopeless to try building an ethics on the properties of this world , as all preceding ethics and world-views have done . The source of their inadequacy and failure lies in this attempt to bridge the ethics with the external world as it is given by science . Instead of engaging in this hopeless enterprise , Schweitzer proceeds to build his ethics and world-views from the opposite end . He starts with the most self-evident will to live as the ultimate , unquestionable , unmediated , axiomatic experience of everyone living , more axiomatic even than the Cartesian cogito ergo sum ( " I think , therefore I exist " ) . On this postulate he builds the whole structure of his ethical and philosophical lifeaffirmation . " The will to live . . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ itself . " It does not need to know the external world . The knowledge which I acquire from my will-to-live is richer than that which I win by observation of the world . . . . Why then tune down one 's will-to-live to the pitch of one 's knowledge of the world , or to undertake the meaningless task of tuning up one 's knowledge of the world to the higher pitch of one 's will-to-live ? The right and obvious course is to let the ideas which are given in our will-to-live be accepted as the higher and decisive kind of knowledge . Our knowledge of the external world is knowledge from outside , mediated , always incomplete and uncertain . " The knowledge derived from my will-to-live is direct , and takes me back to the mysterious movements of life as it is in itself . " The  | highest knowledge , then , is to know that I must remain true to my will to live , to live life to the full . This will to live and its self-knowledge are dependent on itself alone @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not depend in any way upon the knowledge of the external world . Even more , the will-to-live , cognizing itself and all the lifeforces , penetrates the mysterious , living forces of the universe more easily and reliably than a mere external observation does . In this way the will to live gives us a direct , intuitive understanding of the true reality and builds a more adequate worldview of life-affirmation than does the scientific knowledge of the external world . " Reverence for life means to be in the grasp of the infinite , inexplicable , forward-urging Will in which all Being is grounded . It rises above all knowledge of things . " It leads to a union with the ultimate reality which is " the infinite Being in infinite manifestations. " 10 Thus , this voluntaristic theory starts with a self-evident , voluntaristic will-to-live ; from this premise rationally develops the **26;2738;TOOLONG world-view ; and it ends in a nonrational mysticism , because " the rational , when it thinks itself out to a conclusion , passes necessarily over into the non-rational . **26;2766;TOOLONG and ethics are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they be justified or rejected ) by any knowledge of the nature of the world ( from outside ) . They are perfectly independent of it . " The way to true mysticism leads up through rational thought to deep experience of the world and of our will-to-live . We must all venture once more to be thinkers , ' so as to reach mysticism , which is the only direct and the only profound world-view. . . .11 This worldaffirming , ethical , active mysticism has always been hovering as a vision before Western thought , but the latter could never adopt it " because of the wrong way which this thought has always taken at the crucial point . It is therefore comprehensible why Schweitzer views science and a " scientific philosophy " that studies the world from outside as superfluous for the ethics and philosophy of life-affirmation.  | Ethics and aesthetics are not sciences . . . . There is therefore no such thing as a scientific system of ethics ; there can only be a thinking one . . . . As to what is good and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to his neighbor as an expert . All that one can do is to impart to him so much as one finds in oneself of that which ought to influence everybody , though better thought out perhaps , and stronger and clearer , so that noise has become a musical note . In ethics there are only subjective and infinitely various facts to be studied and their mutual connection lies within the mysterious human ego . . . . Ethics have nothing to expect from any theory of knowledge . All attempts to bring ethical and epistemological idealism ( or materialism ) into connection with one another must be recognized as useless for ethics . Ethics can let space and time go to the devil . On this point Schweitzer agrees with Spengler , Schubart , Berdyaev , and to some extent Northrop , in stressing the primacy of the living , intuitive , unmediated , direct cognition of the all-pervading infinite Being in its infinite manifestations or " differentiations " versus the mediated , uncertain knowledge from outside where , as in science , the cognizing subject and cognized object @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he disagrees with Northrop and Kroeber , who consider scientific knowledge and the philosophy grounded in it as the indispensable foundation of civilization and its ethics . ( 5 ) Having cleared the way , Schweitzer , from his axiomatic will to live , deduces the detailed ethics of life-affirmation , lifereverence , love , altruism , and the concrete " imperatives " for ethical conduct and social relationships . He uncompromisingly affirms the ethical protection of any life and any organism , up to the smallest and perhaps even injurious one , resembling the Buddhist ethics in this point . ( 6 ) Since " of all the forces that mould reality , morality is the first and foremost , " Schweitzer 's " prescription " for a creative rebirth of the civilization of the West and of Mankind consists of elaborating , diffusing , and rooting the ethics and world-view of life-affirmation ? grounding it first in individual mentality and conduct and then in social institutions and culture . He does not discuss in detail how the task of interiorizing this ethics and world-view can be successfully accomplished ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mankind , individuals , and civilization itself is a condition without which no rebirth is possible . In this point he is the most eminent theoretical , and especially practical , advocate of ethical value as the paramount factor in humanity and civilization . He practices what he preaches . In his total theory of the will to live , he conspicuously exemplifies Spengler 's characterization of the Faustian man and culture as voluntaristic par excellence . Moreover , in a sense Schweitzer 's whole philosophy is desperately voluntaristic and manifests not only a desperate will to live , but also a desperate will to believe . Finally , Schweitzer 's emphasis on the ethical confirms Spengler 's view that at the moment of a decay of the civilization , such an emphasis uniformly occurs ? the last gasp of the dying civilization .                     