@@774334

txt  | demand to outrun the volume of services which the railroads can provide . ( This is especially true of the two earlier decades of the period covered . ) Thus the amplitude of changes in theoretical demand may understate the intensity of fluctuations that would be obtained if data on the volume of demand for railroad services were available . 4 . There is a possibility that the series relating to orders are subject to error , since the original data reported in the journals may be incomplete . However , for the years after 189o , such errors in annual data are likely to be small . The balance of these considerations is to leave unaffected the conclusions in regard to comparative timing and amplitude of changes in theoretical demand and actual orders . If anything , it appears to strengthen the impression of disparity in amplitude between theoretical demand and actual orders for railroad equipment . In studying comparative timing of series bearing upon the hypothesis under consideration , the main question is whether the lead of changes in the demand for capital goods @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ range suggested by the hypothesis . In order to answer this question precisely , monthly series are needed relating to the output of finished products and to the demand for capital goods used in attaining that output . Such series are available only for recent years and are few in number . In the ones available , cyclical turning points have been determined by inspection , and the dates are presented in Table IV . The index of manufacturing production of the Federal Reserve Board may be considered , from the standpoint of cyclical timing , an adequate reflection of the volume of finished products , in the production of which such capital goods as industrial structures and machine tools play an important part . Similarly , woodworking machinery , a series that relates pri- marily to machines used in sawmills , may properly be compared with the index of lumber production . The comparison indicates that the demand for capital goods moves more in accordance with the absolute volume of the output of finished products than with the net changes in this output . In total manufacturing production , net @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cases ( 1920 , 1922 , 1924-25 , and 1926 ) , and in each , both contracts awarded for industrial construction and new orders for machine tools tend to synchronize with the volume of manufacturing production . Similarly , in lumber output , net changes show substantial lead over absolute volume in three cases ( 1921-22 , 1925 and 1926 ) , and , in all three , new orders for and shipments of woodworking machinery tend to synchronize with the absolute volume of lumber output . This evidence is subject to one qualification : the series reflecting demand for capital goods are all in dollar values at changing prices , while the series relating to production of finished products are either in quantity units or in dollar values at constant prices . It may be suggested that the turning points in the demand for capital goods would occur earlier , were the series expressed in quantity units or in dollar values at constant prices . This suggestion is , however , at least partly disposed of by the evidence of the series of woodworking machinery shipments in quantity units @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ turning points in which do not differ appreciably from those in new orders and shipments in dollar values at changing prices . The evidence presented in Table IV , slender as the statistical basis is , added to the negative conclusions with regard to timing derived from the annual series on railroad equipment , indicates that while the cycles in the demand for capital goods may lead those in the output of finished products , the lead is not of the range suggested by the hypothesis .  | The scope of the treatise is so wide that any thorough summary of its contents would exceed the limits of the present review . Such a summary would also be difficult because of the character of Professor Schumpeter 's discussion . Some of the chapters are themselves summaries of the author 's earlier writings , and would need expansion rather than condensation . Other parts are running commentaries upon specific situations , with a wealth of allusions , incisive sidelights , references to existing literature , and theoretical suggestions . Such discussion can not be summarized effectively . In still other parts , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is uncertain what limits of confidence Professor Schumpeter assigns to his statements and what in detail is the basis upon which they are made ? a comment of particular application to the discussion of the dating of cycles and the presence or absence of cycles in a given series . One must therefore select for review only a few of the numerous problems treated in the two volumes . The presentation below deals with three topics that seem to the writer to be of wide bearing and to call for critical evaluation : ( a ) the relation between distribution of entrepreneurial ability and the cyclical character of economic change ; ( b ) the four-phase scheme of the business cycle and its bearing upon statistical  | analysis ; ( c ) the three types of cycles distinguished . I shall first attempt to present Professor Schumpeter 's view on these three topics , and then formulate the questions which , in my view , are raised by his discussion . To Professor Schumpeter , business cycles are pulsations of the rate of economic evolution . Economic change in general is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for example , the demand of governments for new military weapons ; the factor of growth , by which the author means the continuous gradual changes in population and in the volume of savings and accumulation , changes that do not require drastic shifts in the combination of productive factors and thus may be attained by the ordinary , run of the mill economic agent addicted to an habitual and adaptive type of activity ; and innovations which represent material changes ( or as Professor Schumpeter defines them , changes of first order ) in the production functions . It is innovations that are of strategic importance in the evolution of capitalist economy , innovations that are usually introduced by new rather than by old firms , by new men rather than by those who already occupy prominent niches in the functioning system . Business cycles are recurrent fluctuations in the rate at which innovations are introduced into the economy , in the intensity with which entrepreneurs exercise their sui generis function of overcoming obstacles to new combinations . The reason for this discontinuity in the rate of innovations and in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ innovations at one time and their comparative scarcity at others , lies in the distribution of entrepreneurial ability . This ability to dare , to initiate , to overcome obstacles to innovations is , like many other abilities , distributed along a curve which suggests that there are few individuals endowed with such ability to any great degree and many who are equipped only to imitate and follow the pioneering efforts of the few . If then  | we envisage , in a state of equilibrium , the action of the first entrepreneur , one of high ability , we shall see that his action will be followed by a swarm of imitations , increasing in volume as time passes and as the innovation becomes a more accepted pattern of action . This uprush of innovation , accompanied by expanding credit , rising prices , rising interest rates , a relatively constant volume of total output but usually a shift in favor of producers ' goods , constitutes the period of rise in the first approximation to the business cycle . It terminates as soon as the disturbance of the equilibrium @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prices , costs and quantities , thus making it impossible to formulate rationally calculated plans for the future . This terminus is reached all the sooner because innovations are usually concentrated at any given time in one or few industrial areas , and the increase in risk and uncertainty is made more effective by the exhaustion of innovation opportunities . At the turn , the rate of innovation slackens and a period of readjustment ensues in which entrepreneurs take stock and the economy recedes to a new equilibrium level , a level which both growth and innovations make higher than that from which the expansion started . During this period of recession credit volumes , prices and interest rates decline but total output is likely to average larger than in the preceding prosperity . This first approximation , the primary model , thus accounts for a two-phase cycle , a departure upward from equilibrium level and a recession to a new equilibrium level . But conditions under which entrepreneurial activity takes place in reality must next be considered : the errors of forecast ; the speculative tendencies of individuals ; the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to prolong and exaggerate a movement once initiated . These surface factors , which , in Professor Schumpeter 's view , often claim the attention of business-cycle students to the exclusion of the fundamental process of innovation , may and do intensify the rise during the prosperity phase beyond the level to which it would have been carried by the stream of innovations proper ; and  | during recession they reenforce the deflation , carrying it often below the equilibrium level into depression . When this occurs , the economy returns to equilibrium whenever the forces of depression spend themselves , a point determined largely by the peculiarities of the secondary factors that produce the abnormal contraction . But the equilibrium reached by recovery is not necessarily identical with that which would have been attained had the depression not taken place . The combination of the first and second approximations yields a four-phase cycle of prosperity , recession , depression , and revival . The upper turning point is determined essentially by the primary model , whereas the revival point is determined largely by secondary factors . But whatever the difference @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ depression and revival , the four-phase model of the cycle must constitute the paramount guide in the statistical study of time series . Cyclical units should be defined not from trough to trough or peak to peak but from the beginning of prosperity , the point where the series begins to rise above the normal level to the end of revival , the point where the series again reaches the new normal . Professor Schumpeter dates the terminal points of the cycles that he distinguishes in accordance with this rule , and advocates for time-series analysis a method , originally proposed by Ragnar Frisch , that calls for establishing points of inflection . Under certain conditions these points of inflection are in the neighborhood of equilibrium levels and their establishment will thus serve to ascertain the terminal dates of the cycles , if not the turning points that divide prosperity from recession and depression from revival . Since inflection points suggest equilibrium levels in cyclical movements only if the rate of cyclical rise or decline diminishes as the curve pulls away from the equilibrium line , Professor Schumpeter accepts this condition @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Neither the primary , nor the secondary , model implies necessarily one type of cycle only , i.e. , a cycle of approximately the same duration and intensity . On the contrary , differences  | in the magnitude of various innovations suggest that there may be several kinds of cycles differing in duration and in amplitude as the innovations with which they are associated differ in magnitude and the time they require to attain their proper place in the economy . Presumably the same is true of the secondary factors : they may and do differ with reference to the span of time during which they produce their exaggerating effect upon expansion and liquidation . It is thus theoretically plausible to expect cycles of varying duration and intensity , their types and their interrelations to be determined largely by observation . Professor Schumpeter finds that in order to account for the cycles that can be observed historically and statistically during the last century and a half three types of cycles should be distinguished : long waves of about fifty years in duration ( Kondratieffs ) ; intermediate waves of about eight @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ short waves of about forty months in duration ( Kitchins ) . Unfortunately nowhere in the two volumes is there a chronology stating the terminal dates of the various types of cycles distinguished by Professor Schumpeter for the three countries with which he deals in his historical and statistical sections . But the historical outlines in Volume I are concerned with establishing the Kondratieffs and the Juglars in the three countries before the World War ; and in the detailed discussion of the years since 1919 there are a few specific indications of the dates of some Kitchins.  | The concurrence of these three types of cycles , each christened by the name of the economist who was chiefly responsible for claiming validity for it , accounts , according to Professor Schumpeter , for the diversity in the duration and amplitude of cycles observed in time series ; and it explains why some " depressions , " such as those of 1825-30 , 1873-78 , and 1929-34 , were so long and so deep a result of coincidence in phase of at least two of the three types of cycles . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ same fundamental set of causes , described by the primary model ; in all we should expect four or two phases as the secondary factors are or are not sufficiently effective to produce depressions and revivals . As to the relations among these three types of cycles , two observations are made by Professor Schumpeter . First , the theoretical model requires that " each Kondratieff should contain an integral number of Juglars and each Juglar an integral number of Kitchins " ( p. 172 ) . The immediate consequence of this is that the first years in the prosperity phase of each Kondratieff coincide with Juglar and Kitchin prosperities ; and the same is true of the immediately preceding revivals . Second , " barring very few cases in which difficulties arise , it is possible to count off , historically as well as statistically , six Juglars to a Kondratieff and three Kitchins to a Juglar ? not as an average but in every individual case " ( p. 174 ) . This empirical conclusion , however , is not called for by the theoretical scheme ; indeed the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the shorter type cycles comprised within each cyclical unit of longer duration . Footnote  | This summary bare and oversimplified as it is , reveals the significance of Professor Schumpeter 's theoretical scheme and empirical findings . The close connection in this scheme between business cycles and the general process of evolution of capitalist economy ; the direct bearing of the theoretical model of the cycle , with its equilibrium levels and its four phases , upon the statistical analysis of time series ; the specificity of the threecycle scheme in the duration , interrelation and concurrence of the three cycle types ? all contribute to an impression of a well integrated intellectual structure that elegantly spans the gap between controlled imagination and diversified reality . But further reflection and even a partial scrutiny of the evidence presented in the two volumes raise a host of crucial questions and disturbing doubts . In selecting some of these for discussion we may begin with the association claimed to exist between the distribution of entrepreneurial ability and discontinuity in the making of innovations ? in other words , their " bunching . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any given time of high entrepreneurial ability ( and the plenitude of imitators ) and the bunching of innovations ? Given an infinite supply of possible innovations ( inventions and other new combinations ) , why need entrepreneurial genius defer the next pioneering step until his preceding one has been so imitated and expanded that the upsetting of the equilibrium stops even him in his tracks ? If imitators are ready to follow as soon as the entrepreneurial genius has proved the innovation successful , the disturbance of equilibrium at that time is certainly not sufficient to bar this genius from turning to new feats and thus initiating an uprush in another industry . Why should we not conceive these applications of high entrepreneurial ability , whether represented by one man or several as flowing in a continuous stream , a stream magnified in a constant proportion by the efforts of the imitators ? A close reading of Professor Schumpeter 's text , both in this  | book and in his earlier treatise on the Theory of Economic Development , indicates that he expects high entrepreneurial ability to pause after the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The theory definitely calls for discontinuity over time in the operation of entrepreneurial ability . Such discontinuity can not be derived from a distribution of entrepreneurial ability at any given moment of time , except on one assumption ? namely , that the ability called for is so scarce that it may be completely absent during some periods of time while present at others . But this implies cycles in the supply of entrepreneurial ability , whether the supply be conceived in terms of individuals or of phases in the life of various individuals . I am not sure that Professor Schumpeter would view this assumption as valid . Further reading and reflection suggest two possible alternative explanations of the bunching of innovations . The first is that by definition an innovation so disturbs existing economic relations that its introduction on a significant scale ( i.e. , by the first entrepreneur plus the imitators ) will necessarily prevent any other innovation from being successful so long as a process of readjustment has not taken place . This answer means , of course , that an innovation , by definition , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is defined as the kind of change that produces , upon its introduction , a phase of prosperity and of recession . And correspondingly , an entrepreneur sui generis is one who by definition introduces innovations that by definition result in a two-phase cycle . Hence by definition there is a necessary association between two-phase cycles and the existence of entrepreneurs . This , however , is such an obvious tautology as to be inacceptable as a significant interpretation or extension of Professor Schumpeter 's position . The second answer , suggested by Professor Schumpeter references to the concentration of innovations in restricted industrial areas and by the emphasis in his historical discussion of technological changes , is that the discontinuity or bunching in the rate of innovation rests essentially upon discontinuity or bunching in the supply of possible new combinations , particu- larly of technological inventions . This , in essence , assumes cyclical fluctuations in the rate at which producers of the technical basis for innovations contribute to the stock of possible new combinations from which entrepreneurs can choose . Thus , it may be said that in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ several major inventions ( cotton textiles , iron and steel , steam engine ) ; that thereafter it was not until the 30 's of the nineteenth century that another big group of inventions , connected with steam railroads , became accessible to the entrepreneur ; and that as a result we have a two-phase cycle of prosperity in the last quarter of the eighteenth century and of recession in the next quarter . Whether or not this be a proper extension of Professor Schumpeter 's theory , the argument that technological and other opportunities for economic innovation are not necessarily continuous over time has some plausibility . There may be periods of hiatus with no big potential change on hand to stimulate and motivate the driving power of entrepreneurial genius . But this generalization , viewed as a basis for a primary model of business cycles , is subject to severe qualifications . Discontinuity of opportunity can be assumed only with reference to the most momentous innovations such as steam power , electricity , etc. , i.e. , innovations that bear upon Kondratieff cycles . We can hardly expect significant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that are associated with the Juglar or the Kitchin cycles . Furthermore , even with reference to the major innovations that may be associated with fifty-year spans , there is some indication that the long lapse between the appearance of the inventions is itself partly conditioned by the functioning of the economic system . For example , we may say that electricity did not become available sooner because it had to wait until the potentialities of steam power were exhausted by the economic system and until the attention of inventors and engineers was ready to be diverted to the problems of electricity . If this is so , there may be discontinuity in the appearance of inventions , but there is no necessary time lag between those major inventions as sources  | of significant economic innovations . Thus , even for application to a primary model of the Kondratieff cycle the assumption of discontinuity of technical opportunities would have to be closely scrutinized in the light of historical evidence . The queries raised above should not be interpreted as denying the importance of entrepreneurial genius or the jerky character of economic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ point only , the association between distribution of entrepreneurial ability and cyclical fluctuations in the rate of innovation , an association that appears crucial in Professor Schumpeter 's business-cycle theory . Nor need it be emphasized that the discussion above applies exclusively to the first approximation , the primary model , and neglects completely the secondary factors . It is the former that Professor Schumpeter stresses as providing the fundamental explanation of business cycles , and it is the former that contains his specific contribution . The term " secondary factors " subsumes the variety of forces treated in many other business-cycle theories , and there is a tendency in Professor Schumpeter 's discussion to slight them , to consider them at best as influences inferior to the factors cited in the first approximation . We pass now to the four-phase model of a cycle conceived in terms of departures from an equilibrium line , and the bearing of this model upon statistical analysis of time series . The procedure preferred by Professor Schumpeter involves establishing points of inflection , first in the original series , then in the line that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on , successively decomposing the total series into several cyclical lines . Professor Schumpeter himself recognizes the difficulties involved in the application of this procedure ( see page 211 , vol . I ) . There is first the delicate problem of smoothing the series so as to eliminate the effect of erratic fluctuations on the second order differences used to establish  | inflection points . A more serious difficulty arises because the assumption that the inflection points are in the neighborhood of equilibrium levels implies a specific pattern of cyclical movements ; and there is no ground for expecting cyclical fluctuations in actual series to conform to this pattern . For these reasons Professor Schumpeter does not recommend the method for general application and recognizes it only as a first approximation and a far from infallible guide . He presents applications of this method in his book to just two series : one used for purely illustrative purposes in chapter 5 , a monthly series on revenue freight loadings for 1918-1930 ( Chart III , page 218 ) and the other used for analytical purposes in chapter 8 ( Chart @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wholesale prices in the United States from 1790 to 1930 . For the rest , statistical analysis is confined to a graphic portrayal of the series , sometimes reduced to successive rates of percentage change , sometimes smoothed by a simple moving average , and in one case with a fitted trend curve and fitted cycles . The preponderant number of series are , however , left in their original form and the statistical analysis for almost all of them is in the form of verbal statements of quantitative import , based upon observation of the charts . The difficulties encountered in the matter of inflection points and the paucity of formal statistical analysis in the treatise lead to a doubt that Professor Schumpeter 's concept of equilibrium and of the four-phase model of business cycles are such as to permit of application to statistical analysis . This doubt is strengthened when it is considered that the concept calls for segregating movements of the equilibrium line caused by external factors and growth from movements caused by innovations . Hence the usual lines of secular trend , drawn so as to bisect @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the viewpoint of Professor Schumpeter 's theoretical model . This model requires , as I see it , that the line underlying any given cycle should express at any given time only the level that can be maintained by the activity of the inert adaptive  | character not properly dignified by the term entrepreneurial . To segregate this level from the slant given to the line by the cumulation of innovations is indeed difficult . By refusing to deal with secular trend lines based upon formal characteristics ( irreversibility , smoothness , etc . ) Professor Schumpeter sacrifices the possibility of basing the distinction between long-term movements and cyclical variations upon observable criteria . By refusing to accept peaks and troughs as guides in the determination of cycles he scorns the help provided by that statistical characteristic of cycles in time series . One can not escape the impression that Professor Schumpeter 's theoretical model in its present state can not be linked directly and clearly with statistically observed realities ; that the extreme paucity of statistical analysis in the treatise is an inevitable result of the type of theoretical model @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and qualitative discussion is a consequence of the difficulty of devising statistical procedures that would correspond to the theoretical model . The validity of the three-cycle schema , the last topic under discussion , hinges largely on the nature of the historical evidence and qualitative analysis . As already indicated , Professor Schumpeter does not claim for the **26;2112;TOOLONG combination any necessary connection with his theoretical model . But he does present it as a schema called for by historical reality , as a classification fully justified by the way it describes successive business cycles since the last quarter of the eighteenth century in the three countries under observation . Yet , in spite of numerous references to this classification in the historical outlines , in spite of the emphatic way in which its validity is claimed in the treatise , there remain serious doubts that such validity has been demonstrated or could be demonstrated with the type of materials and analysis employed by Professor Schumpeter.  | The cycle is essentially a quantitative concept . All its characteristics such as duration , amplitude , phases , etc. , can be conceived @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only with the help of quantitative data . Furthermore , the distinction between cycles and irregular movements traceable to external factors can be made at all adequately only if the successive cycles are measured and averages are struck in which the influence of external factors can be reduced , if not eliminated . This does not mean that observation of cycles on the basis of qualitative information is neither possible nor valuable . For whatever quantities reflect cyclical changes , these changes result from discrete acts by individuals or non-personal units in the social system . Some of these discrete acts may be recorded singly and separately in historical records ; of others a crude count or impression can be derived from contemporary qualitative reports . The study of such qualitative data in conjunction with statistics is indispensable for a close analysis of the latter . And the former without the assistance of the latter can often give a crude idea of the succession of cyclical phases and of the larger differences in amplitude between one cycle and another . But it is difficult to see how qualitative records can yield @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a single type of cycle ; how one could , on the basis of historical records alone , distinguish the dating and phases of several concurrently existing cycle types . The question raised bears most upon the establishment of the Kondratieff cycles . To establish the existence of cycles of a given type requires first a demonstration that fluctuations of that approximate duration recur , with fair simultaneity , in the movements of various significant aspects of economic life ( production and employment in various industries , prices of various groups of goods , interest rates , volumes of trade , flow of credit , etc. ) ; and second , an indication of what external factors or peculiarities of the economic system proper account for such recurrent fluctuations . Unless the former basis is laid , the cycle type distinguished can not be accepted as affecting  | economic life at large ? it may be specific to a limited part of the country 's economic system . Unless the second , theoretical , basis is established there is no link that connects findings relating to empirical observations of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ given period of time with the broader realm of already established knowledge . Neither of these bases has ever been satisfactorily laid for the Kondratieff cycles . Kondratieff 's own statistical analysis refers largely to price indexes , interest rates , or volumes of activity in current prices ? series necessarily dominated by the price peaks of the Napoleonic wars , of the 187o 's ( not unconnected with the Civil War in this country ) , and of the World War . The prevalence of such fifty-year cycles in volumes of production , either total or for important branches of activity , in employment , in physical volume of trade , has not been demonstrated ; nor has the presumed existence of these cycles been reconciled with those of a duration from 18 to 25 years established for a number of production series in this and other countries . Nor has a satisfactory theory been advanced as to why these 50-year swings should recur : the explanations tend to emphasize external factors ( inventions , wars , etc. ) without demonstrating their cyclical character in their tendency to recur as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ another group of external factors of proven " cyclicity . " These doubts as to the validity of the Kondratieff cycles are not dispelled by the evidence Professor Schumpeter submits . The part of his discussion that deals with qualitative , historical evidence leaves unanswered two crucial questions . The first refers to the particular aspect of activity that is considered as revealing the Kondratieff cycles and is thus observed to establish the dates . Such observation obviously can not relate to economic activity at large , for qualitative data on the course of general economic activity necessarily deal with short-term changes and would not serve to differentiate the underlying Kondratieffs from the much more clearly marked shorter cyclical swings . Therefore , in order to set the dates of Kondratieffs , one must choose some activity particu- larly sensitive to these long swings . The natural choice would be the economic innovations whose introduction forms the substance of Kondratieff prosperities . But as Professor Schumpeter observes , such innovations usually make their appearance before the Kondratieff that is associated with them . Thus steam railroads began to be constructed before @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and electricity was well known before the Kondratieff associated with it began in 1898 . One then tends to infer that a Kondratieff begins when the underlying major innovation is being introduced on a large scale and at a rapid rate . But does this mean that the prosperity of a Kondratieff is the period at which the introduction of the innovation displays the maximum absolute or percentage rate of increase ? 2 One searches in vain for a definite formulation of the criterion by which historical evidence is analyzed to distinguish the Kondratieff cycles from the Juglars and used to establish the terminal and the four phase dates for the former . The second question raised by the discussion of the Kondratieffs in the light of historical evidence refers to the treatment of " accidental " external factors and of transient secondary influences . As Professor Schumpeter himself recognizes , any given cyclical turn , in any observable type of cycle , can be attributed to one or several specific historical events , i.e. , to some transient accidental circumstances in the neighborhood of the turn . And yet it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ accidental concomitants and the underlying cyclical swings . As already indicated , this segregation is accomplished in statistical analysis by averaging or similar devices . In the treatment of qualitative , historical evidence the task is more difficult . It might be facilitated by a classification of various types of factors that would distinguish in advance cyclical factors from others ; but even then the con- currence in historical reality of accidental and cyclical factors might necessitate what is essentially quantitative analysis . It is not clear how Professor Schumpeter deals with the problem . In some cases he recognizes an " accidental " disturbance that produces what appears to be a cyclical turn , but does not disregard this turn as conforming with his schema . In other cases he attributes the departure of reality from the hypothesis to accidental historical conditions ( notably in explaining why prices continued to decline in the United States after 1842 when there was supposedly a Kondratieff prosperity ) . The opportunity in such treatment for personal judgment is perhaps inevitable in the use of qualitative data ; but the unfortunate consequences for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their dates are not diminished thereby . As to the statistical basis for the recognition of Kondratieff cycles , Professor Schumpeter 's approach , for reasons already indicated , can yield little of value . The failure to follow articulate methods of time series analysis reduces the statistical methods to a mere recording of impressions of charts , impressions with which it is often difficult to agree . To quote but two instances . ( 1 ) In Charts XII and XIII ( pp. 486 and 487 ) Professor Schumpeter presents data on pig iron consumption ( annual ) for the United States , the United Kingdom and Germany for the period roughly from 1857 to 1913 ; and comments that the lines reflect " all three cycles . . . very well " ( p. 485 ) . But I , for one , can not detect any traces of Kondratieffs in the lines either for Germany or for the United Kingdom ; and would record two long cycles in the American series , one from 1857 to 1875 and the other from 1875 to 1895 , rather than a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a monthly index of industrial production for the United States from 1897 to 1935 . Professor Schumpeter then comments that the movement during 1898-1912 shows a rate of increase lower than that from 1922 to 1929 ; and this is cited to support the existence of a Kondratieff prosperity ( 1898-1912 ) , as contrasted with a subsequent Kondratieff recession that is assumed to  | terminate in 1925.3 But a glance at the chart suggests to me that the line from 1898 to 1912 is appreciably steeper than the line that would characterize the post-war decade ; and that any higher rate that might be shown by a line drawn from 1922 to 1929 would be due exclusively to the position of the terminal years in the shorter-term cycles . Whichever judgment of the charts is correct , disagreement is easily possible ; and such ease is an eloquent testimony to the insufficiency of the crude statistical procedures followed in the treatise to provide a basis for establishing cycle types of so elusive a character as the Kondratieffs . The Kitchins are too short and perhaps too mild to be discernible @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ years before 1919 . Hence the distinction between the Juglars and the Kitchins is based in the treatise largely upon statistical evidence , i.e. , again largely upon the impression conveyed by the charts . The series used for the pre-war years are almost exclusively annual , and the comments refer to the existence of the Kitchins rather than to their dates . Only for the years since 1919 do the plenitude of quantitative and detailed data and the emphasis that Professor Schumpeter places upon a thorough discussion of changes during these recent two decades , lead him to date the Kitchins and use them together with the Kondratieffs and Juglars to explain the successive economic conjunctures in the three countries under his observation . The evidence brought together in the two volumes , and still more other available measures of cyclical behavior , suggest with some plausibility the desirability of distinguishing more than one type of cycle , or recognizing in addition to the shortest unit of cyclical swing observable in the economic system others appreciably longer . But whether the distinction should be drawn in the specific form suggested @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Annual series provide too crude a guide for establishing cycles as short as the Kitchins . A mere observation of " notches " on the surface of Juglars , or even of prominent short-term oscillations would not suffice : either result could be produced by random variations , and these short-term variations would have to be analyzed to demonstrate that they could not be clue to mere chance . Hence only monthly series could be used as statistical evidence of Kitchins . But the series presented in the treatise cover too short a period to provide sufficient basis for the generalization that Kitchins existed in the past . And no direct evidence seems to be presented to confirm the generalization so explicitly made that it is possible to count three Kitchins for every Juglar . The critical evaluation above of what appear to be important elements in Professor Schumpeter 's conclusions , viewed as a systematic and tested exposition of business cycles , yields disturbingly destructive results . The association between the distribution of entrepreneurial ability and the cyclical character of economic activity needs further proof . The theoretical model @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ yield a serviceable statistical approach . The three-cycle schema and the rather rigid relationship claimed to have been established among the three groups of cycles can not be considered , on the basis of the evidence submitted , even tolerably valid ; nor could such validity be established without a serviceable statistical procedure . The core of the difficulty seems to  | lie in the failure to forge the necessary links between the primary factors and concepts ( entrepreneur , innovation , equilibrium line ) and the observable cyclical fluctuations in economic activity . And yet this evaluation does injustice to the treatise , for it stresses the weaknesses of the discussion and overlooks almost completely its strength . Granted that the book does not present a fully articulated and tested business-cycle theory ; that it does not actually demonstrate the intimate connection between economic evolution and business cycles ; that no proper link is established between the theoretical model and statistical procedure ; that historical evidence is not used in a fashion that limits sufficiently the area of personal judgment ; or that the validity of three types of cycles @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the treatise that it raises all these questions ; that it emphasizes the importance of relating the study of business cycles to a study of the underlying long-term movements ; that it calls for emphasis on the factors that determine the rate and tempo of entrepreneurial activity ; that it demands a statistical procedure based upon a clearly formulated concept of the business cycle ; and that it valiantly attempts to use historical evidence . In all these respects the volumes offer favorable contrast with many a book published in recent years on business cycles , whether of the type in which abstract reasoning is unsullied by contact with observable reality or of the opposite category in which mechanical dissection of statistical series is the sum total of the author 's achievement . Furthermore , both the summary and the critical discussion above necessarily fail to show the achievements of the treatise in providing illuminating interpretations of historical developments ; incisive comments on the analysis of cyclical fluctuations in various aspects of economic activity ; revealing references to an extraordinarily wide variety of publications in directly and indirectly related fields @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It is difficult to convey the flavor of the book except by saying  | that in many of its parts it reads like an intellectual diary , a record of Professor Schumpeter 's journey through the realm of business cycles and capitalist evolution , a journal of his encounters there with numerous hypotheses , diverse historical facts , and statistical experiments . And Professor Schumpeter is a widely experienced traveller , whose comments reveal insight combined with a sense of reality ; of wide background against which to judge the intellectual constructs of men and the vagaries of a changing social order . Thus , whatever the shortcomings of the book as an exposition of a systematic and tested theory of business cycles , these shortcomings are relative to a lofty conception of the requirements such theory should meet . It is the cognizance of these requirements that makes the book valuable even to one who may not be interested in the author 's comments on the various and sundry historical , statistical and theoretical matters . But these comments are of high suggestive value and should , if given @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and statistical study of business cycles and economic evolution . It is my sincere hope that Professor Schumpeter 's labor embodied in the treatise will be repaid by an extensive utilization of it by students in the field , aware though they may be of the tentative character of his conclusions and of the personal element in some of his comments and evaluations.  | Business cycles characterize the short-term behavior of only some economic societies . To quote from Wesley C. Mitchell 's writings : " Business cycles do not become a prominent feature of economic experience in any community until a large proportion of its members have begun to live by making and spending money incomes . . . . Further , there is evidence that business cycles are most pronounced in those industries which are dominated by full-fledged business enterprises . . . " ( Business Cycles : The Problem and Its Setting , New York 1927 , p. 182 ) . And in the more recent writings business cycles are defined as " a type of fluctuation found in the aggregate economic activity of nations that organize their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , New York 1946 , p. 3 , italics mine ) . Viewed in their international aspects , economic trends affect the economic organizations of the several nations in different ways ; and at any given time may delimit the area in the world in which business cycles can flourish . Hence in considering the effect of economic trends upon business cycles we must first examine the characteristics of economic organization of nations that constitute the milieu within which business cycles , as we understand them , are an expected and recognized aspect of short-term behavior.  | These characteristics may be set forth as : ( 1 ) a high level of the technical arts ( using the term technical ' most broadly ) associated with the industrial system ; ( 2 ) the dominance of business enterprise as a unit of economic organization ; ( 3 ) relatively free and peaceful state of economic relations among national units . The bearing of these characteristics may now be indicated . 1 . That a high level of the technical arts , associated with the industrial system , is ordinarily taken as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has two implications . The level of technique assumed means that mankind controls various natural calamities to a point where man-made disturbances like business cycles can be felt and can constitute a serious problem . To use an extreme illustration ? in the lath through the 14th centuries , when medieval European communities suffered at frequent intervals from famines and epidemics and a calamity like the Black Death could wipe out half of a country 's urban population in a year , there could be little question of cycles originating in the sphere of economic activity ; nor could there be much long term calculation or planning of economic activity ? of the type pursued by business and other enterprises in modern times . Confirmation of this statement will be found in Dr. Mitchell 's discussion in Business Cycles , of Scott 's annals of early disturbances in preindustrial England and in his comments on the business annals for China for recent decades . If the high level of technique , and the consequent freedom from natural calamities , is a permissive condition of business cycles as a man- or society-made @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ technology is accompanied by large investment in durable capital , by associated connection between durable capital and long-term financing , and by a characteristic structure of the national product in its division between consumption and capital formation . The crucial part played by capital goods industries and long-term investment in generating cycles ? unless restrained by some specially designed social policies ? need not be expounded in detail here .  | 2 . The second feature of economies that are the habitat of business cycles ? the dominance of business enterprise ? needs no protracted explanation . However , two aspects of this dominance should be clearly distinguished . The first is that it imposes a pattern of rational calculation and pecuniary motivation upon economic activity ? freeing it from the qualifying influence of extra-market , extra-economic factors . The basic differences between the motives and criteria by which production , distribution and consumption are guided within the family . the state , or some nonprofit institutions , on the one hand , and profit seeking business enterprises , on the other , are marked . It is only to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ activity is guided by the pecuniary calculus and a search for profits by business enterprises , that business cycles constitute an important feature of its behavior . The second aspect of the dominance of business enterprise , perhaps more problematical in its bearing upon business cycles , is the extent to which it calls for a sufficient number and variety of units to result in effective competition , for independence of action of individual units ( absence of collusion ) ? which in its accentuated form is what Karl Marx refers to as the anarchy of capitalist production . The significance of this point may be illustrated by the extreme example of a national economy in which there is a single , huge business enterprise . Of course , one might ask whether such an enterprise would not inevitably be the state , and hence not a pure business enterprise . Assume then that there are four or five such giants . Could business cycles occur under such conditions ; and if they did , would they not be quite different from business cycles as we know them ? It seems @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a sufficiently large number of enterprises and of a wide area for their independent action in competitive conditions ? although it is difficult to formulate the condition more specifically . 3 . The final characteristic of economic society noted as a prerequisite for business cycles ? relatively peaceful and free relations among nations ? may also be viewed from two angles .  | The first is that the absence of armed conflicts of shattering proportions is similar to the absence of profound natural calamities which the controls of advanced technology bring about . In Scott 's annals for pre-industrial England , which Dr. Mitchell quotes as a record of conditions in which business cycles could not flourish , wars and war scares play a prominent part . Clearly if industrial societies of the world are to be plagued every twenty-five years or so by conflicts of the magnitude of the last two world wars , cycles may survive ; but they will be so dominated by preparation for , conduct of , and recovery from wars , that the fluctuations will scarcely be business cycles in the ordinary sense of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ relatively peaceful , and consequently free , relations among nations , there is the positive aspect bearing upon business cycle theory and study . The mechanism of such relations , in the complex interrelation of money standards and flows , movements of commodities in foreign trade , of population across the boundaries , of shortand long-term funds , all play important parts in propagating business cycles from one country to another and in accelerating or retarding their course within any given country . This does not mean that were the industrial countries completely isolated , business cycles could not originate and flourish in them . But it may be claimed that the worldwide impact of the phenomenon in question is an important element in the attention directed toward them ; and the existence of channels by which they can be spread or stemmed , an important element in their explanation . If , then , we accept as basis for further discussion the thesis that business cycles are phenomena peculiar to countries that have reached the level of an industrial economy , are dominated by business enterprise , and live in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may be asked how the observable economic trends are affecting the conditions in which business cycles can occur . Do these trends indicate an extension or contraction of the area over which business cycles can transpire or recur without so extreme a  | modification of their pattern as to raise a question whether they belong to the same species ? Since I know of no single study that summarizes the basic trends in economic organization of nations for the last 15o to 200 years , I am forced to look at the evidence that is easily available and precipitate generalizations that are too blunt and that perforce overlook some important aspects . But the conclusions seem fairly clear . The period witnessed the spread of the industrial system . Despite differences among nations , there was a marked extension of the advanced methods associated with the application of experimental science to problems of production ? first clearly manifested in the agricultural and industrial revolutions in England , the former beginning in the early and the latter in the late 18th century . So far as the extension of the industrial system @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of an economic structure in which deferred consumption and large durable capital investments were important , this particular trend meant an extension over the world of the area in which business cycles could occur . The picture with respect to the dominance of business enterprises is different . At first , the example of England in the economic sphere and the political revolution under the leadership of France meant not only emphasis upon the high social value of the individual business entrepreneur but also reduction in the activities of the state . The extension of the industrial revolution to the European continent after the Napoleonic wars and its somewhat later spread to the United States did mean a marked extension of the area dominated by business enterprise in a relatively free form and enjoying the advanced base of technical arts . To some extent the process continued after the first half of the 19th century . But beyond that date new elements entered the picture . The industrial system was still spreading , but it penetrated into countries in which , for one reason or another , free business enterprise was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ upon industrialization earlier . In Germany and Japan the survival of  | authoritarian , largely feudal elements , was quite pronounced ; and while the shift toward the industrial system did represent a more democratic political organization and a freer system of business enterprise than had existed before , there is some question whether dominance of business enterprise ' had quite the same meaning as in England , France , or the United States . And , of course , there is the even more striking case of Russia , where the relaxation of authoritarian elements in social structure that accompanied the early phase of industrialization was succeeded by a highly authoritarian regime , in which a forced draft of the industrialization process was accompanied by dominance of a single party state . Why was the spread of the industrial system from its original locus in England to other countries , after a time , accompanied , on an international , and in the case of Russia , intra-national scale , by an increasing weight of the state and of authoritarian elements in the social and economic structure ? Possibly , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that induces the follower countries , as distinct from the pioneer countries , to use the engine of the state to force an accelerated industrialization process by authoritarian means . Perhaps in some of these older countries the combination of population , resources , and the survival of strong elements inimical to the industrial system created a situation in which industrialization was possible only with such drastic rearrangements and breakage of the cake of historical custom as could be effected by a strong state alone , ruthless in its endeavors and not too mindful of the welfare of the existing population . The validity of such hypotheses is of extreme importance for the prognosis of possible industrialization in the huge populated countries , such as India and China , that have not yet entered the phase of industrialization to any marked extent . All we need say in the present connection is that , upon a view of the world at large , the areas in which dominance of business enterprise has accompanied industrialization accounted for a diminishing proportion of all industrialized areas ; and that partly because of this trend @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ development of business capitalism from within , even in the older industrial countries the dominance of business enterprise has begun to recede . Nor do the changing relations among nations show a clear trend of extension throughout the world of conditions under which business cycles can flourish . The century that elapsed between the end of the Napoleonic wars and World War I , roughly dated from 1815 to 1914 , was a peaceful era , with international economic flows ? of commodities , men , and capital ? relatively free , tariffs and the like notwithstanding . To this period belong the free trade policy of England , the huge free migration of people , and the large and relatively free wanderings of capital . But since 188o , and particularly from 1914 to the present , conditions have , on the whole , been markedly different . Two wars , catastrophic in their magnitude ; a dislocation of the international network of trade , migration , and capital investment ; an increasing degree of subjection of international flows to extra-economic motives ? all are phenomena too familiar to need @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the future , the least that can be said is that factors indicative of a possible return to the peaceful and freer international conditions of the 19th century are conspicuous by their absence . The picture that thus emerges from a broad look at the last century and a half is that although technical conditions have spread over increasingly wider areas where business cycles could emerge and run their course , social and international conditions have , at least since 188o and particularly since 1914 , tended to restrict the free operation of business enterprise ; and have thus narrowed the relative proportion of the industrialized world in which business cycles could occur . Furthermore , this trend in social and international conditions may well persist ; and we should expect that business cycles will affect a decreasing proportion of the world , or if present , will be drastically modified in their internal and external characteristics .  | So far we have discussed economic trends in their international setting . Let us shift the focus to a single country , and consider the economic trends within it in their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ should be one in which business cycles can occur , i.e. , one which throughout its observed history of the last one and a half to two centuries was marked by prevalence of the industrial system and dominance of business enterprise . Our guiding thread is the view that business cycles are alterations in the rate of economic activity that characterize and affect simultaneously the major aspects of a nation 's economy ? production , prices , employment , income payments , profits , etc . In this synchronism of up and down movements in the various sectors of a national economy lies the crux of the business cycle problem . This suggests , by the way , that from the viewpoint of the problem involved , it is business cycles in economies characterized by sufficient diversification that are important . Where a country 's economy is dominated by a single industry , the general cycle in the country 's economic conditions reduces itself to a single industry cycle . Only in a diversified national economy does the question arise why , despite vast technical and institutional differences in conditions among @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ title business cycles ' . This unity in diversity provides an important clue in consideration of the effects of intra-national economic trends upon business cycles . For the economic trends , so far as one can observe , differ in rate for the several sectors and aspects of the economy ; and hence bring about marked shifts in the weights to be assigned to these sectors in their contribution to any nationwide phenomenon . Economic trends affect the specific long-term composition of that diversity which , in its synchronous short-term behavior , manifests the unity of movement that we call business cycles . To use a biological analogy , this  | aspect of economic growth , important in its effect on business cycles , is differentiation . But another aspect of intra-national economic trends may also be important ? viz. , the very rate of sustained increase ( or decline ) in the magnitude of the nation as an economic unit . If for purposes of discussion , we accept total output or production ( most broadly understood ) as a measure of a nation 's economic magnitude ; and define @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at least twenty-five years , we can define the rate of a nation 's economic growth as the rate of sustained increase in its total output . This rate of economic growth is different for different nations and periods ; and clearly variations or differences in it may affect characteristics of business cycles . Two characteristics of business cycles we will deal with are : ( a ) duration ? meaning the full span from the initial to terminal trough ; ( b ) amplitude ? meaning the decline in the rate of movement from the period of expansion to the subsequent period of contraction . How do the trends in a country 's economy , i.e. , the rate of sustained increase ( or decline ) and the shifting weight of the various sectors , affect the duration and amplitude of its business cycles ? I have no hope of giving a specific answer ? partly because the studies made so far provide no tested answer , and partly because I am not sufficiently familiar with data and studies in the field . All that can be done here is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ trends , so stated , upon the characteristics of business cycles , so defined , can be traced ? without telling what the results of such a tracing would show , or being sure that the outline suggested is the best tentative blueprint . The effects of economic trends on the duration of business cycles may be explored under four heads : ( 1 ) shift in relative importance of various sectors , distinguished ? for technical or other reasons ? by different time spans of the specific cycles that characterize them ; ( 2 ) shifts in productive and institutional conditions that cause secular trends in the span of spe- cific cycles within each sector ; ( 3 ) changes in the identity and characteristics of the sectors which , partly because of rapid growth , play a strategic and dynamic role in business cycles ; ( 4 ) changes in the rate of over-all growth . 1 . The several sectors of a country 's economy are subject to cycles of different duration , largely because technical conditions or institutional factors may make for quicker or slower response to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ observable in the production sector between , say , residential construction on the one hand , and textiles or hog production on the other . Similarly there are marked differences in duration between inventory cycles in retail trade and replacement cycles in shipbuilding ; or between cycles in long- and short-term debt structures . In a sense , nationwide business cycles may be viewed as weighted totals of specific cycles of the various sectors of the economy , with a given pattern emerging because of preponderant weight of processes with roughly equal time spans . But economic trends may cause shifts in weights for the several sectors of the economy characterized by different time spans of cyclical response , and such intersector shifts of weights affect the duration of nationwide business cycles . Offhand , it is impossible to say in what direction such secular shifts are operating ? to extend or to shorten the duration of business cycles ; and it is possible that no distinct trend is thus imparted to the duration of business cycles . 2 . Within each sector , distinguished by different time spans of cyclical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ span itself ? an effect of changes in either technical or institutional conditions . To illustrate , if major technical changes are made in residential construction ( say through extensive prefabrication ) and if the institutional conditions are also affected by badly needed reforms in the regulation of construction activity , the duration of the specific cycle in residential construction may well exhibit a secular shortening . If so , whatever secularly changing weight is to be assigned to residential construction in the nationwide total output , would  | have to be combined with a secular trend in the duration of specific cycles in construction . Here also it is hard to say what influence economic trends exercise on the duration of business cycles . Perhaps , on the whole , technical progress tends to reduce the time span in that it permits a prompter response to both expansion and contraction stimuli . On the other hand , many institutional factors move in the opposite direction , particularly those inherent in the shift from relatively free competition by a number of small units to a situation dominated by a few large @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ expand and , even more , to contract , particularly in the sphere of price adjustment . 3 . The consideration above of the possible impact of interand intrasector secular shifts on the duration of business cycles emphasizes the quantitative weight of each sector , but pays no attention to the fact that such purely quantitative weights may not properly reflect the strategic importance of a sector as a business cycle leader . New industries , or new areas of investment , may influence business cycles disproportionately to their weight in terms of production , employment , and the like . To put it differently , the quantitative weight of a sector in some specific aspect of the country 's economy , such as venture investment or speculation may be more important than another more orthodox measure of a sector 's weight . For example , from about 1835 to the 1870 's railroad construction appeared to be a strategic industry in business cycles in this country , in England , and in several European countries . The weight of this industry in total output , employment , and the like @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sure that even its share in total net capital formation was overwhelming . But it was an activity in which venture capital and speculative endeavor were concentrated ; and it was watched by the business community as an important indicator of the state of economic conditions . At other times , other industries may have played the role of the leader in economic growth and in cyclical expansions , e.g. , cotton textiles , steam , and iron earlier ; electricity and electric utilities later ; or automobiles and ra- dios in more recent times . Each of these industries has a production time span , and hence a cycle time span of its own ; and it tends to put its impress upon business cycles . The 10-year cycles marked by the crises of 1837 , 1847 , 1857 , and 1866 are commonly associated with the railroads ; and replacement of railroad construction by another industrial leader , say automobiles , with a shorter production span , may well be an important factor in the change in the duration of business cycles . But here again , since there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of leader industries , no generalization as to the trend in the duration of business cycles associated with this factor can be made . 4 . We come finally to the question whether the rate of overall economic growth affects the duration of business cycles . The question has meaning to the extent that we envisage the business cycle processes as having momenta of their own ; and the conditions reflected in the rate of growth as exogenous factors that can either retard or accelerate the cyclical processes . One may first assume that a rapid rate of economic growth would tend to prolong periods of cyclical expansion and shorten periods of cyclical contraction . A sustained secular decline would have a reverse effect . A change in the rate of economic growth would have similar consequences ; and in fact if the rate of over-all growth in a country tends to recede , other conditions being equal , the periods of cyclical contraction would tend to be somewhat longer than they would be otherwise . But the periods of cyclical expansion would be shorter than before , and the effect @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from such general considerations . However , since public attention is ordinarily focussed on the contraction or depression phase , and tends to take the expansion phases as the expected normal , prolongation of depressions is generally understood to be an aggravation of the business cycle problem . All recent discussion about economic maturity is very much colored by the fear that economic growth factors have become less effective in pulling the economy out of its depression tail spins .  | A somewhat more elusive connection may be suggested . In a business economy , with no regulation of economic growth , the latter may be accompanied by disparate movements in the several sectors ? in which the more rapidly growing ones quickly reach what is temporarily a disproportionate weight in the economy . The higher the rate of over-all growth , the more quickly such secular disequilibria are reached ? to be corrected by a cyclical contraction , which in turn may be short because of the lifting power of the large secular potential . There may thus be some basis for associating high rates of over-all secular change with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ long durations . The scheme above by which the effects of intranational economic trends on the duration of business cycles were traced may be applied to amplitude . Here also we distinguish various sectors in the economy , by the sensitiveness of their response to business cycles as reflected in amplitude ; then study intersector shifts in weights and secular shifts in the amplitude of cyclical response within each sector . Here also the succession of different industries or sectors in the role of dynamic bellwether may mean , given differences in amplitude of response , changes in the amplitude of business cycles . Finally , changes in the rate of over-all growth may exercise some effect upon the differential rates of movement during business cycles ? with a suggestion , although none too clear , of wide amplitudes of cyclical change per year being associated with high rates of secular growth . While the application of the scheme to changes in the amplitude of business cycles requires no further discussion , one additional comment might be made . In the case of amplitude , there is some suggestion of compensatory @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in that a secular decline in the sensitiveness of cyclical response in one aspect of economic activity is likely to be compensated by a secular rise in the sensitiveness of cyclical response in another related aspect of economic activity . To illustrate : with the shift from vigorous competition among a large number of relatively small  | enterprises to the domination of some industries by a few large enterprises , there may have been a secular decline in the cyclical sensitiveness of prices . But for this very reason there may have been an increased sensitiveness of cyclical response in production and employment . The failure to raise prices during expansion removed at least one brake upon expansion of production and employment ; the failure to cut prices during contraction ( either by surviving enterprises or via failures and reorganization ) may have removed a brake upon contraction in production and employment . The shift in popular concern aroused by business cycles from one about solvency and the fate of business enterprises to one about employment and the fate of employee groups is perhaps associated with the trends just stated . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sensitiveness of foreign trade ( due , e.g. , to state intervention and control ) may cause a secular rise in the sensitiveness of domestic trade ? particularly in a country in which business cycles tend to have a greater amplitude and a different timing from that characterizing the totality of countries with which it trades . Indeed , one is tempted to entertain the theory that under given conditions of business organization and productive technology , there is a constant business cycle potential , an elan cyclique ; and that , if secular trends constrict its manifestations in one aspect of economic activity , it will emerge all the more strongly in a compensatory movement elsewhere . However , I would not press too far this thesis of cyclical nature being driven out of the door and coming back through the window . ' A few more comments on the schemata just suggested . First , discussion has been in terms of effects of intranational economic trends upon only two characteristics of business cycles : duration and amplitude ( differential movement between expansion and contraction , per time unit ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ characteristic of business cycles ? duration of expansion and contraction separately ; total amplitude rather than rate of change per time unit ; or any other aspect of the cycle pattern .  | Second , the first two points of the scheme , the approach via intersector shifts and intrasector trends , implies an additive concept to business cycles ? views the latter as movements in a comprehensive total . But we need not interpret this implication narrowly , in the sense that the business cycles for a country are fluctuations in a single comprehensive total , such as national income . We can retain the proper view of business cycles as roughly synchronous movements of different aspects of a national economy with a variety of sub-components ; but treat each of the aspects as an additive total . E.g. , if we conceive the business cycle as a movement in total production , general price level , total volume of trade , etc. , each of these can be treated as the result of the simple addition involved in the approach via inter and intrapart shifts . Or if over-all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ distinguish mining , manufacturing , etc. , each of the latter can be viewed as a composite of inter and intra-trends , and then the various branches of output combined by the same procedure . In other words , nothing in the approach prevents us from driving its shafts as far down into the diversified economy as we wish and as data permit , and then by addition at successive levels , arriving at as single and as comprehensive a total as we may desire . Third , though the approach suggested may have considerable potentialities in application to various cyclical characteristics and at various levels of generality or specificity , it is nevertheless obviously limited . Clearly , the historical succession of business cycles in any country can not be fully explained by viewing their changing characteristics merely as effects of intranational economic trends along the four channels suggested above . Too many factors that may cause changes in the characteristics of successive cycles are missing . Without any attempt at a comprehensive listing , one can easily point out several of them . First , the very timing of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to which they tend to coincide or diverge , has not been considered at all . Second , certain types of disturbance lying in the international or do- mestic spheres ? such as foreign and civil wars ? are obviously important factors not covered under intranational economic trends . Finally , there is the multitude of other irregular events in the stream of history , not classifiable under economic trends or major conflicts , that can clearly produce differences in characteristics of business cycles as we study their historical succession in any country . But it is not the intention to provide here a scheme for a complete explanation of the historical diversity of business cycles . I am concerned only with indicating how economic trends in the structure and magnitude of a nation 's economy tend to affect the characteristics of its business cycles . The main purpose of such an attempt is to suggest that the basic aim of business cycle study ? the establishment both of invariant characteristics and of the limits of invariance ? can not be successfully attained without direct consideration of these economic trends and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and if trends in the structure and in the rate of growth of a national economy are marked ? even over the relatively brief historical period during which business cycles have had time to manifest themselves ? then clearly reliable generalizations concerning business cycles can be derived only by taking account of the changing secular framework within which they occur . There is no need to summarize the discussion , which is but an articulation of a simple idea . The latter is clearly suggested by the definition of business cycles , used by Dr. Mitchell , which links them with the dominance of business enterprise and emphasizes them as movements in the aggregate economic activity of a nation . The first attribute of this definition prompts a question as to the effect of international economic trends upon the area in which business enterprise is dominant ; the second as to the effect of intranational economic trends upon the stability of business cycle characteristics . And the conclusion of our  | brief consideration is simply a need for greater awareness and for a more direct account of economic trends in their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conclusions follow for emphasis in economic study , conclusions that are not less important for being so obvious and trite . The first is , of course , the need to revive the study of economic trends , and do for that aspect of economic change what Dr. Mitchell has done for the shorterterm fluctuations in his 1913 volume on business cycles and in subsequent writings . This corpus of economic study must be rescued from the neglect into which it has fallen since the days of the classical school and Karl Marx , and the problem be given the attention it deserves . It is high time that the field be cleared of the debris of discredited theories ; and of a tangled growth of semijournalistic approaches which see the new wave ' in what may easily prove to be extremely transitory aberrations of human history . It is high time that we show clearly that the various theories are merely hypotheses many of which need reformulation before they can be tested ; assemble the fundamental factual basis for study ; and examine clearly the theories , concepts , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dispassionate consideration of a well-defined realm of observable experience . The task is far from simple and in the process we may well have to abandon the snug and familiar shelter of traditional economics . But it is difficult to see how the challenge can be evaded , except at the danger of having all study of economic change lose validity , and of our remaining exposed to the variable winds of fashionable doctrines usually grounded in the limited experience of a country or two over a short stretch of history . But there are also obvious consequences to the study of business cycles proper . The first is that the rapidly changing secular milieu of business cycles , with its effects upon their characteristics along the lines suggested or other lines , makes indispensable a clear definition of the boundaries of empirical data that are being interpreted in any study . It is a most baffling feature of many theoretical writings in the field , of  | many elaborate explanations of the causes of business cycles ? especially those that employ recorded factual materials sparingly ? that the authors do @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ theories are assumed to apply . When Hawtrey and Keynes advance hypotheses for the explanation of economic cycles , it is not clear from their writings what nations and what historical periods they have in mind . Are their theories supposed to explain cycles in England and in this country alone , over the period , say , since ' Soo ? Or are they also assumed to explain business cycles in Japan and India ; or the kind of cycle that may be associated with the South Sea bubble ( 1720 ) or with the Tulip Mania ( 1634-37 ) ? I would be inclined to suspect that in many such theoretical expositions the writer almost unconsciously uses the relatively recent experience in one or two countries with which he happens to be most familiar ; that , to illustrate , when Hawtrey stressed the strategic importance of wholesalers in the business cycle , he may well have had in mind British experience during the late 19th and early loth centuries when wholesale foreign trade firms played an important role in the British economy . This specific suggestion may well @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the importance of asking what body of empirical evidence a business cycle theory that does not specify the area of historical experience is trying to organize and illuminate . Second , the consideration of international economic trends , along the lines discussed , calls for a possible extension of the concept of economic cycles , in which , in addition to business cycles proper , we may wish to distinguish other types of cycles ? associated with economies in which the business enterprise is not dominant or in which external disturbing factors , such as major wars , are important . Perhaps we should not use the term cycles ' in this connection , but talk of short-term changes of a less regular character . Whatever the semantic proprieties , there is surely need for greater attention to short-term fluctuations in countries not characterized by the combination of industrial economy , free business enterprise , and peaceful international relations . It is my impression that business cycle  | study is concentrated on the experience of England and this country , with somewhat less emphasis on that of Germany and France , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in which the combination of internal and external characteristics of economic organization was that noted . The strategic importance of extending study to the late mercantilist period or to countries in which some of these elements are missing is clear . I am not sure , e.g. , that a close examination of experience in a rigidly planned economy , such as Russia , would not reveal some cycles of its own ? which , being those of cumulative error and of subsequent correction , bear some family resemblance to business cycles as we know them in countries of free capitalist enterprise . Third , the consideration of intranational economic trends calls also for intensification of business cycle study in directions beyond the establishment of a relatively invariant , typical pattern of the rhythm in economic activity . It calls for a direct examination of the specific cycles in the different sectors of the economy that accompany the different historical periods and of the changing importance of the sectors in the country 's economic system . The task is not easy , if only because economic trends are rapid movements that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in any single secular phase . But the intensification of analysis in this direction is obviously indispensable , at least as a safeguard against unqualified use of typical or average measures derived from periods marked by pronounced and rapid secular shifts . Above all , the observations above suggest extreme caution in any economic analysis that attempts to establish invariant functions by means of historical data , that lifts out of the changing historical reality some empirical constants to fit into rigidly defined theoretical schemes , and that applies what is essentially the logic of controlled experiment to what is basically uncontrolled reality . The use of econometric methods with their probabilistic implications and claims to the establishment of invariances on the basis of a relatively short span of historical experience is subject to critical and careful scrutiny to  | see whether short-term relations have not been mistaken for long-term , and whether the formal criteria devised for solving sets of simultaneous equations are in fact a good substitute for the type of experimental controls used in other sciences to eliminate all nonrandom factors and limit variance to random sources alone @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ everything that has been said is found explicitly or implicitly in Dr. Mitchell 's writings , for the simple reason that his approach to business cycles forces awareness of the secular milieu within which these cycles occur . The only new element in the discussion is perhaps the emphasis a result partly of the accumulated experience of recent years in which economic trends have become more spectacular than they were previously ; partly of the increased supply of data in which national aggregates have become more accessible and have suggested , more directly than it was possible heretofore , the tracing of interpart and intrapart trends . But even this emphasis , which does not deny the utility of formalistic abstractions and of mechanistic analogies ? provided that one is aware of their limitations ? is in direct continuation of the intellectual tradition of which Dr. Mitchell is so notable a representative . This tradition of distrust of formalism , of recognition of complexity of historical reality , of awareness of limitations of the human mind unchecked by objectively recorded data , can still make an enormous contribution to our knowledge @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ .  | Industries are ordinarily differentiated by the raw materials they use , their productive processes , and the finished products they turn out . The extent to which the raw materials are organic , mineral , or synthetic ; domestic or foreign ; perishable or durable , puts a stamp upon the economics and sociology of an industry . That the productive process lends itself to large scale machine operation or requires the personal effort of skilled craftsmen ; can be handled by private enterprise or must be entrusted to public agencies ; does or does not require large , capital investment ? are also factors determining the economic and social patterns by which an industry is guided . Finally , the characteristics of the finished product ? the type of want it satisfies , its dependence upon foreign or domestic purchasers , the extent to which its sale can be left to private markets or must be regulated by public agencies , the manner in which demand responds to fluctuations in the purchasing power of buyers ? may serve to distinguish one industry from another , despite common raw @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ country 's industrial structure may be defined as the relative distribution of its resources and total output among the several industries differentiated in the manner just suggested . However , in considering the bearing of the industrial struc- ture upon the measurement of a nation 's total output , i.e. , its national income or product , differences among industries must be viewed from a plane somewhat broader than the purely technical one of materials , processes , and products . That one industry consumes an organic and another a mineral material does not , in and of itself , raise questions bearing upon the measurement of the two industries in estimating national income . Important questions arise only when the purely technical characteristics spell major differences in the nature of the economic institutions under whose aegis the industry functions . To illustrate : if because of the characteristics of its material , processes , and product , one industry is carried on as an integral part of the family economy , largely self-subsistent and relying to only a limited extent upon the markets , while because of the technical conditions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enterprises organized with exclusive orientation to markets , questions arise as to how the net products of the two industries are to be measured so that their contributions to national income can be compared ? Similarly , it is only to the extent that technical differences between two industries compel one to be conducted under government auspices and another under free enterprise that important problems arise in measuring the two industries in national income ; or in defining national income for two countries differing in their industrial structure with respect to the relative importance of business and government . Thus , industrial structure has a bearing upon the concept of national income so far as differences among industries are viewed as differences in the basic pattern of social and economic institutions under whose aegis the industries are carried on . Viewed in this light , three basic contrasts in industrial structure may be suggested . The first , between self-subsistent and market-oriented structures , is largely identical with the widespread distinction between industrialized and non-industrialized countries . From the viewpoint of conceptual problems , the difference between industrial and underdeveloped countries @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  | activity of the latter are likely to take place within the family and the community , not in business enterprises working for the market . National income is not difficult to define for a country that is predominantly agricultural , but in which agriculture is organized on a business basis ( e.g. , New Zealand ) . But for a country like China or India , whose major emphasis is also on agriculture but in which a great deal of agriculture ( and related processes ) is carried on within the family and rural community , it is difficult to define and approximate national income in a way comparable with that for industrialized or market bound economies . The second basic contrast ? between domestically oriented industrial structures and those heavily dependent upon foreign economies ? also gives rise to problems in defining national income , problems residing largely in a proper delimitation of the nation as a unit of measurement . The third contrast ? between privately and publicly organized industrial structures ? creates obvious problems of comparison . This paper is confined to national income problems involved in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of difference ? that between a relatively self-subsistent family or communal economy and one operated primarily by enterprises oriented to the market place .  | Problems in national income estimation for industrial and pre-industrial economies can be appraised properly only if we seek in national income some measure of the real net volume of goods produced , undistorted by duplication and unaffected by purely monetary differences in price levels . If we accept the formal accounting practices followed in the several economies and do not concern ourselves with what in fact happens under the money surface of economic circulation , we avoid many of the problems involved . The results , however , will be of limited use , since at most they give us the volume of pecuniary transactions , corrected for some types of duplication . They will fall far short of what is ordinarily wanted , viz. , a comparison of the real , unduplicated volume of commodities and services yielded by the productive systems of the two countries . The concept of national income we , therefore , adopt is the net output of commodities and services @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into the hands of ultimate consumers or into net additions to the country 's stock of capital goods . National income , thus defined , must be measured for two countries so that , despite differences in industrial structure , the real net output of commodities and services can be fairly compared . When , with this definition in mind , we inspect current estimates for countries differing in industrial structure , we are forcibly struck by the large disparity in per capita real income . Colin Clark 's compilation , Conditions of Economic  | Progress ( London , 1940 ) , illustrates the point . For 1925-34 income is measured in international units , defined " as the amount of goods and services which one dollar would purchase in the United States of America over the average of the period 1925-1934 " ( pp. 39-41 ) . In these units the picture is ( pp. 54-7 ) Per capita income for four countries designated by Clark as Great Powers ( United States of America , Great Britain , Germany and Austria , France ) is 408 Per capita income for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; Africa , excepting Algeria , Egypt , South Africa , Morocco , Tunis ; Asia , excepting China , India , Japan , Palestine , Turkey , Syria , Cyprus ; and Oceania , excepting Australia , New Zealand , Hawaii , and Guam ) is 43% The former category includes over 290 million people or somewhat less than 15 percent of the world 's population as estimated by Clark . The latter comprises over 1,100 million , or well over one-half of the world 's population . An even more extreme contrast is that between the United States and China . For the former per capita income is about 500 international units ( see pp. 54 and 56 ) ; for the latter , about 40 ( see p. 46 ) . A ratio of some lo or 12 to r between the per capita product of the most advanced industrial country and that of countries well behind in industrial development sounds plausible . Anyone who has seen , smelled , and touched the tangible industrial power of the United States and compared it with the physical apparatus of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be much greater . But if one is not too misled by purely visual or sensual contrasts and considers the figures more closely , elements emerge that justify incredulity or at least searching questions . First , in following his definition of international units Clark attempted to raise the estimates for pre-industrial countries for several elements missing in the figures ordinarily derived . Thus , for both China and India , food output ( and consumption ) was estimated not at producers ' prices in the country  | but at retail prices in an industrial economy like Great Britain ; and at least for India substantial corrections for differences in prices paid for other types of productive service , between India and Great Britain , were made . In other words , the figures are literally what they are intended to express ? the bundles of commodities and services that could be purchased in the United States during 1925-34 with 40 odd dollars . Second , with respect to economic conditions during the decade , the comparison favors the pre-industrial countries . One of the most severe industrial depressions on record @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was reflected most sensitively in the more precise national income estimates for the former . The figures for the pre-industrial countries can scarcely be said to reflect transitorily unfavorable economic conditions . Third , and most important , an average income , particularly the arithmetic mean , substantially exceeds the incomes of most individuals , since the customary size distributions are usually skewed to the right . Furthermore , what we know about the internal structure of size distributions suggests that while there is some mobility , the majority of units in any size group tend to remain in that group for several years . This means , in terms of Clark 's figures , that : ( a ) more than half the population of pre-industrial countries receive a per capita income less than 40 odd international units ; ( b ) of this half a substantial proportion , say two-thirds ( or one-third of the world total ) are in the income brackets well below 40 international units per year for a substantial period .  | Now , if we ask , could people live in the United States @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ $40 per capita , the answer would be yes , ' if they were sufficiently wealthy to have lots of possessions to sell , sufficiently lucky to have rich relations , or sufficiently bold to rob other people . The one-third to one-half of the pre-industrial population of the world would scarcely be in that position ; and if we assume that all they have produced and could consume per capita was less than 40 international units for several years , the conclusion would be that all would be dead by now . One is thus forced to conclude : ( a ) either that the estimates , even after the customary adjustments for comparability with industrial countries , are still deficient in omitting many goods produced in pre-industrial countries ; or ( b ) in fact the whole complex of goods produced and consumed is so different that we can not establish any equivalence of the type represented by Mr. Clark 's international units . We shall see from subsequent discussion that neither suspicion is unjustified . The form in which the question was raised ? how it is possible @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to survive on an income that produced , for several years , less than the equivalent of $40 per year ? obviously reflects my bias as a member of an industrial society . Personal experience and observation tell me that such an annual product is well below the starvation level . But were I a member of a pre-industrial society I might well have asked how it is pos- sible for the majority of the population in the United States to consume as much as $500 dollars per year , or whatever its equivalent would be in international units of rupees or yuans . Especially , on being told that of this huge income less than 10 percent is saved for net additions to capital stock , I might well ask how the population manages to consume so much ? given the limited amount of food one can eat , clothes one can wear , or houses one can inhabit . And a suspicion similar to that voiced above could be entertained , namely , that these income figures for industrial countries must include many categories of items that are not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and that the whole pattern of consumption and living in industrial countries is so different as to explain the ease with which these huge quantities of goods are produced and especially consumed . Let me turn now to a more direct exploration , first of the categories that may be omitted from the national income figures for pre-industrial countries but included in those for industrial countries ; second , of problems involved in the basic differences in consumption and production levels in the two types of country . In a decentralized , agricultural , self-subsistence economy many productive activities take place within the family or the local community without finding overt expression on the market . The range of such non-market activities is extremely wide , extending from the production of primary food and other materials , through their fabrication , to the provision of all kinds of services ? personal care , household operation , recreation , education , religion . Short of an intensive study of the households and of the agricultural communities for a year or longer , it is extremely difficult even to identify the contents of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its contents have been ascertained , it is even more difficult to assign values that would put these productive activities  | I I on a basis comparable with their counterparts in an industrialized market-bound economy . One is , therefore , not surprised to find that in the estimates for pre-industrial countries the statistical allowances ordinarily made to cover the value of such hidden non-market services are far from adequate . For example , in the case of India , Colin Clark allows for the retail value ( at the English price level ) of wheat and other grains , using flour prices for conversion ( op . Cit. , p. 43 ) . This means that the only domestic manufacturing of wheat and other grains allowed for is its milling into flour . But what about further fabrication carried on in the domestic economy into final consumable goods ? Likewise , in the estimates of untraded goods and services for Northern Rhodesia , Miss Deane includes " corn as meal , ground nuts after being shelled , and so on " ( loc. cit. , p. 155 ) , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , cooking , baking , etc . Even in the case of China , the excellent field studies of J. L. Buck , which provide many of the basic figures for pre-war national income estimates , do not include , and designedly so , all the productive activities carried on within the farm household . And in dealing with India 's estimate , Mr. Clark excludes the services of women on farms in order " to obtain comparability with the figures of other countries " ( p. 42 ) . While freely admitting the difficulty of including all the extra-market productive activities of a pre-industrial economy , I am inclined to argue that once a comparison between it and an industrial country is attempted , there is little justification in accepting the conventional rules of national income accounting in industrial countries . In estimating income for the United States , we exclude the services of women on farms , as we do the services of urban housewives , partly because there is no good basis for valuing them , partly because they are governed by rules different from those guiding business @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is not too large as compared with what is included . But for a pre-industrial country the latter assumption is patently invalid ; the accept- ante of primacy of business enterprise is out of the question ; and if national income is to be merely a measure of goods exchanged for money , an estimate had better not be attempted for pre-industrial countries at all . Clearly the apparent consistency of applying the rules of national income accounting in industrial countries to those in a pre-industrial economy is no consistency at all . For in scrutinizing the contents of the net output of industrial countries we find a surprising variety and volume of commodities and services that represent nothing but professional , i.e. , business pursuit of productive activities for which there is a clear counterpart within the family and community life of pre-industrial economies . The recent valuable publication of the United States Department of Commerce , National Income ( supplement to Survey of Current Business , July 1947 ) provides a wealth of data to illustrate the point . Table 30 , pp. 41-43 , gives details of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that constitutes the overwhelming proportion of national income ( as defined by the Department of Commerce ) in any except the war years . Each commodity category , except those that relate to such products of industrial civilization par excellence as automobiles and radios , represents activities for which there is a clear parallel within the family and community life of pre-industrial societies . Manufactured foods and tobacco , clothing , shoes , furniture ? all commodities that are common to both industrial and pre-industrial economies ? have market values in the former that embody a great deal of family work in the latter . And the same is true of various services . Thus , according to the Department of Commerce estimates , consumers spent over half a billion dollars on cemeteries and funerals in 1929 ; and while these functions are presumably performed satisfactorily in India and China , I can not find any allowance for them in the estimates . The American consumers spent close to one billion dollars on life insurance in 1929 . What about the value of such insurance provided by the family system of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a member who may have  | been afflicted by one of the bad turns of fortune for which life insurance is supposed to compensate in industrial societies ? But let us grant that a pre-industrial country , in adapting its resources and skills to needs , manages to develop , within the family or the community , many productive activities that are taken over , if in modified form , by market-bound business enterprises of an industrial society . What can one practicably do to provide for a fair inclusion of these non-market activities , or in some other way attain proper comparability of measurement between the two types of economy ? That one should try , by intensive field study , to get an inclusive picture of non-market productive activities in pre-industrial society is good advice , too obvious to be stressed . It is , however , a long run measure likely to yield results but slowly ? given the difficulties of proper study of pre-industrial economies and the eventual problems of assigning some magnitudes to the activities , once they have been identified . When and if such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an adequate basis for inclusive treatment , the way will be open to adjust for at least the major omissions in current estimates . Even with perforce arbitrary valuations , the inclusion of these extra-market activities will result in a smaller error than is inherent in the current estimates for preindustrial countries which tend to omit them almost completely , with the apparently single exception of foods ( in raw or semi-crude form ) retained for consumption . While waiting for such intensive studies , we might consider short-term expedients . As a tentative suggestion , advanced for discussion rather than as a tested recommendation , I would like to make two points . The first concerns activities closely connected with commodities whose market value in industrial societies enters the value of the finished goods flowing to ultimate consumers . In the case of pre-industrial societies primary and semi-finished commodities flowing into ultimate consumption should be given the prices in industrial societies of the finished , fully manufactured products they enter , not of their exact crude or semi-finished counterparts . The  | second point concerns services rendered directly to consumers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in an industrial society , specific magnitudes would be included only for those categories that represent definitely much greater contributions to consumers ' welfare in industrial than in pre-industrial society or vice versa , and for all those in which differences in relative supply are at all dubious a proportionate relation to other services would be assumed . Let me try to clarify each suggestion . The first means that , e.g. , the amount of wheat produced and retained for domestic consumption in a pre-industrial country should be valued at the retail prices in industrial countries , not of wheat or of flour , but of the fully manufactured foodstuffs of which wheat is the component ; and likewise with corn , rice , cotton , wool , hides , etc . This suggestion is practicable to the extent that whatever scanty statistics are available for pre-industrial countries usually cover the production of primary and semi-finished commodities , and ordinarily their exports and imports ; consequently , the flow into domestic consumption can be estimated . Also , for at least some industrial countries , e.g. , the United States @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the value of primary materials at the producer 's door and the value of the finished products they enter , at the cost to ultimate consumers . But while practicable , is such treatment justifiable ? It obviously assumes that the relative weight of fabrication and treatment that intervenes between the material in its crude form and the product in its most finished form ( that is , in the form in which it flows to the household in the industrial society ) is the same for the two economies . Yet one might argue that , by and large , the relative extent of such fabrication and treatment is greater in industrial than in pre-industrial societies . For example , the way in which primary foods are treated , packaged , etc. before they are sold to an urban family in Chicago represents a much more extensive fabrication of wheat than the operations performed on wheat on a North China farm before the Chinese housewife proceeds to  | do with it whatever the Chicago housewife does with the wheat product she buys . However , a large part of such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ disadvantages of the centralization of production . Food products must be treated , packaged , etc. because they are produced thousands of miles from where they are consumed ; and in a pre-industrial society the efficiency of production is much greater in respect of reducing the distance between producer and consumer ? a point to be discussed further below . Above all , we assume that once the products are eventually consumed by the individuals and households of a pre-industrial economy they must have attained the same satisfactory state of finishedness ' as the final products of an industrial economy . At any rate , the acceptance of the suggestion advanced here , and it is advanced only as a tentative expedient , must be decided by weighing the error involved in following it against the error attached to estimates that fail to follow it . The error attached in not following the suggestion is twofold : ( 1 ) included in national income for industrial countries is an element of commodity production that is gross , rather than net , being merely an offset to the disadvantages of the concentration @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ materials and of consumption ; ( 2 ) omitted from national income for pre-industrial countries are many productive activities concerned with commodities , which , being carried on to a great extent by market-bound enterprises , are included in national income for industrial countries . The error implicit in following the suggestion would be to exaggerate the national income of pre-industrial countries to the extent that productive treatment of commodities in the latter is relatively less than in industrial countries . Of the two errors , that involved in following the suggestion seems much smaller than that in not following it ; and we urge an attempt to apply and test it as a practical expedient . The second suggestion refers to services not embodied in new commodities . Of these there are definite categories of which we can be sure that the relative , per capita supply , is  | of greater economic magnitude in industrial than in pre-industrial societies , and vice versa . For example , the supply of qualified medical or educational services is definitely greater in industrial than in non-industrial societies , in the sense that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , is greater in the former than in the latter . But can we say the same of religious services , or of such services as are provided by funerals , recreation activities , or barber shops and beauty parlors ? Many of these are provided within the family or community in pre-industrial societies , while they are sold on the market in industrial societies . They are therefore likely to be included in national income estimates for the latter , and omitted , in good part , from the estimates for the former . There is no basis for assuming that the per capita supply differs among the two types of economy ; and there are great difficulties in establishing any comparability between these types of activity in countries that differ greatly in their social organizations and patterns of life . With respect to this category , which for convenience can be described as culture-myth services , one of two practical expedients may be adopted . The first would be to omit them from national income estimates for both types of country , thereby reducing the totals for industrial countries @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The second would be to assume that the supply of such services in pre-industrial countries is in the same proportion to all other consumer services as it is in industrial countries ? an assumption that perhaps results in too moderate an adjustment . The advantage of the second expedient is that , unlike the first , it permits us to leave the comparison between the two types of country on as inclusive a basis as is permitted by national income estimates for industrial countries .  | We have discussed so far extra-market productive activities , a substantial part of which is likely to be omitted from national income estimates for pre-industrial countries while they are more fully included in those for industrial countries . We are now ready to consider several categories , still within the area of the flow of goods to ultimate consumers , that are fully represented in estimates for industrial countries and yet are costs rather than final products , in the sense that they serve merely to offset some of the disadvantages of industrial organization . The first category was suggested in the discussion above of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . A characteristic feature of the latter is that production tends to be concentrated in relatively large units , at some distance from the consumers who ultimately use the finished products . Thus , from the completion of commodities by producers to the time they reach the hands of consumers there is a long chain of transportation and distribution ; just as there may be a long chain of transportation and distribution between the origin of the raw material with primary producers and its use in the manufacturing or construction establishment . This can be clearly visualized by assuming in an industrial society a single shoe factory which , with the help of railroads and a whole network of trade , assembles raw hides Footnote  | from many livestock farms ; then , with the help of transportation , trade , advertising , etc. manages to place the finished shoes at the disposal of the individuals and families that wear them . A hypothetical situation in an idealized self-subsistence economy is in sharp contrast : a handicraftsman residing in each village gets hides from the local farmers , converts them into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? all without recourse to transportation , trade , advertising , etc . If the number of shoes and their quality are exactly the same , net product in the sense of the real flow to ultimate consumers is identical in the two situations . Yet in one , production , in the narrow sense of converting hides into shoes , accounts for merely a small part of the finished goods , whereas in the others it accounts for practically all of it . The transportation and distribution activities in an industrial society can thus be clearly seen as offsets to the disadvantages of large scale , machine manufacturing which , needless to say , are more than outweighed by its economies . This problem is disposed of in current estimates for preindustrial societies either by taking the finished consumer products at the retail prices of industrial societies , thereby allowing for the inclusion of all these transportation and distribution services ( as Colin Clark does in the case of India or China ) ; or by making a special adjustment for differences in the marketing structure of agricultural production ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are perfectly legitimate adjustments , and I have only a few comments . First , the adjustments just described are part of the one suggested in the preceding section , in which not the finished product but the crude materials of pre-industrial societies are to be valued at the retail prices of the corresponding finished products of industrial societies . If the suggestion is accepted , the adjustments of the type made by Clark and Liu are automatically included . Second , even with the latter adjustments , revaluing to the price levels of industrial society involves grossifying ' the output of pre-industrial societies , to bring it on a par with the output of industrial countries . As already  | suggested , it would be just as valid to nettify ' the output of industrial societies to bring them on a par with pre-industrial societies , by omitting from national income all services embodied in the value of commodities that represent the extra transportation and handling . Third , while the adjustments discussed here are on the surface merely for differences in price levels , they are in fact an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when the latter is defined as the real flow of goods to ultimate consumers and of net additions to capital stock , does the need for the adjustments become apparent . But there are several other categories of productive activity in industrial societies whose value does not enter the retail prices of consumers ' finished commodities , and yet they are merely offsets to costs imposed by the organization of production . Such activities ordinarily enter income estimates for industrial countries in the form of direct services to consumers ( rather than as the cost of consumer commodities ) ; and in some national income concepts in the form of the purchase of commodities and services by the government ( e.g. , in the Department of Commerce national income total for the United States ) . Yet such activities are either absent from or present to only a limited extent in pre-industrial societies because their industrial structures impose no costs that have to be offset . And clearly the adjustment just discussed , in converting consumers ' commodities to retail prices prevalent in industrial countries , does not dispose of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ activities come readily to mind . The first is suggested by the fact that in industrial countries the dominant modes of production impose an urban pattern of living , which brings in its wake numerous services whose major purpose is to offset the disadvantages . A clear case is the transportation of employees to and from work ? an activity that can hardly be said to constitute direct welfare to ultimate consumers and is merely an offset to the inconvenience that large scale industrial production imposes upon the active  | participants in it . But what about the extra costs involved in providing urban consumers with the appurtenances of living ? The costs are heavy exactly because the concentration of large numbers in limited areas raises geometrically the discomfort and the costs of offsetting it . For example , the Department of Commerce sets for 1929 the cost of space rent for urban and rural nonfarm dwellers at $10.3 billion , which for a nonfarm population of Tor million works out to about $l00 per capita . For farm houses the total is $829 million , which for a farm population @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ capita . Yet surely the real values of the two are scarcely in the ratio of 4 to 1 . The costs of urban housing may well be high because of the technical problems created by dense aggregations of people . The second category represents costs of participation in the complicated technical , monetary civilization of industrial countries . Payments to banks , employment agencies , unions , brokerage houses , etc. including such matters as technical education , are payments not for final goods flowing to ultimate consumers , but libations of oil on the machinery of industrial society ? activities intended to eliminate friction in the productive system , not net contributions to ultimate consumption . And while identical or similar activities exist even in pre-industrial societies , particularly those in which the money economy has begun to spread , one might reasonably argue that their magnitude is much greater in the more complex industrial countries which make claims upon their members for a finer adjustment to the dictates of the market system . The third category is represented by governmental activities . In any society the major part @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fabric of social organization , and only to a limited extent to the provision of final services to ultimate consumers . The legislative , judicial , administrative , police , and military functions of the state are designed to keep society operating along accepted patterns , to create the conditions under which the economy can function , not directly to provide goods to ultimate consumers . The major  | yield of governmental activity is therefore indirect rather than direct goods , costs rather than net returns . Yet if we accept the concept at present followed by the Department of Commerce in this country ( and the official estimates of Great Britain and Canada ) , the full magnitude of governmental outlay on commodities and services appears as part of the net output of society , of national income or product . It is quite likely that the necessary costs , which most of such activities represent , are absolutely and relatively much smaller in a pre-industrial than in an industrial society ; consequently , their full inclusion in national income introduces a greater element of grossness in the estimates for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ three categories of activities just noted , which may be interpreted largely as offsets to friction in the organization of economic society rather than as direct elements in net output , we are confronted with difficulties . The first is that activities of the three types described occur even in pre-industrial societies : in most of the latter , cities , a monetary and credit economy , and a central government are far from unknown . Hence if we are to omit some of these activities from the national income of industrial countries , we should be in a position to do likewise for preindustrial societies . A more important difficulty is that in many activities the elements of net contribution and offsets to costs are interwoven , and can be disentangled only by intensive analysis . How much of the high price of urban housing is the high cost of offsetting discomforts of living in a densely settled community , and how much represents greater facilities and comforts ? How much of the huge outlay on passenger automobiles in this country is an offset to the disadvantages of urban living @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ proportion of the cost of the telephone , telegraph , etc. is an offset to the obligations imposed by participation in a highly developed society , and how much a net contribution to the satisfaction of ultimate consumers qua consumers ? In the face of these difficulties it is not easy to indicate steps in the direction of attempting closer comparability . Yet  | three suggestions seem to be in order . First , such activities as beyond any doubt represent payments by consumers for services that are nothing but occupational facilities should be excluded from the estimates for both types of country . Clear examples are commutation to and from work and payments to unions and employment agencies ; but one might add almost the entire gamut of what the Department of Commerce classifies as business services in its estimate of consumers ' outlay ( bank fees , brokerage fees , etc . ) . Second , where in industrial societies the costs of consumer services are inflated by the difficulties of urban life , some revaluation of these services by comparing their costs in rural communities is in order @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as cash and imputed rent on housing , are quite large . Finally , it seems indispensable to include in national income only such governmental activities as can be classified as direct services to ultimate consumers . This most important and inescapable step is urged here in full cognizance of the statistical difficulties , which are great . But if national income figures are to retain any meaning as measures of the real flow of goods to ultimate consumers or to stock of capital , the huge duplication piled up by considering all governmental activity as a final product must be removed . Such a step is important and necessary even for intra-country comparisons over time ; it is equally if not more important for comparisons between industrial and preindustrial societies . These three suggestions are a maximum program : their proper application requires information on and a functional analysis of the service sector of consumers ' outlay and of governmental activities that are probably beyond the present supply of data and the present state of knowledge of the real contents of national product even for advanced industrial countries . As @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we may consider adjusting the national income of pre-industrial societies ? as currently measured ? for the elements of grossness that are present to a larger relative extent in the estimates for industrial societies . Thus , instead of ex- cluding the service components of consumers ' outlay that represent pure costs , revaluing inflated urban services , and reducing governmental activities to direct services to consumers , we can inflate the corresponding elements in the national incomes of pre-industrial countries to achieve a comparable level of grossness . This is , in fact , the expedient adopted in the illustrative comparison of the national products of the United States and China in the Appendix . It has the advantage of being consistent with the application , to the commodity part of national product , of the raising ratio of finished products to crude materials derivable from the standard estimates of national income for industrial countries . But it is a temporary expedient ; eventually it will be preferable to follow the suggestions in their original form , and to exclude from estimates for both industrial and pre-industrial countries such gross @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of urban living and intermediate product of governmental activities . From the consumers ' outlay component of national income , we turn to the treatment of capital formation . a ) Some of the elements omitted from national income estimates for pre-industrial countries and of grossness in the estimates for industrial countries characterize also the estimates of capital formation or investment . Thus a great deal of capital formation within pre-industrial economies takes place outside the market and is not likely to be recorded ( e.g. , individual farmers ' activities on improving the soil and communal construction activities ) . These are not likely to be covered fully in the estimates . Yet their relative share of total capital formation is likely to be larger in pre-industrial than in industrial economies . Similarly , pre-industrial countries are likely to be characterized by a shorter distance between the producer and the user of capital goods , ( unless the goods are produced abroad ) . For  | an industrial economy labor is more extremely divided . Whatever we have said about consumer goods , in terms of the illustration of shoes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ plows or farm carts . Here also , an advanced industrial organization may mean a considerable amount of extra fabrication , transportation , and trade that are not necessary in the simpler , decentralized structure of a pre-industrial economy . However , quantitatively , such elements of both omission and grossness as tend to inflate the difference between totals for industrial and pre-industrial countries are likely to be relatively smaller for capital formation than for consumers ' outlay . First , the real volume of all capital formation , whether market bound or not , is likely to be exceedingly small in preindustrial countries living , as they do , close to the margin of subsistence . Second , in the case of capital formation , i.e. , construction , machinery , and equipment , the relation between producer and consumer tends to be fairly close even in an industrial society . At any rate , it appears to involve less of the cross-hauling , elaborate distribution , and advertising that tend to bring such large elements of grossness into the cost of consumers ' commodities to ultimate consumers . And @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not as subject to the inflation of costs by the difficulties of urban living as is true of the use of consumers ' goods proper . These statements are particularly applicable to net capital formation , i.e. , if we exclude , for the purposes of the present analysis , the intermediate product of governmental activity . We thus deal only with net additions to the stock of capital goods , not with such gross volume as would include the contribuion of governmental activity to the preservation and regulation of the society at large or of the economic system in particular . b ) What about such capital goods as serve only activities which , in the analysis of consumers ' outlay , we characterized as representing offsets rather than net contributions to the flow of goods to ultimate consumers ? If services of street cars and commuting trains are not contributions to the satisfaction of wants of consumers qua consumers , and , therefore , should be  | excluded from national product ( the latter conceived as the sum of the flow of goods to consumers and capital formation ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the stocks of street cars or of street railway trackage ? Clearly , if the answer is yes , ' a large proportion of capital formation in an industrial country will be omitted . The answer , however , is no . ' The addition to capital stock is part of national product properly defined , regardless whether the capital good in question will itself directly yield services to ultimate consumers in the future , or , while not in itself capable of yielding such services , is still useful in keeping society going and thus avoiding future outlays . We consider a new blast furnace an addition to capital and a proper part of capital formation , even though the furnace in and of itself can not turn out final consumer goods . It will assist indirectly in turning them out and in its absence , a potential increase in the supply of finished products would be impossible without an additional outlay of resources . What is true of a blast furnace is true also of a street car , or of a battleship . There is no inconsistency in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the flow of finished goods to ultimate consumers , and in including the tools that yield these services in capital formation . In measuring the flow of goods to consumers we are not justified in including goods that are wanted by consumers not as consumers but as producers . In measuring capital formation we are in fact estimating the future contribution ? direct and indirect ? of the goods in question to the ultimate satisfaction of consumers ' wants . And so far as in the technology of the economic system street cars are a useful and indispensable tool , we include them in capital formation . The last major problem of comparability , differences in the patterns of production in industrial and pre-industrial economies , is reduced by the suggestions advanced in the analysis  | above , especially by the omission of some commodities and services that in industrial society serve exclusively to offset disadvantages imposed by the productive system . But even with this and related suggestions pushed as far as possible , there will still be marked differences in the composition of the goods that constitute the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ exact meaning of this difference for the problem of proper statistical measurement must be clearly seen . Assume that for all the goods that are in the comparison between two countries , A and B , prices can be established for each in both countries , even though some of the goods may not be produced or consumed in one . It would then be possible to estimate the total product of country A in prices of country B , and the total product of country B in prices of country A. Though all problems would not be solved thereby , the assumption serves to illuminate two points important in the analysis . First , the analysis can best be handled by dividing it into two parts : one is the difficulty or impossibility of securing prices in country B ( A ) for such goods as are produced only in country A ( B ) ; the second remains even if prices in both countries could be secured for all goods in the comparison . The second point is that the difference in the goods patterns can be discussed only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ countries . The difficulty created by the fact that for goods produced only in pre-industrial countries it is often impossible to get a price in an industrial country ( and vice versa ) can not in fact be resolved , short of a close analysis of the function of the good in question , finding a functional counterpart in the other country , and then finding a price for it by analogy . While in certain classes of goods ? how could one find the functional counterpart in the United States of say shark-fin soup or of the services of a Chinese fortune-teller ? ? this may seem a counsel of despair , for simpler types of goods the task is not impossible ( e.g. , for certain classes of food or clothing ) . But it is important to remember that the comparability to be estab- lished , the counterpart to be found , is not that of scientifically established physiological or medical service ? but of position in the economic scale . At the present stage of our knowledge of industrial and pre-industrial societies , it is difficult to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to accept the fact that prices will be found only for such goods as are used in both types of country . This means that in practice price comparisons are established for only such goods as are common to both types of economy ; and that the ratios are applied to the over-all totals with the implicit assumption that the price relations for the goods omitted are the same as those for the goods covered . This resolution , by assumption , may be the only practicable one . But it brings into comparisons of national income for industrial and pre-industrial economies a potentially large bias . Comparable prices in general can be found only for goods whose qualitative characteristics are easily recognized and compared ? commodities rather than services ; simple crude materials rather than complex fabricated articles . And as between two countries comparable prices are most easily established for crude commodities that move freely in international trade , not between commodities , no matter how crude , that are peculiar to one country alone . But commodities that move in international trade are likely to show relatively narrow @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would tend to reduce them . Consequently , the selectivity of price comparisons , in their emphasis upon crude commodities with international markets , has an important bias ? understating the price differentials between the two countries . How considerable the understatement is depends upon the factors that produce the price differentials . When one country is industrial and the other pre-industrial , the understatement can be large indeed .  | This observation applies to price comparisons for identical goods , at identical levels of fabrication and circulation . The bias is , therefore , over and above any of the other elements of disparity already discussed . Hence , it is not disposed of by the adjustments suggested , and can not be mitigated except by extending the range of goods for which comparable prices can be found . Such extension , as already indicated , can be made only by dint of further analysis of the two types of society , and by a search for more common denominators than are evident on the surface . This is only one more argument for more intensive study , particularly of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ found for all goods in both countries , the national product of country A can be valued in prices of country B and compared with national income of B ; and the national product of country B can be valued in prices of country A and compared with the national income of A. Differences in the patterns of goods of the two countries then cease to make comparison impossible . But they introduce an entirely different type of difficulty , viz. , they give two measures of what is essentially one difference : for the ratio of national income of A to B , when measured in prices of A , may be different from the ratio of national income of A to B , when measured in prices of B. It need not be labored here that the two ratios would differ only if the relative quantities of goods in the two countries differed . Were the goods structure of national product , i.e. , its percentage distribution among the various goods ( including those with zero weight , i.e. , absent ) exactly identical , then no matter how @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) differed , the ratios would be the same in the two indexes . Similarly , were the goods composition of the national product of two countries different , but the price structures identical , the two ratios would be the same . In fact , in comparisons of industrial with pre-industrial countries , both the goods and the price structures are likely to differ materially ; and as a result the ratio of the national products of the two types of country will differ as we weight the quantities by prices of the industrial or of the non-industrial economy .  | Thus , given differences in price structure , those in the goods composition of the national products inevitably result in a lack of determinateness of the difference between the national products of the countries . Only the upper and lower limits are set ? the ratios of the two national products weighted first by the price system of one country , then by the price system of the other . At present , we do not know how far apart the limits are ; but further studies in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no more than suggest the direction of the bias involved in using as base the price system of one or the other type of country . In general , relative price and quantity differentials tend to be correlated negatively : if a good x is priced much more highly than good y in one country , other conditions being equal , the quantities of x produced and consumed will be in a smaller ratio to the quantities of y in that country . In other words , there is some adaptation of the goods structure of a country to the relative price structure . This means that when we value the quantities produced in a pre-industrial country in prices of the industrial country , we tend to assign too high a set of price differentials to goods with relatively large quantity weights , and too low a set of price differentials to goods with small quantity weights . This tends to impart an upward bias to the national income totals of pre-industrial countries ; and since they are in general much lower than the totals for industrial countries , the ratio @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , when we revalue the national product of an industrial country in the prices of a pre-industrial country , we impart an upward bias to the national income total of the former and thus tend to magnify the ratio between it and the national income of the latter . Consequently , the common practice in current national income literature of revaluing the national product of pre-industrial countries in prices of industrial countries tends to impart an upward bias to the former and to reduce the disparity .  | In this sense , the bias is in the right direction in that it serves to reduce the downward bias implicit in confining the comparison of price levels to internationally traded crude commodities . But with limited coverage of the price comparison , the differences in the price structures of the two countries are also underestimated ; so that the upward bias due to using the price structure of the industrial economy as a base is minimized . One may , therefore , reasonably argue that in current practice , the downward bias in the evaluation of national product for pre-industrial countries due @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ greater than the upward bias resulting from using the price structure of the industrial country as the base . The range between the limits within which the ratio of the national products of the two types of country falls is likely to be increased as the variety of goods for which price comparisons can be made widens . In other words , as the difficulties of proper comparison between the national products of industrial and pre-industrial countries , due to lack of comparable prices , are overcome , the second type of difficulty ? associated with differences in price structure ? is likely to become more prominent . This is as it should be : as our knowledge of both types of economy becomes more adequate , the problem of establishing unequivocal quantitative comparability should become more complex . As such knowledge accumulates , it will be seen that , by accepting the valuations implicit in the price system , we are in fact accepting two yardsticks which , each applied separately , naturally produce different results . The eventual solution would obviously lie in devising a single yardstick that could @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ yardstick that would perhaps lie outside the different economic and social institutions and be grounded in experimental science ( of nutrition , warmth , health , shelter , etc . ) . This consideration brings us beyond the plane of intellectual discourse on which national income estimates at present rest . But it is not irrelevant that the ease with which national income comparisons , among countries with differing industrial and social structures are currently made , may largely be due to the shallowness of our knowledge and to our willingness to stay on the surface of social phenomena . As knowledge increases , it may be more rather than less difficult to make effective comparisons within the present frame of reference . In applying the above suggestions to an illustrative comparison of the national incomes of China and the United States ( see the Appendix ) , we followed the path of least resistance . Rather than employ selective reduction and inflation , we raised the estimates for China to compensate for both possible omissions in them and the elements of grossness that are peculiar to the estimates for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to provide conclusive or even semiconclusive results , but to test the feasibility of the suggestions and to get some idea of the size of the adjustments involved . In this comparison , which uses Mr. Liu 's gross national product estimates for China for 1931-36 , the adjustments applied to secure greater comparability with the United States figures , yield a per capita product for China of $69 ( U. S. ) ; and a per capita consumption of $62% ( U. S. ) . The latter figure can be compared with that established by Mr. Liu of $37 ( U. S. ) per capita after his adjustments for differences in price levels , in the marketing structure of agriculture , in the supply of unpaid domestic services , and in the ratio of consumption to gross national product . While the application of the adjustments suggested here raises the per capita figures almost So percent , the calculation in the Appendix still takes no account  | of the downward bias implicit in the price comparison ( we accepted Mr. Liu 's estimate for this item ) ; or of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ figure for China even higher . Taking these points into consideration could easily bring per capita consumption in China to over $75 ( U. S. ) or twice Mr. Liu 's adjusted figure . The experimental calculation yields , therefore , two significant conclusions : first , the adjustments suggested above are feasible and can be applied even with the present limited supply of data ; second , the adjustments are sufficiently big to affect markedly comparisons between industrial and pre-industrial countries , and change materially the results of comparisons that have been made in the last two decades . While the discussion , and the calculation , have so far been in terms of national product totals alone , the points raised are relevant to every important type of distribution . Thus , the usual industrial allocation of national income is affected by the fact that many extra-market activities in a pre-industrial economy elude measurement : these activities are in the nature of either manufacturing ( or construction ) or the provision of personal and other services . So far as they are omitted , and to an extent presumably @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of national income for a pre-industrial economy would show too large a share for agriculture and too small a share for other industries . The overinclusion of certain activities in national incomes for industrial countries would exaggerate the shares of some industries , e.g. , transportation , distribution , housing . The distribution of income by size is also modified . Even pre-industrial countries have upper income groups that tend to be heavily concentrated in cities . In a national product estimate that follows closely the conventional rules of industrial countries , the incomes of urban population are likely to be more completely covered than the incomes of rural ; which means that there is more complete coverage of upper than of lower income brackets . Any more inclusive treatment of extramarket activities in pre-industrial economies or adjustments  | for the elements of grossness in the estimates for industrial countries , are likely to shift the income distribution by size in favor of the groups at the lower end , thereby reducing the inequality of the income distribution as shown in unadjusted or incompletely adjusted distributions . The effect on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to consumers and capital formation is somewhat different . As suggested above the elements of omission and grossness that affect comparability may well be relatively small for such items of capital formation as industrial construction or industrial machinery and equipment . If so , the adjustments advocated here , when applied in a specific rather than a crude wholesale fashion , may raise the flow of goods to consumers sector of national income of pre-industrial countries by a greater relative proportion than they would capital formation . Thus while the absolute magnitude of capital formation in pre-industrial countries and its ratio to capital formation in industrial countries may be raised , the ratio to the flow of goods to consumers within pre-industrial countries may well be lowered . This suggestion applies to the real volume of capital formation or investment . A somewhat related point concerns the distinction between outlay and savings . In all countries , even advanced industrial , some categories of consumers ' outlay include elements of savings in the sense that purchase is guided , at least secondarily , by the utility of the good as a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ values ) . In pre-industrial countries , with the prevailing limits for safe productive investment , such purchases of consumer goods , which in fact represent hidden savings , may well loom much larger , relative to total consumers ' outlay , than they would in an industrial country . So far as they do , the volume of savings exceeds the volume of domestically financed productive investment or capital formation .  | These brief comments suffice to indicate that the attempt to introduce greater comparability between the national product totals of pre-industrial and industrial countries affects also the comparisons of internal distributions by industrial source , by size classes , or by type of use . This is natural since closer analysis of the contents of the national products for the two types of country reveals differences that have to be recognized in a proper comparison , differences that have a differing impact upon the industrial , size , and use classifications , traditional in industrial countries and often applied without modification to pre-industrial economies . In conclusion , I would like to stress what it is that we are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and indicate why . Such comments may prevent misunderstanding as well as suggest lines of exploration other than those stressed here . National income , as we conceive it , measures the flow from the productive system , but not the inclusive consumption totals for the economy . There is a significant difference between the flow of goods to consumers and what Joseph S. Davis calls the consumption level . The latter includes , in addition to the current flow of goods from the productive system , the yield of goods owned by the consumers ; and excludes from the current flow to consumers goods they do not actually consume during the period . With the much greater stock of goods in the Footnote  | hands of individuals and households , the consumption levels per capita in an industrial economy may well show a greater relative excess over per capita consumption levels in a preindustrial economy than might be revealed by a comparison of the flow of goods per capita ? no matter how fully the latter is covered . Nor are we trying to use national income estimates to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ living , which includes , in addition to consumption , working conditions , cushions against major and minor shocks , freedoms of various kinds , and other spiritual constituents of social life . These ingredients of living are extremely important in spelling happiness and unhappiness ; and it is easy to conceive of situations where the consumption level rises yet the plane or level of living declines ; e.g. , when the rise is attained by sacrifices of working conditions or of freedoms of a kind highly prized by the population . Finally , we have not tried to push the analysis of national income estimates in the direction already mentioned , viz. , of gauging the degree of satisfaction of wants ascertainable by experimental and scientific methods and in disregard of purely economic valuation imposed by society . Thus , we accept the valuation of foods as provided by the markets , attempting only to make both terms of the comparison ( i.e. , in an industrial and pre-industrial country ) equally inclusive , and employing , for identical goods , the same prices . We are not trying to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ quantities into vitamin content , completely bypassing the market valuation . Nor are we trying to do the same for clothing , fuel , shelter , and the like . The refusal to extend discussion in these directions ? of fuller coverage of consumption levels , of levels of living , and of experimentally established functional equivalents ? is not due to the possibly low yield of such explorations . On the contrary , they promise results of great value . They might explain , more satisfactorily than can be done otherwise , the basic differences between industrial and pre-industrial econ- omies , and the conditions on which of the latter can be industrialized . As already suggested , they might provide a more effective basis for comparisons and help overcome the difficulties imposed by differences in the goods composition of national product . Studies of nutrition indicate unmistakably that pre-industrial economies manage to obtain the basic vitamin supply at much lower economic costs , and hence at much lower prices , than a price comparison of identical commodities would indicate . That we have paid little attention to these aspects @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ study has not advanced sufficiently to permit abandonment of the more traditional approach , via the customary definitions of national income or product . At any rate , I did not feel competent to discuss the problems that would emerge in any direct consideration of consumption levels , planes of living , and functional equivalents . It does seem to me , however , that as customary national income estimates and analysis are extended ; and as their coverage includes more and more countries that differ markedly in their industrial structure and form of social organization , investigators interested in quantitative comparisons will have to take greater cognizance of the aspects of economic and social life that do not now enter national income measurement ; and that national income concepts will have to be either modified or partly abandoned , in favor of more inclusive measures , less dependent upon the appraisals of the market system . We can view national income comparisons among countries in the light of an entirely different set of basic criteria . Rather than concern ourselves with national product as a flow of goods to consumers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ measure of a nation 's power ? defined broadly as power to impose upon the rest of the world conditions which , for one reason or another , are considered favorable to the given nation . Whether we further specify such power to consist of the ability to provide security , or to expand the area of sovereignty , both the concept and comparison of income between industrial and preindustrial countries will differ widely from those used in the  | analysis above . Many elements of the industrial economy we considered gross because they represented an offset to extra costs of urban civilization are not gross from the viewpoint of national power ; for in armed conflict , the crucial weapon in the exercise of such power , many appurtenances of urban civilization can be temporarily sacrificed and the resources used for them diverted into other channels . Many elements of pre-industrial economy whose inclusion in national product we urged because they contributed to the flow of goods to consumers should perhaps be excluded from national income as a measure of national power because these decentralized extramarket activities can not be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an armed conflict ( even though they may be immensely useful in passive defense ) . Indeed , for many aspects of national income as a measure of national power , the relative disparity between industrial and pre-industrial countries is very much greater than the customary estimates of national income indicate , even before the adjustments suggested above . We did not touch upon this line of approach for two reasons : its application to income measurement has not reached a point where its potentialities and problems are clear , and it differs so sharply from the customary approach that to include both within the bounds of a single paper would be impossible . But it seemed important at least to mention the approach , to invite attention to its implications and to suggest that the ordinary impressions of the vast relative difference between the economic performance of industrial and pre-industrial societies may well be colored by vague thoughts concerning differences in national power , rather than in supplying goods for the satisfaction of consumer wants . These comments on the potentialities of explorations in the direction of a better analysis @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ power should not be interpreted as minimizing the importance and usefulness of national income analysis on the more orthodox level discussed here . Granted that from the viewpoint of contents of living ( or national power )  | national income , as ordinarily measured , stops half-way . It is a compromise in the sense that it accepts the valuation of the market place , with some adjustments , but without probing too deeply beneath the surface of economic phenomena ; and if a national income estimate for one country is a compromise , a comparison for an industrial and pre-industrial country is a compromise of compromises . Nevertheless it is an enormously useful device for measuring , if proximately , the magnitudes of performance of the economies , and providing a quantitative framework within which the weight of significant sectors can be gauged . Nor does the realization that we deal with compromises free us from the necessity of looking closely and assuring ourselves that on the level of comparison accepted , the scope and basis of valuation are as truly comparable as they can be made . The major @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ improvement even in such proximate measures as currently defined national income totals , improvement for purposes of comparing the totals and their components for industrial and pre-industrial countries . These opportunities for improvement can and must be pursued , before analysis can be extended in any direction that transcends or differs materially from the level of current national income estimates . We chose the United States and China largely because recent estimates for both are available , and particularly detailed ones for the former . The two main sources are : for the United States ? the supplement to the July 1947 Survey of Current Business ( referred to below as DCS ) and Ta-Chung Liu 's China 's National Income , 1931-36 ( Brookings Institution , 1946 ) .  | The general plan of the analysis is as follows . For the United States , gross national product is divided into : ( a ) commodities ; ( b ) services not embodied in new commodities . For the former we calculate the over-all ratio of the final cost of finished commodities to the value of raw materials consumed , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ new commodities we segregate groups taken as comparable with the measurable service performance in a pre-industrial economy like China . For these several groups , whose magnitudes are approximated in the United States estimates , we assume reduction ratios reflecting the extent to which such services in a preindustrial economy are either carried on within the family and community or to which they are superfluous , being in fact but offsets to the disadvantages peculiar to a highly developed industrial society . The two ratios derived for the United States ? of finished commodities to raw materials ; and of the gross volume of services to a net volume representing comparable net coverage in a pre-industrial economy ? are available for application to the data for China . Neither ratio allows , however , for differences in the price level between the United States and China for identical raw materials or identical services . Our treatment of the data for China consists , therefore , of : ( a ) adjusting the raw material flow for differences in prices ; ( b ) raising the latter by a ratio of finished @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ services not embodied in new commodities for differences in prices ; ( d ) raising the result under ( c ) by a ratio of gross to net services . For 1931-36 , the gross national product of the United States is estimated to be $68.26 billion per year ( DCS , Table 2 , p. 19 ) . Of this total , net foreign investment , averaging $131 million , is not easily allocable between commodities and services ; we therefore omit it , reducing national product to $68.13 billion per year .  | Commodities account for by far the major part . The commodity sector comprises ( annual average for 1931-36 ) : durable and non-durable products flowing to ultimate consumers ? $31.98 billion ( see DCS , Table 2 , p. 19 ) ; gross private domestic investment ? $4.14 billion ( ibid. ) ; and the commodities purchased by government . The latter can be approximately set at the amount governments purchase from business enterprises : these may include some services but probably relatively few . Government purchases from business enterprises are estimated to be at $3.75 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ p. 23 ) . Thus the commodity total , per year , for 1931-36 is $39.9 billion . The service total comprises the service sector of consumers ' outlay , averaging for 1931-6 $22.64 billion ( ibid. , Table 2 , p. 19 ) ; and payments by governments for services of employees ? $5.45 ( ibid. , Table 9 , p. 23 ) ? a total of $28.1 billion . The raw materials that flow into finished commodities are the products of agriculture and mining . Their basic components for 1931-36 are , therefore , approximated by taking the gross income for these two industries ( i.e. , gross sales and products retained , adjusted for intra-industry duplication alone ) . The annual averages involved are $8.3 and $2.3 billion , or a total of $1o.6 billion ( see Simon Kuznets , National Income and Its Composition , National Bureau of Economic Research , 1941 , pp. 543 and 551 ) . However , some of these raw materials may go into exports and not become embodied in finished products purchased by consumers , by government , or by business @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contra , some of the finished commodities may be from imported materials . We must , therefore , adjust the total just derived for imports and exports . Imports of raw materials , raw foods , and semi-finished manufactures averaged for 1931-36 $1.16 billion ( see Statistical Abstract of the United States , 1944-45 , 1946 , pp. 532-3 ) ; exports , $0.99  | billion ( ibid. ) , the latter amount to be scaled down 10 percent to the level of producers ' prices . The net balance of imports over exports is therefore $0.27 billion ( $I.16-o.89 ) . Hence , the crude materials total , which forms the denominator of the fraction we are trying to estimate , is , for 1931-36 , $10.9 billion per year ( $1o.6 + 0.3 ) . The numerator is the commodity total of $39.9 billion , derived above , also to be adjusted for imports and exports . Exports of manufactured foods and finished manufactures in 1931-36 averaged $1.07 billion , a total that need not be scaled down for transportation and distribution charges since the latter are part of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ finished products averaged $0.67 billion ( Statistical Abstract , 1944-45 , pp. 532-3 ) . The net balance of $0.4 billion added to the commodity total , $39.9 billion , yields a numerator of $40.3 billion . The ratio is , therefore , 3.7 . This ratio is for a commodity total that includes the elaborate items of producers ' durable equipment and construction as well as highly fabricated consumers ' durable products ( automobiles , radios , household electrical equipment , etc. ) that find little counterpart in pre-industrial economies . The ratio we need should have been calculated only for the sector of raw materials and finished commodity flow that comprises the simple types of product ? foods , clothing , other nondurable goods , furniture , etc . A more elaborate calculation of this type , more directly relevant to our purposes , is beyond the scope of this paper . We therefore arbitrarily reduced the ratio from 3.7 to 3.25 , to allow for the inclusion of these more complex commodities specific to an industrial country alone . This is a fairly generous scaling down , in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not all of which should be omitted ) , construction , and producers ' durable equipment ( averaging per year $4.8 + 2.1 + 2.9 ) amount to only $9.8 billion , less than one-fourth of the comprehensive commodity total , $39.9 billion . The reduction of the ratio by about one-seventh associated with a presumptive exclusion from the total of  | somewhat less than one-quarter , means that the ratio for the excluded part is much larger than that for the non-excluded part ( indeed , the implicit ratio for the durable part is 6.1 ) . Both to check on the commodity ratio just derived for 1931-36 and to demonstrate what a large proportion of the difference between crude materials and final cost of finished products is due to functions other than manufacturing proper , we calculated the components of the difference . As already indicated , total finished commodities average $40.3 billion per year 1931-36 ; the cost of crude materials , $10.9 billion . The absolute difference , $29.4 billion per year , may roughly be accounted for as follows : The deduction of 20 percent for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a rough allowance for the part relating to crude materials proper and entering their value , or to services not embodied in new commodities and hence not relevant to commodity ratio calculation . The total for comparison is $31.12 billion ( col. 3 ) . No precise check with the $29.4 billion total is attempted here , nor is one feasible . But the rough congruence of the two totals shows  | that the huge difference between the value of crude materials and the cost to ultimate users of the finished commodities they enter can easily be accounted for by the sum of net income originating in the industries handling them and the additional items of depreciation and taxes . Of more interest in the present connection is the fact that of the total spread , production activities proper account for little more than half . If of the depreciation total ( in Item B ) we allow about one-half as chargeable to manufacturing and construction ( before being transported and distributed ) , the strictly fabricating functions account for $15.65 of the total , $31.12 billion . The rest is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ These figures make it easier to see that the very high commodity ratio characterizing a highly developed industrial economy is due in only small part to more elaborate fabrication ; a great deal of it is accounted for by extensive transportation and intensive handling in distributive , credit , and other service channels . Of the annual volume for services , $28.1 billion for 1931-36 , the major item is services flowing to ultimate consumers , ? $22.6 . The details in DCS Table 30 suggest the following rough functional classification . The first group are services for which there is a clear counterpart in a pre-industrial economy , but of which a large proportion is carried on within the family and the community and perforce escapes measurement ? domestic service , personal care , recreation , religion , funerals , etc. , care of clothing and furniture , etc . For this category , labeled A , a rough calculation for 1931-6 suggests that they amount to 21 percent of all services flowing to ultimate consumers . Allowance must be made for the fact that many of them are performed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ estimates ; and others ( such as religion and recreation ) are of a type , as suggested in the text , in which no clear case of greater per capita supply can be made between countries differing widely  | in social pattern . For purposes of comparison with a pre-industrial country the value of the services can at least be halved . The second category , B , is the part of service flow to ultimate consumers that represents chiefly adjustments to the money economy . The foremost example is the large group of business services in the Department of Commerce classification ( brokerage and bank fees , union dues , employment agency fees , insurance , foreign transactions , etc . ) . This category accounts for roughly 17 percent of total consumers ' outlay on services ; and the reduction for the extent to which it represents costs of an industrial economy rather than net returns must be large . We set the reduction at eight-tenths of the total . The third category , C , comprises expenditures of urban populations on services whose value is grossly inflated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The most conspicuous example is urban rents ( cash or imputed ) . Others are commutation , communication costs , and the like . This category accounts for 50 percent of total services to consumers , and it should be cut at least in half if the real net product element in it is to be comparable with that in an essentially non-urban society ? still disregarding price differentials for identical goods . The fourth category in consumers ' outlay on services , D , comprises services that contain no element of grossness , and that , on the whole , are likely to be as fully recorded in the ordinary estimates for pre-industrial countries as they are for industrial countries . The foremost examples are medical services or services of education . This category accounts for roughly 12 percent of total outlay by consumers on services , and no reduction should be made in it . Finally , we come to services purchased by government rather than by ultimate consumers . As argued in the text , a major part of governmental activity is intermediate rather than final product , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not unlike those in category B. However , similar elements of grossness may also be included in the estimates for pre-industrial countries ; and while in any comparison between the two  | estimated first . The average per year , 1931-36 , of the gross value of agricultural products ( excluding urban-agricultural sales ) and of mineral and metallurgical output , for the 22 provinces amounted to 16.89 billion yuans ( for the former see Liu , Table 11 , pp. 35-40 ; for the latter , Table 19 , p. 51 ) . With the allowance of 11 percent for the missing provinces , the total amounts to 18.75 billion yuans per year . Let us assume further that no raw materials were imported and that all commodity exports were raw materials ? an assumption that tends to minimize the value of raw materials flowing into domestic consumption and hence the value of the national product . The average annual total of exports , including the adjustment for undervaluation , is 771 million yuans ; deducting ro percent for adjustment to the level of producers ' values ( a patently @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ year ( see Liu , Table 28 , p. 69 ) . Subtracting it from the already derived annual average output of crude commodities , 18.75 billion yuans , leaves 18.06 billion per year . According to Mr. Liu 's calculation , the difference between prices of identical commodities in China and the United States , estimated from a comparison of crude commodities alone ( rice , wheat , other grains , beans and peas , sweet potatoes ) , for 1931-36 results in undervaluing Chinese commodities 47 percent ( see pp. 73 and 75 ) . Before any conversion by means of the customary exchange rates , the value of Chinese crude material in yuans must , therefore , be raised 47 percent . The next step is to allow for the ratio calculated above of finished commodities to crude materials of 3.25 . Hence , for an estimate in yuans , directly convertible by means of official exchange rates , the value of finished commodities in China 's gross national product must he derived by multiplying the value of 18.06 billion yuans per year , first by 1.47 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The service component of China 's gross national product can also be derived from Mr. Liu 's figures . The average annual value of professional service , 1931-36 , is approximately 3,438 million yuan ( see Table 27 , p. 66 ) ; of value added by govern- mental and educational institutions , 882 million yuan ( see Tables 23 and 24 , pp. 55 and 58 ) ; of imputed house rent ( farm alone ) , 1,62o million yuan ( see Table 11 , pp. 35-40 ) . For 22 provinces the total of these services not embodied in new commodities is therefore 5,940 million yuan per year ; and with the II percent increase for omitted areas , becomes 6.59 billion yuans . This total must be raised to adjust for the differences in prices for identical services in the two countries ; and further for the ratio , calculated above , of the gross to the net element in the services . Mr. Liu has no data for prices of services , and in fact employs the price differential derived from comparison of crude commodities . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ adjustment then consists of multiplying 6.59 billion yuan first by 1.47 , and then by 1.77 . If the result , 17.15 billion yuans , is added to 86.28 billion , the total derived above for the commodity component , annual gross national product is 103.43 billion yuans . These are yuans that are directly convertible to United States dollars by the official rate of exchange : r yuan = $o.2886 . The total , i.e. , $29.85 billion , can be compared with that derived by Mr. Liu as a result of his adjustment for differences in price levels , in the marketing structure of agricultural production , and in the extent of unpaid family services . With these adjustments Mr. Liu raises China 's gross national product , 1931-36 , to $r6.68 billion per year ( see p. 85 ) . The present adjustment thus raises Mr. Liu 's adjusted total by $I3.2 billion , or another 79 percent . In passing from gross national product to consumers ' outlay , we may accept Mr. Liu 's figure of ro percent for gross savings ( see pp. 86-7 ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of equivalent purchasing power in United States dollars , to 26.87 billion . With a population taken at Mr. Liu 's figure of 410 million , per capita consumption is $621/2 , rather than the $37 derived by Mr. Liu . For the same period , consumers ' outlay per capita in the United States was estimated by the Department of Commerce to be $433.  | The experimental calculation above is admittedly susceptible to criticism , and particularly revisions entailed by more specific and elaborate application of the basic assumptions . But if the latter are granted , one is justified in claiming that the magnitudes assigned to the adjustments are moderate . The grounds for increasing them , thereby reducing the difference between the national products of United States and China even further , are : a ) The coverage of crude materials in the estimates for China may well be less complete than in those for the United States , partly because of the assumption concerning imports and exports and partly because some agricultural and mining crude materials escape measurement in China to a greater extent than in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to crude materials , 3.25 may be on the low side . An increase would add proportionately to the commodity sector , and to national income . c ) The price differentials between China and the United States are probably underestimated , largely because the figure used by Mr. Liu is heavily dominated by basic foods freely entering international trade . The crude materials that do not move as freely , either because they are too perishable or bulky or because they supply local demand primarily , are likely to exhibit much greater price differentials . Even in Mr. Liu 's five agricultural commodities , those moving in international trade ? rice , wheat , other grains ? show price differentials of from 27 to 50 percent of the price in China ; whereas beans and peas and sweet potatoes which are of more local use , show differentials as large as 8o and 118 percent . A simple recalculation , in which the combined differential for beans and peas and sweet potatoes is given the full weight of all agricultural products except grains , would raise the five commodities price @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 7o percent . This adjustment alone would raise the national product  | for China 15 to 16 percent beyond the $29.85 billion established in our calculation . d ) The price differential for services is likely to be greater even than the 70 percent just suggested . Mr. Liu estimates per capita income for professional services to average roughly 105 yuan per year ( Table 26 , p. 65 ) . This , for a family of six , works out to 63o yuan per year , or at official exchange rates , to about $180 . In the United States per capita compensation of employees in professional activities would average well over $1,000 and of entrepreneurs in a field like medical service well over $2,000 . It is difficult to assume that the quality differential is such as to bridge the difference between some $300 ( $18o x 1.7 ) and say $1,500 to $2,000 . These considerations suggest that further analysis might bring the per capita estimates for China and the United States even closer .  | By social welfare we mean some positive element in the satisfaction of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; and for economic welfare we can adopt Pigou 's definition as " that part of social welfare that can be brought directly or indirectly into relation with the measuring-rod of money " ? Pigou indicates that the boundaries of the definition are elastic , as we interpret the word can ' in a narrow or broad sense . Indeed it is impossible to set precise boundaries in advance . But one must be particularly aware of variations in coverage of the measuring-rod of money , both over time and in space : between the highly industrialized and market-bound economy of the United States of today and the agricultural , self-sustained economy of two hundred years ago , or between the United States and China of today . If economic welfare is to be a usefully measurable magnitude , even if only in terms of more or less , we must interpret its connection with the measuring rod of money broadly ? not limit the latter to specific coverage in a narrowly defined area or period . Some aspects of the definition will emerge more clearly in discussing specific questions that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may be treated most effectively if we accept , for the present purposes , some measure  | considered closest to a comprehensive estimate of economic welfare . Such a measure is national income , even though many official agencies responsible for the preparation of the estimates tend to deny it . Such denial of welfare basis is futile . The most widely accepted definition of national income equates it to the total net product yielded by a country 's economy during a given period . But product is something that has a positive value in terms of human wants ; and the attempt to measure it on a net basis implies a recognition of end-goals , of ultimate wants with reference to which final products can be distinguished from intermediate . That national income accounting distinguishes such groups as households , business firms etc. , in itself implies a distinction between ultimate and intermediate consumers ; and satisfaction of wants of the former by the use of scarce material resources organized with the help of the measuring-rod of money constitutes economic welfare . It is , therefore , not only permissible @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ economic welfare , since they are , by definition , appraisals of the yield of the country 's economy from the standpoint of the wants of its ultimate consumers . Were we unconcerned with such welfare aspects , there would be no particular need to worry about duplication or to limit the total to positive product ( excluding e.g. definitely harmful or illegal goods ) : we could take any well-defined total ( e.g. the sum of gross products of all industries , the industrial classification being specifically defined ; or the sum total of all transactions including or excluding those dealing with transfers of assets ) and operate with it as a measure of economic activity , indeed as a measure of production as a process . For many analytical and technical purposes such totals would be more useful than national income . But the moment we attempt to measure net product , where product means something positive and net must have direct relevance to some final set of uses , we are , in fact , dealing with an approximation to economic welfare .  | The composition of national @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interchangeably ) of most interest for the present purposes is that of : ( a ) flow of goods to ultimate consumers , i.e. the individuals and households comprising the nation , ( b ) government product , ( c ) additions to capital stock . This threefold division is followed by the Department of Commerce estimates for this country , and by those of many agencies for other countries . We refrain from complicating the terms by various qualifying clauses , since our interest does not lie in technical details . The broad questions to be discussed can best be raised in connection with each of these three major components of a nation 's net product ? the estimates of which are our most widely used approximation to economic welfare . Flow of goods to individuals and households means simply that the economic system yields , during the year or decade , so many pounds of bread , suits of clothing , millions of cars , and thousands of whatever units of professional , medical etc. services we can envisage . In the present connection it is not important whether @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ households or as use in actual consumption . But it is important that we look carefully at this flow , by far the largest part of any national product total , whether today or yesterday , in the United States or in the USSR , and observe the major questions that arise in defining the total ? regardless of the technical questions which may arise in measurement . Two major problems can be seen immediately . One , to be designated for convenience as that of non-market sectors , is most clearly illustrated by the perennial example of housewives ' services . Should such services , which are presumably received by individuals and households , be included under economic net product ? And what about the commodities that are  | produced by our amateur gardeners , whether flower or truck , or devotee photographers , cabinet makers and other people who practice such hobbies , however unskillfully ? There is a general inclination on the part of economists , and particularly statistical technicians , to dismiss these questions as rather petty details and to confine measurement to goods produced for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not economic activity involving the use of limited means for wide ends , include at least all major flows of scarce goods , no matter how produced ? That the item is not necessarily in the nature of a minor detail , can be seen from the fact that the value of housewives ' services , whenever estimated , was , in the years prior to the present inflation , in the neighborhood of one quarter of the national income even in such an industrialized country as the United States . The second question is the opposite of the first . Do all goods flowing to individuals and households really represent final products in the sense of being sources of satisfaction to consumers as consumers ? If a person must use trolleys and buses to go to work , buy banking services because he is a member of the money economy , pay union dues , live in a city ? not for any personal satisfaction but as a condition of earning his living ? should these services be counted as a positive return to him from the economic system ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ expenses ' , although the term is unnecessarily narrow since it may cover even such items as the executive 's big automobile or expensive membership in various clubs which may be considered indispensable prerequisites of his occupational status rather than freely made personal choices . That such occupational expenses are hardly in the nature of minutiae may be illustrated by a tentative calculation made in attempting a comparison of per capita income  | in the United States and China and purifying the former for what may be called inflated costs of urban civilization : the inflation in question amounted to from 20 to 30 percent of all consumers ' outlay in 1929 as estimated by the Department of Commerce . In dealing with this twin problem of non-market sectors and inflation by occupational costs , the following basic criterion may be suggested : the touchstone is the individual and his wants , as a member of society at large , and not the individual viewed as a market enterprise . In other words , we want to include under economic activities all those yielding scarce products , whether produced for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for profit motives , for the sheer pleasure of producing , or out of regard for the recipient . It also means that in evaluating those goods purchased by ultimate consumers which represent occupational costs rather than final products , we need to know the individuals ' choices under conditions freed from the pure calculation of job needs . In either case , the criterion is not easily applied , nor is it meant to suggest that it can be applied automatically ; but it calls for much more careful scrutiny and analysis than heretofore of the measures of flow of goods into ultimate consumption ? a badly neglected area in economic research . In actual practice , the national income measures in this country and in most others , whether by governmental or other agencies , for obvious practical reasons , tend to omit most of the non-market activities and to include items that represent occupational expenses or more broadly speaking , many costs associated with earning of incomes . For any given year and country , the omission of non-market activities and the inclusion of cost items , may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of economic progress over time , the two limitations augment rather than offset each other : in other words ,  | the movement of national income over time will be given an upward bias on both counts , because non-market activities shrink over time and this shrinkage is not measured , and because occupational costs increase with urbanization and swell the duplication in the flow of goods to ultimate consumers . Thus , the increased flow of goods to consumers as ordinarily measured reflects not a net increase in the positive contribution to consumers ' welfare but partly identifies a change in form with increase , and partly identifies increase in costs with increase in returns . How large such exaggeration can be is a matter for further research . The same two biases materially affect many comparisons of national income between urbanized , industrialized countries on the one hand , and agricultural underdeveloped countries on the other . Even with adjustments for differences in price levels , the current measures often yield the absurd result of a per capita income in underdeveloped countries , such as India or China , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ $40 per year . With such average income persisting over a number of years , a population obviously could not survive . The answer to the riddle lies in the fact that the estimates for the non-industrialized countries are almost inevitably short on the non-market items , while those for the industrialized countries are long on occupational expenses and costs of urban civilization at large . The individual member of society as a touchstone of what constitutes a net positive yield of economic activity , as a touchstone of economic welfare , is even more important when we deal with government product . Here we see the government busily engaged in the production of all sorts of commodities and services : guns , planes , ships , roads , public buildings , judicial , legislative and administrative services as well as books ,  | forms and countless others . How much of all this is the mere cost of maintaining the social fabric , a precondition for net product rather than the net product itself ? The dispute in recent years as to the extent to which government activity may be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the individual members of society as consumers , or may represent only intermediate product , i.e. the actual cost of maintaining and keeping organized society as a pre-condition to economic product , is one in which I have become increasingly involved . In this controversy , I have , on the whole , been on the minority side ? the general trend in current national income estimation being to classify all government activities that involve commodities and services ( rather than transfers ) as yielding final products . This easy way out seems to me to do violence to the basic aim of national income measures ? that of gauging the net positive contribution of the economy to some end-goals of social life . Certainly , in measuring economic welfare , it seems far-fetched to count as a positive contribution the outlay of governments on such activities as welfare , police work and the like ? as if X billions expenditure on armaments means a positive contribution to the end-goal of society in the same way as X billions worth of food , clothing and other means of providing for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , increasing complexity of society with respect to internal management , and other basic factors in the recent major increase in government activities , as a natural calamity unconnected with the character of our social institutions . Quite the opposite , they may well be viewed as being , in large part , effects of the same forces that facilitated and induced the rapid growth of our material production . An overwhelming proportion of government outlay of real resources is thus in the nature of costs of those same social institutions that yielded the net product properly defined , and they must be viewed as costs , rather than  | added in as a net return . Only those parts of government activities of direct welfare to individuals as individuals ( education , health services and the like ) , can be considered as yielding net product . If this viewpoint be accepted , the customary estimates of national income extending over a long period would be subject to an upward bias if they were taken as gauges of economic progress ? this time because they include an increasing proportion of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at best may be just preserving the welfare of individual members of society . Likewise , in so far as the proportionate extent of such government activity , needed or feasible , is likely to be very much greater in the urban , industrialized societies than in the non-urban , non-industrialized countries , the full inclusion of government activities as yielding final products may contribute to an exaggeration of the totals for the industrialized countries or to the relative under-estimation of those for non-industrialized countries . We now pass to the problems involved in determining changes in the stock of capital ? problems that bring us into an entirely different range . So far we have tried to find out what constitutes a positive contribution to some end-goals of economic and social activity ? using the individual member of society as a touchstone . At this point we are confronted with problems of estimating the future . This cryptic statement should be explained . Having measured how much flows to consumers either via their purchases , production within the households , or government activity , we want to know whether , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ kept its capital stock intact , added to it , or reduced it . In the former case , total net product , the total positive contribution of the economy is equal to the amount furnished to consumers ; if capital is increased , the total net product is obviously larger than the amount furnished to con- sumers ; and if the capital is reduced , the net product is obviously smaller than the amount furnished to consumers . But how do we know whether capital increased or diminished ? In general , the magnitude of capital is indicated by the future services such capital can render ( with a proper discount ) . If , in the process of current production , the total volume of such future services ( discounted at an accepted rate ) , has increased , there is an addition to capital stock . Clearly , this involves an estimate of the future . At first it might seem possible to avoid it by arguing that the total net product delivered by the economy , less the amount flowing to consumers , will yield a residue @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ net product , the amount of capital consumed must be subtracted , and how can we estimate how much capital was consumed ( little of it is consumed physically ) , unless we project past experience into the future ? In practical estimation of capital consumption , as an offset to the total production of new capital goods , the income estimator accepts , with or without a few adjustments , the depreciation estimates of business firms and extends the practice to cover some durable capital in the hands of consumers ( such as houses ) or in the hands of government . But such depreciation practices yield , at best , a careful estimate based on past experience , projected into the future . And such projections may easily prove wrong . As one thinks about this sector in our measure of economic welfare , at least two major problems emerge . The first is suggested by the current hue and cry about exhaustion or threatening exhaustion of irreproducible natural resources ? be they soil , forests , or minerals . It should be noted that a great deal of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the national income estimates because they are not recorded by business firms ( e.g. the deterioration of the soil ) . But there is the important question as to whether we should make allow- ances for such using up of natural resources , other than amortizing any resources spent on their discovery . For to take this exhaustion at face value is to assume a certain fixity in our technology in the future ? a continued dependence on these resources , the failure of human ingenuity to find reproducible substitutes . One may therefore argue either way on this question : pessimistically , in the Malthusian manner , that the pace of human improvement is too slow and that the exhaustion of natural resources will be felt ; or optimistically , that natural resources will , in good time , be replaced by the products of human ingenuity . But regardless of the answer , the measures of economic welfare and progress assume a continuity of our technology , and can not be so constructed as to reflect properly either exhaustion of natural resources or accretion to stock of knowledge ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , one should either include both or exclude both . In practice , both are excluded , and as far as net balance is concerned , I am inclined to the judgment that the purely technological aspects suggest that our customary measures of national product under-estimate , rather than over-estimate economic progress and welfare . The second problem is the possible unreality that attaches to all the customary estimates of capital accumulation , because of the projection of the past into the future . In measuring national product as a gauge of progress , to what extent can we accept the mechanical assumption that the future is going to be like the past ? Granted that business firms and individuals must make this assumption if they are to have some defensible basis for their future estimates ( many of these are needed for such purposes as income tax reporting ) , need we accept them in the broad and long term view of economic welfare and progress ? And if we do n't accept them , what can we substitute for them ? I have no answer to this question ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sheds light on some puzzling aspects of interpretation of national income as a measure of welfare and progress . One aspect is revealed in the judgment of the  | value of an increase in national income accompanied by a rise in population numbers and a constant per capita income , as compared with that accompanied by a lesser rise in population numbers and an increase in per capita income . Assuming that the increases in the total national product in both cases are equal , real , and free from any biases discussed above , there would still be a general inclination to conceive of a situation accompanied by a rise in income per capita as somehow representing greater increase than that accompanied by constant income per capita . Why should we instinctively prefer the situation with increased per capita ? One important reason , sometimes only unconsciously felt , is that an increased income per capita provides a better basis , if not for continued progress , at least for maintaining progress already attained ? both because the pressure upon natural resources is less , and particularly because , with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the type of exploratory and pioneer activity that served in the past as the main source of mankind 's increasing command over material goods . Another interesting aspect illuminated by the question is the paradox illustrated by the present in the United States . With all the duplication and biases affecting our current measures of net national product , it is fair to say that they reveal an unexampled record of economic progress ? a remarkable achievement in the way of economic welfare . Nevertheless , there is little confidence in or satisfaction with the result : on the contrary , there is concern and worry , of a type seemingly absent , say half a century ago , when our total economic product was not much more than one half of the present , even on a per capita basis . The reason obviously lies in the fact that the implicit estimate of the future is quite different from that actually used in our current national income measures ; that this widespread projection into the future , rightly or wrongly ,  | does not assume an easy continuance of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ common opinion assumes a possible change , largely in international conditions , which represents a tremendous depreciation of our economic capital , and in that sense employs a figure of capital consumption that would reduce our national income as a measure of economic welfare to a level far below those presently appearing in official and unofficial estimates . The burden of these comments is that our judgment of economic welfare concerns itself not only with the past but also with the future . Thus an apparently purely technical problem of estimating capital accumulation is like the peak of an iceberg that conceals a vast area below it , and the sooner we become aware of it , the better shall we understand the meaning of our measures and the more attention shall we direct , as we must , not only to evaluation of the past but also of the future . That this must be the case is implicit in the very inclusion of capital changes under current measures of welfare : the latter measure not only the recent past but the foreseeable future . Let us assume now that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ individuals as members of society and to distinguish the net product contributed by an economy , and that we have found an adequate basis for gauging the future for the purpose of estimating net changes in capital stock . In order to quantify the total thus defined , study its movement over time and observe differences in economic welfare , relate component parts to the total , it is necessary somehow to find a basis for measuring the diverse parts ? a common denominator by which to reduce individual commodities and services to comparable units . We all know that this is usually done by reducing them to market prices or their equivalents , with adjustments for changes in prices over time and differences in prices in space .  | Regardless of any defects in such a yardstick , it is the only one at all feasible , and it is the only one that comes at all close to an economic valuation . Any substitutes that have been offered so far , whether based upon experimental , natural science techniques or upon philosophical assumptions of the proponent , fall far @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and values by individuals as members of society . The concern here , therefore , is not so much with criticism of the price yardstick by some outside criterion , a patently easy task , but rather with bringing out some basic assumptions that underlie it . The first assumption is apparent when we ask how we deal with goods that are the product of changing technology and society over time ( or across space ) . By what legerdemain do we compare totals over long periods , totals that include such modern gadgets as automobiles , airplanes , refrigerators , radios etc. , with those that are bare of all such items but include horse carts , antimacassars , and petroleum used for medicinal purposes ? Or more strikingly , how do we compare , across space , totals comprised of our industrial products with those comprised of voodoo drums , ebony idols , and necklaces made of human teeth ? The answer is in the underlying assumption of the constancy of human wants . By such constancy we mean that the wants of men are sufficiently identical over time @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ food , shelter , clothing , transportation , amusement , intellectual fare and the like ; that the specific forms which these wants take differ from time to time and place to place with the technology and complexity of production and social organization , but that nevertheless there is essential parallelism residing in the identity of man as a member of the species homo sapiens . This assumption is basic to any concept of economic welfare or progress , or for that matter of any welfare or progress . Unless we are willing to grant this essential identity of man , no comparisons are possible , no results that would relate to comparable entities . And considering the variety and elasticity  | of human experience in different places and at different times , considering that for one and the same human society it is possible to find the whole gamut from the most primitive ' to the most advanced , the assumption finds wide support in observation . It is in the light of this that we can speak of people being better off at one time as compared with another @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ We may or may not agree with the assumption fully ; we may wish to limit it to some periods or to some countries . But whenever we measure economic change over time or economic differences in space , we must use this assumption if our measures are to have any meaning ? short of being satisfied with quantities of single , identifiable physical units . But while this assumption permits the comparison of totals of diverse physical identities , another assumption is needed as a basis for measuring the specific magnitudes of the physical units included . We are accustomed to market prices as such weights ; and markets are widespread in human society , provided we do not limit the concept to the highly developed money type that characterizes the industrial countries of the last century or two . They provide a valuable mechanism by which a social judgment is made of the magnitude of this or that item included in our total of net contributions . This judgment may seem , at first , paradoxically wrong ; and yet further reflection would reveal a high degree of validity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , if often overlooked , aspect of our national income measures : in general , the really important things , those we call basic necessities , are relatively cheap , as far as market prices go , while the things we call luxuries are expensive . This seems like a topsy-turvy system of valuation , and as a result of it , the larger the national income per capita , the greater is the proportion in it of so-called trivialities . But when you come to think of it , economic progress , or an increase in welfare , does imply an increase in the proportion of trivialities ; it does consist of the ability to satisfy basic wants with a small proportion of resources , and of the ability to spend a vast amount of resources  | on trinkets ? whether they be cars , television sets , or horse racing . And as already indicated , the greater the surplus for such non-essential products , the greater is the hope that the welfare thus attained will be kept and increased . It therefore makes sense for the price system @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which individuals and society are willing to put into them , rather than by the scale of physiological importance of wants which they satisfy . Provided that all the goods included are wanted , their relative weight is the amount of resources sunk into them , i.e. the over-all magnitude of foregone opportunities sacrificed for them , rather than some natural scale of indispensability . This need not prevent us from using a different scale if so desired , by the simple device of using a price system based on an earlier and a more primitive ' set of prices , i.e. one closer to the natural priority scale of wants . Nor should the statements above be interpreted to mean that the price system , as currently operating , is free from those distortions which society ? in the light of more efficient operation designed toward specified ends ? might remedy . This discussion is meant to indicate only that the basic assumptions of the valuation involved in such measures of economic welfare and progress as national income ? the constancy of human wants and the use of prices reflecting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are both essential and contribute to , rather than detract from , the meaningfulness of the resulting totals . It follows that from the standpoint of basic wants or needs , the system of valuation implicit in national income measures may lead to an under-estimate of the extent of economic progress or of the extent of economic superiority across space in satisfying primary wants . Because goods are measured , not by their importance in the scale of wants but by their costs in terms of resources , the magnitudes assigned to the satisfaction of primary wants are much smaller than if they had been set at the ill-fare associated with their non-satisfaction . In that sense , comparisons among periods or countries in which one term involves aggregates that may be below the margin of  | subsistence and others that may be well above it , would yield quantitative differences far short of those suggested by the notions of welfare and ill-fare . Just as the customary measures of capital accumulation under-estimate real progress over time or differences in space in the real stock of capital associated with technological knowledge @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ weights is likely to underestimate real progress over time or differences in space in the magnitudes associated with satisfaction or lack of satisfaction of primary wants . A national income of X units which means starvation of a goodly part of the population , is not one-half , but a much smaller proportion , of an income of 2X which permits fair living . In that sense , the price system is adequate only for income levels above a certain minimum . Even with this limitation , the use of the price system as the best approximation to individuals ' judgments in society raises some problems only hinted at so far . The first is that the system of weights involved in prices changes over time and differs in space ; and that the results of valuation would differ as we use one or another system of weights . Comparisons , therefore , assume some choice of a single system , even though it be a synthetic composite . And if we wish to avoid such choice with its commitment to a single schedule of weights , the consequence is a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ results rather than a single , unique answer . The second problem is that any given system of prices is likely to reflect some distortions as compared with a hypothetically ideal system in which the individual members of society have free choice and are less encumbered by inequalities or monopolistic restrictions of opportunities that are often the unwanted heritage of historical development . One must be cognizant , therefore , of both the element of judgment involved in the use of any single system of weights provided by prices , and of the need for close scrutiny of the particular system used with respect to the extent to which it conforms to our basic touchstone ? the judgments of the individual members of society when given free choice in a desirable social environment .  | One major problem remains . Assuming that we have adjusted our measure of economic welfare and progress for all the biases suggested , it is still that of contribution of the economy to the welfare of individuals , without any hint of the sacrifice and labor involved . Should not some account be taken of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the input of labor by individuals who are the active members of the economy viewed as a system of production ? The pertinence of this question is based upon two considerations . The first is the rather common attitude that participation in economic activity is a sacrifice , a disutility , the magnitude of which should be considered in appraising the net returns . The second is the common observation that in the past century or two , economic progress has been associated with substantial reduction in the amount of time spent by individuals in production proper and in the physical labor involved . Considering that human life is short and that time spent on unpleasant tasks is a negative element , should we not insist that economic welfare and progress be measured not only in terms of supply of wanted goods but also in terms of freedom from unwanted labor ? The argument seems plausible , and the resulting attempts to estimate man-hours of labor or other measures of input of human resources justified . Yet there is in the argument an equivocal element . Should we conceive participation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ back-breaking labor carried to physiologically damaging lengths is to be so classified , to what extent should we disregard the instinct of workmanship and the value of participation in production as a pleasurable activity ? Thus we are deterred from a hard and fast conclusion on the matter . True , the immemorial dream of mankind as expressed poetically in the myth of the Garden of Eden , is to be completely free from economic labor . But may not this dream be a reflection of the old times when labor had  | to be too long and too arduous ? Can we carry over this judgment directly to modern times , and argue that the reduction of the working week from say 36 to 30 hours represents some positive accretion to economic welfare similar to an increase of one sixth in the supply of goods ? In raising this question , there is no wish to deny that the amount of labor involved in the net product is a corollary , inverted gauge of economic welfare and progress . But one may question the rough and ready assumption that economic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in terms suggested by the arithmetical example above . Furthermore , the very fact that economic progress takes the form of an increasing supply of goods other than physiological essentials , as it ordinarily does in industrial economies of the recent past , implies an obvious reduction in time assigned to economic activity and an increase in time assigned to the process of ultimate consumption . For it takes time to utilize these " non-essentials , " be they education , amusement , travel and the like . One might , therefore argue that in so far as economic welfare is measured by the growing volume of non-essentials , it must , ipso facto , reflect the release of men from long time devotion to the tasks of production . This does not necessarily free us from the need of scrutinizing every possible measure of hours and conditions of labor , as a check upon the character of economic welfare measured by the net product . But it does suggest that under certain conditions , the latter measure is adequate even without direct consideration of labor input . The discussion so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he has been led into a labyrinth of value judgments and intangibles away from the observable hard core of economic reality . The natural reaction would be to dismiss all these questions of relevance of economic production to welfare , and to urge that we merely observe and measure what the economy does regardless of the relation of such activities  | to wants of individuals or to assumptions concerning the future . I must confess to a strong sympathy for this viewpoint and to reluctance in raising such questions . If the total performance of a country 's economy could be measured over the longer run or for comparisons with other societies without raising questions of relevance to end-goals , and with results that would be understood and accepted , it would be a most happy circumstance . But one can avoid these questions only on one of two assumptions . The first is that some specified congeries of tangible economic goods , measurable in comparable units , ( say tons of steel plus bushels of wheat plus heads of cattle , reduced to some common denominator ) is , in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the economy as a productive system . Such an assumption is obviously invalid . The second is that we are not really interested in the total performance of the economy but only in its distinguishable parts ; and that in measuring the latter we are seeking for some invariancies that will permit us to get nearer to generalization . But to accept this assumption and , by disregarding the social valuation or judgment placed upon the economy ? one of the most powerful factors in determining its course ? to expect that we can still understand and predict is to be oversanguine as to our ability to understand economic life by a few mechanical outward manifestations . To indicate that the questions raised here are directly relevant to many major policy and intellectual problems , a few illustrations might be helpful . They might also help us to understand the exact import of the points only briefly indicated above . Consider the twin question of non-market activities and urban civilization costs in their bearing upon a proper understanding of the problem of industrialization of underdeveloped countries ? a fashionable problem these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a drastic reduction in non-market activity is a strong reminder that industrialization is not merely a painless process of piling up steel mills and electric  | power stations . It is simultaneously a destroyer of no mean magnitude , a painful process of breaking established patterns of life and of shrinking the portion that can be supported from within the household . And this emphasis leads to another . If one asks how industrialization ever comes about , the answer is likely to be that there are some groups or forces in society in a position to break the crust , to impose the painful dislocations that are involved in economic growth in a new pattern . And just as the whole emphasis on non-market activities focuses attention upon this element in any quantitative measure of economic welfare and progress , so the emphasis on urbanization costs urges attention to the process of building up a population capable and desirous of engaging in this modern type of economic activity ? with its high returns and high costs . The all too-common practice of using national income measures of the customary type @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ problem of industrialization ; and it may easily leave us with a completely misleading impression of the essence of the problem ? unless we are alert to questions of the type suggested above . To illustrate further , consider the practical importance of whether and to what extent government activity results in final products , in providing for wants of individual consumers comprising the inhabitants of a country . Is it not fair to claim that the current practice , in official estimates , of automatically classifying all government activity as final product , is misleading , and discourages badly needed functional analysis of government outlays , careful scrutiny of the latter with respect to their service to some approved , ultimate end-goal of society ? Is it not of vital importance that currently used measures of net product of our economy serve to reveal , rather than to conceal , the difference between net product and any gross totals that may have value for technical analysis but are misleading if interpreted as net product ? It does not follow , of course , that such a distinction , consequent upon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of itself produce a wiser public policy or prevent an increase in the proportion  | toward ends other than consumers ' welfare . But there is some hope that a better understanding of these problems might help . Consider again the bearing of the questions relating to the measure of capital accumulation upon our policy problems with regard to the future . The clear realization that these measures extrapolate our past experience into the future is necessarily a spur towards a more careful examination of this past as a basis for our judgment of the future . What in fact has been our historical experience in the way of capital accumulation ? How important has been the sheer piling up of construction and equipment , and how important has been the whole framework of social institutions and the social milieu , including the international framework ? Can we accept simply the conservative and mechanical judgments of business firms with reference to capital consumption ? It is clear that the questions thus put force us to consider more thoroughly the technological and social framework of the economic system , even if , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ accept for the time being the capital consumption estimates of business firms . It should be repeated that there is no assurance of better understanding or of more valuable results by merely raising these questions . One can also argue that the problems illustrated could have been perceived , and actually were perceived , without specific application to national income measures viewed as gauges of economic progress or welfare . Nevertheless , if we are going to use such measures , and we must and will do so to an increasing degree , it is a necessary precaution to raise these questions as unmistakable signals of the deficiencies , compromises and arbitrary assumptions which these measures embody . By way of qualification and conclusion , three comments are in order . The first stresses the fact that we have been discussing the measurement of economic welfare , not of social welfare at large ; and that we have dwelt upon measurement  | rather than explanation of the factors that served to increase or augment economic welfare . That economic welfare as such is important enough to merit consideration , is itself @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ puts a high premium upon the material performance of the economy , which does not view famines and material deprivations as an acceptable punishment of Divine Providence or an opportunity for purification of the human soul , and which is willing to consider economic satisfaction apart from the moral , esthetic , intellectual or religious attainments of mankind . It is important to see the limitations of a viewpoint implicit in dealing with economic welfare alone , and to realize that , because of these limitations , attainments with respect to economic welfare may well be accompanied by failures in other aspects of social and individual life . Furthermore , in viewing only one aspect of social life , we may well overlook certain conditions which are important in explaining ( rather than observing and measuring ) changes in economic welfare proper . The second comment notes the fact that our entire discussion was in terms of over-all totals of national income , ignoring the distribution of the product among various groups in society . This omission is not due to a denial of the importance of such distribution as part @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the same national income or product total , measured with due respect to the questions of inclusion , exclusion , and valuation raised above , may represent different magnitudes of economic welfare under different systems of distribution by size , by conditions of securing of income , or by stability or variability of such income over time . Limitation of space alone keeps us from discussing these questions here . But it is important to note that the obvious need for such distributions points in the same direction that is clearly indicated by the questions raised above : the need for refinement and articulation of the national income totals so that they can serve as better approximations to the basic purpose which they are intended to serve ? gauges of economic welfare . This brings me to the third and concluding comment . In  | stressing the limitations of the current measures of national income as gauges of economic welfare , it is not intended to suggest that because of these limitations the measures should be discarded . On the contrary , they should be used more and developed further @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and to the many others that become apparent when we consider problems of distribution , does not lie in fanciful speculations , nor in personal reflections no matter how emotionally and esthetically satisfying they may be . It lies rather in starting with the measures that we now have , and seeing how we can push them further , particularly in the direction where we can ( I ) gauge more distinctly the activities of individuals and households , ( 2 ) see more precisely the functional categories of government activities , ( 3 ) observe the conditions under which past decisions regarding capital accumulation have been made and how they provided the basis for an expanded volume of production , ( 4 ) note how international relations , under differing world conditions , linked or failed to link the economies of different nations , ( 5 ) distinguish the various groups of income recipients according to their shares in the current product of the economy and according to their control over the accumulated capital of the country . Indeed , in the light of the questions raised above , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ measures is grist to the mill of better understanding ; and regardless of any controversies concerning proper classification and semantics , the broad view of economic welfare and progress can only benefit from any addition to the knowledge of basic economic magnitudes contributed by the traditional work in the field of national income . Compared with the value of this contribution , constantly added to by the official and unofficial estimates of today , any difficulties created by the defects of the estimates from the broader viewpoint advanced here , pale into insignificance . And any country just entering upon the initial phases of such work should be stimulated rather than depressed by the questions and thoughts advanced above . The main purpose of raising such questions is not to dis- courage work along traditional and official lines , but rather to call attention to the serious problems to which approaches along these lines pay insufficient heed . It is also important to note that cognizance of these questions directs work in the national income field into otherwise neglected channels . The emphasis on industrial distribution and final product classification ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ accumulation of information on patterns of size distribution , consumption , and savings ; the data on government revenues and expenditures ; and many other streams of economic information are all required if our national income measures are to answer the simplest questions , let alone the more difficult questions raised above . This discussion should , therefore , not only re-enforce our need for national income measures , but stress the fact that their adequate use depends upon the intensity of penetration of these measures into the fabric of economic and social life . There is little use in playing with national income figures as single quantities unreduced to their component parts and unaccompanied by price data ; there is much more use in the kind of national figures that are compiled by official agencies in the industrial countries of today . But their full use for the fundamental understanding of economic welfare and economic progress awaits a more explicit consideration of questions of the kind raised above ; and depends upon experimental and analytical use of the data designed to provide at least approximate answers .  | Recent changes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ involvement of all countries with each other , a keener interest in their diverse economic and social structures and functions . When events in a remote corner of the globe affect the lives and destinies of people thousands of miles away , we can not easily retain the feelings of separateness and independence that may have characterized our thinking half a century ago . Concurrently , the closer linking of the world , in peace and in war , in international organization and in military conflict , has resulted in more information and in a greater effort to reduce the apparent qualitative differences in life around the globe to some comparable , measurable basis . The marked recent increase in quantitative data on population , health , food supply , industrial production , and income is in response to a natural urge to measure the similarities and differences in the social and economic structures of various nations ; and to provide for national and international policy a more reliable basis than can be supplied by impressions of travelers , qualitative accounts of historians , or appraisals of geographers . The increasing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the attention in recent years to international comparisons of income levels , are thus only one strand  | in the whole fabric of the study of the world framework of human society . This particular way of learning about mankind is still in its early stages . True , several international compilations and comparisons were made in the 19th century ; and even , though on a much cruder basis , in the late 17th . But by current standards , the earlier compilations and comparisons have at most only suggestive value and are often misleading as indications of orders of magnitude . Even today , a critical examination reveals unreliability and inadequacy in a goodly portion of the current measures , which are so misleading in the impression of quantitative precision that any figure suggests . Unless civilization suffers a serious relapse , the comparisons we draw today may look as crude to scholars fifty or a hundred years from now as the 19th century comparisons look to us . We should bear this qualification in mind and not attribute too much significance to minor quantitative differences or draw unwarranted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ qualifications , our interpretations may well prove superficial in the long run , chiefly because our accumulation of information concerning the various parts of world society is still in an almost embryonic stage . Nevertheless , the data on income levels in various countries are already sufficient for at least a rough picture of the differences and of the associated social and economic characteristics . And there has been enough speculation and assertion about the causes of these differences to merit a review . The notes that follow are , as indicated by the subtitle , reflections on the theme ? not results of a thorough analysis . But they may serve the useful purpose of stimulating further thinking on this important subject ; and , possibly , of suggesting directions of further data collection and analysis that may prove fruitful . We begin our discussion with a brief statistical picture of international differences in income levels . More as a matter of convenience than because of the greater accuracy of the fig- ures , I use here the compilation made by United States Department of State in laying the foundation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ advantages : they refer to a pre-war year ( 1939 ) relatively free of the disturbances and havoc of World War II ; cover 53 countries which together account for about 85 percent of the world 's population ; and provide data not only on income but also on various other characteristics . I have used the figures in the State Department report as given , supplementing them only by approximations to the shares of non-agricultural sectors . The income figures are in US dollars , without correction for differences in purchasing power and minor conceptual dissimilarities . Since for many of the 53 countries the statistical basis for estimates is exceedingly thin , minor differences can be attributed little significance and the specific ranking of the countries is also to be disregarded . Only the major contrasts among the groups of countries are important for the present purposes . They can be summarized as follows : ( a ) There are marked differences in per capita income levels among broad groups of countries . Even if the differences are exaggerated by peculiarities of income measurement , ) and we should @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ groups I to III ) to perhaps 6 to 1 , the range of differences is still substantial . These differences are not just a matter of a single year or two , but characterize the long term income levels of the various countries . ( b ) The figures for the 53 countries in the table relate to only 85 percent of the world 's population . The remainder ( except the population of such countries as Spain , Portugal and Turkey which might fall in group II ) would probably fall in group III , since it is for the economically less developed countries of the world that statistics are lacking . The exceptional position of group I , with about one-sixth of the world 's population and over six-tenths of the world 's income , would be even 1 See the author 's National Income and Industrial Structure , presented at the International Statistical Conferences in Washington , U.S.A. , in September 1947 ( reprinted in this volume , pp. 145-91 ) .  | Type 2 . Transitional growth . Birth rates 25-35 per thousand . Both birth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Type 3 . High growth potential . Birth rates over 35 per thousand . Death rates ( but not birth rates ) generally declining . Rapid growth in absence of civil disturbance , famine , and epidemic . The entries in line 5 are unweighted arithmetic means of entries for each country , given separately in the source . Line 9 is based on data in National Income Statistics , 1938-47 and National Income Statistics , 7938-48 , both published by the Statistical Office of the United Nations ( in 1948 and 1950 respectively ) , supplemented for one or two countries by Colin Clark , Conditions of Economic Progress ( London 1940 ) . In general , the ratios are for 1939 or the year closest to it , within a decade either way . The entries are unweighted arithmetic means for 13 countries in group I , 8 in group II , 6 in group IIIa , and 5 in group IIIb . Weighting by total income for each country would have produced even more striking differences . ( c ) These differences measured by such a comprehensive monetary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ quantities of goods . The food supply per capita , especially if we deal with the more qualitatively select types , is , in group III , from one-third to one-fifth of that in group I ; and the consumption of textiles per capita shows similar contrasts . Were data available on other consumer goods , more reflective of quality differences , the contrast would be even greater . In short , after allowances for roughness in measurement , real income levels per capita in group I ( with one-sixth of the world 's population ) and in group III ( with almost two thirds of the world 's population ) must still be in the ratio of about 6 to r. ( d ) These differences in real income level are associated with different patterns of population growth . The high income level countries have , on the whole , a low growth potential ( low birth and death rates ) ; whereas countries in group III have high growth potentials . An increase in per capita income levels in any country is contingent upon a rate of growth in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can be reduced by emigration . It will be thus seen that the problem  | of raising the low per capita income levels in group III countries is aggravated by its high growth pattern of population . Another correlate is the degree of literacy of population ? high in group I and low in group III , with group II in the middle . ( e ) Differences in income level are also associated with differences in industrial structure , as revealed by the shares of non-agricultural industries in total income ( line 9 ) and investment in industry per worker ( line rr ) . Clearly the low income levels in countries in group III are connected with preponderance of agriculture in the economic structure , low levels of productivity in agriculture , low rates of industrial investment , low consumption of energy , and an undeveloped transportation system reflected in railroad mileage and freight carried . The opposites of these characteristics typify countries in group I. The list of characteristics of the national economies each viewed as a productive framework could be expanded , but the few given in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In considering the factors that determine international differences in income levels of the magnitude just revealed , it is a natural tendency to treat the associated characteristics as at least in part causative . If this tendency is carried to its fullest extent , it can be said that income levels in countries in group III are low because the population follows the pattern of high birth rates and high death rates ; or because the population is illiterate ; or because agriculture , which tends to be a low income industry , is preponderant , and secondary and tertiary industries ( to use Colin Clark 's terminology ) are unimportant ; or because industrial investment per worker is low ; etc . It also follows from these statements that the way to get a higher level of income per capita is to change the population pattern ; or shift working population from agriculture into non-agricultural sectors ; or increase industrial investment per capita . Indeed , much of the discussion of industrialization of under- developed countries smacks of such identification of associated characteristics with causal factors . There is undoubtedly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ birth and death rates is handicapped as a body of economic producers , if only because high mortality , particularly concentrated in the infant ages , means an exceedingly wasteful pattern of life ? with energies of parents devoted to raising children of whom only a few reach productive ages . It is equally obvious that an illiterate population is more handicapped than a literate one in developing productive skills . Likewise a larger stock of productive capital is a prerequisite of high productivity . Somewhat less obvious is the relevance of industrial structure , i.e. the preponderance of non-agricultural industries . That agricultural industries per se are no less productive than non-agricultural ones is , of course , evident from a comparison of agricultural productivity in the United States or in New Zealand with say , the productivity of labor in manufacturing in India or China . But one can argue that greater industrial diversification , which implies a smaller share in the national economy of any single group of industries such as agriculture , is a factor making for higher over-all productivity since it permits a more balanced use @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ But even if the above arguments are granted , the significance of these factors as causes of international income differentials is still to be considered . Taken in and of themselves , out of the full context of all aspects of social and economic life , differences in birth- and death-rates would scarcely have much effect on per capita productivity ; and this may also be true of literacy , especially when one considers how superficial its level is even in the economically advanced countries of the world . And one certainly can ask whether the approach to industrial struc- ture suggested above and implicit in many writings on industrialization of underdeveloped countries does not put the cart before the horse ; income is not high because a smaller share of the nation 's economy is accounted for by agriculture and is not low because of the preponderance of agriculture , but in certain countries agriculture accounts for a smaller share because income is high and in other countries agriculture predominates because over-all productivity is low . The reduction in the share of agriculture accompanying a rise in over-all productivity is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of productivity in agriculture itself ; and partly to the inducive factor that when the standard of living rises , human tastes are such that the proportion of agricultural products wanted declines and that of products of other industries rises . Quantitative proof of the former statement is supplied by the table where the contrast in productivity of population dependent on agriculture between countries in groups I and III is even greater than the contrast in per capita total income ( compare lines 10 and 4 ) . The second proposition , decline in the proportion of agricultural products wanted with rise in per capita income above a certain level , is demonstrated in any cross-section analysis of consumer budgets at a given point of time , where the proportion of income spent on food and clothing ( the former particularly being an agricultural product ) declines sharply as we pass from the low to the upper income groups . What was just said of the industrial structure of the economy as a consequence of reaching certain over-all productivity levels , is also applicable to other characteristics . Literacy is perhaps @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it is a cause of high income levels ; and the same is true of capital accumulation , industrial and otherwise . Population patterns with low birth rates and low death rates , too , are just as much consequences of a higher standard of living and higher income levels as their cause . Certainly in the historical development of countries during the last 150-200 years the rise in over-all productivity came first , followed by reduced death rates and then with  | a substantial delay , birth rates , increased literacy , capital accumulation , etc . Because of this interaction of income level and other characteristics , the statistical association between them is no basis for assuming that these characteristics are causative factors . The increasing emphasis on quantitative measurement in international comparisons naturally makes it easy to translate close statistical association into significant causal relationships . In view of the continuous interplay of income levels and these associated characteristics , in which the former rather than the latter is often the determining variable , this simple translation is a logical trap that should be avoided lest it lead @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ policy implications . Two conclusions can , I believe , be safely drawn from the discussion so far . ( i ) Factors such as population growth pattern , literacy , industrial structure , and capital investment are of some importance in determining international differences in levels of income . But their importance , per se , is much more limited than their close statistical association with per capita income suggests . Their net effect , if it could be measured , might account for but a small part of existing differences , and therefore leave much room for further search and explanation . ( ii ) These characteristics are associated with income levels , both as causes and consequences , and together , with many others not specifically indicated in the table , form an interrelated complex . All policy measures to raise per capita income levels are implicitly steps in producing the whole complex into being , and should be so viewed . They must , therefore , be conceived as measures designed to raise income levels , and to change population patterns , and to increase levels of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the economy , etc . The realization of the extent to which per capita income level is only a symbol of a whole socio-economic complex of conditions is important for any intelligent policy approach , as well as for analysis of causes .  | Since mankind is part and parcel of a physical world , a biological species living in conditions provided by nature , it seems reasonable to ask whether economic differences among human societies are not reducible to differences in either natural environment or biological characteristics . The temptation to look for such natural ' factors is great : if it were found that such factors beyond human control determine international differences in say income levels , the difficulty of disentangling the interrelated complex of economic and other social phenomena could be avoided . The finding of such natural ' factors would also provide solace to minds and hearts of men who are perturbed by many aspects of human society but are reluctant to face or despair of the painful task of amelioration : if these troubles could be charged to inexorable nature ( as they used to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could only bow to fate in the spirit of sadness and resignation . Whatever the reasons , and some of them are warranted in the light of empirical observations , natural factors such as climate , topography , presumptive biological characteristics of particular groups of mankind ( races , etc. ) have appeared recurrently in attempts to explain international differences in political , social , and economic structures . On the surface , they also seem relevant to international differences in income levels . Without presuming to treat them adequately , we discuss them under two heads : ( a ) location-race factors ; ( b ) irreproducible economic resources . ( a ) By location-race we mean factors represented by climatic-land aspects of the location of human societies , or by the presumptive biological characteristics of one human group as distinct from another . While differences in climatic and land conditions of various human societies are obvious and the socalled racial characteristics are subject to dispute and doubt , for purposes of discussion here , we take both for granted , and  | inquire whether they can be of significance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would seem to me largely in the negative , for two obvious but often neglected reasons . The first is the striking disparity in time between the location-race factors and their presumed consequences ? international differences in economic performance . Climatic and land conditions at a given spot of the globe change exceedingly slowly on the scale of history of human society . Few significant changes in climate or state of the land have occurred within the five thousand years covered by the known historical stretch of human society ( except those caused by man himself , in which case they are hardly natural ' factors ) . Yet economic performance in many parts of the globe has changed rapidly . Indeed , only a few portions of the globe have not been , at some time , at least quite high on the relative scale of economic performance , if not in the vanguard . Certainly , China and India , now classified among the lower of the countries in group III , were in this category ; and the same is true of some of the predecessors of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we find more examples of outstanding economic and social performance in the past in places far outside the present orbit of economic leadership . Of course , there may be areas on the globe where climatic and land conditions are forbiddingly difficult , e.g. in the Arctic Circle . But the contribution of these factors to the explanation of current , or even of past , international differences in income levels is obviously small . Exactly the same argument applies to presumptive racial characteristics and differences . Even if we accept for purposes of discussion the dubious proposition that innate , biological differences exist among various sectors of mankind , the time span of these differences ? because they are assumed to be innate and biological ? is exceedingly long on the scale of human history . Yet no matter what racial , etc. groups have been identified during the known historical stretch of human society , each has at some time or other been among the eco- nomically advanced societies : the Mongol race during China 's leadership ; the American Indians during the Mayan and Incan civilizations ; the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Berber kingdoms ; the Semitic races through much of human history . I do not feel competent to pursue this subject in detail , nor is such detail needed here . The time spans between the location-race factors and inter-spatial or intergroup differences in economic and social performance are obviously too great for the former to play a significant part as a determinant of the latter . But , granted this disparity , one may still contend that the location-race factors may be significant in that they effect genuine differences in natural conditions , thus limiting the adoption of methods by which high incomes are currently attained . To illustrate , assume that high levels are achieved only with the kind of exertion that is possible in temperate climates alone ; or only by scientific endeavor , the capacity for which is claimed by some to be limited to the white races . The speciousness of this argument is revealed by the second broad consideration that should lead us to deny much significance to location-race factors . Any historical distinctiveness in recent methods of attaining high income levels lies in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ diversified system of empirical science . Climatic and land conditions , as obstacles to human effort , are much less forbidding today than in the past ; and the very growth of human technology means that location factors are less important today than they may have been in periods of more primitive technology . Likewise , the varieties of mental effort and capacity that go into the technology of today are much greater than they may have been in the past , so that it is even more doubtful today than it ever was , that some presumptive differences in innate , biological characteristics of different groups of mankind significantly affect the acceptance and use of the diversified corpus of modern economic practices . Dismissing the race factor as an empirically unestablished element and confining our attention to the obvious location  | differences in climatic and other conditions , we reach two conclusions . ( i ) Location factors , in the current and recent past state of technology and human knowledge , could not , in and of themselves , have contributed materially to international differences in income levels . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ part , presumably have been overcome by concentration upon the problem of human ingenuity and science . ( ii ) The natural conditions of many countries in group III are no more unfavorable to high income levels than those of many countries in group I. It would be difficult , for example , to demonstrate that nature per se is much less favorable in China than in Sweden or Australia ; or that it is so much more favorable in England than in Mexico . At any rate , the burden of proof is upon the proponents of such theories ; and no proof has been provided that takes full cognizance of the potentialities of human technology in dealing with even the most unfavorable aspects of land or climate . ( b ) The discussion above touched only implicitly upon a natural factor that is important in many analyses of international differences in economic performance ? the supply of such irreproducible productive factors as cultivable land and minerals . Economic technology always , and modern economic technology is no exception , leans heavily upon extraction of certain irreproducible resources from the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ supply of such resources , relative to existing population , is a major factor in explaining low per capita income levels , and a rich supply relative to existing population , high income levels . This claimed dependence of international differences in economic performance upon the relative supply of irreproducible resources can not be examined in great detail here . The reflections that follow lead to a somewhat more critical view of this dependence than usually prevails , and suggest the limitations of the hypothesis adopted . i ) Economic resource ' is a concept relative to a given state of technology . Until man learned to use coal for heating a steam engine or smelting iron ore , it was a domestic consumer  | good but hardly an important industrial fuel . When man learns to grow his food in trays of synthetic chemicals , the importance of land as a resource for the production of food will dwindle . Examples abound of many hitherto important economic resources that have lost almost all importance , and of many formerly unimportant or valueless parts of the earth that have recently become @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ scarcity in the past of some irreproducible resource , strategic within the framework of an older technology , that have been overcome not by finding more of the scarce resource but by a change in technology and substitution of a new resource , more plentiful and usually more effective . The conspicuous case , which in a sense laid the basis for modern economic technology , was the way the Industrial Revolution overcame the shortage of wood , as both fuel and industrial material , and of animal and wind power . More recent cases are the substitution of fixed nitrogen for natural guano and of synthetic for natural rubber . Hence , any emphasis on relative scarcity of irreproducible resources , as a factor in determining low levels of economic performance extending over a long period , must be countered with the question why no successful effort has been made by the victim of such scarcity to overcome it by changes in technology . To be retained , the hypothesis must , therefore , be rephrased : the havenot societies are poor because they have not succeeded in overcoming scarcity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ because the scarcity of resources is an inexorable factor for which there is no remedy . And obviously human societies with low levels of economic performance are least able to overcome any scarcities of irreproducible resources by changes in technology ; but this is a matter of social organization and not of bountifulness or niggardliness of nature . ii ) Our knowledge of the supply of irreproducible economic resources is inadequate . This is true even of resources that , because of their strategic importance , have been investigated and explored most intensively ? as the continuous upward revisions of world supply of petroleum clearly indicate . It is even more  | true of minerals that have not been as intensively explored ; and may also be true of the oldest resource available , viz. cultivable land , the knowledge of whose chemical and other properties is a recent addition to the stock of scientific information . This limitation of data on irreproducible resources , data that can be amassed only by considerable effort and by application of technical skill and knowledge ? all scarce in the underdeveloped countries ? is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shortage biases are likely to be greatest for just the countries with low income levels . It follows that all our current estimates of the supply of irreproducible economic resources are slanted to minimize the supply in countries in groups II and III compared with the estimates for the developed countries in group I. iii ) The irreproducible economic resources that do exist in the countries with low income levels are not used as effectively as those in countries with higher income levels . Statistical support for this statement is readily available , ranging from measures of yield per acre of land for agricultural crops to comparisons of the rate of extraction of mineral resources with their estimated deposits . We cite one illustration , of interest because of its broad coverage . Recently , Professor A. P. Usher prepared estimates of world resources of mechanical energy ( represented by reserves of oil , coal , and water power ) as well as world output of such energy ( extraction for minerals and production for water power ) . From these estimates , largely for 1939 , the proportionate shares of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ calculated , after allocating roughly to group III the countries not included in our table but covered by Professor Usher ( except for Turkey , Spain , Portugal , and Rhodesia which were placed in group II ) . Countries in group I accounted for 44 percent of total world stock of mechanical energy resources ; in group II for 19 percent ; and in group III for 37 percent . The index of per capita stock of energy resources was ,  | therefore , measured by about 2.5 in group I ; 1.25 in group II ; and 0.5 in group III . The contrast in relative supply between groups I and III is thus measured by a ratio of 5 to I. But the range in energy consumed per day per capita between groups I and III is much wider than that ? about 20 to I ( see table above , line 12 ) . Moreover , Professor Usher 's data indicate that in terms of production of mechanical energy resources ( extraction , not use ) group I accounts for 73 percent of the world total , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 15 percent . That production by countries in group I of 73 percent of the current supply , with a resources share of only 44 percent , indicates that their rate of extraction relative to stock is much greater than in the world at large . It would , of course , be theoretically just as possible for countries in group III to extract their irreproducible resources at a greater rate than the world at large , i.e. , they could compensate for a smaller supply by drawing upon it at a faster rate . Yet their extraction rate is much lower ? an indication that under existing circumstances and for some time to come an absolute shortage of irreproducible resources is not a limiting factor . iv ) Finally , many industries and economic activities do not need irreproducible natural resources ; and if they are needed , a country with a scarce supply can presumably secure them in trade , given a minimum network of international economic relations . England developed a flourishing cotton textile industry , without possessing the basic natural conditions for producing the raw material ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the economically advanced countries of the world . To claim strategic significance for the relative supply of irreproducible resources is unwarranted , so long as many  | industries do not need them ; and so long as international trading relations permit one country to compensate for shortage in irreproducible resources by specialization in other sectors of economic production . All these arguments should not be interpreted as denying that under given conditions of technology , the possession of a large stock of natural resources by a country is an economic advantage ; and the complete absence of such resources a disadvantage . They are intended to suggest only that , in explaining long term international differences in levels of income , the relative supply of irreproducible resources is not a dominating factor ; that our data on the presumptive relative scarcity of such resources in the underdeveloped countries are faulty to the point of being misleading ; that in fact countries in group III fail , by a wide margin , to utilize the stock of resources which they do possess ; and that , after full allowance for this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of international differences in income levels to be explained . International comparisons are almost always in terms of the existing nation-states that differ widely in size , whether size is in terms of area , population , or some economic magnitude . Thus the list of 53 states distinguished in the data underlying the table , includes huge units like India and China , each with  | over 350 million of population ; and relatively small units like New Zealand and El Salvador , with less than 2 million each . Is the mere factor of size important in determining levels of economic performance per capita ? The question implies that even with international trade and other flows across boundaries , the existence of a separate state organization means at least partial isolation of the economic complex , barriers to an easy flow of goods and resources . Even if we assumed a world of free trade and free movement of capital and people , the several states , with their different languages and historical and cultural traditions are societies that think of themselves as different and separate from each other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ absence of legal restrictions , would not be easy because of these barriers of language and different historical antecedents . If we add the realistic consideration of barriers to migration either of men or of capital and the various impediments in the way of a free flow of goods that are in fact created by a separatist state organization , we must conclude that the state structure does result in separate units , whose existence , because of the obstacles to free economic flow that they impose , may be an important factor in determining differences in over-all economic productivity . This inference as to the possible importance of size of state in producing inter-state differences in levels of economic performance is reenforced by somewhat more specific arguments . First , some industries associated with modern technology require a minimum size of market to warrant the application of efficient methods of mass production . In such industries , e.g. iron and steel , aluminum , automobiles , shipbuilding , etc. , the scale of units is quite large . For a country with a small population and a correspondingly small domestic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ count , in the long run , on relatively free access to markets outside their country 's boundaries . Under existing and even past conditions of the world , such access is precarious . It follows that countries below a cer- tain minimum size can not develop such industries ( except sometimes at extra cost ) , and take advantage of some of the more advanced methods of economic production . Second , some industries must locate within a country 's boundaries , since no substitution for their products by imports is feasible . This is obviously true of the industry represented by the state itself , and of industries rooted in the country 's area and population ( e.g. , educational and other services , the construction industry , and the like ) . If we add the need for other domestically located industries induced by a desire to be independent of unreliable sources outside ( particularly in case of disruption of normal channels of international intercourse ) , it is clear that a minimum complex of industries must be maintained within the state , and will be maintained regardless @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) . But if the state has a small population , the need for a diverse industrial structure may well lead to an uneconomic scale of operation in many industries ? even when the latter , unlike the giants of the type discussed in the preceding paragraph , have an absolutely low optimum scale of operation . On the other hand , a small state may enjoy some advantages . It is easier for a small than for a large state to find a favorable position in the interstices of international economy . It is easier for a Norway , a Denmark , or a Switzerland , by taking advantage of some of its resources , to attain a high level of income per capita than it would be for a bigger state unit , say of the population dimensions of Italy , let alone a huge one like China . Also , it may be easier for a small state to achieve the degree of internal unity and cohesion of the population which so facilitates economic progress and prevents sharp internal conflicts from developing . On general grounds , one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of international relations , the balance of advantages is definitely against the small and in favor of the larger state unit . Such a negative conclusion would certainly be safe if we excluded the extreme ranges in size ? the tiny units in which the basis for economic  | independence is almost completely absent , and the huge units in which the problem of economic and social organization is of grave magnitude indeed . In the light of this discussion , we can look at the figures and see what they suggest . For the 53 countries covered in the table the level of per capita income can be correlated with the size of the country as measured by its population . The coefficient of rank correlation ( used to avoid the assumption of normality in the distribution of units by size or by per capita income ) , calculated for all 53 countries is + o.18 , indicating some positive association between level of per capita income and population size ; but not large enough to be significant . However , if we exclude India and China , where huge @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the coefficient rises to + 0.30 , a value which for the 51 countries is statistically significant . If we could include more state units , the positive correlation might be even closer , because most of the additional units would be both small and characterized by low levels of per capita income . There is thus some statistical evidence , for states below the line of huge population units , of a positive association between per capita income levels and size . In general , the larger the state , the higher its per capita income . But the association is far from close . Even as a purely statistical result , it may be shaky : there are altogether too many notable exceptions . While the factor of size in and of itself may contribute to international differences in income levels , at the present stage of our knowledge and analysis , no great weight can be attributed to it . However , the importance of size as a factor may well be increasing . For the growing cleavage among states in the world today may mean that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ increasing . Indeed , within the orbit of the USSR these disadvantages are so great that small states as separate entities are fast disappearing . Where they remain , the restrictions on normal international economic in- tercourse may mean a serious deterioration in the relative position of small states , which may be only partially counteracted by already observable efforts to merge them ? for some purposes ? into larger units . The limitations of the analysis developed so far , and the meagerness of its contribution to the explanation of international differences in income levels , may well be due to the author 's ignorance or prejudice . But it may also result from the restriction of the analysis to cross-section association of income levels with other variables ; and hence to its neglect of the historical antecedents of these levels . All the units whose economic performance we are comparing for a given year or decade are results of a long process of historical development ; and our comparison is thus a cross-section in the stream of historical change , with divergent trends and different levels at whatever point @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we seek the answer might be illuminated if we view the broad trends in historical development of which the current income levels are the outcome . Such a view , while necessarily superficial , may lead to certain broad conclusions that would provide at least a framework for a potentially more fruitful inquiry into the problem . The suggestions yielded by such a broad historical view are stated seriatim without any effort at detailed documentation . a ) First , the range of international differences in income levels must be much wider today than it was say 150 to 200 years ago . This impression can not be corroborated statistically , since our measures do not reach that far back ; but its plausibility follows from the current figures . In countries in group III per capita income levels are close to minimum subsistence and it is clear that it would have been physically impossible for past income levels to be a fraction of the current levels in any country in group III . By contrast , per capita levels in countries in group I are far above any minimum sub- @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not necessarily those that are now in group I ) could well have had income levels that are fractions of those now prevailing in group I. We know , in fact , that in the countries in group I the past century to a century and a half were marked by rapid growth in income per capita . And it is plausible to assume that the low per capita incomes in countries in group III are not due to an absolute decline of income levels during the last century or two ; or that whatever secular decline in real per capita income occurred was relatively small . We can thus infer that the range in per capita income levels was much narrower about two centuries ago than it is today . To illustrate : if in countries in group III ( allowing for the shift in identity ) per capita levels two centuries ago were at the lowest say 50 percent of the present , about $20 , and if in countries in group I ( again allowing for shift in identity ) per capita levels were say one-seventh of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to 1 to about 3 to I. The narrowing of range in fact may well have been greater than in this illustration . To put it differently , much of the current international spread in income levels is due to diversities among countries in the rate of growth of per capita income during the last 150-200 years : in some countries per capita income grew quite rapidly , in others very slowly if at all . Therefore , from a starting point of more equal levels , marked inequalities in per capita income have developed . Hence , current international differences in per capita income may be due in large part to diversities in the rate of growth of per capita income during the past two centuries . What factors induced and permitted some countries to attain a high rate of growth in per capita income , and why were the same or similar factors not operative in other countries ? b ) The use of a span of one and a half to two centuries in the preceding section is not an accident : history suggests that the factors that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ associated with the industrial system ' ? a concept used to designate a wide application of knowledge , based on  | empirical science , to the problem of economic and social technology . It is the adoption of the industrial system , combined with certain social and political concomitants , that is at the basis of the rapid growth of per capita income in some countries . And the industrial system dates from one and a half to two centuries ago . It is important to emphasize here that , given an organization of the world into separate and competing states , there is bound to be inequality in the rate of spread of any new type of economic and social mode of life ; and , consequently , inequality in levels of economic performance among countries . If a new economic system is ushered in , it certainly will not be invented ' and adopted simultaneously in all the countries of the world : such simultaneity could be attained only by some planned imposition of the change by a single world authority . The new type of economy , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ two countries in which historical antecedents and pressures combine to break through the crust of the existing economic and social habits toward a new and more productive mode of operation . Given this limitation of the origin of a secular innovation to one or a few countries , and its slow spread to others ; given the significance of the secular innovation as a basis for a higher per capita income , it follows that its gradual spread across the face of the globe means at any given time differences in income levels among various countries ? associated with the degree to which these countries have adopted the new and more productive mode of operation . Economic history of the longer lived human societies provides several examples of this process of initial limited impact and then gradual , uneven spread of secular innovations . The successive effects of the discovery of the new world , as they filtered through first the pioneer explorer countries of Western Europe and then the others , is one conspicuous example . The spread of the system associated with the medieval town economy is another . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ industrial system ( marked by Industrial Revolution ' in  | England ) and its gradual and uneven spread to other countries , is only another example of the introduction of a secular innovation in a world organized in competing states . c ) To repeat , the industrial system is the application of empirical science to basic and ever increasing areas of economic and social technology . That it is the basis of high levels of economic performance in countries in group I can be seen easily by comparing their industrial structure and mode of operation with those in countries in group III . In countries in group I many industries have developed whose basis is some recent scientific discovery ( ranging from steam and steel to electricity , internal combustion engines , electronic communications , and atomic power as the most recent example ) , whereas in countries in group III they are , on the whole , either completely absent or present in minuscule amounts . Furthermore , the technical procedures used in the oldest industries , e.g. agriculture and construction , in the more advanced industrial countries utilize @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in group III , the contributions of the empirical and rational approach that is the hallmark of modern science . The feasibility of using the results of modern science and empirical knowledge in economic production is not merely a matter of availability of a stock of discoveries contributed by original workers or practical minded adapters . Let us disregard for the moment the importance of social and economic organization as a precondition for adoption on a wide scale of the contributions of science to economic technology . A minimum of cultural adaptation is still required , regardless of the economic and political organization of society . Widespread use of scientific technology is impossible without a literate population , and in a society whose general outlook has not been sufficiently secularized to place a high value on rational calculation and material welfare . The very development of science , and the effective application of its results , requires a cultural milieu in which existing values do not impede an open-minded view on nature , a dispassionate consideration of empirical findings , and a strong desire to enhance the material welfare of  | @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ spread of science in the modern world was accompanied by and closely tied to broad secularization of those societies that led in the development ; and that widespread application of science required and was accompanied by a shift in the general outlook of ever growing proportions of the population toward an acceptance of rational calculation , toward greater habituation to a life governed by the conventions of scientific measurement . Clearly , the development of science and widespread application of its results would have been impossible in the early Middle Ages in Western Europe , with an illiterate population , dominated by religious tenets and emphasis on the hereafter , completely unaccustomed to living by the clock and by rule , and reconciled to a status view of life where traditional patterns of economic procedure and behavior seemed hallowed by inviolable precepts of religious origin . Whether under a system of private enterprise or communistic organization of the economy , of political democracy or authoritarian state , the adoption of an industrial system is thus not merely a matter of having a stock of scientific knowledge embodied in books or pamphlets @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in machines and plants . Its effective use involves as a minimum an adaptation of the culture and mores of the population . Part of this adaptation we have already observed in discussing the relation between high income levels , literacy , and population type i ( the latter reflecting a more rational ' approach to family life ) . But it has many more ramifications , most of which can not be put into quantitative terms . Obviously , a change in cultural milieu , when needed for an effective adoption of the industrial system , may well be a slower and more painful process than the accumulation of savings and capital , or other material prerequisites of a higher level of economic performance . d ) The successful adoption of the industrial system , resulting in high levels of per capita income , has been limited , in fact , to countries that combined with it private enterprise as the main unit of economic organization and the democratic                     