@@774391

txt  | the intermediate layer , referred to now as the stratum spinosum , or " prickle cell " layer , is the thickest layer of the epidermis . Together with the basal layer it forms ridges and convexities on its underside which fit with the convexities and ridges of the upper surface of the dermis . The cells of the stratum spinosum send out delicate cytoplasmic projections , intercellular bridges , which make contact with the projections of neighboring cells . At the point of contact the cytoplasmic bridges form swellings called the nodes of Bizzozero . The periderm shows signs of cornification during the second fetal month ; by the fourth month it is almost completely cornified . This , however , is not true keratinization . Even in the palms and soles keratinization does not occur until the sixth month ( 102 ) . As long as the cells of the periderm retain stainable nuclei , the underlying cells of the stratum spinosum show no keratohyalin granules . At the end of the fifth month keratohyalin granules are present only in those regions where the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hair follicles , and are lacking in the general epidermis . When the stratum granulosum is formed , and later a stratum lucidum develops in the friction areas of the body , the differentiation of the epidermis is completed . In histological sections the dermoepidermal junction of human skin appears as an undulating line ( Fig. 1 ) . Epidermal cones and ridges of different sizes , called rete pegs , project into the dermis , enclosing between them highly vascular dermal papillae . When the epidermis is separated from the dermis and viewed from the underside , it becomes apparent that the epidermal cones and ridges seen in sections are in reality a series of branching ridges and papillae of different sizes which enclose between them valleys and craters ( 145 ) . Horstmann ( 147 ) has investigated in great detail the architecture of the underside of the skin from all the principal regions of the human body . After maceration of the skin in acetic acid , the epidermis can be cleanly separated from the underlying dermis and mounted inidersidc up . From such  | preparations one can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and papillae , the underside of the epidermis has blister-like protuberances pitted by numerous craters ( Figs. 3 and 4 ) . The characteristic regional differences in the architecture of the epidermal ridges and papillae are related to the arrangement of hairs and sudoriparous glands . The terminal portions of sudoriparous gland ducts are usually arranged around hair follicle orifices in a clock-dial pattern ( Fig. 3 ) . Epidermal ridges tend to radiate toward the ducts of sweat glands and hair follicles , outlining rosette patterns . The ridges may be arranged concentrically around these structures , defining cockade motifs . Rosettes occur most often around hair follicles and cockades around sweat glands . Epidermal ridges form dramatic patterns in the rima ani , scrotum , nipple , penis , labia minora and majora , soles and palms , lips and eyelids , and in the hair-free regions of the external ear ( Figs. 3 and 4 ) . In the back , the abdomen , and the breasts , epidermal ridges are inconspicuous , and the papillae , though numerous , are flatter than in other regions . Those @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are , as a rule , covered by very scanty hair and are provided with welldeveloped and elaborate ridges and papillae . The adjoining surfaces of the epidermis and dermis bear a negative imprint of each other and are intimately interlocked . In the skin of most laboratory mammals , such as the mouse , rat , and rabbit , epidermal ridges are usually lacking , and the dermoepidermal junction seems to be less intimate . Interestingly , the skin of these animals is rich in hair follicles which may take the place of the ridges and papillae found in human skin . In human epidermis , the cells of the basal layer send into the dermis and across the basement membrane a number of delicate protoplasmic processes which provide a still closer union between the dermis and the epidermis ( 240 ) . These cytoplasmic radicles are so delicate that they are infrequently seen in ordinary preparations . They can , however , be demonstrated in unstained frozen sections viewed under the phase-contrast microscope or in preparations for the demonstration of - SH or - S- S-  groups  | ( Fig. 5 ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) has so elegantly demonstrated in the basal cells of human skin , reside within these cytoplasmic processes . The association between the basal cells and the dermis is very close , and Martinotti  | ( 180 and 181 ) believed that delicate collagenous fibers from the corium are insinuated between the cells of the basal layer and that the condensation of these fibrils forms the basement membrane . The relationship between dermal elastic fibers and the cells of the basal layer is very intimate , and one of the principal functions of dermal elastic fibers might be to anchor down the epiderniis . Trypsin , which readily attacks elastic fibers , cleaves the two layers rapidly ( 186 ) .  | Studies on the nature of the basement membrane are not in agreement ( 39 , 66 , 145 , 158 , 159 , and 184 ) . IHerxheimer ( 142 ) believed that a translucent basement membrane is intimately associated with the protoplasmic processes of the basal cells which project into the dermis . Frieboes ( 121 , 122 , and 123 ) demonstrated that the basement membrane is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contain the cytoplasmic processes of the basal epidermal cells . Reticular fibers could form an open meshwork through the interstices of which the cytoplasmic processes of the basal cells fit . They could also form a series of fibrils which run up to the cells and fix them  | either by entering them or by filling the spaces between their basal processes ( 97 ) . Evidence , however , points to the basement membrane as a continuous meshwork of argyrophilic fibrils penetrated by the basal epithelial processes ( Fig. 6 ) . The constituent reticular fibrils form a coarse network compressed between adjacent cell processes ( 206 ) .  | Preliminary studies of the dermoepidermal junction with the electron microscope by Porter ( 223 ) are interesting . This brief report is based on the tail epidermis of Amblystoma larvae , although comparable observations were made in the epidermis of the rat and rabbit . According to Porter , the basement membrane is a three-layered structure composed of : an inner dense layer of granules subjacent to the plasma membrane , a middle layer of unorganized material , which blends @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a fabric of fine fibrils ( Figs. 7 and 8 ) . The fibrils , which are 130 ? 150 A in diameter , are striated at intervals of 350 ? 400 A. They are arranged in layers parallel to the surface of the epidermis , and successive layers are oriented at right angles ( Fig. 9 ) . The structure of the cytoplasm in the vicinity of the plasma membrane suggests that the basement membrane might be a product of the epidermal cells . This account , however , may not be applicable to the argyrophilic network described above . The dermoepidermal junction is morphologically adapted to the various shearing forces to which the skin is exposed , but this character is genetically determined rather than acquired . In palms and soles , the basal cytoplasmic processes of the epidermal cell are relatively long , and the development of the argyrophilic reticulum between these processes is quite extensive . Moreover , epidermal ridges and cones in these areas attain a greater depth and complexity ( Fig. 3 ) . In contrast , the epidermal ridges in the medial side @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the union of the epidermis with the dermal reticulum is less distinct . Epidermal cells are held together by characteristic cytoplasmic processes called intercellular bridges ( 244 ) . These processes give fixed dissociated epidermal cells the appearance of small burrs , and for this reason they have been called prickle or spinous cells . Living dissociated epidermal cells , however , show none of these processes , and the plasma membrane is smooth . In the epidermis , the effect of injury to a single cell is quickly transmitted to other cells in contact with it ( 74 ) . This has often been  | taken for evidence of cytoplasmic continuity of cells with each other , but does not in itself constitute proof . In human skin intercellular bridges are best defined in the stratum spinosum , and they gradually become obliterated in the stratum granulosum ( Fig. 10 ) . Roughly midway between two cells , each cytoplasmic bridge possesses a spindle-shaped swelling , the node of Bizzozero ( 34 ) . Well-defined intercellular bridges and nodes of Bizzozero are particularly well developed in the lip of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hoofs of ungulates . Although the normal epidermis of the mouse does not contain visible intercellular bridges and nodes , these become visible in the skin of mice with avitaminotic dermatosis or in skin treated with irritants ( 151 , 195 , and 213 ) . The torso fibrillen of Heidenhain , first described in detail by Ranvier ( 228 ) , are delicate striations in the cytoplasm of epidermal cells and appear to sweep from cell to cell by way of the intercellular bridges . In fresh or formalin-fixed frozen sections tonofibrils are anisotropic ( Fig. 16 ) ( 171 and 242 ) ; in paraffin   sections they are stainable with Heidenhain 's heunitoxylin or with Mallory 's phosphotungstic acid-hematoxyl Tonofibrils are branded as artifacts more often than other fine structures ; the clarity of their definition depends largely upon the type of fixing agent used . Medawar ( 186 ) says that " it would be frivolous to dismiss tonofibrils as artifacts . All histological appearances are artifacts of one sort or another , i.e. , represent the consequences of optical , mechanical , and chemical transformations of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one fails to inquire into the credentials of the transformation process , or assumes that no such process has taken place . It is likely that intracellular tonofibrils ( like neurofibrils and myofibrils ) are artifacts in the sense that they represent artificial coarsenings , to the level of microscopical visibility , of an underlying fine structure of oriented fibrous protein molecules . " In human epidermis , tonofibrils are most distinct in the cells of the stratum Malpighii ; they are less clear in the stratum granulosum and appear to be absent from the stratum corneum ( 215 , 234 , 248 , and 265 ) . There is confusion concerning the nature and origin of tonofibrils , and much of this confusion has stemmed from the presence of thick , undulating , or spiral filaments in the cells of the stratum basale ( 141 ) . Some authors considered the spiral filaments of Herxheimer to be intracellular fibrils ( 3 and 42 ) . Other authors have stated that these structures are actually mitochondria of the basal cells and that the tonofibrils might develop from them ( 109 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ however , that tonofibrils are related to the spiral filaments ( 108 ) . Since the basal cells contain Herxheimer filaments as well as mitochondria , Firket ( 112 ) believes that the , spiral filaments are young tonofibrils just formed from mitochondria . Martinotti ( 180 and 181 ) thought that cytoplasmic granules coalesce and give rise to tonofibrils , and that these later multiply by splitting longitudinally . Such splitting , however , has not been observed by anyone . Tonofibrils are scanty in the epidermis of the mouse , but they become numerous in the hypertrophied , irritated epidermis ( 151 ) . Since tonofibrils are produced in spite of morphologic disturbances in the cytoplasm and nucleus of the keratinizing   epidermal cells , tonofibrils may be directly associated with the process of keratinization . Intercellular bridges and tonofibrils can be demonstrated with the phase-contrast microscope in living human epidermal cells grown in tissue culture ( 169 ) . When glycogen is present in the cells of the epidermis and the external root sheath of hair follicles , it is arranged intracellularly in a pattern which is identical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ even those which are barely visible , contain demonstrable glycogen . Most attempts to study the fine structure of the epidermis  | with the use of the electron microscope have yielded meager results ( 1 , 124 , 136 , 157 , and 217 ) . These studies present assertions and denials on the syncytial nature of epidermal cells and on the presence or absence of tonofibrils . None of these studies adds significantly to our knowledge of the structure of epidermal cells . Porter ( 223 ) , however , has produced superlative electron micrographs of epidermal cells . He has shown that intercellular bridges are small regions of contact shared by contiguous cells ( Figs. 11 and 12 ) . These are characterized by ( a ) a thickening of the plasma membrane of both cells , ( b ) tufts of fibrous material directed from them toward the interior of the cells , and ( c ) the presence of striae across the fibrous tufts . Although there is nu  | evidence of continuity of the cytoplasm across the bridges , some of the keratinous fibrils do seem @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the two surfaces of the cytoplasmic processes come into contact forms a swelling which corresponds to the nodes of Bizzozero . The cytoplasm is full of skeins of fine filaments approximately 60 A thick . The fibrils are organized parallel to the surface of the epidermis around " channels " of nonfibrous material . In the midst of these skeins are roughly parallel rows or nests of granules . Each group of granules is arranged around a mitochondrion . Under lower magnifications these rows of granules would appear as continuous lines . The tonofibrils seen in histological preparations could represent rows of these granules or a matting together of the fibrils or both . Under the electron microscope keratin of hair is shown to be composed of delicate fibrils ( 83 , 103 , and 189 ) . Each fibril is composed of protofibrils 110 A wide and 2000 A long , and their axes seem to be twisted around each other . These structures have arisen from the cells of the hair bulb and may correspond to the tonofibrils in the epidermis . The terminology of mitochondria is clumsy and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ individual action in the elaboration of new names ( 84 ) . The many names for the differently shaped mitochondria serve little purpose , since it has been observed in living cells that mitochondria are continually changing shape ( 120 and 168 ) . The term mitochondria as used here designates : ( a ) those intracytoplasmic elements seen in living cells with dark-field or phase-contrast microscopy as motile rods or granules with definite polarity , ( b ) those elements which are revealed in fresh tissues after staining supravitally with Janus green , or ( c ) those elements seen in paraffin sections of postchromed tissues stained with Regaud 's or Heidenhain 's hematoxylin or with Altmann 's technique . Confusion has arisen from the existence of recognizable mitochondria , spiral filaments of Herxheimer , and tonofibrils in the same epidermal cell ( Fig. 13 ) . The cells of the stratum basale of  | the epidermis have thick , spiral filaments which were first considered to be intracellular lymphatic spaces and later to be shrunken parts of the cell membrane resulting from fixation artifact ( 141 , 143 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Herxheimer are the forerunners of epidermal fibrils ( 112 , 153 , 154 , and 224 ) . Actually the filaments are coexistent with typical mitochondria . Spiral filaments may be demonstrated in the cells of both the basal and the spinous layer if tissues are fixed in Regaud 's fluid and postchromed for a long period ( 104 , 105 , 106 , 107 , 108 , 109 , 110 , and 232 ) . In such preparations , the nodes of Bizzozero are stained like mitochondria and spiral filaments and seem to be a part of the mitochondrial complex . The spiral filaments of Herxheimer do , indeed , stain like mitochondria ( Fig. 13 ) , but whereas postchromation of skin for one month is sufficient to demonstrate the spiral filaments in the stratum basalt% longer post- chroming is necessary to reveal them in the upper strata . In palmar and plantar epidermis , the spiral filaments are larger and more numerous than those in the general body skin and show less polymorphism . In both types of epidermis they are aligned parallel to the long axis @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the spiral filaments occupy the cytoplasmic processes which extend into the dermis . Spiral filaments are found throughout the stratum Malpighii , but in the upper strata they become thicker and less numerous . In the stratum granulosum they are progressively fragmented . In the superficial cells of this layer , recognizable fragments of spiral filaments and typical mitochondria are scattered among the keratohyalin granules . In human skin stained with Altmann 's acid fuchsin-methyl green , the spiral filaments of the epidermis are stained only moderately well , but the typical mitochondria are stained very clearly ( Fig. 14 ) . Epidermal cells abound in mitochondria . These , mostly in the form of short filaments , are gathered around the nucleus . Smaller and usually granular mitochondria radiate laterally in the cytoplasm . The nodes of Bizzozero are unstained with this technique . This , coupled with the failure of the electron microscope  | to reveal mitochondria in the nodes , makes it doubtful that they are there . Mitochondria gradually disappear from the cells of the tipper layers of the stratum Malpighii . In the skin of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ spiral filaments are stained even in the stratum granulosum ( 214 ) . Results from supravitally stained material are too few , but they give greater credence to Favre 's belief that the spiral filaments arc mitochondria.  | Mitochondria are among the most sensitive indices of cellular change and damage . In psoriasis and in inflammatory conditions , for example , the nuclei of the epidermal cells in the stratum germinativum are displaced distally , and the fragmented and polymorphic mitochondria become subnuclear . In epidermal neoplasms , mitochondria become strikingly pleomorphic , and the nodes of Bizzozero disappear . Favre ( 108 ) illustrates basal-cell carcinoma with the mitochondria like those of normal spinous cells and squamous-cell carcinoma with mitochondria like those in normal basal cells . Electron micrographs of epidermal cells by Dr. Keith R. Porter show the mitochondria to be similar to those found in the cells of other organs , as described by Palade ( 210 ) . The internal structure of each mitochondrion consists of a series of ridges which protrude from the inner surface toward the interior of the mitochondrion ( Fig. 15 ) . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ granules are probably protein . They are either the precursors or the products of keratinization . Mitochondria are the seat of all important biological syntheses , and the process of keratinization must be mediated by them . In summary , mitochondria are large and numerous in the basal layers of the stratum Malpighii ; in the stratum granulosum they become fragmented and dispersed . They are pleomorphic and may appear as spiral filaments or batonettes . The nodes of Bizzozero are not a part of the mitochondria complex . Although extensively studied in nearly all tissues , only a few authors have studied the Golgi apparatus in the epidermis ( 69 , 88 , 90 , 92 , 176 , 177 , 214 , 254 , and 255 ) . Only Cowdry and Scott ( 88 ) appear to have stained the epidermis supravitally with neutral red for the demonstration of the Golgi elements . In the cells of the epidermis of mice under normal and pathologic conditions , osmic acid shows the Golgi apparatus in cells of the basal layer as a juxtanuclear network or group of rodlets in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ up at the proximal end ( 177 ) . This precise polarity is lost in the upper cells of the  | spinous layer , where the Golgi apparatus is dispersed irregularly , as are also the mitochondria . Golgi elements become fragmented and scattered at the onset of keratinization , and in cells laden with keratohyalin granules they are no longer demonstrable with osmium tetroxide . In the fresh epidermis of the rat stained supravitally with neutral red , the cells of the basal layer have a supranuclear , compact mass of neutral red-stained vacuoles ( the " vacuome " of Parat ) which often descends along the sides of the nucleus ( 214 ) . In the cells immediately above the basal layer , the system of neutral red-stained vacuoles is as dense as in the basal cells ; in cells nearer the stratum granulosum , the mass of vacuoles may be subnuclear and somewhat dispersed , but it remains always in the proximity of the nucleus . Although the smaller vacuoles readily become colored with neutral red , the larger ones do so less easily . In the stratum @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and often keratohyalin granules are encircled by neutral red-stained material ; the larger vacuoles are located basally and along the sides of the nucleus , while the smaller ones are found apically . With continued keratinization the " vacuome " disappears . This is in contrast with supravitally stained flexuous mitochondrial filaments which are still present among the keratohyalin granules . In silver impregnation preparations of rat epidermis , the cells of the stratum germinativum have a system of compact rodlets and tubules , typical of the Golgi apparatus . These structures , which comprise the " dictyosome , " have the same orientation as the " vacuome . " In the stratum granulosum , scattered Golgi elements appear as " appendages " of the keratohyalin granules ( 214 ) . Although it is not possible to determine from his work whether or not keratohyalin granules arise from the Golgi element , Parat ( 214 ) has made an important contribution to the understanding of the nature of this organelle . He was the first cytologist to look for a Golgi net in living cells , and he found instead @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Golgi element in other cells has substantiated Parat 's observations and added to them ( 9 , 11 , 67 , 68 , 144 , 211 , 212 , 256 , 274 , and 275 ) . The classical Golgi net seems to develop during fixation in the cells at the site of a  | system of spherules . All or part of the Golgi apparatus is lipoidal in nature . Epidermal cells contain lipid spherules which lie close to the nuclear membrane and which are usually clustered at the distal pole of the nucleus ( 196 ) . The cells of the stratum granulosum contain only barely visible lipid granules . Phospholipid granules , demonstrable with the acid hematein test , are identical with perinuclear sudanophil bodies ( 10 and 68 ) . In preparations impregnated with silver or with osmium tetroxide , rodlets or granules occupy the same general areas in the cells occupied by these lipid granules . The perinuclear lipid granules in the epidermal cells , then , are comparable to the " vacuome " of Parat , and must , but not without caution , be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of it . Since the name " Golgi apparatus " has come to denote a variety of things to cytologists , Baker ( 12 ) proposed the name " lipochondria " for these lipoidal spherules which are stainable supravitally with neutral red and which apparently correspond to Parat 's " vacuome . " In addition to the perinuclear lipids described above , the epidermis often has lipid granules in the intercellular spaces . One is cautioned against too literal an interpretation of these intercellular lipids . In poorly fixed tissues , or in tissues kept in the fixative longer than one month , the number of intercellular lipid droplets increases pari passu with the decrease of intracellular lipids . The nodes of Bizzozero in frozen sections treated with sudan black show minute amounts of lipid . When the skin of mice is simultaneously treated with methylcholanthrene and X-irradiated with 1000r , after four days the perinuclear lipid bodies discussed above become fragmented and diffused . Furthermore , numerous lipid particles are found in the intercellular spaces , a situation which is not encountered in the normal skin of the mouse . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ after treatment , most of the epidermal cells , which have become tremendously hypertrophied , contain so much lipid that they resemble sebaceous cells , a condition similar to that in the epidermis of mice treated with tar ( 177 ) .  | Lipids in the stratum corneum were first described by Ranvier ( 229 ) . They must come from three sources : intrinsically from lipophanerosis in epidermal cells , from the secretion of sebaceous glands , and from the secretion of sweat . In human skin the cells of the stratum spinosum contain a relative abundance of free cholesterol but a paucity of cholesterol esters . The stratum corneum , on the other hand , contains approximately equal amounts of free and ester cholesterol . Whereas the cholesterol secreted by sebaceous and sweat glands is easily oxidized , the intracellular cholesterol of the epidermis is not ( 261 ) . Kvorning ( 155 ) analyzed lipids secreted on the face of normal subjects and found only small amounts of cholesterol . The stratum corneum in skin areas which contain no sebaceous glands is also sudanophilic , and the lipids @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sweat glands are present . In the skin of biotindeficient mice , in which the sebaceous glands are plugged , the stratum corneum is sudanophilic , as is also the case in the skin of mice in which sebaceous glands have been completely eliminated by local applications of methylcholanthrene ( 198 ) . Since mice have no other skin glands , these lipids must come from the unmasking of bound lipids in the epidermal cells . However , the sudanophilia of the stratum corneum in skin deprived of sebaceous secretion is not homogeneous , as it is in the skin of normal animals , but appears granular . When frozen sections of skin of man or of other mammals are treated with Nile blue sulfate , the stratum corneum is colored pink , indicating perhaps the presence of neutral lipids ( 202 and 204 ) . The stratum corneum is Schultzpositive , indicating the presence of cholesterol or its esters ; it is colored by Baker 's acid hematein test for phospholipids ; and it is brilliantly birefringent ; after extraction with organic solvents the intense birefringence is partially lost , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ process of keratinization in epidermis has interested cytologists since the early descriptions by Langerhans ( 162 ) and by Ranvier ( 228 ) . In the human epidermis Ranvier recognized a  | " keratogenic " layer which Unna later called the stratum granulosum . Ranvier called the granules of the stratum corneum eleidine en graine and the content of the cells of the stratum lucidum eleidine en Piques . Waldeyer ( 263 ) called the granules in the stratum granulosum " keratohyalin " granules . In the stratum granulosum , keratohyalin granules are usually aggregated at the poles of the nucleus . The granules may be stained with most basic dyes as well as with acid dyes such as Congo red , acid fuchsin , and others . Several morphologically detectable changes in the cells of the stratum granulosum accompany the formation of keratohyalin granules . There is a decrease in the number of mitochondria and Golgi elements , an apparent decrease and fragmentation of tonofibrils , an apparent extrusion of nucleolar material , and an increase in the cell volume . It is not known with certainty which cell component @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ On the assumption that the keratohyalin granules are the forerunners of keratin , Favre ( 108 ) presents a detailed account of the metamorphosis of mitochondria in the different layers of the epidermis and concludes that since mitochondria are responsible for the elaboration of keratohyalin granules , the process of keratinization must actually begin , although imperceptibly , in the basal layer of the stratum germinativum . Parat ( 214 ) , on the other hand , implicated the " vacuome , " or Golgi apparatus . Kollmann and Papin ( 153 ) believed that keratohyalin granules represent transformed nucleolar extrusions . Ludford ( 176 ) stated that although the Golgi apparatus and the nucleolus are partially involved , the process of keratinization is essentially a function of the ground cytoplasm of the cell . Martinotti ( 180 , 181 , 182 , and 183 ) concluded that keratohyalin is formed from : ( a ) epidermal fibrils by a process of " fibrillorhexis " ; ( b ) the ground cytoplasm , probably the basophilic granules in the cells of the stratum Malpighii ; ( c ) the nucleus by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ membrane . Other authors are of the opinion that keratinization begins upon the tonofibrils , and then proceeds to the interfibrillar cellular substance and to the cell membrane ( 43 , 112 , and 151 ) . When sections arc microincinerated , keratohyalin granules  | fibrils are probably the elements involved in keratinization . In the stratum corneum from thick sections of hoofs of embryonic calves , the birefringence produced by a keratin ( or keratin B of Unna ) is destroyed by chilled 2 percent potassium hydroxide ( 75 ) . With the same treatment the keratinized cell membranes ( keratin A of Unna ) remain intact and are isotropic . Pepsin and trypsin digest the tonofibrils in the stratum germinativum , but these enzymes do not digest a keratin in the keratinized region . This is explained by the fact that the keratinized cell membranes ( keratin A of Unna ) , which are resistant to proteolytic enzymes , protect the enclosed a keratin . X-ray diffraction patterns of untreated epidermis show that patterns for a keratin are obtained wherever the tonofibrils are present , either in the nonkeratinized @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ these observations it has been concluded that the tonofibrils are responsible for the characteristic X-ray diffraction pattern of a keratin . Under pressure or after exposure to heat , a keratin is transformed to , 3 keratin . X-ray diffraction diagrams of relatively pure ( extracted with KOH ) membrane keratin ( keratin A of Unna ) are unlike those of either a or /3 keratin , and they must represent something quite different . Treatment of the Malpighian layer of epidermis with urea yields an extract from which a protein , " epidermin , " may be precipitated with ammonium sulfate . X-ray diffraction patterns of epidermin are similar to those of a keratin ( 236 , 237 , and 238 ) . The cells of the spinous layer , then , seem to contain the basic proteins of keratin . These proteins could be oriented within the cells in such a way as to favor , upon fixation , their precipitation into microscopically visible , birefringent fibrils ( 186 ) . Under the polarizing microscope , human epidermis shows very discrete birefringence ( Fig. 16 ) . The cells @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the stratum corneum , contain birefringent fibrils . These are packed within each cell and they are oriented perpendicular to the surface of the skin . At the stratum granulosum , and continuing through the stratum corneum , the birefringent fibrils are suddenly oriented parallel to the surface .   Two fundamental types of keratins , " soft " and " hard , " are usually recognized ( 128 and 130 ) . Soft keratin is found in the epidermis , the internal root sheath of hair follicles , and the medulla of the hair ; hard keratin is found in nails , cortex , and cuticle of hair . In both types of keratinization the metabolic activity of the stratum germinativum culminates in the formation of tonofibrils . Since an X-ray diffraction pattern with a periodicity of 5.15 A has been found wherever tonofibrils are present , it is likely that this protein is the principal component of tonofibrils and thus the precursor of keratin . Soft keratin is characterized by ( a ) its relative suppleness and pliability , ( b ) a low to moderate sulfur content @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its ready stainability with routine histological stains , and ( d ) a spontane- ous and continuous desquamation . Hard keratin differs from soft keratin by ( a ) its toughness and firmness , ( b ) the presence of an - SH- rich " keratogenous zone , " which is a gradual transition between the Malpighian and keratinized layers , ( c ) a high sulfur and low lipid content , ( d ) its failure to stain with some histologic dyes , and ( e ) its permanency . These generalizations do not fully survive critical appraisal . An - SH- rich " keratogenous zone , " for instance , is not limited to hard keratinization . This will be discussed below under - SH and - S- S-  groups . Sulfhydryl groups in the epidermis are closely related to keratinization . The early techniques for the demonstration of sulfhydryl groups employed sodium nitroprusside . Epidermis treated with this reagent shows a moderate reddish coloration in the stratum germinativum , a strong reaction in the stratum granulosum and the stratum lucidum , and no reaction in the stratum corneum . Glutathione and a thermostabile sulfhydryl constituent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and 264 ) . Using nitroprusside , Giroud and Bulliard ( 125 , 126 , and 127 ) conclude that two sulfhydryl substances are involved in soft and hard keratinization : one soluble substance , probably glutathione , involved in soft keratinization , and another , in much larger quantities , insoluble and associated with hard keratinization . The nitroprusside test produces a weak color reaction which diffuses rapidly and thus it is not a satisfactory histochemical technique . The Prussian blue reaction , whereby - SH groups reduce ferric ferricyanide to produce a strong blue color , is somewhat more satisfactory . With this method , a delicate color appears in the stratum germinativum and an intense color in the keratohyalin granules . The stratum corneum remains unstained ( 79 ) . The application to human skin of 1- ( 4-chloromercuriphenylazo ) - naphthol- 2 , a reagent which is apparently specific for sulfhydryl groups , shows staining in the cytoplasm of the cells of the stratum germinativum , weak staining in the stratum spinosum , and minimal staining in the stratum corneum ( 24 and 190 ) . The staining of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ since direct . chemical methods have shown that cornified substances contain some free sulfhydryl groups ( 137 and 236 ) . The best method of all is that of Ban-nett and Seligman ( 19 ) . This is specific for the demonstration of alcohol and waterinsoluble thiol groups , gives sharper color reactions and makes possible a more precise localization . In the epidermis of laboratory animals and of man , the Malpighian layer shows a homogeneous distribution of - SH groups from the basal layer to the cells of the stratum granulosum . This is true for the epidermis from all the regions of the body . The cytoplasm of the cells of the stratum granulosum have a moderate amount of - SH groups , but the keratohyalin granules show no reaction . The stratum corneum is mildly reactive ( 18 , 101 , and 201 ) . In human skin , and less clearly in that of the guinea pig , a narrow band of partially keratinized cells which separates the stratum granulosum from the stratum corneum is very strongly reactive ( Fig. 17 ) . This band corresponds to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ significant since the typical parakeratotic membranes which line the oral and buccal cavities , the esophagus , and the vagina give intense reactions . The distribution of - SH groups in human palms and soles is essentially similar to that in the skin elsewhere , but the epidermis has a more definitely stratified appearance . The stratum germinativum has the strongest concentration ; the stratum granulosum remains nearly unstained except for the cell membranes ; the stratum lucidum has a moderate concentration , and the stratum corneum has a weak concentration ( Fig. 17 ) . The basal cytoplasmic processes of the stratum germinativum have an appreciable concentration of - SH groups , as do also the intercellular bridges and nodes of Bizzozero . When preparations for - SH groups are viewed under the phase-contrast microscope , the tonofibrils can be seen very clearly , and it appears that most of the - SH groups within the cells are localized on the tonofibrils . Barnett ( 18 ) has modified this technique to show simultaneously - SH and - S- S-  groups in tissue . When these preparations are compared with sections of epidermis in which only - SH @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  | darkly stained and all of the epidermal elements stained more intensely . These are the principal differences . In the palms and soles the details are more sharply brought out . The basal cyto- plasmic processes of the basal layer show a strong reaction as do also the intercellular bridges , nodes of Bizzozero , and tonofibrils . These details are brought in sharp contrast when these preparations are studied under the phase-contrast microscope . Van Scott and Flesch ( 262 ) report that the disulfide content of the Malpighian layer of the sole is in the same range as in the horny layer . The keratohyalin granules in the stratum granulosum show no - S- S-  groups . These granules , then , long considered intermediary  | steps in the formation of keratin , contain neither - SH nor - S- Sgroups and their significance remains obscure . Two possible roles might be attributed to the sulfhydryl groups in the epidermis : one , that they undergo a transformation to disulfide groups in the stratum corneum ; the other , that they may be concerned with cell division . A transformation of - SH to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ assumption . The addition of cysteine to the culture media , however , causes no acceleration of keratinization in epidermis cultured in vitro ( 171 ) . The application of benzyl mercaptan , a sulfhydryl-containing compound , to the skin of mice induces an hypertrophy of the epidermis , accompanied by abundant mitotic activity and differentiation of a distinct stratum spinosum . This is not normally apparent in the epidermis of the mouse ( 139 ) . The inference that the percutaneously applied sulfhydryl compound is responsible both for the accelerated mitotic activity and for epidermal differentiation is questionable . Both of these conditions can be induced by the application of a variety of irritants . In the burr of the horse , the hoof of the pig , and the epidermis of the guinea pig , the stratum germinativum has been shown to contain a considerable amount of ascorbic acid . Only traces of this substance were found in the cornified portion of these structures ( 131 and 132 ) . These structures are also sites of high concentration of - SH groups , and it is not without interest to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The cells in the stratum Malpighii stain intensely basophilic with basic dyes . The cytoplasm of the cells in the stratum granulosum are less basophilic , but the keratohyalin granules are usually strongly stained . The stratum lucidum and the stratum corneum stain very weakly or not at all . Treatment of sections of skin before staining with a solution of ribonuclease abolishes some of the cytoplasmic basophilic staining ( that of the nucleolus is completely abolished ) , but the intact nuclei and the kera- tohyalin granules still stain clearly . Presumably , then , the basophilia which is eliminated by this enzyme is due to ribonucleic acid . After treating sections of skin with ribonuclease and then staining them with basic dyes such as toluidin blue or azure A , there is always a variable amount of residual basophilic-staining material in the epidermal cells . The intensity of staining of this residual substance varies according to the concentration and the pH of the dye . With the use of very dilute solutions of dyes buffered from pH 2.7 to 8.0 , a great deal can be learned about the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ basophilic material of the cytoplasm which is stained with the dyes buffered up to pH 5.0 is abolished by ribonuclease . In the keratohyalin granules , the intensity of staining is reduced , but there remains an appreciable amount of stained material ( 166 ) . When tissues are stained in solutions buffered from pH 5.0 to 8.0 , using the identical staining conditions as with dyes buffered below pH 5.0 , there is a progressive increase in the stainability of the epidermis . At pH 8.0 the cells take up so much dye that digestion with ribonuclease does not appreciably diminish the staining . When these dilute dyes are buffered below pH 5.0 , they reveal only nucleic acid in the cytoplasm of the epidermal cells , but when they are buffered above pH 5.0 , they reveal other proteins . Oxidation of sections of skin with periodic acid before staining with toluidin blue greatly enhances the basophilia normally present in epidermis ( 94 ) . This induced basophilia does not correspond to the basophilia presumably due to ribonucleic acid . When nucleoproteins and/or acid mucopolysaccharides are destroyed by treating @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ oxidized with periodic acid and stained with toluidin blue , the epidermis shows no diminution of dye uptake when compared with sections oxidized with periodic acid but without acid hydrolysis . Sections treated only with hydrochloric acid and stained without oxidation show a complete loss of cytoplasmic basophilia , although keratin remains basophilic . It appears from this that acid groups other than nucleic acids or mucopolysaccharides exist in the epidermis , and the newly formed basophilia might be related to the sulfur content of proteins . Oxidation of   disulfide and of sulfhydryl groups might conceivably lead to the formation of sulfonic acids responsible for the induced basophilia ( 94 ) . The stratum germinativum , then , contains three biologically active substances : sulfhydryl groups , ascorbic acid , and ribonucleic acid . Ascorbic acid might mediate the transformation of - SH groups to - S- S-  groups . Nucleic acid might play a role in protein synthesis ( 72 ) , a role which could also be played by the - SH groups . Whereas chemical analyses of the skin yield variable amounts of glycogen , normal mammalian epidermis contains @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 70 , 116 , and 270 ) . This is in contrast with the stratified squamous epithelium of mucous membranes , which are rich in glycogen ( 269 ) . Human epidermis contains more glycogen than that of other mammals , but in none of the skin surfaces studied is glycogen abundant . Some regions , such as the scrotum and scalp , show more glycogen than others . Glycogen is present sporadically in restricted sites in the epidermis ( Fig. 18 ) . Its presence , however , is often associated with certain structural features to be described below . When present in the epidermis , glycogen is found in the cells of the upper stratum spinosum . The cells of the lower stratum spinosum and those of the basal layer , with occasional exceptions , are free of it ( Fig. 18 ) ( 199 and 200 ) . Epidermal cells around the pilosebaceous orifices and the openings of the sweat glands usually contain a moderate amount of glycogen . Skin crevices or superficial corneal utriculi which enclose blocked cornified material are surrounded by flattened and elongated epidermal cells @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ demonstrable glycogen particularly where the normal rate of keratinization has been blocked or impaired by a damming of the keratin . Glycogen is not found in sites of normal keratinization and in mitotically active areas . The appearance of glycogen iii the surface epidermis may indicate sites of  | irritation . Glycogen in epidermal cells is usually in the form of small granules which are aligned in rows to form fibrils which sweep through the cells in the fashion of tonofibrils . This orientation of glycogen is best seen in the larger cells of the external root sheath of the hair follicle and will be described later . It is possible that the high glycogen values obtained in chemical analyses of skin reflect not so much the glycogen of the epidermis , but rather the glycogen stored in the cells of the outer root sheaths of hair follicles and that in the sudoriparous glands . In the skin of embryonic rats and mice glycogen abounds in all the layers of the epidermis , except in the most superficial cells of the stratum corneum . Glycogen granules are numerous even in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cells . In newborn rats and mice the presence of glycogen in the epidermis is a constant feature . Glycogen fades gradually and disappears 1 ) y the end of the first postnatal week . In the human fetus younger than six months all of the ctitaneous appendages , iucluding the  | epidermis , sebaceous and sweat glands , and hair follicles , contain abundant glycogen ( 173 , 174 , and 239 ) . Claude Bernard ( 25 and 26 ) , the first to devise a cytochemical method for the demonstration of glycogen in tissues , made brief studies of glycogen in skin . He found glycogen in the fetal epidermis of the pig , lamb , cat , and calf , but not in the adult skin of these animals . In the developing hoof of the pig he observed a disappearance of glycogen from the epidermal laminae concomitant with the " organization " of the tissue , and particularly with the process of keratinization . He concluded that " C'est dams ces cas ou il semble evident que la matiere glycogene entre dans 1'organisation des tissus . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the mouse contains no demonstrable glycogen . Yet it stores abundant glycogen after injury . Glycogen always disappears during recovery of the injury ( 4 , 41 , and 111 ) . Similar stores of glycogen can be observed in the epidermis of human skin autografts ( 245 ) . When normal human epidermis has been mildly injured by stripping the stratum corneum with Scotch tape , certain predictable changes involving the storage of glycogen take place in the epidermis ( 172 ) . Eight hours after the infliction of the injury , the basal cells of the epidermis become grossly swollen ; there is complete cessation of mitotic activity , and about 90 percent of the cells become heavily laden with glycogen . Sixteen hours after the injury , the number of basal cells containing glycogen decreases to approximately 70 percent , and at 24 hours , only 50 percent are involved . Glycogen decreases in the basal cells , but it gradually accumulates for the first time in the middle region of the stratum spinosum . After 48 hours , the basal cells are free of glycogen , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ appreciable amount of it ( Fig. 19 ) . Glycogen may remain in the spinous layer for as long as 5 days . It is important to relate here the changes which take place in the epidermis with the accumulation of glycogen . The basal cells become at first swollen and mitotically inert . The increase in the size of the basal cells subsides , and mitotic activity increases at the same rate that glycogen disappears . Immediately following injury , the surface  | epidermal cells form a protective parakeratotic layer , the stratum corneum having been stripped off . The injured epidermis requires about 5 days to cast off this layer and to re-establish a normal corneal layer . Storage of glycogen in the basal cells is inversely related to mitotic activity , and that in the stratum spinosum is related with retarded keratinization . In all of these cases , certain morphologic aberrations in the epidermal cells accompany the accumulation of glycogen . The cells usually become hypertrophied and vacuolated and the cytoplasmic basophilic substances become diluted . It is not certain what the reason is for the accumulation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ keratogenesis becomes altered ; in fact , in nearly all cases the keratin layer produced during or immediately after injury is parakeratotic , which implies a slowed down and incomplete keratogenesis . One wonders if we are not dealing here with a problem of supply and demand . If glycogen were taken up by the injured cells at the same rate as it is in  | the normal cell , but utilized slowly , it might become dammed or stored . As soon as normal keratogenesis and/or mitotic activity is resumed , the stores of glycogen disappear from the epidermis . In addition to histochemically detectable glycogen , the epidermis also shows substances which are reactive to the periodic acid-Schiff technique but which are not hydrolyzed by saliva or diastase . These substances , therefore , must also be capable of reacting with periodic acid to produce an aldehyde and are presumably polysaccharides . As a rule , such reactive foci may be found anywhere in the epidermis but are particularly conspicuous in the nodes of Bizzozero and in the intercellular spaces between the intercellular bridges . Occasionally , reactive particles @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , 164 , 204 , and 269 ) . When sections of skin are stained with weak solutions of toluidin blue buffered to pH 4.0 to 6.0 , the basophilic color of the cytoplasm of the epidermal cells has a lavender tinge . The intensity of this metachromatic staining varies with the different fixatives used . For example , in skin fixed in Bouin 's fluid it is nearly absent ; after fixation in Zenker-formol it shows as a trace ; in saline formaldehyde buffered to neutrality it is stronger still , and in tissues fixed in alcohol or in acetone the epidermis stains distinctly metachromatically . Metachromatic staining is revealed best in tissues fixed in one percent trichloracetic acid in 80 percent alcohol and stained with toluidin blue buffered to pH 5.0 or 6.0 . This fixative is the preferred one for the demonstration of alcohol and water-insoluble , protein-bound sulfhydryl groups ( 19 ) . Sections of human sole and palm have a strong metachromatic color in the entire stratum Malpighii ; the keratohyalin granules are distinctly red , and the entire stratum corneum stains pink . The epidermis @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ later , is rich in substances which stain metachromatically . These substances are largely lost when fixatives other than alcoholic trichloracetic acid are used . The freezing-drying method recommended by Sylven ( 252 ) should yield the best results . Substances which stain metachromatically in the main repre- sent acid polysaccharides . Human skin and the skin of the pig and calf , and presumably the skin of other animals not yet investigated , contain appreciable amounts of mucopolysaccharides . At least a fraction of these substances is present in the epidermis , where , judging by their distribution , they bear some relation to the process of keratinization ( 138 , 146 , 170 , 191 , 192 , 193 , 216 , 251 , and 268 ) . A slight alkaline phosphatase reaction can be demonstrated in the stratum granulosum of the human epidermis . In the mouse , epidermal alkaline phosphatase increases after injury and after treatment with methylcholanthrene . In the cat and rabbit the enzyme is present in irregularly scattered foci , usually around the pilosebaceous orifices . At best , then , there is a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mammals studied ( 27 , 40 , 113 , and 133 ) . Manometric studies of the skin of man and of the rat demon strate two esterases : one , a specific , active cholinesterase , the other , a nonspecific aliphatic esterase ( 7 , 8 , and 257 ) . Using the cytochemical method of Gomori ( 134 ) , traces of esterases can be demonstrated in the stratum corneum of the epidermis . After the use of the method of Nachlas and Seligman ( 205 ) for nonspecific esterases , the epidermis shows a greater concentration of the enzymes . The reaction is quite strong in the Malpighian layer and disappears in the granular and corneal layers . The epidermis of the rat and mouse have strong esterase activity , but that of the guinea pig shows only traces of it . Considerable esterase activity can be demonstrated cytochemically in the subcutaneous fat . The esterases demonstrated in vitro in slices of skin may cdrrespond to the combined esterases in the epidermis , the sebaceous glands , and the subcutaneous fat . The distribution of nonspecific esterase @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ moderate amount of enzyme activity can be seen in the lower cells of the Malpighian layer , but the reaction fades gradually upward and disappears in the stratum granulosum . Immediately above the stratum granulosum is a solid ,  | uninterrupted , strongly reactive band of cells ( Fig. 20 ) . The reaction stops suddenly above and below this band . The reactive band is a morphological entity which corresponds to a sulfhydrylrich area above the stratum granulosum ( 201 ) . The general position of this layer is similar to that of the stratum lucidum . In the epidermis of the palm , however , the stratum lucidum contains practically no demonstrable esterases ( Fig. 20 ) . Thus , if the esterase-rich layer in the general skin epidermis is a stratum lucidum , its function must be different from that in the palm . The function of the esterase in this layer can only be speculated . Perhaps it serves to hydrolyze lipids during keratinization and split off free fatty acids . Odd-chained fatty acids are known to be abundant in slain surface lipids . Tetrazulium salts form @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dehydrogenase activity ( 44 and 233 ) . In the epidermis the reaction is strongest in the basal layer and in the lower cells of the Malpighian layer . It diminishes in the cells further up in the spinous layer and is absent from the stratum granulosum and the stratum corneum ( Figs. 21 and 22 ) . The reactive sites within the cells are in the form of rodlets and granules and are particularly numerous in the perinuclear cytoplasm . These structures are identical to mitochondria . The reaction fades out at the same time that keratinization advances . Rogers ( 233 ) has applied the Nadi reagent to fresh epidermis and found the distribution of indophenol blue granules , indicative of cytochrome oxidase activity , to be similar to that of the diformazan crystals . Epidermis normally contains minerals which can be studied by chemical methods and by examination with dark-field illumination of incinerated sections ( Fig. 23 ) . The average amounts of   K , Na , Mg , and Ca per 100 mg of human epidermis are 0.322 , 0.122 , 0.018 , and 0.015 mg @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has made possible a partial understanding of the localization of these minerals . Unfortunately , specific identification of the individual ashes is not practical , since nearly all of them leave a whitish ash , with the exception of iron , the ash of which is yellow to red . Furthermore , it is likely that after incineration the original topographic relationship of these elements is disturbed . Since K and Na are the principal metals found in epidermis , it is reasonable to assume that the white ash residue represents both of them . Mineral ashes in normal epidermis of man and other mammals have been reported to be concentrated in the distalmost layers and in the basal layer of the epidermis ( 87 and 246 ) . The spinous cells contain visibly less ash than the basal layer , and ash is again abundant in the  | superficial layer of the stratum spinosum and in the stratum corneum ( Fig. 23 ) . MacCardle et al . ( 179 ) summarize their findings of mineral ash in human skin in the following way : " In the skin of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stratum granulosum and superficial spinous layer leave a bluish ash indicative of the presence of sodium and potassium , while the deeper spinous , basal and dermal layers contain much white ash of calcium and magnesium . In persons from 10 to 50 years of age all layers of the skin are heavily mineralized with white ash except the basal layer , which leaves mostly bluish ash . The basal cells , as well as the spinous cells , in the skin of persons between the ages of 10 and 50 years all possess thick perinuclear mantles of calcium and magnesium , except the clear cells , ' whose ash is blue and whose nuclei contain large amounts of iron . In children between infancy and 10 years of age it is only the stratum corneum and stratum granulosum that are constant in their heavy deposits of white ash . The other layers may or may not be heavily  | mineralized . At all ages there are single clear cells more or less ashless scattered about in the spinous and basal layers . The nuclei of these clear cells contain an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ skin comes from five sources of pigment . These are : melanin ; melanoid , a substance allied to melanin , allegedly found throughout the epidermis ; carotene , in the stratum corneum , as well as in the subcutaneous fat ; and reduced hemoglobin and oxyhemoglobin in the blood vessels of the dermis ( 100 and 148 ) . Of these five , melanin is the most important and the only one which lends itself to cytological stdies:Melanin is a yellow to black pigment related in some way to the metabolism of tyrosine . It is , resistant to nearly all chemical agents and is not modified even by concentrated acids . It is , however , somewhat soluble in concentrated KOH or NaOH and is bleached by hydrogen peroxide , potassium permanganate , and other reducing agents . Melanin is anargentaffiin substance , reducing ammoniacal silver nitrate without the intervention of a reducing agent , and it is easily impregnated with silver . The problem of pigment and melanogenesis in skin is a very large one ( 20 , 21 , 23 , 28 , 78 , 165 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In normal human epidermis , melanin is present in varying amounts iii the basal layers of the Malpighian layer ; in heavily pigmented white skin and Negro skin , melanin is present throughout the stratum spinosum , the stratum granulosum , and even the stratum corneum . When abundant , melanin granules are evenly and difusely distributed in the cytoplasm of epidermal cells , especially in those of the basal layer ; when less abundant , the granules form supranuclear caps . . Pigmented dendritic cells occur in the epidermis couched between the basal cells and resting against the basement membrane . Billingham and Medawar ( 31 and 33 ) consider that these cells form a definite and specific system which they called the " epidermal glial system . " Since both dendritic cells and epidermal cells contain melanin granules , the presence of dendritic cells is masked in histological preparations . In scantily pigmented epidermis , dendritic cells are readily seen in silvered  | paraffin sections or under the phase-contrast microscope ( 78 ) . Dendritic , melanin-producing cells have been called melanoblasts , dendritic cells , and melanocytes . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " denotes only " immature cells which differentiate into mature cells , " there has been objection to the term melanoblast , and " melanodendrocyte " or " melanogenocyte " have been proposed ( 23 ) . Coining new names , however , does not combat excessive terminology , and since " - blast " can be correctly used to denote a formative cell and not necessarily an immature one , as for instance osteoblasts , chondroblasts , fibroblasts , etc. , the retention of the term melanoblast should create no confusion . The number of melanoblasts incorresponding areas of different human beings is greatly different , and even in the same individual melanoblasts vary in umber from - area to area . They are most numerous ? in the skin of the head and the neck where about 2000  --  - to  --  4000 have been found per square millimeter of surface epidermis . The lowest population densities are found in the skin of the thigh and arm , where they average about 1000 perms-square millimeter ( 253 ) . Melanoblasts are concentrated in the epidermal ? ridges or rete pegs ; between @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ melanoblasts may be dendritic , with many branches radiating in all directions , insinuated between the surrounding epidermal cells . They may also be smaller , with only two terminal processes , and resemble fibroblasts . This dimorphism is particularly striking in the skin of the cheek and forehead , where the smaller , fibroblast-like melanoblasts are more numerous than the larger , dendritic ones ( 253 ) . Dendritic cells can be demonstrated selectively with the " dopa " ( dihydroxyphenylalanine ) reaction of Bloch ( ' 35 ) . This reaction , which was perfected by Laidlaw and Blackberg ( 160 ) and later modified by Becker et al . ( 22 ) and Radaeli ( 225 , 226 , and 227 ) , stains selectively gray , grayish brown , or black the cytoplasm of the epidermal dendritic cells , whereas the epidermal cells remain uncolored . The specificity of this technique is based on the assumption that an enzyme ( dopa oxidase ) present in the dendritic cells , but lacking in the epidermal cells , converts the  | substrate , dopa , into a dark pigment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in detail by Rawles ( 230 ) , Lerner and Fitzpatrick ( 165 ) , Foster ( 117 and 118 ) , and Radaeli ( 225 , 226 , and 227 ) . In naturally occurring melanogenesis , this same dopa oxidase presumably transforms natural chromogens in the cytoplasm of dendritic cells into melanin . Any dopa-positive cell which is capable of elaborating melanin may be called a melanoblast . Those cells which contain melanin but which are dopanegative may be called melanophores , the assumption being that they have received their melanin from nearby melanoblasts . Masson ( 185 ) believes that there is a sequence of centripetal maturation of melanin in the dendritic melanoblasts of human skin , the most distally located granules in the dendrite being the most mature In some melanoblasts , the cell bodies of which are clear and presumably contain only " premelanin , " there is a progressive accumulation of demonstrable melanin granules in the ends of the dendrites . When the epidermis from the pigmented skin of man or the guinea pig is stripped off and is mounted in Ringer 's solution and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seen clearly . When the same specimen is immersed one to three hours in an 0.01 percent solution of methylene blue , toluidin , or brilliant cresyl blue in Ringer 's solution containing 0.05 to 0.1 percent NaHCO , the cytoplasm of the cell body of melanoblasts becomes tinged selectively a deep blue , while the other cells remain unstained . The same preparations may then be fixed a few hours in a 2 percent formaldehyde , prepared in Ringer 's solution , washed and incubated in the dopa reagent . The cell body and processes of the melanoblasts , formerly blue , are blackened selectively as the dopa-melanin is formed . Epidermal pigment is formed only within the pigmentary dendritic cells , which have arisen from the neural crest ( 230 ) . The cell bodies lie among the basal epidermal cells , and the dendritic processes are woven between the cells in the spinous layer . Some of the processes of adjacent cells seem to be fused , and this gives the impression that these cells form a syncytium ( 23 ) . The cells , however , are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in contact . In addition to dendritic pig- mentary cells in the basal layer , other cells in higher levels of the epidermis also become colored with the above methods . These cells also have dendritic processes but their cell bodies are smaller , more elongated and angular and the nuclei less defined . These cells were first described by Langerhans ( 161 ) . They can be demonstrated with variants of Cohnheim 's and Gairns ' gold chloride methods and are usually free of pigment ( 28 , 29 , 30 , and 33 ) . Langerhans ' cells occur in the superficial as well as basal layers in all epithelia in which basally located melanoblasts also occur . They are not found in skin where melanoblasts are absent . They are nucleated cells and the nuclei are Feulgen-reactive . The cytoplasm is clear , not basophilic , and usually collapsed around the nucleus , leaving empty spaces at the periphery of the cell . Langerhans ' cells in the upper levels of the epidermis are always unpigmented , regardless of the degree of pigmentation of the skin in which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their nuclei ( 33 ) . In contrast , mitotic divisions in melanoblasts , though considered rare ( 220 ) , are encountered in the epidermis . Structurally , melanoblasts and clear , or Langerhans ' , cells resemble each other ( 29 and 30 ) . They have the same proportions . Both have compact cell bodies from which extend branches . The branches are insinuated between the spinous cells and often make contact with the processes of nearby cells . Since there is such close correspondence between these two " systems " of dendritic cells , it is possible that the " clear " cells of Langerhans represent " effete " melanoblasts which , having discharged or lost their pigment , participate in the outward movement of epidermal cells and are eventually sloughed off with the keratin layer . Becker et al . ( 23 ) are of the opinion that the more superficially located Langerhans ' cells are actually " melanodendrocytes " which lie in the dermoepidermal junction but which through misorientation and fixation artifacts appear to be in the superficial layer . Except for that over the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is said to be free of melanoblasts ( 230 ) . With ageing , however , or after percutaneous applications of carcinogens , the epidermis becomes progressively pigmented . This is particularly evident in the skin of hairless nice . The acquisition of and the  | increase in pigmentation is due mostly to melanophores and melanoblasts in the dermis . There are , however , in the dermoepidermal junction , some melanoblasts , with typical cytoplasmic processes extending between the epidermal cells . If one treats with the dopa technique the normal , unpigmented epidermis of the mouse , melanoblasts may be found there . Pigment cells , although inactive , must be present at all time in the epiderm is of the mouse . They become active and increase in number with ageing and after irritations with carcinogens . If the epidermal melanoblasts are the only source of epidermal melanin , this substance must be transferred from the melanoblasts to the epidermal cells ( melanophores ) . Masson ( 185 ) believes that the melanoblasts are comparable to glandular cells which secrete their product by virtually injecting it , by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ calls this process " cytocrine . " The " cytocrine " concept of pigment distribution is generally accepted , but despite its plausibility no one has actually observed it in operation . Becker et al . ( 23 ) deny that melanin is ever found within the epidermal cells . They contend that when histological sections give such an impression , the so-called melanin caps at the distal end of epidermal cells are in reality the dendritic processes of " melanodendrocytes " outside of the epidermal cells . They state also that the " melanodendrocytes " release their pigment in the stratum granulosum . Histological sections often give illusionary images , but it is too much to ask the seasoned histologist to believe unquestioningly that the pigment granules which he finds in the cytoplasm of epidermal cells are really outside the boundaries of the cell . When melanogenesis is induced by X-irradiation or by irritating agents in the naturally nonpigmented epidermis of the mouse , epidermal cells acquire fine melanin granules around the nucleus and coarse ones at the periphery . Pigment granules are often found in the nuclei of injured @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were not well known , one might suspect that the nucleus might he implicated in melanogenesis . Some believe that melanin first appears in the nucleolus   of epidermal cells and then spreads to the rest of the nucleus ( 188 ) . It is alleged to leave the nucleus by way of the " chromidial derivatives , " whatever this may mean . This old concept has not received or deserved much support . Some authors deny altogether the existence of dendritic cells and believe that pigment is formed within the epidermal cells in association with , or at the expense of , the Golgi element or lipochondria . " These elements are said to disappear at the same rate thatthe pigment granules are formed within the cells ( 91 and 175 ) . It is difficult to evaluate the relative merits of these concepts . The fact that most authors believe in the " cytocrine " method of melanin distribution does not make it valid . It is conceivable that all of the proposed processes may play a role in melanization. 7 A water-extractable , heat-stable , dialyzable , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ - tyrosinase , system has been obtained from human epidermis and from homogenates of rabbit skin ( 115 and 235 ) . This substance , which may occur normally in melanoblasts , inhibits the action of the enzyme on the substrate in vitro . Melanogenic stimuli , such as sunshine , X  --  rays , eat , and inflammatory  --  diseases , could oxidize or destroy these suifhydrylcompounds f the epidermis , leaving the enzyme free to act upon the melanin precursor . This could explain the increase in-pigmentation of the skin after such stresses as are mentioned above . Epidermal cells possess one spherical nucleus or occasionally two . The shape of the cell , however , determines the shape of the nucleus . The basophilic nuclear membrane encloses a granular , or finely reticulated , chromatin nucleolus . The nucleolus has a dense basophilic membrane , a homogeneous , delicately basophilic content , and one or more peripheral heterochromatic granules . In the basal layers of the stratum Malpighii , nuclei are more strongly Feulgen-reactive , and they are more basophilic than they are in the upper layers . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the provocative discovery by Barr that  | the female nucleus has a distinctive mass of chromatin , the so-called sex chromatin ( 15 , 16 , and 17 ) . The brief account which follows summarizes the salient points of this subject . However , this is not the sort of work to be done by impatient observers on badly prepared material . Barr constantly warns that the material should be of pluperfect quality and the observer experienced ( 13 , 14 , and 135 ) . In the human female , the majority of epidermal intermitotic nuclei contain a chromatin body , about one micron in diameter , located next to the inner surface of the nuclear membrane ; this is the sex chromatin . The sex chromatin can be identified easily when it lies at the periphery of the nucleus ; with experience it can be recognized even when it is otherwise oriented . The sex chromatin stains with hematoxylin and it is Feulgen-reactive . It is distinguished from other chromatin particles by its greater size , planoconvex shape , and position usually against the nuclear membrane ( Fig. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , spherical , usually located at variable distances from the nuclear membrane , and Feulgen-negative . If difficulties should arise in distinguishing the sex chromatin from the nucleolus , the Feulgen method  | separates them at once . In epidermal nuclei of normal males , a mass of chromatin similar to that of the sex chromatin is rarely found . It must be emphasized that the differences between the nuclei of the two sexes are abundantly clear to one who has attained a certain degree of familiarity with the method . In practice , when one has good sections of skin , the sex of the donor can be deduced without error from small pieces of epidermis . The sex characteristic of the nuclei is not peculiar to the epidermis and has been demonstrated in a number of organs . On fairly logical grounds , Barr and his associates assume that the female sex chromatin is formed by the heterochromatic portions of the two X chromosomes . The two X chromosomes of the female would thus produce a larger mass of chromatin than the XY chromosomes of the male . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ differentiated with certainty from the general chromatin . In an analysis of the nuclei of the epidermis from 34 cases of human hermaphroditism , Barr finds that in 18 of the specimens , the epidermal nuclei had a typical female morphology , but 16 of them showed male morphology . In 5 cases of true hermaphroditism , 4 had female-type nuclei and one had a maletype nucleus . Most of the pseudohermaphrodites , male and female , had male and female-type nuclei respectively . These observations rule out the assumption that the majority of hermaphrodites bear the XX chromosome complex . In true hermaphrodites or gynandromorphs , with an ovary on one side and a testis on the other , it has been assumed that one side of the body is male and the other female , including the type of sex chromosome complex . Yet , skin biopsy specimens from both sides of the body show either typical female or male morphology of the nucleus . The practical importance of these findings is evident . During the next decade a great deal of this work will be pursued and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ female nucleus will surely be put to a severe test . It is to be hoped that those who pursue this work will continue to follow the cautions of the original authors to use only pluperfectly prepared material .  | Since mitotic activity is apparently scanty in the epidermis , there is the belief that mitosis is insufficient to replace cells lost from exfoliation of the stratum corneum . It has been proposed that a transformation of lymphocytes into epidermal cells makes up for the relatively low number of mitotic figures seen in normal epidermis ( 2 ) . Such transformations might occur , but this assumption is probably based on a misidentification of " clear cells " for lymphocytes . The alleged lymphocytes appear to be the cell bodies of unpigmented , dendritic melanoblasts ( 33 ) . In spite of apparent low mitotic activity , the epidermis is a " reproductively self-sufficient system " ( 186 ) . It can regenerate entirely from cells resident within it . In rabbits , a thick , normally keratinized epidermis may be regenerated within 15 days from epithelial cells scraped from the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the chest stripped down below the level of the deepest hair follicles ( 186 ) . It is generally agreed that cell division in the epidermis occurs chiefly in the basal layer ( 114 ) . There is , however , some disagreement about this , and the idea that mitotic activity is more abundant in the spinous layer is by no means disposed of . Since the axes of mitotic figures in the basal layer appeared to be parallel to the basement membrane , Thuringer ( 258 and 259 ) believed that these cells do not move into the stratum spinosum and that the basal layer is a biologic entity separate from the rest of the epidermis . Cowdry and Thompson ( 89 ) conclude that mitotic activity is insignificantly less frequent in the proximal and middle third of the stratum spinosum than in the basal layer . Single layers of horny cells can be removed from the skin with Scotch tape ( 271 , 272 , and 273 ) . Cells so removed are replaced relatively quickly , depending upon the number of layers lost ( 221 and 222 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Scotch tape 1.25 cm wide and 5 cm long is applied to the flexor surface of the forearm ( this area is chosen because hairs there are relatively sparse and small ) and then pulled off quickly . Under the microscope it is evident that a single layer of keratinized cells adheres to the sticky surface . The process is repeated over the same area of skin until the surface becomes slightly red and   shiny but remains dry . Two millimeter biopsy punches are then removed at varying intervals and the specimens are sectioned serially and stained . Mitotic counts are then made with scrupulous care . Approximately half of the mitotic figures occur in the basal layer and the other half occur in the one immediately above it . Only a few mitotic figures are said to occur in the higher layers of the spinous layer . To appreciate the significance of this observation , one must first analyze the change which occurs in the epidermis after the Scotch tape treatment . The basal cells of the epidermis become hypertrophied , and their number decreases steadily during the first @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ figures in them , however , remains constant . In the early hours of the experiment the cells of the basal layer become hypertrophied and the rete ridges become flattened out ; many of the basal cells are squeezed upward into the spinous layer . A large percentage of the mitotic figures seen in the lowest layer of the spinous layer are really basal cells which have been crowded out of place . Complete denudation of the corneal layer is accompanied by some cell damage , by hyperemia and by mild inflammation of the dermis , all of which could induce mitotic activity . However , the loss of only four corneal layers leads to appreciable mitotic activity without this being accompanied or preceded by the above changes . The loss of corneal layers , then , seems to be the direct stimulus for mitosis , although other factors may make some contributions . Most tissues must have an intrinsic potential for cell division which is related to the normal loss of cells , yet one can not overlook the possibility that the rate of loss itself may to some extent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rule , the mitotic cells which appear to be in the spinous layer are found actually to be in the basal cells around the dermal papillae in other levels . Mitotic activity in the epidermis , then , takes place largely , if not entirely , in the basal layer . This layer , therefore , is the true stratum germinativum of the epidermis . When human epidermis is grown in vitro , only the basal layer survives and grows ( 219 ) .   Storey and Leblond ( 249 ) studied the epidermis of the foot pads of rats after treating the animals with colchicine . They calculated that during 24 hours , 5.24 percent of the cells undergo mitosis and that a number of cells equal to 100 percent would require 458 hours or 19.1 days . The renewal time of the entire stratum germinativum and stratum granulosum would be 19.1 days , which is also the time required for each cell to travel from the stratum germinativum to the lower level of the stratum corneum . These authors also found that when rats were kept in cages the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? C , the calculated renewal time of the epidermis dropped to 7.3 days . The riddle of the scantiness of mitotic activity in the epidermis began to be solved by the work of Ortiz-Piton ( 209 ) , who found more mitotic figures in mice killed at noon than in those killed at night . Carleton ( 71 ) discovered a mitotic rhythm in the epidermis of the mouse showing a maximum mitotic frequency from 8 p.m. to midnight and a minimum at about noon . Actually , the period of greatest mitotic frequency in mouse and rat epidermis occurs at 10 a.m. , and the period of least frequency at 10 p.m. , the number of mitotic figures in the morning being more than twice that at night ( 37 and 81 ) . Mice and rats are nocturnal , and their diurnal period of rest and sleep coincides with tissue repair . In human epidermis there is also a rhythmic mitotic cycle which , unlike that of nocturnal animals , is higher in the night hours than in the morning hours ( 45 , 80 , and 82 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ epidermis is in some way tied up with that of the hair follicles ( 77 ) . The hair follicles of these animals have a precise period of growth , each follicle requiring about 21 days to complete its cycle . Also , hair grows in waves , and all of the follicles within the area of the advancing growth wave are approximately in the same stage of growth . The epidermis which covers the skin with quiescent hair follicles is usually two layers in thickness . During the first 4 or 5 days after the initiation of growth of the hair follicles , the epidermis becomes two to three times thicker , and this is accompanied by an increase in mitotic activity . After 6 to 7 days the epidermis decreases abruptly iii thickness to its earlier level , when follicles   were inactive . During the remaining part of the follicular growth period , the epidermis is only one cell in thickness . After the cessation of follicle growth the epidermis returns to two layers in thickness . Mitotic activity is best understood in the epidermis of the mouse @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , 53 , 54 , 55 , 56 , 57 , 58 , 59 , 60 , 61 , 62 , 63 , 64 , and 65 ) . In the diurnal cycle in males and in females , mitotic frequency extends from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. , with a peak at approximately 1 p.m. , showing that during bodily activity , the mitotic rate is low , and during sleep and rest it is high . Excessive muscular exercise is followed by an abnormal depression of the mitotic rate , and the same effect can be induced by extreme cold . In mice placed on starvation rations , mitotic activity drops considerably below that of normally fed controls . Since in these situations there is a drain of the sugar reserves in the body , it is suspected that an abundance of sugar might be a critical factor in the development of a high mitotic rate . Injections of starch solution subcutaneously cause a marked rise in mitotic rate . Injection of insulin depresses mitotic activity , whereas injections of disodium hydrogen phosphate together with starch induce greater mitotic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in mitotic rate in animals which are subjected to ischemic shock , and it has been pointed out that although shock raises the blood sugar level , there is a coincident fall in the total oxygen consumption , indicating that less sugar is being oxidized . The number of resting cells entering division at any moment is in direct proportion to the amount of sugar being oxidized . In animals under stress , induced by crowding for three weeks , the adrenal medullae increase in area by about 80 percent simultaneously with a drop in epidermal mitotic rate ' of about 60 percent . Both adrenaline and cortisone have a powerful antimitotic action in vivo and in vitro , and there is a suggestion that either or both of these hormones act by interfering with carbohydrate metabolism . The powerful antimitotic action of cortisone may be related to an inhibition of hexokinase . Thyroxine decreases , testosterone increases the rate of mitotic activity in the epidermis and consequently the thickness of the epidermis .   Together these hormones induce a moderate increase in the mitotic activity and appear to work antagonistically @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ profound effect upon cell division in the epidermis of normal males and females . The life of male mice can be divided into four periods . During infancy the animals are still growing and their epidermal mitotic rate is generally high . At maturity the mitotic rate is lowered ; during middle age mitotic rate increases , and in senility , it becomes reduced . Coincident with these changes , there are changes in spontaneous bodily activity . In female mice the growth of the epidermis is cyclic and similar to that of the reproductive organs , and the epidermal mitotic rate can be stimulated by injections of oestrone ( 4 , 6 , and 47 ) . During the oestrus cycle , peaks of mitotic activity are obtained in the third day of dioestrus and again in early oestrus . These peaks coincide with the normal diurnal peaks at approximately 1 p.m . Both glycogen and oestrone are mitogenic ; the maximum stimulation obtained by an increased glycogen concentration is small compared with the stimulation obtained with oestrone . In the female albino rat the thickness of the epidermis also @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mitotic values are highest in pro-oestrus but are reduced at oestrus and the day following it . However , no significant change in the mean mitotic incidence is detected at any phase of the cycle . No correlation between the thickness of the stratum germinativum and mitotic incidence exists in the epidermis of these animals . In immature rats , mitotic incidence can be increased by treatment with estrogen , but at the same time epidermal thickness is reduced . It appears , then , that estrogen stimulates keratinization and subsequent loss of epidermal cells independently of any changes in the rate of cell replacement . Furthermore , the effect of estrogen on cell loss seems to be independent of mediation by the pituitary , since it can be produced in hypophysectomized rats . These results suggest the possibility that estrogen can affect independently the thickness of the epidermis and mitotic activity , and that keratinization and sloughing can exceed the rate of cell replacement .  | In male and female mice , the duration of each mitotic division was established at 232 hours . While glycogen and androgen increase the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of each division , which remains constant at 232 hours . Estrogen , on the other hand , not only increases the number of divisions but also reduces the duration of each to less than one hour . Bullough ( 60 ) placed clips from the ears of mice in a phosphate-buffered saline medium and an oxygen gas phase to study the reaction between the estrogenic hormones and carbohydrate metabolism . With glucose as substrate , oestrone induces a doubling of the mitotic rate ; with L-lactate or pyruvate , however , the double rate is obtained without the addition of oestrone , which in such cases provides no further stimulus . The action of oestrone seems to be on some rate-limiting reaction between extracellular glucose and intracellular pyruvate and involves hexokinase . Thus , the reaction facilitated by oestrone could be glucose to glucose-6-phosphate . Since a culture medium which contains no unknown substances is capable of supporting mitotic activity in fragments of mouse epidermis , it has been possible to study more directly the effects of nutritional and hormonal factors ( 61 and 62 ) . In vitro analyses @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which influence mitosis in vivo are eliminated . For instance , the diurnal cycle of mitotic activity does not persist in fragments maintained in vitro , and similar results can be obtained from the epidermis taken from mice at any hour of day or night . Within a wide range of possibilities , the nutritional state of the animal before the excision of the skin fragment has no effect on the subsequent mitotic activity in vitro . Stress and shock , which are such potent mitotic depressants in animals , do not affect the rate of epidermal mitosis which develops subsequently in vitro . Sex hormones , and particularly estrogen , may exert a profound effect on subsequent mitotic activity in vitro . Skin fragments from female mice show depressed or elevated rates of cell division according to the phase of the oestrus cycle of the animal . Such knowledge has permitted certain standardization of the skin used . For this reason , the castrated mouse should be the ideal animal to use , although the male is fairly adequate . Using these  | standards , Bullough ( 61 and 62 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the culture media , insulin increases mitotic activity in the epidermis of the mouse in vitro , while growth hormone inhibits it . When both hormones are used together they counteract each other . The point of action of these two hormones seems to be the glucokinase system . This brief summary demonstrates the complexities encountered in a study of mitosis in the epidermis . Reports of mitotic indices which do not take into account diurnal periodicity , state of nutrition , and the activity , sex , age , and general physiological status of the animal , as well as physical environment , are difficult to assess .  | Purkinje discovered sweat glands in 1833 , but it was not until 1922 that Schiefferdecker ( 34 ) divided them into eccrine and apocrine . Eccrine sweat glands attain their best development in the primates and particularly in man . In other mammals a few of them may be found , usually , on the volar side of the paws and digits . The sweat glands in the ox , horse , pig , dog , etc. , are apocrine glands @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ eccrine than apocrine glands . The eccrine sweat glands of man are sufficiently different from similar cutaneous glands in all other animals to be considered different organs . On the human body , only the lips , the glans penis and clitoris , and the inner surface of the prepuce are free of eccrine sweat glands . More than two million glands are distributed over the surface of the body , having a mean distribution of 130 per square centimeter . The number of glands is greater in some regions of the body than in others ( 36 ) . They are most numerous in the palms and soles , where they average about 424 and 416 respectively per square centimeter of surface ( 16 ) . In the forehead , the dorsum of the hand and the dorsum of the foot , the mean numbers are 215 , 240 , and 193 per square centimeter of surface respectively . On the abdomen , arm , and forearm the means are 103 , 110 , and 113 per square centimeter , and in the chest , scapula , lumbar region , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 87 . In general , the flexor surfaces contain many more glands than the extensor surfaces ; the ventral part of the trunk has twice as many glands as the hack ; and the upper extremities have almost twice as many as the lower ones . Although it is frequently stated that Negroes have more eccrine sweat glands than Europeans , those who have reached such conclusions have not taken into account individual variations ( 32 ) . There is no significant difference  | between the number of thermally activated sweat glands of Europeans and of African Negroes , the over-all mean being 130 and 127 glands respectively per square centimeter of skin ( 36 ) . Japanese subjects are said to possess more sweat glands on the extremities than on the trunk , and this is presumably the reverse of the situation found in Europeans ( 16 ) . Sweat glands are not formed after birth , and their density for unit area decreases with the growth of the body . In an infant one year old , the skin of the hip contained 796 glands per square centimeter , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ adult ( 36 ) . This is concordant with the view that the body surface area of a full grown individual is in the order of 5.5 times that of an infant one year old , or 7 times that of a newborn . The high individual variations in adults could be caused by variations in size , the larger surface areas being associated with smaller counts and vice versa . In the fetus primordial eccrine glands appear in the fourth and fifth month , slightly ahead of the apocrine glands ( 2 and 37 ) . They are formed first in the scalp and forehead , and then in the palms and soles , as small buds of cells at the apices of the epidermal crests . This is contrary to the older belief that the glands appear first in regions devoid of hairs . Elsewhere in the body the majority of the glands appear at the beginning of the fifth month . Some eccrine glands are said to originate from hair follicles , but these develop relatively later and are probably apocrine . The gland anlagen are epidermal buds @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The epithelial germs become clavate and extend as solid cords into the dermis . Later the cords attain a tortuous appearance and the tips become twisted and glomerate . The development of eccrine glands is dischronous ; even in the same region some glands are more advanced than others . The glands in the palms and soles , for instance , are much more advanced than those in the dorsum of the hand and foot . By the end of the fifth month , and through the eighth month , " vacuoles ' " appear in the center of the twisted  | cords . As more of these vacuoles develop , they coalesce and form elongated clefts . When the clefts also coalesce they form a lumen . By the end of the seventh month , the lumen from the coiled portion of the gland extends to the duct , and the entire gland is hollow . During the eighth month the lumen broadens and the presumptive secretory cells assume some of the characteristic appearance of the cells in adult glands ( 37 ) . Myoepithelial cells , which , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ between the epithelium and the basement membrane , are not recognizable at any time during fetal life . Even the characteristic loose connective tissue stroma which surrounds the coiled portion of the gland is not fully differentiated until after birth . In embryos 9 months old the morphology of the glands begins to suggest that they may be functional ( 2 and 37 ) . Eccrine sweat glands are simple tubes which extend from the epidermis to the lower parts of the dermis or to the tela subcutanea ( Fig. 1 ) . A good concept of the gross morphology of sweat glands can be obtained by isolating entire glands from skin which has been digested with collagenase ( Fig. 2 ) . The basal portion of each tubule is irregularly and tightly coiled . From the coil to the epidermis the tubule is straight or undulating . The part of the duct within the epidermis is again coiled . The two extremities of each tubule , then , are coiled , and the middle portion is relatively straight . Each tubule consists of a duct and a secretory portion . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ spiral segment which lies within the epidermis , the so-called " epidermal sweat duct unit " ( 17 ) ; a straight or slightly undulating " dermal sweat duct " ; and a " coiled " dermal sweat duct . The basal coil of each gland is composed of nearly equal parts of coiled duct and glandular portion . The exact ratio of duct to glandular portion is not known , but in histological preparations one has the impression that the extent of the coiled duct is variable . In sections , the basal coils of sweat glands appear as nests of tubules cut at different angles ( Fig. 3 ) . Depending upon   the angle of the cut , each nest is composed of different proportions of ductular and secretory tubules . Sections through the higher levels of the coil contain more duct than secretory tubule , and sections through the lower levels contain more gland than duct . The histologist can use several criteria in discriminating between ductular and glandular epithelium ( Fig. 3 ) . The overall diameter of the duct is usually smaller than that of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its bore is approxi- mately the same size . The size of the lumen of the glandular segment often varies . The ductular epithelium is composed of two compact layers of small and approximately equal-sized cuboidal cells . The glandular epithelium is simple and the size of its cells varies . The luminal cells of the ducts stain less intensely with basic dyes than do the basal cells . In the glandular portion the " basal " cells are usually chromophobic , but the " luminal " cells are easily stained . The secretory tubules of eccrine sweat glands are lined by one layer of truncated pyramidal cells . In most transverse sections of secretory tubules the epithelial cells may be heaped in such a way as to simulate two layers . This apparent stratification is accentuated by the disparity in the size of the cells . In the larger cells the nucleus is located at the base , but in the smaller cells the nucleus is near the distal end of the cytoplasm . The disposition of these cells has led the Japanese investigators to assert that the larger cells @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ superficial " cells ( 12 , 13 , and 14 ) . The large basal cells rest upon  | the basement membrane and/or myoepithelial cells and are believed not to reach the surface but to open onto the lumen by way of intercellular canaliculi . The small superficial cells always line the lumen of the tubule ; they are said to rest upon the basal cells and not to have contact with the basement membrane . Each of these two types of cells is said to be different enough to represent a distinct cell type . However , the impression of two layers is an illusion derived from single sections . All of the cells , " basal " and " superficial , " rest upon the basement membrane and/or myoepithelial cells , and all of them reach the lumen . When sections are studied serially , the " superficial " cells in one section are seen to have a stalk of cytoplasm insinuated between " basal " cells and to be in contact with the basement membrane in another section ( Figs. 4 and 5 ) . The " superficial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cytoplasmic base in another . Similarly , all " basal " cells reach the lumen . For these reasons " basal " and " superficial " are unfortunate names . These two types of cells ,   however , have distinct enough morphological characteristics to merit special attention . The smaller " superficial " cells with the nucleus displaced toward the surface of the lumen contain numerous small cytoplasmic granules which stain strongly with basic dyes ( Fig. 5 ) . For this reason they have been named " dark " cells ( 26 ) . In the larger " basal " cells the cytoplasm rarely stains with basic dyes ; the cytoplasmic granules are sparse , they stain less intensely with iron hematoxylin , and they are acidophilic . These cells have been aptly called " clear " cells . Since treatment with ribonuclease before staining abolishes the basophilia of the granules in the dark cells , it must be assumed that these cells are rich in ribonucleic acid ( 13 and 26 ) . When stained with Giemsa or with eosinmethylene blue , the dark cells show at their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the cytoplasm of the clear cells very small acidophilic and basophilic granules are evenly and diffusely distributed . The proportion of dark cells to clear cells is variable , but it is relatively consistent in the glands from the same specimen . While distinct in most specimens , dark and clear cells may not be conspicuous in some . When this is the case , most of the cells appear to belong to the clear type . The luminal edge of these cells often shows a distinct hyalin cuticular border . In an occasional specimen the secretory cells have a clear cytoplasm riddled by numerous evenly spaced vacuoles . The cells of these glands resemble sebaceous cells , but the vacuoles contain neither glycogen nor lipids . Such glands may be encountered in individuals of all ages and in normal as well as abnormal skin ( 9 ) . When this condition is found in one gland , all of the glands show it in a given skin specimen . In individuals whose sweat glands contain the " clear reticulated cytoplasm , " specimens removed several weeks apart from different areas @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ significance of this phenomenon is not yet known . Between the thick hyalin basement membrane and the secretory cells are the myoepithelial cells . These cells do not form a solid sheet underneath the secretory cells but are loosely dovetailed , leaving large interstices . The cells are aligned parallel to   the axis of the tubule . Structurally , myoepithelial cells in eccrine glands resemble those in apocrine glands . For a detailed description of the myoepithelial cell , see the chapter on apocrine glands . The basement membrane which surrounds the secretory segment of the gland is fairly thick . In unstained preparations it is yellowish , hyalin , and refractile . Under polarized light it is bire  - -  fringent when the tubules are sectioned transversely . It is unstainalde with basic dyes . With Van Gieson 's or Mallory 's triacid stain it stains like the collagenous fibers . With ammoniacal silver nitrate techniques it becomes black , but not uniformly . That part of the membrane which adheres to the bases of the cells , secretory and myoepithelial , reduces the silver nitrate more strongly than the rest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ment membrane toward the periodic acid-Schiff routine ( Fig. 6 ) . In such preparations the basement membrane seems to be composed of two distinct elements , an inner periodic acid-Schiff reactive part and a more extensive outer unreactive part . The basement membrane in these tubules is very much like that of the seminiferous tubules ( 29 ) . Both become thicker with age , but only the outer , hyalin , periodic acid-Schiff unreactive part increases in thickness . The reactive , thinner portion remains approximately the same thickness . The basement membrane around the excretory duct is thin and inconspicuous . The secretory segment of the tubule is lined by a simple epithelium , and the duct is lined by two layers of cuboidal cells ; the transition between the two segments is abrupt . However , the luminal cells in the first portion of the duct contain granules which resemble those in the secretory cells , and the transition of the epithelium to that of a typical excretory duct is gradual . The basal cells of the duct are large and cuboidal . The surface cells are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which faces the lumen is differentiated into a faintly yellow and hyalin cuticular border . The hyalin border varies in thickness in different glands , but in general it becomes distinct immediately above the brief transition region of the coiled duct and remains clear all   the way to the terminal portion of the duct . The cuticle represents a modification of the cytoplasm at the luminal border of each cell , and shows many minor structural variations in the sweat ducts of normal skin ( 9 ) . The straight or undulating dermal portion of the duct is characterized by two morphological features . Its diameter is narrower than that of any other portion of the duct , and its lumina. cells are larger than those elsewhere in the duct . They are cuboidal or columnar , and the cuticle on the border is very well developed . In surface view the cuticle cells are pentagonal , and between the cells is a thick cementum substance which forms easily demonstrable terminal bars ( Fig. 7 ) . Eccrine ducts open onto the surface of the skin through the ridges rather @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the surface of the  | palms and the soles , the openings of the ducts are very regularly spaced in the centers of the epidermal ridges ( 7 ) . The stratum corneum at the periphery of the orifices is elevated . The orifices and the surrounding elevations form cup-shaped depressions or craters called " beakers . " In the palmar and plantar skin , when the beakers are well developed the sweat duct orifice forms an additional elevation around its periphery , within the outer keratinous wall .   The sweat duct joins the epidermis at the apex of the rete ridges of the epithelium . In the palms and soles the epithelial ridges have a flattened base , being specialized sweat duct ridges , each ridge corresponding to the " fingerprint " ridge . As soon as they enter the epithelial ridges the ducts become spiraled . The coils of the spiral are small at the narrow base of the cone and become progressively larger as the terminal part of the spiral approaches the surface of the epidermis ( Fig. 9 ) . In the thick epidermis of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ steep spiral , whereas in a thin , atrophic epidermis it is more tortuous . This gives the impression that the intraepidermal portion of the sweat duct is a distinct entity , with a specific length which must adjust its shape to fit the various thicknesses of the epidermis ( 31 ) . however , in thin epidermis the duct may form only two to three spirals , whereas in the palms or soles it may   When stained with the Feulgen technique the nuclei of the secretory cells are strongly reactive . These nuclei are round or shown , and most of the nuclei are densely stippled with reactive granules . Two or more nucleoli are usually close together . The nuclei of these glands are different from those of apocrine glands ,  | oval and very compact . A chromatin network is seldom clearly which are larger , usually spherical , only moderately Feulgenreactive , and possess conspicuous nucleoli . The nuclei of the cells of the ducts fall into two categories , strongly Feulgenreactive nuclei of the basal cells and moderately to weakly reactive ones in the surface @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the surface cells is inversely proportional to the amount of cuticular development in the cell . Now and then cells in the secretory tubules contain more than one nucleus . From this has arisen the belief that these cells , particularly the clear cells , undergo division by amitosis ( 12 ) . Diligent searches in numerous samples of skin from different regions of the body , however , have yielded not one case of recognizable amitosis . This is not surprising since even in the liver , where polynucleated cells are common , multiple nuclei result not from amitosis but from division of the nucleus . Binucleate cells could thus be formed from the result of what Wilson and Leduc ( 38 ) call " cytoplasmic lag " in mitotic division , that is , the cytoplasm may lag behind the nucleus to a point where it does not divide until the next division , or does not divide at all . Reports of amitosis in skin should be viewed with doubt . Mitotic activity in the cells of the secretory tubules is said to be rare ( 3 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in both clear and dark cells ( Fig. 11 ) . Unlike other cutaneous appendages , all of which are characterized by relatively rapid cell proliferation , cell replacement in sweat glands is of a low order . Cell death and , therefore , the need for replacement must also be at a low level . The cells of the ducts , which are normally somewhat mitotically inert , retain the ability to proliferate rapidly when the need occurs . Mitotic activity normally occurs only in the basal cells of the duct , where the loss of cells at the luminal side may provide the stimulus for replacement . The potentialities of sweat glands to regenerate after injury are being investigated by Lobitz and his associates ( 18 ) . Injury gives great impetus to the proliferative ability of these cells . Injury to the duct , however , seems to have little effect on the mitotic activity of the glandular portion .  | The numerous mitochondria in eccrine sweat cells are less conspicuous than those in apocrine glands , but they can be demonstrated easily in well-fixed tissue . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Long filaments are usually found in the distal cytoplasm toward the lumen . Mitochondria are particularly numerous around the nucleus , which may be completely girded by them ( Fig. 12 ) . They are distributed throughout the cytoplasm of the clear cells but tend to aggregate toward the basal part . In the supranuclear cytoplasm long filaments often radiate toward the luminal border . Mitochondria seem to bear no direct relationship to the intracellular canaliculi , but they are often clustered around cytoplasmic vacuoles . In the dark cells filamentous mitochondria are crowded between the cytoplasmic " secretory " granules . There is a disparity in the distribution of mitochondria between dark and clear cells and between the cells within each group . Mitochondria may be abundant in some cells and practically absent in others . It has been suggested that mitochondria become fragmented and that the fragments transform directly into secretion granules ( 12 and 14 ) . Thus , the population of mitochondria should bear an inverse relation to that of secretion granules . This can occasionally be seen , but it is not a rule . A @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ even in our best preparations . Mitochondria often form loops which encircle clear unstained vacuoles . If one appreciates the restlessness of the mitochondria complex in living cells , it is not difficult to understand such pleomorphism . Both mitochondria and granules may be numerous or scant in the same cell . Mitochondria may mediate or aid in the formation of secre- lion granules , but it is unwarranted to assert that they change directly into secretion products . The difference in their number from cell to cell in the same tubule may reflect a difference in the physiological states of these cells . All of the cells of the eccrine duct contain some mitochondria . In the short transition segment of the coiled dermal duct , mitochondria are particularly numerous in the superficial cells , where they are distributed around the nucleus and extend to just below the delicate cuticle . In the basal cells of this segment mitochondria are finer and less numerous ( Fig. 12B and C ) . In the more distal parts of the duct , where the superficial cells have developed a distinct cuticular cap @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The surface cells have only a few fragmentary mitochondria , but the basal cells abound in them . Mitochondria are abundant in the cells of the duct but , unlike those in the secretory cells , they are extremely delicate . Studies of the Golgi element in skin using either silver or osmium tetroxide techniques are unreliable . These reagents are notoriously poor penetrants , and even the best penetrants do poorly in skin . Bizzozero and Botteselle ( 1 ) first described the Golgi apparatus in the secretory cells as a delicate argyrophilic network over the nucleus . After treatment with osmium tetroxide , the Golgi element in the dark cells looks like a network over the nucleus ( 11 ) . Sometimes the network may descend to the sides of the nucleus , and rarely it may be found under the nucleus . Networks are rarely found in the clear cells , but a number of osmiophilic spherules and short rodlets are scattered through the cytoplasm either singly or in groups . Occasionally , osmiophilic elements are arranged along the walls of the canaliculi . After local injections of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and this suggests that it may be implicated in secretion ( 21 ) . The picture of the Golgi element in sweat gland cells is confused by its proximity to lipid droplets , which an also osmiophilic . In fact , Melczer ( 20 and 21 ) identified all lipid   droplets with Golgi elements . Lipid droplets , particularly in the clear cells , seem to develop by a direct conversion of the Golgi elements ; indeed the amount of lipid within the clear cells is said to be inversely proportional to the number of Golgi elements ( 11 ) . It seems doubtful to us that the Golgi elements in eccrine glands have anything to do with lipid storage , particularly when the role of lipid in these cells is completely unknown . Cells do not secrete lipids , and the number of lipid droplets increases with the age of the individual . Lipid may represent excess waste substance in these cells , and if this is the case , it seems inaccurate to link the Golgi element with it and with the function of the glands . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unexplained until its morphology has been scrupulously studied in glands under known physiologic states . In frozen sections colored with sudan the cytoplasm of the secretory cells as well as that of the cells of the ducts is stippled with delicate sudanophilic granules reminiscent of mitochondria ( 3 and 24 ) . Nearly all secretory cells also contain variable numbers of coarse sudanophilic granules , usually in the supranuclear cytoplasm ( Fig. 13A ) . Only some of these lipid droplets are soluble in lipid solvents ; most of them resist extraction and are sudanophilic even in paraffin sections ( Fig. 13B ) . These lipid granules stain blue with Nile blue sulfate , indicating lipids other than neutral fats ; they are reactive to Baker 's test for phospholipids , and they do not react to the Schultz test for unsaturated steroids . These characteristics imply that we are dealing neither with neutral fats nor with cholesterol , but with lipines or waxes . Untreated frozen sections show no birefringent lipids under polarized light . Other authors have reported some birefringent lipid in the eccrine glands ( 3 ) . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ specimens from normal individuals . Most other observations have been made on a limited number of autopsy and surgical specimens , the normality of which is questionable . Indicating an absence of true " plasmals , " the lipid granules in  | fresh frozen sections , or in sections of material fixed only for a few hours in neutral formaldehyde , do not recolorize the Schiff reagent after they have been treated with mercuric chloride . In sections of tissues which have been left in the fixative several days , the large lipid granules recolorize the Schiff reagent whether or not the sections are treated with mercuric chloride . The intensity of the reaction is proportionate to the length of time of fixation , being strongest in the tissues fixed for the longest time . This reaction , then , is of little value and indicates not plasmals but what Cain ( 4 ) has called " pseudoplasmals . " Pseudoplasmals are presumably additive aldehydes and/or ketones which develop in fatty tissues on standing . Sections stained with carbolfuchsin and differentiated with hydrochloric acid show no acid-fast lipids .   Slight @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ glands and lipids are more abundant in the glands of older subjects and more abundant in some regions of the body than in others . The glands of children always show some lipid granules , those in adults have more , and those of old subjects are rich in them ( 15 ) . Lipid granules are most numerous in the glands of the face , axilla , chest , and pubic regions ; they are less abundant in the glands elsewhere in the body . Lipids are apparently stable , additive components of eccrine cells . There is no indication that they are secreted , even when the glands have been stimulated to secrete for a long uninterrupted time ( 35 ) . Their significance defies speculation . They have been interpreted as a part of the structure of the Golgi apparatus , and this may be the case . In tissues treated with osmic acid for the demonstration of the Golgi element , osmiophilic granules similar in position and distribution to the lipid droplets are demonstrated with Sudan black . It is unlikely , however , that lipid droplets @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , one would have to assume that the mass of the Golgi element increased with age . Pigment is closely related to the lipids and like them , increases with age ( 15 ) . The pigment , which is different from that found in apocrine glands , is yellow in young subjects and progressively yellow-brown in old ones . Most glands have a diffuse yellow pigment in the apical cytoplasm of the secretory cells as well as the discrete pigment granules . The diffuse yellow pigment , probably a carotinoid pigment , is easily dissolved with lipid solvents . The pigment granules are resistant to nearly all extractions and are not affected by bleaching agents . The pigment contains no iron , it is not reactive to the periodic acid-Schiff test for 1,2 glycol groups , and it is firmly bound to a lipid substance . Under nearultraviolet light it fluoresces with a yellow to orange light of medium to strong intensity . This fluorescence does not fade after long exposure to ultraviolet light , and it is only slightly diminished by extraction with lipid solvents . The pigment has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or " wear-and-tear " pigment ( I I and 15 ) . Whatever may be the nature of lipofuscins , the character of the pigment in eccrine glands meets its requirements .  | Since lipofuscins also accumulate with age in other organs such as the heart and nervous tissue , perhaps the pigment in the secretory cells of eccrine glands is an accumulated waste product . It is disturbing , however , that the glands of young children also contain pigment , although in much smaller quantities . Pigment may also be a part of the Golgi element , which in some cases is known to be pigmented . Thus , there are probably two fractions of pigment : one essential for the maintenance of the normally functioning cell ; the other , similar in nature , an accumulated waste product . Perhaps it is of some importance that tubular sweat glands , in man or animals , apocrine or eccrine , always contain some pigment . Examples of this are so numerous that none need be mentioned here . As in the case of nearly all other biological pigments , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and most important , their biological significance , are obscure .   Eccrine sweat glands are rich in glycogen ( 3 , 8 , 24 , 25 and 36 ) . Both clear and dark cells contain glycogen , but there is usually more of it in the clear cells . A characteristic feature of the secretory tubules is that not all of the cells of a tubule have an equal amount of glycogen ( Fig. 14 ) . Some are laden with it and others may contain only traces . In the clear cells , intercellular and intracellular canaliculi are sharply outlined by a concentration of glycogen around their walls ( Fig. 15 ) . The lumina of the canaliculi , however , are free from glycogen . In control sections digested with saliva , the canaliculi are barely visible . The piling tits of glycogen around the canaliculi may be particularly significant . These delicate structures could be the site of secretion   of sweat , and glycogen might be one of the energy sources required for the transport of sweat across the membrane . Intraepidermal injections of pilocarpine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Long , profuse , thermal sweating also abolishes glycogen from the secretory cells . It is restored , however , after a brief recovery period ( 35 ) . The amount of glycogen in sweat glands seems to be an index of secretory activity , and one might reasonably assume that the differences in glycogen content found among cells in the same tubule may indicate a dischrony in functional activity . The epithelium of the sweat duct routinely shows appreciable amounts of glycogen ( 25 , 26 , and 36 ) . In the proximal portion of the coiled duct , glycogen is abundant in the basal cells and sometimes found in the luminal cells . In the straight , dermal segment of the duct , the basal cells are rich in glycogen and the surface   cells with a cuticular border have only traces , distributed neatly at the luminal border of the cuticle ( Fig. 16A ) . All of this glycogen disappears after acetylcholine is injected intradermally . In the lower coils of the intraepidermal part of the duct , glycogen is found in the periductal cells ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ coils further up or in the terminal portion . In addition to glycogen , eccrine sweat glands contain periodic acid-Schiff-reactive substances which are not abolished by previous digestion of sections with saliva or diastase . The apices of some small dark secretory cells abound in Schiff-reactive granules ( 24 ) . These granules also stain metachromatically with toluidin blue and may contain mucopolysaccharides ( 27 ) . The presence of Schiff-reactive and metachromatically staining granules in the apices of some secretory cells is a peculiarity of individual specimens : in most specimens the glands abound in them , but some may show none . Neither sex nor age seems to influence this . We have encountered these granules in each of the few specimens of scalp removed from patches of alopecia areata . It is difficult to tell what this means . The amount of this substance is neither reduced nor in any way altered by profuse sweating caused by injection with acetylcholine . Eccrine sweat glands are in a moderate sense excretory organs and occasionally contain substances which stain metachromatically and are reactive to the periodic acid-Schiff technique . These @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the cells mentioned above . The tortuous , terminal portion of the excretory duct contains , in its lumen , granules or small plaques which are Schiff-reactive and which stain metachromatically . These Schiff-reactive granules or plaques may have a functional significance , since they are found predictably in the lumen of the duct . It is clear that the preciseness of the localization of glycogen and mucopolysaccharides must reflect their role in the secretion of sweat . Both substances discussed here are sensitive indices of activity in the secretory and ductal portions of the gland and have been and are useful landmarks to the experimental dermatologist . The differences in the localization of mucopolysacchar- ides must be subjected to experimental scrutiny . Close study of pathologic tissues should be interesting and might throw light on the functional mechanics of normal glands . Eccrine sweat glands contain appreciable amounts of alkaline phosphatase ( 3 , 5 , and 35 ) . The wide range of variations in the demonstration of the enzyme depends upon the freshness of the tissues at the time of fixation and the particular method employed to demonstrate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cells and in the clear cells ( Fig. 17 ) . Occasionally the walls of the canaliculi are distinctly reactive . In the dark cells the cytoplasm shows only a faint reaction . The nuclei are usually reactive , but this undoubtedly represents a diffusion from the sites of strong enzyme activity . In the transition portion of the   duct the cells have a weak reaction , but in the excretory duct they are uniformly reactive . Acid phosphatase activity can be demonstrated successfully only in frozen sections of fresh tissues . In tissues fixed in acetone and embedded in paraffin the reaction is absent ( 35 ) . The myoepithelial cells show traces of the enzyme , and the secretory cells are intensely reactive only at the apices toward the lumen . In well-prepared material the entire luminal border is blackened by the reaction . In the cells of the ducts only the nucleoli are reactive , but as in tests for alkaline phosphatase , this may be an artifact of diffusion . It may be futile to speculate on the significance of the localization of these two enzymes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the cells and acid phosphatase at the apex suggests that one is related to transfer of the blood-borne nutritive material and the other to the transfer of the secretion to the lumen . The latter function could be shared by the enzymes , since the walls of the canaliculi are reactive to alkaline phosphatase . None of this may represent the actual situation , however , since neither the apparent amount nor the distribution of either enzyme is altered by overstimulation of the glands ( 35 ) . Although it may seem fruitless to pursue these studies further , there is no reason to be discouraged . The sketchy investigations reported thus far have in no way exhausted the possibilities . Not enough attention has been directed toward thorough studies of enzymes in the glands under controlled physiological conditions . Although esterase activity can not be demonstrated with the method of Gomori ( 6 ) , a small to moderate amount of nonspecific esterase activity can be shown with the method of Nachlas and Seligman ( 30 ) . The reaction is usually strongest in the dark cells ; the clear @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ segment of the duct has scanty enzyme reaction , and the excretory duct is unreactive ( 23 ) . A small amount of enzyme activity is often found within the lumen of the distal segment of the duct . Appreciable amounts of specific cholinesterase activity have been demonstrated in the nerve fibers which surround the secre- tory tubules of eccrine glands ( 10 ) , but there is no demonstrable enzyme around the ducts ( Fig. 18 ) . With the exception of a few random fibers in the vicinity of the glands , the enzyme is not found elsewhere in the skin . Blood vessels and blood both contain traces of specific and nonspecific cholinesterase activity . The nerves which surround the glands are cholinergic fibers , and it is somewhat exciting to find the specific enzyme there .   The eccrine sweat glands and their ducts show a larger concentration of succinic dehydrogenase than any other epidermal appendage in human skin ( 28 ) . In tissues that have been teased rather than sectioned , entire sweat glands can be seen against the unstained background of the dermis ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ demonstration of the gross morphology of the glands , and the glands can be traced from the epidermis ( Fig. 19B ) to the secretory knot . When the coiled duct has a poorly developed cuticle , all of its cells , including the luminal ones , contain numerous reactive granules ( Fig. 19D ) . In the straight , or dermal , portion of the duct , which extends from the epidermis to the secretory coil , the cytoplasm of the basal cells is laden with formazan crystals ( Fig. 19C ) . In the luminal cells reactive granules are gathered around the nucleus , and a few may be found in the cuticle , midway between the surface of the cell and the lateral surface of the nucleus . The luminal cells with a well-developed cuticle have very few reactive granules . In the intraepidermal segment of the duct the periductal cells in the lower coils of the duct show the same intensity of reaction as does the surrounding epidermis . The luminal cells show practically no reaction . The secretory coil of eccrine glands is the most intensely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Occasionally some cells show greater activity than others , but as a rule , each cell is virtually laden with very dark purple formazan granules . The luminal part of the cells has fewer granules than has the basal portion . The myoepithelial cells seem to be unreactive . In the axilla and in the palm the eccrine glands are always much more intensely colored than those in the other regions studied . In preparations for the demonstration of sulfhydryl groups the secretory cells are weakly to moderately reactive . There is apparent preferential distribution of these substances in the dark au ( ( I clear cells . The cytoplasm of these cells is delicately  | stippled , and occasionally the basal portion is stained more intensely . The myoepithelial cells show a somewhat stronger reaction . The cells in the duct are weakly reactive , but the cuticular border of the luminal cells is fairly distinct . When sections are treated with thyoglycolate , reducing the disulfide bonds to sulfhydryl groups , and then stained with the sulfhydryl reagent , the reaction in the sweat glands is more intense . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The myoepithelial cells are strongly reactive . In the duct the cuticular border of the luminal cells is intensely reactive , usually in the terminal , intraepidermal part ( Fig. 20 ) . The ability to sweat is dependent on factors other than the density of sweat gland population . It is possible that individual glands do not secrete equal amounts and that some individual glands have various levels of responsiveness to different stimuli . For instance , in response to heat , the body sweats profusely first on the forehead , neck , dorsal and ventral part of the trunk , and back of the hands ; it sweats later and much less on the cheeks , the sides of the trunk , and the extremities . The palms and soles show the least response to thermal stimuli . Response of sweat glands to sensory and psychic stimuli differs markedly from that of heat . The palms and soles , which respond slowly and weakly , or not at all , to heat , are the first to respond to psychic and sensory stimulation ( 33 ) . These differences @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ since no striking morphological differences have been found between the glands from one region of the body and those from another region . Thermal sweating has its center in the hypothalamus , and emotional sweating in the premotor cortex .   Very interesting observations have been made on the responsiveness of human eccrine glands to nervous and to thermal stimuli ( 22 ) . After injections with epinephrine and acetylcholine or after stimulation with heat , some individual sweat glands can be stimulated on one occasion but not on another . This refractivity persists , even after the reapplication of the same stimulus . Heat , epinephrine , and acetylcholine bring about approximately the same pattern of sweat gland response . This degree of similarity evoked by three different stimuli would probably not be found if each stimulus controlled a different set of sweat glands . The secretory epithelium of eccrine glands shows a distinct dichotomy betwen dark and clear cells . Dark cells contain abundant ribonucleic acid associated with evenly spaced , delicate cytoplasmic granules and large granules dammed at the apices of the cells . The clear cells are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Japanese investigators , who call them superficial and basal cells , believe that the two types are distinct , and that the differences in their staining properties must reflect differences in chemical composition . This may be the case , although one can not eliminate the possibility that the cells  | may be interchangeable and that each represents a phase in the secretory cycle of the same cell . The distribution of dark and clear cells is not systematic ; some tubules have a fairly even number of dark and clear cells , and others have a preponderance of one or the other . Tubules which have nearly all clear cells are common . Controlled experiments should be carried out to establish whether the differences in the number of dark and clear cells in sweat glands reflect a dischrony in the secretory process of the individual cells . The dark and clear cells often contain delicate vacuoles in their cytoplasm ; the vacuoles are larger in the clear cells . We have not succeeded in staining the content of these vacuoles , and we do not know whether the vacuoles are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ formation of cytoplasmic , presumably secretion , granules seems to take place in the cytoplasm above the nucleus . This is evident in the dark cells where the granules are coarse and densely packed . The concept that the filamentous mitochondria break down into granules , which in turn are directly transformed into cytoplasmic granules , is not tenable ( 12 and 14 ) . Mitochondria in the form of rodlets and filaments are found largely around the nucleus , and they are aligned vertically toward the surface of the cells . Granules which do not stain like mitochondria are found near the mitochondria , but we have never ascertained a direct transformation . We need specific information on what happens to the mitochondria when the glands are inactive , when they have been overworked , and during the periods of reconstitution . From the heterogeneous material which the cytologist obtains for study , it is impossible to compile a coherent composite picture which might yield the true functional significance ? I ' mitochondria . The concept of intercellular and intracellular canaliculi in the secretory cells is burdened with misgivings . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ splits in their cytoplasm . However , if they are artifacts , the cytoplasm must have a basic structural pattern which allows the formation of such predictable structures . Canaliculi are demonstrated best in tissues which have   been excellently preserved , and probably they exist in living cells . They open to the surface approximately at the apex of the terminal cytoplasm of clear cells . The suspicion that at least some sweat is secreted through these clefts is inescapable . The basal part of each canaliculus swings to one side of the nucleus and below it , where it receives several barely visible tributaries . If secretion in these cells is by way of the canaliculi , one might ask what happens to the so-called secretory granules . There is no visible relationship between these two elements , and if the granules are really secretion products they must become liquefied before they are secreted . Also , there is no recognizable relationship between the mitochondria and the canaliculi . The proximity of the two elements seems to be accidental . The only positive morphological clue to the functional dynamics @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is piled up against the walls of each canaliculus , but the lumen is always free of it . The possibility that at this interphase glycogen might aid the medialion of transfer of sweat from the cytoplasm is self-evident . The presence of alkaline phosphatase in the walls of canaliculi is also suggestive of functional activity . The cytoplasm of the dark cells occasionally terminates in blebs which protrude into the lumen . These processes contain granules and vacuoles , which gives the impression that secretion takes place by the breaking off of these processes . From this , the Japanese investigators have deduced that the separation of eccrine and apocrine glands in man is inappropriate , that they are all apocrine ( 12 ) . This is an assumption of questionable value . The presence of cytoplasmic blebs is no proof that they are pinched off in the manner we have discussed in greater detail in the chapter on apocrine glands . The presence of Schiff-reactive , saliva-resistant substances in the apical borders of the dark cells of the glands of some individuals but not in others is a paradox @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as the phenomenon of glands having cells with a " clear reticulated cytoplasm , " or the glands in these individual cases were excised while they were secreting certain specific Schiff-reactive substances . The second alternative   is more appealing . Since the periodic acid-Schiff-reactive substances are found primarily in the dark cells , it looks as though the dark and clear cells are morphologically and functionally different cells . To prove this , one should take repeated series of biopsy specimens from the same individual . The excretory duct of eccrine glands has been generally considered as an indifferent passageway for sweat . Yet its morphology and some experimental data on sweat secretion indicate that the sweat duct may have an active function , probably in the reabsorption of water ( 19 ) . The sweat duct , which extends from the surface of the epidermis to its junction with the coiled secretory tube , is a very long structure . It is , in fact , longer than the entire secretory segment . Most of this segment would seem excessive and wasteful if there were no functional adaptation . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ duct attract attention because they appear to be intermediate between the typical glandular and the duct epithelia . They have basophilic granules around the nucleus and just underneath the ill-defined cuticle . The cells of the duct have numerous mitochondria . They contain appreciable amounts of glycogen and this glycogen is profoundly affected by stimulation of sweating with acetylcholine . The basal cells are basophilic , but they have no granules , and the mitochondria are sparser . Farther up in the duct , where the luminal cells have a well-developed cuticular border , the cytoplasm contains very few mitochondria and basophilic granules and little glycogen . The entire duct is very rich in succinic dehydrogenase activity . These are not attributes of a passive tissue . The duct has In en dismissed too readily by some students of the skin , and its functional importance is gradually receiving long-deserved attention .  | Many distinctly different organs are called apocrine sweat glands . In the human body apocrine glands occur in the axilla , the mons pubis , the external auditory meatus , the circumanal area , the aureola and nipple @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and in the prepuce and scrotum of the male . A few apocrine glands may be found on the face and on the abdomen around the umbilicus . The glands of Moll in the eyelids and the mammary glands are also apocrine glands . Apocrine sweat glands occur in most mammals and they are especially numerous in the horse and the swine . In the Primates , the lemurs and the Platyrrhines are said to have only apocrine glands , whereas the Catarrhines have both eccrine and apocrine sweat glands . In the anthropoid apes , the chimpanzee has more eccrine than apocrine glands , but the orang has more apocrine glands . Schiefferdecker ( 52 ) believed that during phylogenetic ascension the skin of mammals has progressively lost apocrine glands and given rise to eccrine glands . This culminates with the skin of man , where eccrine glands are very widespread but apocrine glands are restricted to the regions listed above . From observations on material obtained from one Australian Negro , one Chinese , two African Negroes , and twelve Germans , Schiefferdecker asserted that human races can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . He suggested that Europeans , having fewest apocrine glands , belong to the highest order , whereas the Australian Negroes , with the most glands , belong to the lowest . However , the validity of Schiefferdecker 's data and conclusions seems questionable . In the case of the Australian , for example , he had only one sample of skin from the cheek , and since apocrine glands were numerous there , he inferred that they must be equally numerous in all other regions of the body and furthermore that  | they must be numerous in all Australians . Woollard ( 65 ) , who studied the skin from two whole bodies of Australian aboriginals , denied that the sweat glands were in any way different from those of Europeans and concluded that the frequency and distribution of apocrine glands of Australians show much the same variety as is found in European races . Apocrine glands are more numerous in Negroes than in Caucasians and more numerous in the female than in the male of both races ( 19 ) . A thorough consideration of each of the glands @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Most cutaneous tubular glands of mammals have their own peculiarities and many of them are vastly different . For example , the glands in the anal sacs of the dog , the brown inguinal glands of the rabbit , and the glands of the external auditory meatus of the cat , differ morphologically from either the eccrine or apocrine glands of man , although they are considered to be apocrine . Even in man the apocrine glands in the different regions are sufficiently different for each to require special attention . This too is beyond the scope of this volume . This chapter will consider only the apocrine glands in the cavum axillae of man , often referred to collectively as the axillary organ . Krause ( 28 ) first observed that in man the sweat glands in the skin of the axilla , the external auditory meatus , the circumanal region and the eyelids are larger than the other glands . Schiefferdecker ( 52 ) later called the larger glands epicrine or apocrine and the smaller ones eccrine . Axillary apocrine glands are usually described as compound tubular or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ glands from fresh axillary skin show them to be simple , coiled tubular glands , ( 20 , 21 , and 61 ) . The secretory portion of each gland is compactly coiled , and adjacent loops may be joined by shunts or they may terminate in blind sacs ( Figs. 1 and 2 ) . The deepest portion of the secretory coils extends to the lower part of the dermis and into the subcutaneous fat . There is a distance of about 5 mm or more from the surface of the axilla to the bottom of the glandular coil . Actually , no one has measured the length of the stretched tubules , which must  | be considerable . At the widest part , the glands may measure as much as 2 mm in diameter . The ducts of axillary glands lie close to hair follicles and open to the surface usually inside of the piloscbaccous orifices above the entrance of the sebaceous duct . Occasionally ducts may open directly onto the surface . At the junction of the secretory coil and the duct , there is a sudden   @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tubule , which is coiled , the duct , which is embedded in the loose connective tissue around the hair follicle , is perfectly straight , and runs parallel to the accompanying hair follicle ( Fig. 3 ) . Occasionally two ducts accompany one hair follicle . The epithelium of the secretory tubule is simple columnar , but that of the duct  | is composed of two layers of cuboidal cells . Each glandular unit is held together by a highly vascular , loose connective tissue bed referred to as the capsule . The glandular epithelium is composed of irregularly columnar cells , the terminal portion of which is often elongated and projects into the lumen ( Fig. 4 ) . The free border of these cells is said to be differentiated into a cuticular or brush border . Some segments of individual tubules , or entire tubules , may be dilated , and they are lined by simple cuboidal epithelium . When the tubules are excessively dilated , the cuboidal epithelium is so flat  | as to appear squamous . All of the epithelial cells rest upon a mesh of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ basement membrane ( Fig. 5 ) . The development of sweat glands has been studied systematically by several authors , and the brief account which follows is a summary of some of their findings ( 4 , 9 , and 62 ) . Poorly delineated primordia may be found in the palms and soles of the four-month-old fetus , but most of the eccrine sweat glands begin to develop in the fifth fetal month , between the more precociously developed primordia of hair follicles . In the middle of the fifth month , clavate buds of cells grow from the underside of the epidermis into the subjacent dermis . These are the anlagen of the presumptive eccrine glands . Somewhat later the anlagen of apocrine glands grow from the side of hair follicles as solid epithelial buds . The flask-shaped anlagen later become elongated into solid cords . By the end of the fifth month the base of each cord grows into a spiral . Clefts first appear singly in the center of the coiled cords . The clefts become more extensive and confluent and form a lumen in the presumptive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Apocrine glands undergo their most pronounced development during the sixth month . They become more convoluted , attain a larger lumen , and resemble apocrine sweat glands . During the seventh and eighth months the volume of the coiled apocrine tubules increases , and the lumen extends through the duct . The glands attain some of their characteristic morphology and the secretory coil becomes enveloped by a connective tissue capsule . Myoepithelial cells are not recognizable in material collected from newborn children . The glands give no indication that they are functional and are still incompletely formed at birth . Apocrine glands develop as adventitious buds from hair follicles , and at the end of fetal life they open into the funnelshaped depression of the pilosebaceous orifice . Rarely do they open directly onto the surface of the epidermis . If there are glands which open directly onto the surface of the axilla , we must guess  | that either the excretory ducts become separated from their points of origin , or that some apocrine glands develop directly from the epidermis . Apocrine glands do not seem to be as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and some authors have assumed that they are formed after birth . However , the characteristic properties of apocrine glands develop slowly , and glands which at birth appear to be eccrine may really be latent apocrine glands . Growth , final development , and activity of these glands are related to sexual development and maturity . The glands attain full development at puberty and in senescence they undergo involution ( 24 ) . In apocrine glands the transition between the duct and the secretory coil is very abrupt . The duct springs from the upper , more superficial , part of the secretory coil , where the diameter of the lumen of the tubule is suddenly reduced to less than one third that of the lower coils . The duct.has a straight course along the hair follicle ( Fig. 3 ) . The general structure of the excretory duct of apocrine glands is similar to that of eccrine glands . The wall is composed of two layers of cells , but in apocrine ducts , the luminal cells have a poorly defined cuticle . The terminal portion of apocrine ducts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rarely two , located in the basal part . The nucleus is large and spherical , and stains deeply with most basic dyes and with the Feulgen reaction . In each nucleus one or two large nucleoli are flanked by two strongly basophilic , Feulgen-reactive bodies . The basophilic property of the nucleolus is abolished by ribonuclease whereas that of the rest of the nucleus is only slightly diminished . Regardless of the state of activity of the secretory cells , the nucleus is always turgid and particles or fragments have not been observed escaping from it . Mitotic activity is not common in adult apocrine sweat cells  | ( Fig 6 ) . When one mitotic figure is present , others are also found nearby in the same tubule . Cells in mitosis are relatively free from cytoplasmic granules , and they are roughly spherical . Apocrine cells seem to be long lived , and need to be replaced only rarely . In most cutaneous appendages mitochondria can be demonstrated with difficulty , but in the axillary apocrine glands they are relatively easy to stain ( Fig. 7 ) . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fixed in Zenker-formol without post-chromation . The choice of specific techniques is unimportant , since mitochondria in axillary glands are demonstrated equally well with Hcidenhain 's or Regaud 's hematoxylin , with aniline acid fiu ? hsin-methyl green , or a variety of other  | methods . The mitochondria are large , numerous , and pleomorphic . In spite of the ease with which they can be demonstrated , mitochondria in apocrine glands have been investigated by only a few authors . Brinkmann ( 5 ) , who studied them in the glands of animals , believed that mitochondria are replaced by , or transformed into , secretion granules . Nicolas et al . ( 43 ) perceived a relationship between mitochondria and cytoplasmic granules in the eccrine and apocrine glands of man , and stated that these organelles give rise directly to the granules . Minamitani ( 32 and 33 ) and Ota ( 4 ) concluded that mitochondria are most numerous in cells which have few or no granules , whereas in cells replete with granules they are few or absent . Mitochondria in the form of rodlets , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the tall columnar cells which contain few or no cytoplasmic granules . Delicate long filaments are found only around and above the nucleus . Both rodlets and filaments are aligned parallel to the axis of the cell . The granular mitochondria seem to arise from condensations at both ends of the rodlets ( 32 and 33 ) , and the beaded ( moniliform ) and ringshaped ones seem to develop from the filaments . Mitochondria are most numerous in the basal part of the cells , they are sparse or absent in the rounded negative image of the Golgi region above the nucleus , and they are always absent in the terminal part of each cell ( Fig. 6 ) . Mitochondria are numerous , large , and pleomorphic even in the cuboidal or very flat cells which line the dilated tubules ( Fig. 8 ) . The ball columnar cells which contain discernible granules in the cytoplasm above the nucleus have fewer mitochondria ,   and they look like large granules and monilform filaments ( Fig. 6 ) . In some cells , the entire cytoplasm , with the exception @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Golgi apparatus , is filled with round granules larger than the granular mitochondria but smaller than the recognizable , so-called " secretion " granules . It is difficult to be sure whether most of these elements are large mitochondria or small granules . In preparations stained with Altmann 's technique , these granules , like mitochondria , are fuchsinophilic . The intermediate-sized granules stain purple and the large ones stain a dark blue-green . In such cells , the majority of the mitochondria appear as coarse granules , with a few rodlet and dumbbell-shaped ones sparsely scattered among them . One is tempted to believe that rodlet and filamentous mitochondria change into granular and beaded forms and that these break up into small granules . The granules might then gradually increase in size and be transformed directly into " secretion " granules ( 33 ) . This process is said to take place throughout the cytoplasm , with the exception of the Golgi zone and the hyalin terminal border of the cell . More often than not , however , the large granules are found only in the cytoplasm above the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ region . With ageing , there is a conspicuous reduction in the number of mitochondria and cytoplasmic granules and a decrease in the secretory activity of the glands ( 24 ) , The relationship between mitochondria and the secretory activity in each cell can not be overlooked , but one can not assume a direct transformation of mitochondria into granules . The number and the shapes of mitochondria in each cell change according to the size of the cell and according to the number and size of the granules the cell contains . In cinematographic studies of living fibroblasts viewed under the phase contrast microscope , mitochondria appear as labile and restless structures ( 14 ) . Since the shapes and dimensions of living mitochondria change constantly , the multitude of shapes and sizes of mitochondria in well-fixed , stained preparations may be faithful preservations of living ones . Their different shapes iiiav reflect phases in the cyclic activity of the cells .   Mitochondria in the cells of the ducts look like short filaments , compactly arranged in the cytoplasm . They are not as numerous as the mitochondria in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ apocrine sweat glands is between the nucleus and the free border of the cells and was first described by Bergen ( 2 ) as a " canalicular system . " In preparations fixed in mixtures containing osmium tetroxide , a system of twisted osmiophilic rodlets and granules covers an area about the size of the nucleus and is located just above the nucleus ( 31 , 33 , 34 , and 44 ) . This corresponds to an area free of mitochondria and of secretion granules , which has been referred to as the negative image of the Golgi apparatus . In tall columnar cells the osmiophilic bodies lie between the nucleus and the large secretion droplets dammed at the distal part of the cells . In the low cuboidal cells or in the flattened cells of dilated tubules , osmiophilic filaments and granules lie directly above the nucleus or along its sides . In cells laden with granules , the general configuration of the Golgi apparatus is lost ; the filamentous osmiophilic skein is fragmented and the granules in the general vicinity may be surrounded by semilunar osmiophilic caps . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ clusters of osmiophilic granules , some of them with eccentric osmiophobic vacuoles . The Golgi element , then , is interposed between the ripened secretion granules distally and the nucleus proximally . This suggested to Minamitani ( 33 ) that the secretion granules are formed below the Golgi apparatus , at the expense of the mitochondria , and that the Golgi element is concerned with the maturation of the granules . In passing upward from below , the immature granules come into contact with these elements and become partially surrounded by innate osmiophilic plaques . During the ripening process some granules acquire pigment , lipid , and iron from the Golgi apparatus or through its intervention . Many granules , however , contain none of these substances in large enough quantities to be demonstrated cytochemically , and ionic iron is present in the small yellow pigmented granules and only rarely is found in  | the large brown , apparently mature , granules . Cells from specimens which contain neither iron nor pigment have as well developed a Golgi apparatus as those from specimens rich in these substances . The Golgi apparatus @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Golgi apparatus is a complex aggregate of osmiophilic networks and granules . Its size and shape change according to the activity of the cell . It contains lipid granules and Schiffreactive substances , probably glycoproteins or mucopolysaccharides . This is not the place to discuss the basic details and arguments for and against the existence of a Golgi apparatus . The presence of a structure above the nucleus can be ascertained even in ordinary histological preparations where its negative image is a typical morphologic feature of apocrine cells . Since cell structures can not be considered mere ornaments , the Golgi apparatus must have a functional significance . Nearly all apocrine sweat glands contain some pigmented granules in the secretory epithelial cells ( Fig. 9 ) . Kollicker ( 27 ) , who first called attention to this pigment , was not aware that apocrine and eccrine glands are different glands , and he wondered if the difference in the amount of pigment in the two types of glands did not indicate sweat glands in different states of activity . The content of pigment in apocrine axillary glands varies from one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be nearly absent in others . The amount of axillary gland pigment is an individual characteristic . All of the biopsy specimens removed from the same individual at weekly or monthly intervals show the same characteristic amount of pigment . One can not , however , ascribe all differences to individual variation alone , and more information is needed before these points are clarified . Within the cells , the pigment granules vary in number , in size , and in intensity of color . They may be numerous or scant , barely visible or as large as the nucleus . The large grannies are normally yellow or yellowish brown ; the very small ones are  | always a pale yellow . Granules are found around the clear juxtanuclear negative image of the Golgi element , but the terminal cytoplasmic extension of each cell is always free of granules . In some cells , pigment granules are so numerous that they may be scattered all through the cytoplasm . The size of the cells is no index of the relative amount of pigment they contain . Pigment may be found in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , or it may be absent from either of them . Neither the yellow nor the brownish pigment is dissolved readily by lipid solvents , and both pigments remain relatively intact in paraffin sections . Neither pigment is argyrophilic . The larger brown pigment granules bind basic dyes when stained in the alkaline range ; the small yellow granules are acidophilic .   With Giemsa stain , the large pigmented granules stain a pale blue-green , but the greater number of small granules stain pink ; some of the small and medium-sized granules stain a dark blue .   In preparations stained with Altmann 's aniline acid fuchsinmethyl green , the small granules , like the mitochondria , are fuchsinophilic , the medium-sized granules are stained green and the large ones remain unstained . Under near-ultraviolet light , the larger pigmented granules emit a yellow to orange light ( Fig. 10A ) . The intensity of the fluorescence is only slightly reduced in paraffin sections ( 3 and 38 ) . The small yellow pigment granules are either nonfluorescent or else emit a pale yellow light of very low intensity . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a very pale autofluorescence . The dark pigment is colored moderately with sudan black and must contain some lipid . The yellow pigment is not sudanophilic . Not all of the . brown pigment granules are colored equally well with sudan black ; some become black , some gray , and others retain their natural brown color . The sudanophilia is not appreciably reduced by previous immersion of the tissues in lipid solvents and can be demonstrated easily in paraffin sections . When stained with carbolfuchsin and differentiated with hydrochloric acid , many of the larger pigment masses are acidfast , but the small yellow pigment granules are not ( Fig. 10B ) . The larger pigment granules are mildly positive to the plasmal reaction , indicating the presence of compounds containing aldehydes , ketones , acetals , or compounds containing unsaturated groups ( 7 ) . It seems that the large brown pigment granules which are sudanophilic are also acid-fast , reactive to the plasmal reaction , and autofluorescent . The large pigment granules are reactive to the periodic acidSchiff methods . The reaction is not diminished by previous treatment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , is not glycogen . It could be a glyco-protein , a polysaccharide , a lipin , or any one of a number of other compounds . In summary , the brownish pigment is insoluble in water and in organic solvents . It is not easily depigmented with oxidizing agents . When treated with sulfuric acid it becomes brown , and it does not turn violet when treated with iodine ( 66 ) . It is fluorescent , relatively sudaniophilic , acid-fast , and moderately reactive   to the plasmal reaction . It is either not argyrophilic or only mildly so . It is a Schiff-reactive , basophilic when stained with basic dyes buffered to the alkaline range , and slightly acidophilic . It does not contain iron . The yellow pigment is also insoluble but it has no lipid and is not fluorescent . It is not Schiff-reactive and is acidophilic . In addition , it often contains iron . The problem of identifying the two types of pigment is not an easy one . The brown pigment might be called Abnutzungspigment ( 15 and 47 ) but this designation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ referred to as chromolipoid ( 66 and 67 ) , but no one seems to know just what chromolipoid is ( 8 ) . The pigment has similarities to ceroid but even this conveys little , meaning ( 13 ) . Until precise knowledge is obtained , the pigment should be referred to as axillary apocrine pigment . The pigment of the small yellow granules offers even greater difficulty in identification . It behaves like hemosiderin when it contains iron , but often it has no demonstrable iron . The two types of pigment seem to be distinct , yet there is a suggestion that each represents a phase in the synthesis of the same substance . The properties of many of the granules are intermediate between the yellow and brown . If this is so , the small yellow granule during its maturation loses ionic iron , acquires lipid and Schiff-reactive substances , and progresses from an acidophilic characteristic to a basophilic one . The distal cytoplasmic border of each cell , or " hyaloplasma , " is free of pigment or other particulate cellular materials ( 38 and 44 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shows visible pigment or strongly autofluorescent and sudanophilic material , if the pigment is secreted within the lumen of the glands it must undergo a partial depigmentation . Apocrine sweat on the surface of the axilla is whitish or pale gray ; it may be yellowish or reddish and it emits a low-grade autofluorescence ( 11 and 56 ) . Schwenkenbecker ( 52 ) believes that red or yellow colors in the apocrine sweat are rarely due to the pigment from the secretory cells , and suggests that these characteristic colors may be imparted to the sweat by such microorganisms as Triclaamycosis palmellina , Bacillus prodigiosus , and species of Sarcina , which abound in the region of the axilla and which produce red  | and yellow pigments . The validity of such an assumption , however , must await confirmation . A study of the pigment in the glands of patients with " chromidrosis " might be illuminating for a better understanding of apocrine pigment . This condition is not well defined , and the term only indicates that sweat is colored or becomes colored when secreted upon the surface @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reddish , greenish , or bluish to black . There is little known about these conditions . Colorless sweat may develop a color after it is secreted on the surface . Such coloration might be the result of oxidation or of an admixture with substances already on the skin . Apparently , under certain conditions a coloration may result from the action of certain dyes and of bacterial chromogens on the mixture of sweat and sebum . True chromidrosis , in which the color is secreted by the sweat glands , is a condition found in the apocrine sweat glands , and eccrine glands seem to play no role in it . In two patients with localized chromidrosis , Shelley and Hurley ( 57 ) have satisfactorily shown that this condition involves only the apocrine glands . These authors have drawn an engaging comparison between the " blood sweating " in the hippopotamus when it is excited and the " hysterical stigmata of localized hematidrosis ' " in man . It is assumed , naturally , that the glands in the skin around the ears , the sides of the face @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In frozen sections colored with sudan black , the cytoplasm of all secretory cells shows a diffuse gray color . Some of the large , darkly pigmented globules are colored gray , others black , and some are not sudanophilic ( Fig. 11A ) . The small yellow granules ren ain uniformly uncolored by sudan black . None of the acidophic , nonpigmented granules contain sudanophilic lipids . Immerxion overnight in acetone does not diminish appreciably the sudanophilia of these cells . Immersion in acetone for one hour : our iii pwridine at 60 ? C for 18 hours removes only a small part of the sudaniophilic lipid in the cytoplasm ; that in the pigmented   globules and in the myoepithelial cells remains practically unchanged ( Fig. 11B ) . When treated with the acid hematin test for the demonstration of phospholipids , reactive granules in the   myoid cells are arranged in parallel rows and correspond to the sudanophilic granules . In unstained frozen sections viewed under near-ultraviolet light , the large pigment droplets emit an orangeyellow light ; the ground cytoplasm fluoresces with a pale white light . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ None of the glands show birefringent lipids , even in tissues which were purposely left in the fixative over a period of months ( cf. 35 ) . When paraffin sections of tissues fixed in Helly 's fluid are colored with sudan black , the large , darkly pigmented droplets become grey or black , but the small yellow granules are not sudanophilic . No other cytoplasmic element is sudanophilic . We have never encountered sudanophilic globules in the lumen of the glands . In some individual cases , the cells contain only unpigmented , nonsudanophilic granules . When stained with carbolfuchsin and differentiated with hydrochloric acid ( Fig. l0B ) , most of the large , darkly pigmented droplets are acid-fast ( 6 , 38 , and 66 ) . Four " distinct " lipids have been described within the secretory cells of apocrine glands ( 7 ) : ( a ) a sudanophilic stippling in the cytoplasm probably associated with the mitochondria ; ( b ) numerous sudanophilic droplets which give a " plasmal " reaction , and are insoluble in acetone but soluble in pyridine at 60 ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which emits a yellow or orange fluorescence under ultraviolet light , is dissolved in the sudanophilic droplets and is soluble in acetone ; and ( d ) " a great abundance of birefringent , acetone-soluble material . " Actually , only the first observation seems valid . The large lipid droplets are not wholly extractable with lipid solvents and remain sudanophilic even . in paraffin sections . Similarly , most of the pigment contained in these globules is extremely resistant to extraction . Even in paraffin sections pigment is clearly yellow or brown and shows abundant autofluorescence . In agreement with Pinkus ( 45 ) , we have not found birefringent lipids in the apocrine glands of the axilla , the external auditory meatus , or the mons pubis ( 37 , 38 and 41 ) . Discrepancies in observations could be explained by the knowledge of the history of the material used . It is possible  | that under certain pathologic conditions anisotropic lipids might be present . The secretory cells of axillary glands are said to contain neutral fat , fatty acids , and cholesterol ( 30 ) . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the lipids in these glands normally resist extraction with lipid solvents , we question that they are present in demonstrable amounts . Moreover , the Schultz test for unsaturated steroids is consistently negative . The presence of intraepithelial ionic iron , demonstrated with any of the standard cytochemical techniques , is a distinctive ' feature of apocrine axillary glands ( 6 , 7 , 10 , 18 , 19 , 25 , 38 , and 67 ) . Of the other tubular cutaneous glands of the body , only active mammary glands contain greater amounts of iron . Homma found iron in the glands of 70 percent of the specimens obtained from cadavers and from surgery . Manca found iron in 26 out of 27 specimens . Some specimens abound in iron , but it may be scarce or absent in others . Even in the same specimen adjacent tubules may differ in their content of iron , and separate coils of the same glandular unit may show some disparity ( Fig. 12 ) . In the same tubule , some cells may abound in iron and morphologically identical cells @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , to find specimens in which nearly all of the tubules are rich in iron . Iron is said to be more abundant in specimens from middle-aged subjects and to increase in disproportionate amounts in subjects with pulmonary tuberculosis ( 30 ) . The cells of the excretory duct show no iron . Macrophages in the connective tissue around iron-rich tubules often contain iron . The intracellular iron granules are found in the cytoplasm along side and above the nucleus . More precisely , they are clustered around the clear , supranuclear negative image of the Golgi apparatus ( 25 ) . In well-fixed biopsy specimens , iron is nearly always in the form of small granules . The large iron granules described by other authors are very rare ( 7 , 18 , and 19 ) . Iron may be present in the tall , apparently secretory cells , as well as   in the low cuboidal ones . Ionic iron has been reported within the lumen of the tubules in a large number of biopsy specimens , although neither Zorzoli ( 66 ) nor Montagna et al . ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the amount of iron in the epithelium , the clear or flocculent content of the lumen has always been negative to the test for iron . There is some relation between the pigmented granules and the distribution of iron . When present , iron is associated with the small yellow pigment granules . The large dark-brown granules rarely contain iron . When they do , only a thin film at the periphery is reactive , and the brown pigment shows through unchanged . Most of the large pigment masses remain completely reactive . The amount of pigment , yellow or brown , in  | the cells is no index to the presence of iron ; but iron is found only in pigmented cells , and in the small yellow granules only if the large brown ones are also present in the same cells . Manca also observed that only one of the pigments contains iron , and deduced that two pigments are present in apocrine glands : one , hemosiderin , which contains iron ; the other , wear-and-tear pigment , which does not . Zorzoli ( 66 ) failed to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that pigment is free of iron although a distinct but intimately associated substance does contain it . From a morphological standpoint it is difficult to assess the significance of iron . Since not all small yellow pigment granules contain iron , it can not properly be called hemosiderin . Perhaps an additional iron-containing substance is associated with the yellow pigment ( 66 ) . The presence of a thin covering of iron around the large brown granules suggests the possibilities that the yellow pigment granules grow into the brown ones , and ' in so doing either gradually lose iron or the inorganic iron is gradually transformed to organic iron . Treatment of tissues with the MacCallum test for bound iron yields results similar to those which show only ionic iron . These observations give no clue to the fate of iron . It is never found in the terminal cytoplasm of the cells . If it is there it must be in a masked or in a bound form . Similarly , if the cells secrete by a sloughing off of the apical cytoplasm , would it not be reasonable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ debris in the lumen should also contain it ? Yet , we have not found a single case of ionic iron in the lumen , unless the entire epithelium of the tubule seemed to be collapsing . It has been postulated that skin and particularly the sweat glands are important organs for the excretion of iron ( 34 ) . These conclusions were drawn from chemical analyses of sweat samples and skin washings of human subjects . Such pooled sweat samples are composed largely of eccrine sweat and only a negligible part is contributed by the apocrine glands . When sweat samples are collected in a glove from the hand and forearm , where apocrine glands are unlikely to occur , the sweat can he separated into samples rich in cells and samples poor in cells . The " cell-poor- part contains negligible amounts of iron but the " cell-rich " part contains a considerable amount of it ( 1 ) . The conclusion that loss of iron is associated with epidermal cell desquamation rather than sweating is inescapable . Most accounts which deal with axillary apocrine glands give the unintentional @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gland is the presence of intracellular lipoidal and/or pigmented granules . Yet , in the glands of some individuals the obviously secretory cells possess only traces of pigmented or lipoidal granules . When stained with toluidin blue , thyonin , or other basic dyes , the supranuclear cytoplasm appears vacuolated . The " vacuoles " are actually chromophobic secretion spherules . Some of the larger spherules are slightly basophilic . In some subjects these spherules are the only secretory elements present ; in others they may be admixed with pigmented ones . In some cells these vacuoles may extend alongside of and below the nucleus . When stained with eosin-methylene blue or with Giemsa , the small vacuoles stain with eosin but some of the very large ones stain with the basic dye . The acidophilic , small spherules are surrounded by a basophilic or delicately metachromatic covering ( 7 and 38 ) . With Heidenhain 's hematoxylin the granules stain a clear blue-black ( Fig. 13 ) . When tissues are stained for mitochondria , many of the smaller granules stain like mitochondria . All of the nonpigmented granules are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by previous digestion with diastase or saliva , they contain no glycogen . Their composition must include 1,2 glycol groups ( Fig. 14 ) . The acidophilic granules are said to be the young or unripe secretion granules and the large pigmented ones the mature ones ( 33 ) . If this were the case , all of the ripe secretion granules would be pigmented . But many mature secretion granules are devoid of pigment . Moreover , unpigmented secretion granules semi to be the only secretory elements present in some subjects .  | The designation of " secretion granules " implies that granules are secreted intact . However , the distalmost extension of the cytoplasm , which is the place where secretion is believed to take   place , is always free of granules . In preparations stained with the periodic acid-Schiff method , which demonstrates even the smallest acidophilic nonpigmented granules , there are no visible  | granules in the free border of the cytoplasm , although this portion of the cytoplasm is Schiff-reactive like the granules . If apocrine secretion took place by a fragmentation of the apical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ remain in the cytoplasm left behind . Perhaps the mature " secretory " granules become dissolved in the apical cytoplasm . Similarly , distinct granules have not been found in the lumen of normal glands , but the luminal content is often Schiff-reactive . When stained with variants of Heidenhain 's hematoxylin , the secretory cells of apocrine glands show some siderophily in the basal cytoplasm . All other basic dyes used showed a certain amount of cytoplasmic basophilia . Toluidin blue , methylene blue , and Azure B are excellent dyes for the study of cytoplasmic basophilia . We prefer to use these dyes in solutions of 1/5000  | to 1/2000 , buffered to pH 4.0 or 5.0 . At these values little else is stained in tissues except nucleic acids . At higher pH values proteinous substances show progressive stainability and even enzymatic control with ribonuclease is of little value . The cytoplasm at the base of each apocrine cell is usually stippled with numerous fine basophilic granules ( Fig. 15 ) . In some cells basophilic granules are so copious that their base appears longitudinally striated . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The negative image of the Golgi zone and the terminal cytoplasm of each cell are free of basophilic granules . The basophilic granules , as well as the nucleoli , are no longer stainable with toluidin blue after the sections have been incubated in ribonuclease and must therefore contain ribonucleic acids . The large pigmented granules are stained a blue-green ( Fig. 14 ) , whereas the smaller yellow granules remain unstained . Each chromophobic ( acidophilic ) secretion granule is surrounded by a delicate metachromatically stained film . Neither the basophilic staining of the pigmented granules nor the metachromasia on the outside of the chromophobic granules is abolished by previous digestion of tissues with ribonuclease . The apical and terminal cytoplasm of apocrine cells is almost chromophobic . Yet some authors believe that apocrine cells , which contain very few secretion granules , actually secrete into the lumen a basophilic substance alleged to be ribonucleic acid ( 23 ) . The secretion substances in the lumen of some tubules stain weakly with basic dyes only if the dyes are buffered to pH 6.0 or above . Ribonuclease has no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is unlikely that the secretion contains ribonucleic acid . The intensity of basophilic staining in the cytoplasm of secretory cells is inversely proportional to the number of recognizable secretion granules present , and directly proportional to the number of mitochondria . From its morphological distribution it seems that , together with mitochondria , nucleic acid may be involved in the synthesis of the secretion granules , pigmented or chromophobic.  | In the excretory duct , both layers of cells are intensely basophilic , but the luminal border of each cell in the inner layer is hyalin and free of basophilia . Using the technique of Seligman and Rutenburgh , Montagna and Formisano ( 40 ) have shown only a moderate amount of succinic dehydrogenase in the axillary apocrine glands ( Fig. 15 ) . In the secretory cells , the formazan crystals indicative of enzyme activity are inversely proportional to the amount of secretion   material within the cells , regardless of the size of the cells . When a cell is full of secretion granules , the few formazan crystals are concentrated in a region above the nucleus . Most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it ; the basal part of the cells and the terminal cytoplasmic border are usually free of them ( Fig. 16 ) . The myoepithelial cells are consistently unreactive . The cells of the excretory duct show a relatively strong enzyme reaction but one which is much weaker than that in the duct of eccrine glands . Apocrine glands have a moderate amount of alkaline phosphutase activity ( Fig. 17 ) . The enzyme occurs diffusely in the cytoplasm of the secretory cells . In the very tall epithelial cells ,   the terminal cytoplasm shows a concentration of the enzyme ( 7 and 46 ) . The base of each cell and particularly the myoepithelial cells have a strong concentration of alkaline phosphatase activity . There are such differences in the distribution of the enzyme from one segment of a tubule to another that if one focuses his attention only upon one segment he is apt to have a mistaken impression . Usually the tall columnar cells have more enzyme than the flattened cells ( Fig. 16 ) . The myoepithelial cells of the dilated tubules are free of enzyme @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the glands is strongly reactive . The excretory ducts are nonreactive . No acid phosphatase activity has been found in the axillary apocrine tubules ( 7 and 8 ) . In the apocrine glands of the dog - and the rabbit , acid phosphatase has been demonstrated only at the apical border of the cells ( 36 and 42 ) . In general , some esterase activity has been found in most apocrine glands studied . With the technique of Gomori , Montagna et al . ( 41 ) failed to show esterase activity in the glands of the human external auditory meatus . The brown inguinal glands of the rabbit , which are presumably apocrine glands , abound in this enzyme ( 36 ) . The axillary apocrine sweat glands have practically no enzyme activity demonstrable with the tween method of Gomori , but with the method of Nachlas and Seligman the glands are found to be rich in nonspecific esterase - activity ( Fig. 18 ) . Enzyme reaction is largely localized in the luminal half of the secretory cells . The basal part of each cell and the myoepithelial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the enzyme reaction is related to the number of secretion of granules in the cells , it being strongest in cells with only a small number of secretion inclusions . The excretory duct shows no enzyme activity . The nerve endings that form a network surrounding the secretory tubules are devoid of specific cholinesterase activity , in contrast with those around eccrine glands , which are rich in it ( 22 ) . Rothman ( 50 ) , on the contrary , using a different technique , has published a photograph showing specific cholinesterase activity in the nerve fibers in the vicinity of apocrine tubules .   Axillary ' apocrine glands contain no glycogen ( 38 ) . However , the myoepithelial cells of the excessively dilated tubules contain some glycogen granules . Sometimes these tubules are full of a flocculent , Schiff-reactive substance . In striking contrast with nondistended tubules , which contain none , the secretory cells of the dilated tubules sometimes contain small traces of glycogen . Apocrine glands in other regions of the body , such as those in the mons pubis , contain small amounts of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ evident that the vigorous assertions and denials of the presence or absence of glycogen are of doubtful value . These observations also suggest that the presence or absence of glycogen may reflect the functional state of the organ . Schiff-reactive substances , other than glycogen , are numerous in the apocrine cells and have already been described . The cells  | of the ducts , particularly the basal ones , always have a certain amount of glycogen ( Fig. 3 ) . Axillary glands contain both sulfhydryl and disulfide groups . These substances are distributed diffusely in the cytoplasm of the secretory cells and are particularly concentrated in the myoepithelial cells . The apical borders of the cells are rich in disulfide groups . Often , even the secretion in the lumen of the tubules is reactive to the disulfide reagent . The excretory ducts show disulfide groups particularly concentrated in the cuticle Couched between the single layer of columnar or cuboidal cells and the basement membrane are found numerous spindleshaped cells which have many of the characteristics of smooth muscle fibers and are called myoepithelial cells ( Fig. 19 ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ muscle fibers , since myoepithelial cells are believed to be derived embryologically from the ectoderm . However , they resemble smooth muscle . Myoepithelial cells are approximately 5 to 10 ? in the widest diameter and 50 to 100 ? in length . In transverse sections of tubules they appear as triangular cells between the bases of secretory cells . The axis of the cells is oriented roughly parallel to that of the tubule . The cells are loosely dovetailed , and through the interstices which they form , parts of the secretory cells rest against the basement membrane . Myoepithelial cells are best developed in those tubules which are lined with the tallest epithelium . In the dilated tubules , where the epithelial cells are fat and elongated , myoepithelial cells are very delicate or impossible to demonstrate ( Fig. 14 ) . We do not know whether they are actually absent . The cytoplasm of the myoepithelial cells is strongly acidophilic . Delicate longitudinal fibrils in the cytoplasm are stainable with phosphotungstic acid-hematoxylin , with Regaud 's and with Heidenhain 's hematoxylin . These fibrils are more numerous and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the arrectores pilorum muscles ( 7 ) . In the cytoplasm , rows of lipid granules ,  | probably phospholipids , are arranged parallel to the axis of the cell ( 37 ) . Under polarized light the cells show longitudinally oriented anisotropic striae similar to those in smooth muscle . Delicate granules of glycogen are also longitudinally oriented in the cytoplasm . Only traces of alkaline phosphatase are revealed in secretory cells , but myoepithelial cells are consistently strongly phosphatase-reactive . This is ample evidence that the resemblance of these cells to smooth muscle fibers is more than fancied . In old age , the myoepithelial cells may become swollen , vacuolated , and laden with lipid and pigment ( 24 ) . The much debated function of myoepithelial cells during apocrine sweating seems to be fairly well settled . These cells , like muscle cells , have the ability to contract . Direct observation on axillary glands in situ , through an incision in the axillary skin , shows the myoepithelium contracting synchronously with the appearance of a droplet of sweat upon the surface ( 21 ) . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , mechanical , and electric stimuli , which normally initiate contraction in smooth muscle , induce contraction in the myoepithelium and concurrently bring about apocrine sweating . The orifices of apocrine sweat glands open to the surface of the axilla together with , or near , the pilosebaceous orifice . Apocrine sweat has a whitish , gray , reddish , or yellowish color . It is milky and viscid . It fluoresces with a whitish or yellow light of moderate to low intensity . When the secretion dries it forms glistening , glue-like granules . Analysis of the secretion yields protein , carbohydrates , ferric iron , and ammonia . Secretion from the glands is slow and scanty . The total apocrine sweat produced in response to a given stimulus is less than one milliliter . The glands do not secrete continuously , and there is a latent period of over twenty-four hours between each active cycle ( 55 ) . The characteristic odor of the unclean axilla comes largely from the apocrine sweat . Sterile apocrine sweat , however , is odorless and the odor develops as a result of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to disappear in old age , indicating a decrease and final cessation of axillary gland secretion ( 24 ) . Apocrine sweating is largely a response to the adrenergic stresses ; for example , those of fear , pain , and sex . Systematic administration of an adrenergic compound , such as epinephrine , stimulates apocrine secretion . Secretion can be evoked also by local injections of epinephrine , as a result of which only those glands in the path of the spreading drug show secretions . Acetylcholine and pilocarpine induce profuse eccrine but not apocrine sweating . Whereas the nerve fibers which surround eccrine sweat tubules in the axilla are rich in specific cholinesterase , those which surround the apocrine glands are not ( 22 ) . These are points which have been challenged , but the evidence seems very convincing nonetheless . The peculiar morphology of apocrine cells suggests that after the secretion granules within the free end of each cell have accumulated , the free end is pinched off to form the secretion . The basal part of the cell , which contains the nucleus , remains undamaged @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ luminal cytoplasm , which is then again pinched off into the lumen . The secretory cycle of apocrine cells seems to begin in cuboidal cells , where a gradual accumulation of granules takes place above the nucleus . The granules increase in size and in number ; the cells lose their alleged cuticular borders , become cylindrical , and protrude into the lumen . The granules then become liquefied and form droplets . Even the nucleus is said to release particles into the terminal cytoplasm , which becomes pinched off ( 16 , 53 , and 54 ) . At the time of secretion , the myoepithelial cells are said to increase in volume . Contraction of the myoid cells squeezes the secretory cells , and under pressure the distal cytoplasm becomes detached . In addition to apocrine cells , axillary glands are said to possess eccrine and holocrine cells ( 17 and 44 ) . These assumptions do not completely survive scrutiny . The long cytoplasmic extensions of the cells protruding into the lumen might seem to be apt to break off . However , in the nondilated tubules which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seen cytoplasmic fragments in the lumen , and the content of the lumen is usually clear , with no apparent cell debris . Dilated tubules , on the other hand , may contain abundant cell fragments . In some tubules or segments of tubules , the entire epithelium seems to be undergoing necrosis and sloughing off into the lumen . The cytoplasmic blebs which in histological sections appear to be free in the lumen are found to be attached to the adjacent cells when sections are traced serially . The pinched-off appearance of the cytoplasmic blebs is brought about by dehydration . In frozen sections the terminal cytoplasm , however long , is turgid and stout . In the tall apocrine cells , the free border terminates in a discrete brush border . Each element of the brush border is a delicate cytoplasmic thread which terminates in a globule . Both the thread and the globule are Schiff-reactive . Apocrine secretion by a pinching off of the apical cytoplasm is unlikely to occur in normal glands , but secretion might occur by an exudation of liquid substances through the brush border @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are found at the apex of some of the cytoplasmic blebs which project into the lumen . These globules appear to be detaching themselves from the cytoplasm and , like the apical border of each cell , contain neither mitochondria nor visible granules . The lumen of normal apocrine tubules rarely contains visible granules and cell debris . Before secretion takes place , the granules in each cell seem to become dissolved in the terminal hyalin cytoplasm . Secretion in these particular tubules could take place , not by a fragmentation of the terminal cytoplasm , but by the formation of viscous droplets at the end of the delicate cytoplasmic processes of the brush border . Larger droplets may also escape directly from the terminal cytoplasm . True apocrine secretion such as that found in the mammary glands can not he verified in those tubules of the axillary glands which are lined by tall columnar cells . In nearly all adult specimens , some tubules show various degrees of dilation . The epithelium of these tubules is composed of low cuboidal cells , but in the enormously dilated tubules the cells @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with  | a flocculent substance which may or may not contain visible cell debris . Unlike the content of normal tubules , which stains a pale blue with toluidin blue and is weakly Schiff-reactive , this flocculent secretion stains a strong metachromatic color and is strongly Schiff-reactive . The flattened secretory cells left lining the lumen also contain abundant metachromatic and Schiff-reactive material . The characteristic staining properties of apocrine cells and their secretion , then , are markedly changed in the dilated tubules . The dilated tubules may occasionally be full of discarded epithelial cells rich in metachromatic and Schiff-reactive substances . These cells may even contain granules of iron . Conflicting reports on the mode of apocrine secretion might arise from observations on the dilated tubules . Unfortunately , we know nothing of the fate of these tubules and the role they play in normal axillary secretion . The dilated tubules may be the " cystic " tubules often referred to in the literature . They are more common in older subjects and possibly they represent atrophic tubules ( 24 ) . Dilated tubules are numerous in women in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to find large-scale involution of the axillary organ . Apocrine sweat must be a mixture produced by the glands in the variety of ways mentioned above . It is not known if under certain circumstances some of these ways predominate over others . These observations further point to the possibility that these glands may , in addition to apocrine type of secretion , produce secretion by eccrine and holocrine fashion as was believed by Holmgren . Axillary apocrine glands are inactive in childhood , become functional at puberty , and remain active throughout the sexual life . In senescence they undergo gradual involution . In the female the glands are believed to undergo periods of greater or lesser activity comparable to the menstrual cycle and pregnancy . These concepts , based largely on histological material , are accepted unquestioningly although there is good evidence to the contrary ( 26 ) .  | It is agreed that the glands are small and inactive during the intermenstruum but become swollen and active during the premenstruum and during the menstruum ( 51 and 29 ) . Cavazzana ( 10 ) believes that during the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the intermenstruum , their lumen is dilated , and the secretory cells average taller . Cavazzana also observes that the myoepithelial cells are swollen and farther apart during the menstruum . During pregnancy the changes are like those which occur during the menstruum but they are much more pronounced ( 63 and 64 ) . A few authors ( 12 , 29 , and 49 ) , contrary to all others , believe that during pregnancy the axillary glands are in a resting state or at least their function is depressed . Unlike other authors , all of whom studied apocrine glands in autopsy material , Klaar ( 26 ) obtained biopsy specimens from the same women at weekly intervals during the menstrual cycle and found in normal women no changes in the axillary organ which correspond to the cyclic menstrual changes . He concluded that there is no correlation between functional activity and the thickness of the gland , and the differences in the height of the secretory epithelium and their content of iron in no way correspond to the menstrual cycle . During pregnancy and in puerperium the glands @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ found in nongravid females . The glandular epithelium of three amenorrheal women after menopause exhibited a wide range of variations , but they all had the characteristic , dilated , or " cystic " tubules which are lined by flattened epithelial cells and surrounded by a thick connective tissue capsule . Normal glands , however , may be found alongside of the cystic tubules as late as fifteen years after the onset of the menopause . In castrated women there seems to be a general slow regression of the apocrine glands similar to that seen after the menopause . We have studied numerous biopsy specimens removed at weekly intervals during the menstrual cycle in the same women . In agreement with Klaar , we were unable to correlate the changes in the axillary glands with the menstrual cycle . Similarly , changes were found in biopsy specimens removed at monthly   intervals from pregnant women . We must agree with Klaar that there are no definite cyclic changes in the axillary apocrine glands which parallel those of the gonads . The contradictions between these reports and those of others may be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the others . Most authors have lacked an appreciation of the full spectrum of variations which occur in the glands even in one individual . It is customary to believe in a cyclic secretory activity of apocrine glands . Even chemical data of increases in choline in the sweat during menstruation ( 60 ) is not proof of changes in the axillary glands when one considers that only a small amount of the total sweat in the axilla is secreted by the apocrine glands . If cyclic differences occur in axillary apocrine glands , we have been unable to see them reflected in their morphology.  | Mammals could appropriately be called Pilifera since no other class of vertebrates possesses hairs ( 13 ) . Little is known for certain about the phylogenetic origin of hair , and no satisfactory relation has been established between hairs and homologous epidermal appendages in the other vertebrates ( 28 and 104 ) . The physicochemical properties of hair are well understood ; however , there has been a notable lack of interest in the hair follicle , and its morphology and function still need @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and illustrative material from earlier authors . Oversights , omissions , misconceptions , and errors have thus been perpetuated . The names of the different parts of the hair follicle are confusing . Such terms as papilla , hair germ , bulb , matrix , and club must be defined by each author . The aims of this chapter are to define the principal terminology of the pilary system , to describe the architecture of the hair follicle , and to analyze the pattern of growth in the hair follicle . Hairs are keratinized , dead structures , and no physiological factor can influence them once they have been formed . They are composed of keratinized cells compactly cemented together . They grow out of tubes of epidermis sunken into the dermis , the hair follicles . The hair follicles and the sebaceous glands which grow from their sides together comprise the pilosebaceous system . The sebaceous glands are discussed in the next chapter . Beneath the surface of the skin , the hair is encircled by the follicle , which is a sleeve of epithelium continuous with the surface epidermis @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ panniculus adiposus ( Fig. 1 ) . At the base , hair follicles are dilated into an onion-shaped region called the bulb ; the greatest diameter attained by the follicle is through the bulb ( Fig. 1 ) . ' Hie mill ) is hollowed out at its base into an obovate cavity which   is completely filled with a packet of loose connective tissue called the dermal papilla . The grape-like clusters of sebaceous glands project laterally from the hair follicle into the surrounding dermis . Bundles of smooth muscle fibers , the arrectores pilorum muscles , extend , at an acute angle ( Fig. 1 ) , from the surface of the connective tissue layer of the skin to the swelling or bulge of the  | hair follicle , just below the level of the sebaceous glands . These muscles , which are innervated by the sympathetic division of the autonomic nervous system , contract under stresses of emotion or cold . Upon contraction , the hairs are drawn into a vertical position and the skin around them forms slight elevations , giving the skin the appearance of " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and dog the arrectores pilorum muscles are well developed and are responsible for the raising of the fur during fear and anger .  | Hair follicles are composed of an outer root sheath and an inner root sheath on the outside and in the center of the hair root or radix pili ( Figs. 2 and 3 ) . The thickness of the outer sheath is directly proportional to the size of the hair follicle and is very thick in the follicles of large hairs . The inner root sheath is composed of three concentric layers : an outer layer one cell in thickness which rests against the outer sheath , Henle 's layer ; a middle layer two or more cells in thickness , Huxley 's layer , and an inner layer which rests against the hair , the cuticle of the inner sheath . The cuticle of the inner sheath is composed of imbricated squamae , the free borders of which are directed downward and interlock with the cuticle cells of the hair ( Figs. 3 and 7 ) . Hair follicles are surrounded by a connective tissue sheath @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The outer root sheath is separated from the connective tissue sheath by a hyalin , noncellular structure called the glassy or vitreous membrane . The connective tissue sheath is continuous above with the papillary layer of the dermis , and at the base of the follicle , with the dermal papilla . These structures are contiguous , and the connective tissue sheath and the dermal papilla of hair follicles can be considered as parts of the papillary layer of the dermis . With the exception of man , all mammals possess around the face large , stiff hairs which have been called vibrissae , sensory hairs , tactile hairs , sinus hairs , feelers , whiskers , etc . The follicles of these hairs are richly supplied with blood vessels and nerves . The blood vessels form a system of cavernous sinuses which resemble erectile tissue , and the nerves , mostly from the mandibular branch of the trigeminus , form a compact network around the follicle . When the pressure in the blood sinuses around the hair is increased , the hair becomes a sensitive pressure receptor . Some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all hair follicles are well supplied with nerves , but they are not surrounded by the cavernous tissue , and their sensory function is relatively passive . Hair follicles are cyclic organs which have periods of activity and rest ( Fig. 1 ) . In the scalp the growing period is very long and the period of rest is short ; approximately 90 percent of the  | follicles are growing at a given time . In the other parts of the body , however , the periods of rest are usually longer than those of growth . The resting , or quiescent , hair follicle is a relatively simple structure . It is one half to one third the length of the active follicle and has no bulb ( Figs. 1 and 4 ) . The deepest extension of the resting follicle lies in the lower part of the dermis rather than in the panniculus adiposus . The hairs in quiescent follicles have a very broad base and are called club hairs . Resting follicles consist of an epidermal sac around the club hair . An attenuated cord  | of small @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the epidermal sac . Where the cord makes contact with the dermal papilla , it has a flattened base ( Fig. 4 ) . The stalk of cells is called the hair germ . This structure will be described in greater detail later . The epithelial sac is continuous with the surface epidermis , and its shape follows the outline of the clavate club hair ( Fig. 1 ) . From the enlarged end of the club hair radiate numerous delicate keratinized fibrous processes which are insinuated between the cells of the epithelial sac . Separating the epithelial sac from the club is a capsule , one or two cells in thickness , which is partially keratinized , and which originates from the sac . Above the club , just below the entrance of the sebaceous gland , the capsule forms a moat which encircles the hair . In longitudinal sections , the moat appears as a fold on each side of the epithelial sac , at the neck of the club hair . In the pilosebaceous canal , the capsule becomes flaky and seems to blend with the stratum corneum @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ active follicle and may , in fact , be the inner sheath . The epithelial sac proper consists of outer sheath cells . The pedicle , at the base of the epithelial sac , is also derived from the outer sheath . The transition from an active to an inactive follicle is a process called catagen ( 31 ) . Catagen occurs very rapidly in the hair follicles of rodents , but in those of man it is apparently very slow . Although it has not been possible to trace in human skin all of the changes which take place during catagen , the major events are understood . These are described later . In the human embryo , hair follicles appear at the end of the second month in the eyebrows , the upper lids , and the chin . The general body hairs begin to develop at the beginning of the fourth month . Embryonic hair follicles develop very close to each other in the body and in the face ; in the head they are farther apart . I lair follicles are formed singly , but usually another @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that they lie in groups of three Fig. 5 ) . The follicle of every hair develops in the same way  | regardless of its eventual size . At first there is a crowding together of the basal columnar cells of the epidermis at the foci where down-growths will take place ( Fig. 6 ) . These proliferative buds are the so-called primary hair germs . The cells which form them are smaller than those of the surrounding epidermis . Continued crowding of these cells results in a slight downward convexity and later in. a marked bulging of the epidermis against the dermis . Each bulge develops into a column of cells which grows into the dermis oblique to the surface . The clavate tip of  | each column is surrounded by a condensation of dermal cells . The slanting columns of epidermal cells acquire two swellings along their sides , a proximal one and a distal one ( Fig. 6 ) . The swelling close to the epidermis later differentiates into sebaceous glands , and the deeper one , into the bulge for the attachment of the arreetores pilorum muscle @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ swollen base of the epidermal  | column gives rise to the bulb . The solid bulb later becomes cup shaped and grows around a condensed packet of connective tissue cells , the dermal papilla . The subsequent differentiation and the growth of the hair from the follicle will be described in detail later in the chapter after the structural details of hair follicles have been dealt with . The hairs of each mammal have peculiarities of their own . Even in the same animal the pelage may be composed of strikingly different hairs . According to their size and rigidity , hairs are grouped as coarse or fine . Coarse hairs are also known as guard hairs , top hairs , or overhairs . Coarse hairs include : spines and quills , which are enlarged , modified hairs ; bristles , or transitional hairs , which are coarse and stiff , and awns , firm , sharptipped hairs with a softer base . The fine hairs include those of wool , which are long , soft and usually curly ; those of fur , which are the fine and short underhairs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hairs . During its life cycle the same hair follicle may give rise to more than one type of hair . In the face of the human male , or in the axillary and pubic regions of males and females , the follicles of typical vellus hairs metamorphose at the time of puberty into large follicles which produce coarse hairs . Conversely , in baldness the large follicles of the human male scalp may revert to produce lanugo . The hair follicles of the costovertebral melanotic spot of castrated female hamsters produce fine black hairs . After the animals have been treated with androgens , these follicles produce very large , coarse hairs ( 61 ) . The follicles of bristles in the merino lamb become the follicles of wool in the adult sheep . The shape of a hair may vary along its entire length . A cross section may be round , oval , or flattened . Hairs assume numerous shapes in the same animal and in different animals . in the porcupine they reach their fullest expression , since this animal possesses probably all the main types of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ crimped . Although several explanations have been given , the factors responsible for the curl- ing of hairs are not known . The observations of Mercer ( 78 ) and others on the crimping of wool fibers are particularly interesting . The deflection of the hair bulb , the eccentric disposition of the fiber in the follicle , and asymmetric keratinization of the fiber seem to bring about crimping in wool fibers . The eccentrically located fiber begins keratinization on the thin side of the inner sheath ; keratinization proceeds across the fiber and is completed on the thick side ( 3 ) . The differences in time sequence of keratinization of the two component parts of crimped fibers are reflected by differences in the staining of the fibers . The disposition of these two elements in each crimp is always the same ; one is always on the inside of it and the other on the outside ( 41 ) . Hairs are composed of a cuticle on the outside , usually a medulla in the center , and a cortex between the two . The cuticle is a single @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ toward the tip of the hair . The scales are translucent and free of pigment . In the follicle , the cells of the cuticle of the hair are interlocked with those of the inner root sheath . This arrangement firmly anchors the hair in the follicle . The cuticle binds the cortex , which without this protection becomes frayed and falls apart . It is possible that the lipoidal layer which surrounds the cuticle protects the hair from becoming waterlogged . Cuticles are classified as coronal when each cell completely surrounds the hair and as imbricate when they do not . The free edge of cuticle cells may be simple , dentate , or serrate . According to their size and shape , the cuticle cells can be further subdivided as elongate , acuminate , ovate , and flattened . In coarse hairs the free margins of the cuticle cells are not raised very high . These hairs do not interlock with each other , make poor textiles , and have a high luster , since the reflection of the light on the hair surface is relatively unbroken . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as wool are raised so high that the hairs interlock , making good textiles , and they are dull , since the reflected light is broken . The mass of most hairs is formed by the cortex , which is composed of elongated ( fusiform ) , keratinized cells cemented together . In pigmented hairs , melanin granules are aligned longi- tudinally in the cells of the cortex . In the absence of pigment , hair appears translucent . Between the cells of the cortex are found variable numbers of delicate air spaces called fusi ( 63 and 64 ) . In the living portion of the hair root the fusi are filled with fluid . As the hair grows and dries out , air replaces the fluid , and fusi are formed . Fusi , which are more numerous and larger in coarser hairs , are large at the base of the hair and disappear near the tip . The center of the hair is usually occupied by a medulla . The medulla may be continuous , discontinuous , or fragmental . In the finest hairs , the medulla may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ usually continuous or fragmental . The type of medulla present can vary even within the same hair . The medulla is composed of large , loosely connected keratinized cells . Large intra- and intercellular air spaces in the medulla determine to a large extent the sheen and color tones of the hair by influencing the reflection of light . In most mammals the medulla forms a small part of the hair , but in the rabbit , rat , and mouse , the hair is composed mostly of medulla cells held together by a thin framework of cortex . The changes which occur in the scalp hairs from childhood to maturity have been studied by Trotter and her colleagues ( 32 , 33 , 122 , 123 , 124 , 125 , 126 , 127 , and 128 ) . The diameter of hairs increases rapidly and uniformly during the first 3 or 4 years after birth ; it increases less rapidly and less uniformly during the next 6 years ; then it increases slowly or not at all . Very few of the hairs have a medulla at birth . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 7 months . From 7 months to the second year , the percentage of medullated hairs decreases . A period of great irregularity follows and then the percentage tends to rise slightly at 5 years . From birth to 2 years of age , the percentage of hairs with a medulla is slightly higher in girls than in boys . From the ages of 2 to 6 , the percentages are similar , and from the ages of 6 to 14 the percentage is much higher in boys . Boys exhibit a higher percentage of scalp hairs with broken or continuous medullas than girls . Negro children have a higher percentage of medullated hairs  | than do white children . Usually , the number of cuticular scales per unit area drops slightly during the first year , but later there is no specific trend . Although adult human scalp hairs are believed to be rarely medullated , when viewed under polarized light , all hairs , with the exception of the very fine ones , show a fragmental or discontinuous medulla . The medulla may be only one or two cells @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hairs would appear nonmedullated when observed under the ordinary light microscope . The cells of the cuticle of the hair can be recognized in the upper part of the bulb as they sweep upward in a single row from the matrix ( Figs. 3 and 9 ) . About midway in the bulb these cells are cuboidal and strongly basophilic . They are stippled with basophilic granules , and in contrast to the cells of the cortex , they contain no melanin . When the cells reach the upper region of the bulb , they become columnar , with the long axis oriented radially ( Fig. 7 ) . They retain this orientation for a short distance above the bulb , and then their outer edges begin to be tipped upward as though the inner sheath lateral to them were growing faster than the hair and swept the edges upward . These cells are at least twice as broad as they are high , and when the outer sides shift apically , the cells become automatically imbricated . As their orientation shifts from a horizontal plane to a vertical one , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ appear as acuminate squamae ( Figs. 1 and 9 ) . This reorientation is completed below the midway mark of the follicle . In the upper half of the follicle , these cells become hyalinized , their nuclei disappear , and the mature cuticle adheres to the cells of the cortex . The development of the imbricated pattern must be achieved as a result of a series of morphogenetic movements . The cuticle cells arise from the matrix , move up into the upper bulb , increase in volume , and expand horizontally . They seem to be more firmly attached to the cortex , on the axial side , than they are to each other or to the cuticle cells of the inner sheath . The inner sheath must grow at least at the same rate as the hair , but there is a   suspicion that it grows faster than the hair . If the cuticle cells of the inner sheath moved upward faster than those of the hair , they could pull the lateral borders of the cuticle cells of the cortex in an upward position and reorient @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , could bring about these movements without the aid of physical factors . The staining properties of the cuticle cells suggest that the keratin they contain is different from that in the surrounding structures . Unlike the cells of the inner sheath , the cuticle cells of the cortex do not elaborate trichohyalin . With Altmann 's acid fuchsin-methyl green , the cuticle cells of the cortex stain with methyl green after they have become reoriented and attenuated . Above the level of the bulb , these cells stain a brilliant green , and their nuclei are stained red . Farther up , the nuclei disappear , but the cells stain green up to the level of the sebaceous ducts , above which they become gradually fuchsinophilic . In these same preparations the cortex stains with methyl green only in the region just above the bulb . The keratinized cortex is fuchsinophilic . The medulla cells stain with methyl green until they become keratinized , in the upper half of the follicle . Actually this staining reaction seems to . indicate that the cuticle is not fully keratinized until it reaches @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the inner sheath are brilliantly fuchsinophilic as soon as they acquire trichohyalin . The selective stainability with acid fuchsin and methyl green may denote chemical differences in the keratins . The keratin of the cuticle of the cortex seems to be different from that of the cuticle of the inner sheath . This might explain the split which occurs between the hair and the inner sheath , and perhaps it might even explain why the hair is protected from the action of the alleged " keratinase " which acts selectively in breaking down the inner sheath in the pilosebaceous canal . The inner root sheath of active hair follicles consists of Henle 's and Huxley 's layers and the cuticle ( Figs. 2 , 3 , 7 , 8 , and 9 ) . None of these layers contains pigment , even in follicles which produce  | heavily pigmented hairs . The inner sheath arises from the peripheral and central mass of cells of the matrix ( Fig. 22 ) . The cells move practically directly upward from the matrix and become arranged into three concentric layers in the upper bulb @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ three layers is one cell in thickness , but in the larger human follicles , Huxley 's layer is two cells thick . All three layers of the inner sheath show certain hyalin vesicles ; these were distinguished from keratohyalin granules by Vorner ( 130 ) , who called them " trichohyalin " granules . The staining properties of trichohyalin are slightly different from those of keratohyalin . Trichohyalin stains more readily with basic dyes than with acid dyes ( 43 ) , and it is more strongly fuchsinophilic . After mordanting , trichohyalin can he demonstrated with Heidenhain 's or Regaud 's hematoxylin.  | The cells of Henle 's layer acquire trichohyalin granules immediately after they have arisen from the matrix ( Figs. 7 and 8 ) . The cells are first roughly cuboidal but become elongated vertically in the upper bulb . When they first appear , trichohyalin granules are very small ; as the cells move upward , the granules coalesce into large homogeneous globules and parallel rods . In the upper region of the bulb the cells become completely hyalinized , their nuclei become indistinct and finally @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ those of the inner sheath do not decrease appreciably in volume . This may be the result of imbibition of fluid by trichohyalin ( 3 ) . Thus , the turgidity of the cells in the inner sheath might be due to the retention of fluid . The region of differentiation is more extensive in Huxley 's layer than in Henle 's layer ( Figs. 7 and 8 ) . Trichohyalin granules first appear in the cells of Huxley 's layer at the summit of the bulb , at which point the cells of Henle 's layer are completely hyalinized . The granules are at first small , spherical , and evenly distributed in the cytoplasm . Higher up they coalesce and are larger and irregular . Some cells without trichohyalin granules send lateral cytoplasmic processes across Henle 's layer ; these may penetrate as far as the axial layer of the outer sheath . These so-called Flugelzellen ( 65 ) represent living bridges of cytoplasm across the dead Henle 's layer . All nutrients or energy sources from the outer sheath to the still living cells of Huxley 's layer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the follicle , the cells of Huxley 's layer are hyalinized . The cells of the cuticle of the inner sheath do not acquire trichohyalin granules until they are about halfway up in the follicle . They are the smallest cells in the follicle and can be recognized even in the lower bulb . Above the bulb , the nuclei of the cuticle cells become elongated vertically ( Figs. 3 and 7 ) . The cuticle cells remain small and compressed up to nearly halfway in the follicle , where they begin to show a few small , irregularly scattered trichohyalin granules . At this level the cells are somewhat flattened , and the proximal edges become slightly dislocated axially so that they overlap the distal ends of the preceding cells . Shortly after they acquire trichohyalin granules , the  | cuticle cells become hyalinized and their nuclei fade away . Above the middle of the follicle , the cuticle cells and Huxley 's and Henle 's layers all become fused into a solid , hyalin layer . This layer stains with both acid and basic dyes and is intensely fuchsinophilic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and sheep , the inner sheath is thrown into horizontal folds or corrugations near the entrance of the sebaceous glands , as though its path had been barred or dammed . Corrugations do not occur in human follicles . The inner sheath is eliminated in the pilosebaceous canal . In the sheep , the rat , and the mouse , Henle 's and Huxley 's layers fuse together , taper distally , and finally disappear ( 3 ) . The disappearance could be due to chemical changes which culminate in a reabsorption or dissipation of the inner sheath . This could be brought about by an enzyme contained in the outer sheath . Perhaps the outer sheath contains an enzyme , keratinase , similar to that found in avian skin ( 115 ) . Such an enzyme might digest selectively the entire inner sheath . The hair shaft , being slightly more acidic and covered by the epicuticle , which is a film of lipids and carbohydrates , is protected from enzymatic action . The enzyme could also be present in a quantity just sufficient for the elimination of the inner @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ forms a loose , horizontal , reticulated collar around the emerging hair in the widened portion of the pilosebaceous canal . This collar , which is more hyalin than the surrounding stratum corneum of the pilosebaceous canal , is a distinct feature of human hair follicles . At the surface of the epidermis the inner sheath is frayed and lost along with the surrounding stratum corneum . If a keratinase is present , it might also aid in the fragmentation and dispersal of the inner sheath in these follicles . Since it is interlocked with the hair , the inner sheath grows and travels outward at approximately the same rate as the hair . The outer side of Henle 's layer must slide over the axial border of the outer sheath , which is practically stationary . These two layers have very smooth surfaces at the in-lei-phase , which facilitates the movement of the inner sheath . The cells of Mimic 's   layer are keratinized immediately after they rise from the matrix and slide easily against the partially keratinized axial cells of the outer sheath . The thickness of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ usually eccentric in the follicle ( Fig. 9 ) . This is particularly evident in large follicles . In human skin , most of the follicles show some degree of swelling of the outer sheath on the side of the bulge . The follicles of the sheep have pronounced lateral swellings of both inner and outer sheaths ( 3 ) . When the bulb is bent or curved , as in the scalp of Negroes , the outer sheath is thicker on the convex than on the concave side . At the level of the sebaceous glands the outer sheath is indistinguishable from the surface epidermis . Below the level of the sebaceous glands the cells of the outer sheath contain large amounts of glycogen and in histological preparations appear vacuolated and distorted . The cells in the middle third of the follicle , containing more glycogen than those elsewhere , are reduced to flimsy , distorted , reticulated sacs . The cells of the outer sheath can be traced all the way to the tip of the bulb . Around the bulb the outer sheath is composed of two layers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the inner layer are greatly flattened . Just above the bulb the outer sheath attains three layers . It becomes gradually pluristratified and attains its greatest thickness a third of the way up the follicle . At this point nearly all of its cells are riddled with vacuoles , with the exception of those in the axial border . The peripheral cells are tall columnar and oriented perpendicular to the axis of the follicle . In the upper third of the follicle , none of the cells of the outer sheath are highly vacuolated and the peripheral cells are cuboidal . The peripheral columnar cells in the lower half to two thirds of the follicle possess minute basal cytoplasmic processes which push laterally through the thickened vitreous membrane . These are best developed in the region just above the bulb . The peri- pheral cells in the upper third of the follicle have a fairly smooth base , or at least the cytoplasmic processes can not be seen easily . Over the entire length of the outer sheath , the cells at the periphery are more vacuolated than those in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Intercellular bridges , nodes of Bizzozero , and tonofibrils are particularly well developed in the more axially located cells . The cells which rest against Henle 's layer are rich in tonofibrils ; about halfway up the follicle their cytoplasm becomes hyalinized and they seem to be undergoing partial keratinization ( 46 ) . Both necrotic cells and mitotic figures are occasionally found in the outer sheath . Perhaps cell death and cell division bear a direct relation to each other . The outer sheath is a morphologically static structure . Mitotic activity is relatively common in the upper part of the follicle , where the outer sheath blends with the surface epidermis . This part of the outer sheath , however , is similar to the surface epidermis and forms a keratinized surface layer which is constantly being sloughed off . The need for replacement of cells is obvious . Active hair follicles can be divided into upper and lower halves ( Fig. 23 ) . The lower half is a transient structure which comes and goes with the proliferative activity of the hair follicle . This transient nature is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the follicle , including the outer sheath . During catagen the outer sheath perishes with the entire lower half of the follicle . The upper part of the outer sheath , on the other hand , is  | the stable or permanent element of the follicle . Although rich in glycogen , its cells are never laden with excessive amounts of it . During catagen and subsequent telogen , the outer sheath in the upper half of the follicle forms the " hair germ " and the epidermal sac around the club hair . This part of the outer sheath is the most important structure in the whole hair follicle . It is the source of material for all of the morphogenetic activity which takes place in the hair follicle . The details of this activity are given later . The vitreous membrane is a hyalin , noncellular partition which separates the external root sheath from the connective tissue sheath ; it is moderately thin and can be seen with difficulty . It is thicker around the middle part of the follicle and thickest around the widest part of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the lower part of the bulb and nearly impossible to demonstrate in the papilla cavity . In general , the thickness of the vitreous membrane is proportional to the size of the hair follicle . The vitreous membrane is composed of two layers . The vitreous membrane has been envisioned as a concentrically stratified structure traversed by radial septa ( 114 ) , as a porous structure ( 79 ) , or as a homogeneous membrane ( 102 ) . It has been said to be the condensation of a secretion from the cells of the outer sheath , each basal cell secreting a part of the membrane ( 114 and 116 ) . It has also been said that the inner layer of the vitreous membrane is formed by a condensation of granules secreted by the basal cells of the external sheath ( 25 ) . There are also those who believe that the glassy membrane originates from the connective tissue sheath ( 65 and 79 ) . We shall see that the glassy membrane seems to have a dual origin . The vitreous membrane in the human scalp is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ half of the follicle ; in the upper part it is single layered . The outer layer surrounds the entire follicle and is continuous with the basement membrane of the epidermis . It is a hyalin structure composed principally of  | with reticular and elastic fibers from the connective tissue sheath . With Masson 's triacid stain , it is stained like the collagenous fibers . It remains unstained with toluidin blue . Unlike collagenous fibers , it reduces ammoniacal silver nitrate . With the periodic acid-Schiff technique , it stains a pale pink ( Figs. 10 and 15 ) . In the lower half of the follicle , the basal cells of the outer sheath are tall columnar and very large , and their cytoplasm is riddled with large vacuoles . The outer borders of these cells terminate in delicate cytoplasmic processes which push through the inner layer of the vitreous membrane . This inner layer is actually a tangled skein of fibrils wound horizontally between these cytoplasmic processes . The mixture of these fibrils and the cytoplasmic processes of the basal cells gives rise to an irregular , heterogeneous @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ periodic acid-Schiff technique . They are not stained by Van Gieson 's stain , and with toluidin blue they stain metachromatically . The fibrils are more prominent around the region of the outer sheath in which the basal cells are particularly rich in metaechromatically staining granules ( Fig. 17D ) . This close relat ion between the metachromatic granules and the fibrillar lamina   suggests that these fibrils may be derived from the metachromatically staining granules ( 25 ) . However , although both the granules and the fibrils stain metachromatically , only the fibrils are Schiff-reactive . Similarly , the fibrils are argyrophilic but the granules are not . The chemistry of the granules may change when they form the fibrils , or perhaps another substance is added to them when they form the fibrils to make them Schiff-reactive and argyrophilic . The substance or substances in the granules might become depolymerized as they give rise to the fibrils . Polymerized glycoproteins of the ground substance , for instance , are either weakly reactive or nonreactive to the Schiff-reagent , but they become strongly reactive when depolymerized ( 45 ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ layer of the vitreous membrane is the product of the outer sheath . The skein of fibrils in the inner layer becomes extremely thick during early catagen ( Figs. 10 and 24 ) , but the outer , hyalin membrane remains unchanged . The hypertrophied inner layer forms a wrinkled sac around the degenerating lower part of the follicle throughout catagen . At telogen the hypertrophied glassy membrane around the degenerating lower half of the follicle becomes fragmented and is resorbed . Resting hair follicles are surrounded only by a thin , hyalin membrane which represents the outer lamina of the membrane around active follicles . The term papilla is not used consistently , in the literature . It has been used to denote the hair bulb or its basal layer , or the combined basal epithelial layer of the bulb and the dermal tissue enclosed by the bulb . For the sake of clarity , papilla should be used to designate only the connective tissue element which is enclosed by the bulb of the follicle during anagen , and which forms a compact ball of dermal cells underneath the " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attached to the connective tissue sheath by a basal stalk . It seems to be vascularized by a single capillary tuft . In the rat and the mouse , the dermal papilla has been thought to he avasciilar . However , when the skin of the rat is injected with India ink , a rich supply of evil- laries is revealed ( 34 ) . Perhaps the dermal papillae of all hair follicles are richly vascularized , even though the capillaries may be so small as to defy histological studies . The papilla is pointed at its summit ( Fig. 3 ) . In the follicles of bristles that have more than one medulla the papilla is split distally and terminates in as many apices as there are medullae . In the pig the papilla is shaped like an onion , terminating in a long central prong surrounded by rows of lesser prongs ( 69 ) . All degrees of splitting of the papilla may occur . These range from one papilla with two apices to two or more completely separated papillae . The dermal papilla exhibits striking morphologic changes during @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the dermal papilla appears as a compact ball of cells with dense , round nuclei and barely visible cytoplasm . Some pigment granules may be scattered between the cells . In a growing follicle , the papilla is more voluminous and the cells are farther apart . The nuclei are large and ovoid and stain a pale color with basic dyes . The cytoplasm , which is vacuolated , stains lightly with basic dyes . Between the cells is a hyalin ground substance and the basic argyrophilic framework . It is generally believed that during catagen there is a reduction in the number of papilla cells , and that in early anagen the cells divide and increase in number ( 134 ) . However , degeneration of papilla cells is rare , and cells remain intact even after X-irradiation . The occasional mitotic figures found in the papillae of human hair follicles have proved in all cases to be in the nuclei of endothelial cells . The number of papilla cells , then , seems to remain very constant , and what changes do appear are probably due to fluctuations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ size of the papilla are the result of changes in the size of its cells , of the increase and decrease in the size of the capillary plexus , and of the changes in the intercellular substances . During the growth of hair the dermal papilla stains metachromatically , is Schiff-reactive , and contains alkaline phosphatase . During periods of follicular quiescence these properties are lacking . The details of these changes will be described later under the appropriate headings .  | The Connective Tissue Sheath The connective tissue which surrounds hair follicles is oriented in two layers . The fibers of the inner layer are arranged circularly , those of the outer , longitudinally . Both layers are composed of collagenous fibers , a few elastic fibers , and fibroblasts . Neither layer abounds in cells , but more may be found in the outer layer . The outer layer is thicker than the inner . The inner , circular layer is riddled by a plexus of capillaries , many of which run perpendicular to the vitreous membrane . Capillaries and small veins and arteries in the outer layer run @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are more numerous in the lower two thirds of the connective tissue sheath when the hair follicle is active . The morphology of the connective tissue sheath changes together with that of the follicle during activity and quiescence . These changes are particularly notable during catagen . In early catagen , the connective tissue sheath becomes wrinkled . The inner layer is enormously thickened and appears as a hyalin band around the follicle . This is particularly noticeable after X-irradiation of active follicles . Some authors confuse this thickened layer with the glassy membrane in the scalp of atomic bomb casualties ( 73 ) . In late catagen , when the lower half of the follicle degenerates and the base of the follicle withdraws within the dermis , the connective tissue sheath becomes excessively folded and wrinkled . This wrinkling has been interpreted as an active function of the sheath in squeezing the shrinking follicle upward ( 134 ) . We shall see later that this , however , is not likely to be the case . At the completion of catagen , quiescent follicles are less than half their former @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ crisply delineated . The thickened connective tissue sheath has become fragmented and resorbed , leaving only a wispy trail around the area vacated by the follicle . The connective tissue sheath is continuous with the thin layer of areolar tissue which surrounds the sebaceous glands , which , in turn , is continuous with the papillary layer of the dermis . The connective tissue sheath is greatly attenuated around the bulb , and its fibers are arranged mostly longitudinally . At the  | base of the hair follicle it is attached to the dermal papilla by a stalk . The connective tissue sheath , then , the papillary layer of the dermis , and the dermal papilla comprise a continuous unit of tissue . Demonstrable increases in cutaneous vascularity accompany the growth of the hair follicles ( 59 ) . By injecting India ink  | after the club hair is formed and the base of the follicle lies within the dermis , the follicular capillary system contracts and appears to partially degenerate to a small knot of capillaries at through the heart or the aorta of rats and examining whole mounts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( 34 ) have succeeded in visualizing the very delicate capillary networks around hair follicles . Quiescent follicles are surrounded by only a vestigial capillary network . The main concentration of capillaries in active follicles is around the middle . Delicate capillary tufts can be seen in the dermal papilla ( Fig. 11 ) . Resting follicles are surrounded at the base by a loose capillary network which arises from larger vessels spaced more deeply in the dermis ( Fig. 12 ) . During the early stages of anagen the skeins of capillaries become denser as the follicles grow downward in the dermis . At the peak of follicular activity , when the base of the bulb has grown into the fatty layer , the lower third of the follicle is completely covered by a closely woven basket of capillaries . Not only is the capillary net richer and more extensive at this time , but the individual capillaries are more dilated than those surrounding follicles in the earlier stages of activity . At the completion of anagen , when the follicles shorten and their bases retreat toward the epidermis , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . At the end of catagen ,  | after the club hair is formed and the base of the follicle lies within the dermis , the follicular capillary system contracts and appears to partially degenerate to a small knot of capillaries at the base . At the beginning of each new period of growth , this residual network increases in complexity and extent . The upper or permanent part of the follicle is surrounded by a loose network of capillaries which springs from the same vessels which form the capillary basket around the lower part ( Fig. 12 ) . It is not known whether the increase in vascularity is the stimulus for resting follicles to become active or the increase in vascularity is a response to a stimulus originating in the follicles . The cells of the bulb have a strong affinity for basic dyes . When stained with weak solutions of toluidin blue or methylene blue buffered from pH 3.0 to 5.0 , the cells are colored an intense blue ( Fig. 17 ) . If the preparations are incubated in ribonuclease and then stained with these dyes , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ these dyes buffered from pH 3.0 to 5.0 , and which is altered by ribonuclease , is probably ribonucleic acid . When stained with these dyes at the same concentration but at progressively higher pH values , all cells stain more intensely . With dyes buffered to pH 7.0 to 8.0 , treatment with ribonuclease has no effect on the stainability of the cytoplasm of these and other cells . The two staining reactions , that occurring from pH 3.0 to 5.0 , indicating ribonucleic acid , and that occurring from pH 5.0 to 8.0 , indicating various proteinous substances , will be described separately . In active follicles , cells of the matrix have a high concentration of nucleic acid . In the upper bulb , the cells in each of the layers of the follicle are also rich in nucleic acid , although each layer has its own peculiarity . As the cells synthesize and accumulate keratin , they lose ribonucleic acid ; thus , nucleoproteins seem to be related to this protein synthesis . In the medulla , where keratinization is very slow , cells remain moderately rich @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ follicle . The cells of the cuticle of the cortex remain rich in ribonucleic acid Initil their outer borders begin to be tipped upward , at which time they   lose most of their basophilic property . In the layers of the inner sheath , trichohyalin and ribonucleic acid are inversely proportional to each other . In the outer sheath , the scanty cytoplasm of the glycogen-rich cells has only a minimal amount of ribonucleic acid . The cells which abut against Henle 's layer are usually richer in nucleic acid . The cells in the upper portion of the follicle are very similar to those of the epidermis , with which the outer sheath is continuous . Nucleic acid is not the only substance stained with basic dyes . The fibrils in the root of the hair take up basic dyes buffered from pH 4.0 to 8.0 . The zone of keratinization of the hair root stains from pH 3.0 to 7.0 but not at lower pH values . With progressive maturation , keratin loses its ability to bind basic dyes at the lower pH values . Trichohyalin stains lightly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ higher pH values .   With acid dyes , the fibrils which first appear in the cells just above the bulb are stained equally intensely from pH 3.0 to 8.0 . The smaller fibrils , seen first in the cells of the upper bulb , stain only with basic dyes . The numerous studies on the staining properties of keratin add little to the understanding of the formation of hair and will not be discussed . Most staining procedures for keratin have no specificity and are no better than the iron hematoxylin techniques . The pyridine-extraction test of Baker ( 6 ) is excellent for the demonstration of delicate keratinous structures ( Fig. 13 ) . All of the fibrillar structures of the root of the hair as well as the keratinized hair and the inner sheath are clearly stained with this method . . From their staining properties several things may be learned about hair follicles . Ribonucleic acid disappears from the cells of the bulb at the same rate that proteinous fibrils accumulate . This is too close a relationship to be coincidental and it suggests that ribonucleic acid @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The first-formed keratin fibrils are basophilic ; later the fibrils become both strongly basophilic and acidophilic . The fibrils of the fully formed keratin are no longer basophilic and stain only with acid dyes . As it matures , keratin may lose certain acid groups , or these groups may become so modified that they no longer bind basic dyes easily . In active hair follicles the nuclei show a gradation in the intensity of staining , which is strongest in the matrix and fades gradually in the upper bulb ( Fig. 14 ) . In the matrix the nuclei are intensely reactive . They are small , round , or oval and usually in mitosis . As the cells move into the different layers in the upper bulb their nuclei become larger , more ovoid , and progressively less Feulgen-reactive . In Henle 's layer , the nuclei lose their stainability above the middle of the bulb as the cells become keratinized . In the cells of Huxley 's layer , the cuticle of the inner sheath and the cuticle of the cortex , the nuclei are Feulgenreactive up to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cells of the hair root remain strongly Fculgen-reactive to the upper  | bulb . Above the bulb , as these nuclei become greatly elongated and aligned parallel to the axis of the hair , they stain a pale pink . The staining is barely visible in the keratinizing zone of the hair and becomes extinct above it . The nuclei of the medulla cells remain round but weakly Feulgen-reactive up to the middle of the follicle , where they gradually disappear . In the lower half of the follicle the nuclei of outer root sheath cells are large and round , are often misshapen , and stain very lightly . A few nuclei are strongly reactive . In the upper half of the follicle , the cells of the outer sheath are less distorted and the nuclei are strongly Feulgen-reactive . These nuclei resemble those of the epidermis . In the cells of the dermal papilla the nuclei are moderately to strongly reactive and resemble those of large fibroblasts . Those of the endothelial cells of the capillary tuft are larger and strongly Feulgen-reactive . There are practically no references to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mitochondria in the cells of hair follicles . Even in tissues which have been prepared with  | care , mitochondria are refractory to most techniques . The reasons for this may be their small size and the poor penetrability of the fixing fluid through the layers of the follicles . When very small pieces of human skin are fixed in Regaud 's fluid , postchromed for at least three weeks at 37 ? C and stained with Altmann 's acid fuchsin-methyl green , mitochondria will be demonstrated in the cells of the hair follicles . Each cell of the matrix has a few very delicate mitochondria around the nucleus . In the upper bulb , where the cells are larger , delicate filamentous mitochondria are slightly more numerous . Even here , however , they are never as numerous as in the cells of the surface epidermis . Rarely , some cells in Huxley 's layer , or in the cuticle of the cortex , may contain numerous delicate filaments in their cytoplasm . It is not possible to study the relationship between mitochondria and trichohyalin granules because they stain alike @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ becomes impossible to separate them from the mitochondria . In the upper bulb , where the cells of the hair root become larger and elongated prior to keratinization , the cells are laden with pigment , which effectively masks the aggregates of . mitochondria . Mitochondria are not readily discerned in the cells of the outer sheath . In the lower half of the follicle , where the cells of the outer sheath are engorged with glycogen , minute filaments are entwined in the scant cytoplasm around the nucleus . The larger , peripheral cells always show a larger gathering of mitochondria than the more axial ones . Above the bulb , where the peripheral cells form a palisade of columnar cells , some of the smaller , less vacuolated cells contain numerous small filaments . This point is of some interest , since it will be seen that these cells also contain more lipid than the surrounding ones . The peripheral cells contain mucopolysaccharide , which is presumably secreted laterally to form the inner layer of the vitreous membrane . The axial cells , however , which are slightly keratinized @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stratum spinosum of the epidermis , rarely show mitochondria . In the upper half of the follicle , the cells of the outer sheath are smaller , and they contain more mitochondria than the cells farther down . From just below  | the duct of the sebaceous gland upward , the mitochondria are similar to those of the epidermis . In resting hair follicles , the very small cells in the " hair germs " contain very few visible mitochondria . The larger cells of the epidermal sac contain more mitochondria . The partially keratinized axial cells , which anchor the keratinized dendricles of the club hair , are free of mitochondria . It is surprising that mitochondria are so poorly shown in an organ of such intense synthetic activity . It seems logical that mitochondria should be few in the matrix cells , which are in a state of rapid proliferation . In the upper bulb , however , where the synthetic processes take place , one might expect more mitochondria . The greater abundance of mitochondria in the peripheral cells of the outer sheath is of particular interest . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ polysaccharide to form the inner layer of the vitreous membrane , but they must also make , these substances available to the growing part of the follicle . They seem to resemble glandular cells , and as such they contain numerous mitochondria . Although a voluminous literature deals with the Golgi apparatus in nearly all of the tissues and organs of the body , only Par at ( 101 ) seems to have studied it in hair follicles , and he studied it only in those of the embryonic rat . During the early development of the " hair germ " from the basal cells of the epidermis , the change in orientation of the cells is reflected by a comparable shift in the orientation of the osmiophilic Golgi apparatus . In the basal cells of the epidermis , the Golgi apparatus is oriented toward the surface of the skin ; in the cells at the sides of the " hair germ " it is perpendicular to the skin , and in those at the base of the " hair germ , " the Golgi apparatus is parallel to the epidermis @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hair , the vertically elongated cells above the bull ) have a Golgi apparatus at the apical pole of the nucleus . The Golgi apparatus becomes less and less evident and finally disappears as the keratin fibrils are formed in these cells . In the inner sheath  | the Golgi apparatus is neatly polarized at the top of the cells , and it is lost when the trichohyalin granules are formed . In the cells of the outer sheath , the Golgi apparatus is less well defined and is oriented vertically . The Golgi apparatus , then , reflects the vertical shift of the cells during the formation of the hair . As in the epidermis proper , it disappears more rapidly than the mitochondria , some small fragments of which persist even in advanced keratinized cells . Parat infers that the Golgi apparatus is directly implicated with keratinization . This point , however , is of dubious significance . The size , shape , and orientation of the Golgi bodies are similar to those of the clusters of sudanophil lipid bodies described below and perhaps they represent the same thing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) . Hair follicles contain only traces of sudanophilic lipids ( 99 ) . In preparations colored with sudan black , nearly all of the nonkeratinized cells of the hair follicle show discrete sudanophilic granules of varying sizes . In the lower part of the bulb , or the matrix , the cells have at their poles clusters of two or more sudanophil bodies , each with an eccentric sudanophobic vacuole , and the cytoplasm is delicately stippled with a sudanophilic dust . The thin , flattened cells of the outer sheath around the lower bulb have more sudanophil bodies than all the other cells of the bulb . Farther up in the follicle , where the outer sheath is thickest , only the basal cells , which rest upon the vitreous membrane , still have visible sudanophil bodies . The rest of the cells , distended and distorted by large amounts of glycogen , have only occasional lipid granules in the scanty cytoplasm left around the nucleus . Occasionally the well-developed nodes of Bizzozero are very faintly sudanophilic . At the level of the sebaceous ducts , the cells of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the sudanophil bodies they contain are identical to those of the epidermal cells ( 88 ) . In the upper part of the bulb the cells of the presumptive   inner sheath contain discrete lipid granules , but every trace of lipid disappears as soon as these cells acquire trichohyalin . The fragmenting inner sheath in the infundibulum of the pilosebaceous canal is permeated with sebum and is strongly sudanophilic . The cuticle cells of the inner sheath and of the hair lose the perinuclear sudanophil bodies almost as soon as the cells sweep upward from the matrix . In the hair root , the cells of the cortex and the medulla are relatively free of sudanophilic lipids . The only lipids in the dermal papilla are found as delicate but clearly visible granules in the apices of the cells . In quiescent follicles , nearly all of the cells of the epithelial sac have numerous lipid granules , but those in the partially keratinized capsule have none . The cells of the " hair germ " and those of the resting papilla have no lipids . The active hair follicles @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ man , are rich in glycogen . In the connective tissue sheath some glycogen granules are found inside the cytoplasm of fibroblasts and extracellularly along the fibers . The inner layer of the vitreous membrane is Schiff-reactive but diastaseresistant ( Fig. 15 ) . The outer sheath is virtually laden with glycogen . In the middle third of the follicle , its cells contain so much glycogen that only a flimsy framework of cytoplasm is left . Glycogen is less abundant in the outer sheath in the upper and lower thirds of the follicle ( Fig. 15 ) . None of the cells of the inner sheath have glycogen . The cuticle cells of the cortex are rich in glycogen in the region just above the bulb ( Fig. 16 ) . As soon as these cells become cornified , at about the middle third of the follicle , they no longer have glycogen . In the cortex , some cells contain traces of glycogen , but only just above the bulb . The large medulla cells have glycogen from just above the dermal papilla to approximately halfway up the follicle @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to show keratogenous changes ( Fig. 16 ) . This is particularly evident in the hair follicles of guinea pigs , in which the medulla cells are very large . The  | dermal papilla contains a saliva-resistant , Schiff-reactive substance but no glycogen . Glycogen in the cells of the outer sheath is distributed in a pattern of delicate fibrils which resemble tonofibrils ( Fig. 17 ) . The intercellular bridges of the cells also contain glycogen . The cells become gradually depleted of glycogen as they become keratinized in their inner margins . The quiescent hair follicles of rodents contain no glycogen ( 12 , 68 , and 113 ) . In contrast , resting human follicles contain an appreciable amount of glycogen in the cells of the epithelial sac ( 16 and 76 ) . Glycogen here is also distributed in discrete fibrils in the cytoplasm . The keratinized capsule around the club Bair has no glycogen.  | The distribution of glycogen in the different parts of hair follicles has some relationship to their rates of keratinization . The layers of the inner sheath become keratinized first , just @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The cuticle of the cortex and the medulla become keratinized very slowly and contain glycogen in the lower third of the follicle . Even the cells of the cortex may have traces of glycogen in the bulb . In all of these cases glycogen disappears as keratinization progresses . Since the end product of most epidermal cells is keratin , glycogen may supply the major source of energy necessary for the synthesis of protein ( 14 and 36 ) . At any rate , glycogen is present where keratinization is proceeding slowly and absent where it is rapid . Storage of glycogen bears an inverse relation to mitotic activity . The cells of the matrix of growing hair follicles have no glycogen ; those of the outer sheath , which are laden with glycogen , are mitotically inert during the time of hair proliferation . We have observed that 24 hours after the scalp is exposed to epilating doses of X-rays , all the cells of the bulb accumulate glycogen , and they eventually perish . Mitotically active cells ,  | then , and the cells which are rapidly synthesizing keratin @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the cells of the outer sheath may represent a major source of energy for the growth processes and the syntheses of protein which take place in the hair follicle . Glycogen radiates from cell to cell by way of the intercellular bridges , and even though there is no direct continuity between the cells , glycogen could travel across the membranes and be made available to cells which need it . Growing hair follicles contain a substance which stains metachromatically with thiazine dyes ( Fig. 17 ) . The ground substance of the dermal papilla of growing follicles stains intensely metachromatically ( 90 ) . The cytoplasm of the papilla cells and of the endothelial cells of the capillaries stains orthochromatically . The narrow stalk of tissue which connects the papilla to the connective tissue sheath is not metachromatic . The connective tissue sheath around the lower part of the bulb stains lightly metachromatically . That around the middle third of the follicle is strongly metachromatic ; the area of metachromatic staining may extend to the level of the sebaceous glands and even encircle them . The metachromatic staining in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Around the base of the hair bulb , the cells of the attenuated   outer sheath have a diffuse cytoplasmic metachromatic staining . Around the bulb , where the outer sheath is thicker , most of the cells , and particularly those in contact with the vitreous membrane , acquire numerous coarse granules which are stained metachromatically ( Fig. 17 ) . The cells which have these metachromatic granules are also rich in glycogen . The cells of the bulb which line the papilla cavity stain slightly metachromatically , but the metachromasia is partially masked by the intense basophilia of these cells . In quiescent hair follicles neither the epithelial elements nor the stromal elements contain substances which stain metachromatically . Occasionally the hair bulge of large follicles may contain kernels which stain strongly metachromatically . Metachromatic staining usually indicates the presence of acid polysaccharides . The metachromatic material described here is revealed with toluidin blue buffered to acid pH values and resists alcoholic extraction . It must therefore be considered " true " metachromasia ( 74 and 118 ) . Assertions ( 119 ) that tissues treated with chemical fixatives @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only frozen-dried material can be used effectively are not valid . It is evident from Fig. 17 that the dermal papilla and the outer sheath in skin fixed in Helly 's fluid still contain abundant metachromatic substances . Normal human skin and the skin of the pig and calf contain appreciable amounts of hyaluronic acid and chondroitin sulfate B ( 82 , 84 , and 103 ) . Although some authors believe that both hyaluronic acid and chondroitin sulfate stain metachromatically with thiazine dyes ( 17 , 29 , and 132 ) , actually hyaluronic acid and similar polysaccharides , which probably contain no sulfate , do not ( 60 ) . Concentrations of hyaluronates weaker than one percent do not stain metachromatically ( 81 ) . Since the concentrations of hyaluronates in skin are probably not this high , the metachromatic substances found there may be only the sulfatecontaining compounds , the chondroitin sulfates . Hyaluronic acid can be digested with testicular or streptococcal hyaluronidase but chondroitin sulfate B can not ( 84 ) . Even if both substances were stained metachromatically , it should he  | possible to identify @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ material in the dermal papilla , outer sheath , and mast cells resists digestion with testicular hyaluronidase , and is probably chondroitin sulfate B. In the hair follicles of the mouse , the rise and fall of metachromatically staining and of Schiff-reactive , saliva-resistant substances can be followed during the periods of growth and rest ( 92 ) . In the resting follicle , the rounded dermal papilla lies just beneath the " hair germ . " The papilla cells are small , each having a dense nucleus and a narrow halo of cytoplasm . With toluidin blue , only the nuclei stain clearly , the cytoplasm remaining colorless . After the tissues are treated with the periodic acidSchiff method , the cells of the dermal papilla remain colorless . In " anagen I , " all of the cells of the " hair germ " are mitotically active and the follicle is becoming larger . The papilla cells are larger , and their nuclei less dense than in follicles in telogen . The cytoplasm of the papilla cells and the intercellular ground substance are still neither metachromatic nor Schiff-reactive . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ proliferating cord of cells grow : , around the upper end of the ball of papilla cells . The inverted cup of cells thus formed is the beginning of the bulb with its enclosed " papilla cavity . " The papilla cells now have a large nucleus and a moderate amount of clear cytoplasm . They do not stain metachromatically with toluidin blue . The intercellular ground substance is Schiff-reactive and appears as a delicate line around each papilla cell , the cytoplasm of which remains nonreactive . In " anagen IV , " the hair bulb is fully formed and the inner sheath and the hair are growing . The tip of the newly formed hair shaft reaches the level of the sebaceous gland . At this time the dermal papilla is very large and is becoming elongated . The large papilla cells are riddled with colorless vacuoles but their cytoplasm is metachromatic and Schiff-reactive . The intercellular ground substance is also richly metachromatic and Schiff-reactive . The papilla becomes increasingly elongated and its cells more vacuolated . Both metachromatically staining and Schiff-reactive substances become progressively abundant until the middle @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ until   the end of " anagen VI " and the beginning of catagen , when they both disappear abruptly . Twenty-four days after the initiation of growth , the hair follicle is again in the resting phase , and a ball of small papilla cells which are neither metachromatic nor Schiffreactive lies under the " hair germ . " The distributions of metachromatic and Schiff-reactive substances in the papilla appear superimposable , but each may be a different substance . This is not unlikely since some tissue elements such as mast cell granules stain strongly metachromatically but are weakly Schiff-reactive , and others such as the basement membranes and cuticular borders are Schiff-reactive but not metachromatic . Also , since chondroitin sulfates are strongly metachromatic but only mildly oxidizable with periodic acid , the strongly Schiff-reactive substance in the dermal papilla may represent something in addition to an acid polysaccharide ( 83 ) . Sulfated acid polysaccharides , substances belonging to the 1,2 glycol groups , and alkaline phosphatase are present together in the dermal papilla of the growing hair follicle , but not in that of the resting follicle @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ follicles and growing teeth . The pulp of growing teeth , like the dermal papilla of growing follicles , is strongly metachromatic and rich in alkaline phosphatase activity ( 133 ) . When teeth have completed their growth , metachromasia in the pulp is greatly diminished or completely absent , but phosphatase activity , unlike that of the resting dermal papilla , remains strong . A tooth which has completed its growth , however , can not he compared with a hair follicle . Whereas a full-grown tooth must maintain and replace the dentine and cementum , the quiescent follicle is nearly inert . Whatever their exact nature , the substances described as present in the dermal papilla of the hair follicle are present during the period of hair proliferation . They appear during " anagen III , " at the stage of follicle development which immediately ( precedes hair proliferation . They disappear abruptly at the end of ' " anagen VI , " just preceding catagen , when the bulb is still iiact . At this time , however , mitosis in the matrix cells has ceased and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ place . Sulfated mucopolysaccharides may play a role in supplying sulfurous constituents for keratin synthesis and could be regarded as labile sulfur-bearing compounds ( 119 ) . The hair follicles of all mammals show some esterase activity when treated with the technique of Nachlas and Seligman ( 98 ) . The hair follicles of the mouse , rat , and cat show much stronger enzyme reaction than do those of the guinea pig and rabbit . The outer sheath of active hair follicles shows stronger enzyme reaction than that of quiescent ones . The lower half of the follicle is always richer in esterase activity than the upper half , and the lower part of the bulb has the strongest reaction of all . The dermal papilla is usually strongly reactive , particularly in the mouse , rat , and cat . In resting hair follicles the epithelial sac and the " hair germ , " as well as the dermal papilla , are moderately reactive ( 96 ) . In human skin the pilosebaceous canal shows the same strong enzyme reaction as does the surface epidermis . The cells of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ way to the tip of the matrix . Enzyme reaction in the rest of the follicle is scant . The cells in the dermal papilla contain a few reactive granules . In resting hair follicles , the outer sheath has only a moderate amount of enzyme reaction . The epithelial capsule around the club hair , however , contains isolated clusters of very strongly reactive cells . The " hair germ " is weakly reactive . During catagen the cells of the hair follicle are particularly rich in esterases . The cells of the dermal papilla remain reactive during catagen but are relatively unreactive in quiescent follicles ( 89 ) . When the Nadi reagent is applied to unfixed frozen sections or to fresh teased tissues , indophenol blue granules are formed at the site of cytochrome oxidase activity . In hair follicles , the maximum accumulation of indophenol blue granules is in the matrix ( 110 ) . The reaction extends to the cells of the upper bulb and then it disappears . In the outer sheath the reaction is found   around the bulb and for a short distance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ diffused . The presence of 0.0005 M sodium azide , which inhibits cytochrome oxidase , abolishes the Nadi reaction . The distribution of dehydrogenase activity has been studied in the hair follicles of the sheep , mouse , rat , guinea pig , rabbit , and man ( 39 , 95 , and 110 ) . For its demonstration , fresh pieces of tissue or fresh frozen sections are incubated in a medium con- taming sodium succinate and tetrazolium salts . At the site of enzyme activity the tetrazolium is reduced to purplish formazan granules . In active hair follicles the highest concentration of enzyme is found in the cells of the matrix ( Fig. 18 ) . Activity diminishes gradually in the upper bulb . There is appreciable enzyme activity in the outer sheath along the follicle but particularly in the upper third of the follicle . In the inner sheath , the bulbar portion of Huxley 's layer and the cuticle show some activity . The cells of the dermal papilla are moderately reactive . The arrectores pilorum muscles are intensely reactive . The cells of the quiescent follicle @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ early stages of anagen , when the cells in the epithelial sac and the " hair germ " begin to undergo mitotic activity , enzyme activity becomes conspicuously strong . Tetrazolium salts react with sulfhydryl groups to form red monoformazans . The keratogenous zone of the follicle yields a strong , homogeneous red color . Treatment of tissues with dehydrogenase inhibitors prevents the formation of diformazans but not that of monoformazans . The presence of dehydrogenase in the matrix cells is understandable since these cells are mitotically active . In the upper bulb , where the cells produce keratin , the presence of the enzyme might be related to rapid metabolic activity . The cells of the outer sheath are also rich in dehydrogenase , but they are mitotically inert and are not apparently involved in any type of active synthesis . These cells , however , may have a role in the transfer and storage of metabolites to or from the growing and keratinizing portions of the follicle ( 110 ) . The cells of the different parts of hair follicles become anisotropic as they synthesize keratin ( 65 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the matrix all of the component parts of hair follicles reveal a certain amount of birefringence ( Fig. 19 ) . In the bulb the cells of Henle 's layer are the first to become birefringent ( Fig. 20 ) . Huxley 's layer begins to show birefringence some distance above the bulb , and the birefringence  | increases on up to the middle of the follicle . The cuticle cells of the inner sheath , which are very small and difficult to see , become birefringent above the midway mark of the follicle . The layers of the inner sheath are fused together and very strongly anisotropic midway up the follicle . In the pilosebaceous canal the inner sheath forms a loosely meshed birefringent collar around the hair . Birefringence in the layers of the inner sheath develops concomitantly with the acquisition of trichohyalin granules , although the granules themselves are isotropic . In the hair , the cuticle is anisotropic only in the upper half of the follicle ( Fig. 20 ) . The cells of the cortex acquire delicately birefringent fibrils above the bulb . These fibrils become @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The mature cortex of the hair i3 brilliantly birefringent and fibrillar . The medulla cells are mostly isotropic ( Fig. 20 ) . They attain a granular anisotropy in the emerged hair , but this is seldom as bright as that in the cortex . Since the medulla is isotropic it is possible to detect it even when it is very small and fragmentary . Flaws in the structure of hairs are readily found with polarized light .  | Many cells in the outer sheath contain delicate birefringent fibrils . In the lower half of the follicle , only the peripheral cells have delicate , radially arranged , anisotropic fibrils , but in the middle segment these are found in most of the cells . In the walls of the pilosebaceous canal the birefringent fibrils are arranged at an angle acute to the axis of the follicle . The most axial cells in this region , which undergo some keratinization , have the strongest birefringence . In longitudinal sections of hair follicles , the outer layer of the vitreous membrane is anisotropic from above the bulb to the pilosebaceous canal ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ isotropic . The inner layer of the vitreous membrane is always isotropic , even during catagen , when it is very thick . The inner layer of the connective tissue sheath is isotropic in longitudinal sections but anisotropic in transverse sections . The outer layer is birefringent in longitudinal sections and isotropic in transverse sections . In quiescent follicles the club of the hair and the numerous keratinized rootlets which anchor it to the epithelial sac are completely birefringent ( Fig. 19 ) . The cells of the capsule and of the epithelial sac are oriented radially around the club and each has delicate birefringent fibrils . Above the level of the club the cells in the outer sheath have delicate birefringent fibrils like those in the epidermis . In the wall of the pilosebaceous canal the cells in the basal half have birefringent fibrils oriented perpendicular to the surface ; those in the upper half are oblique , and those in the corneal layer are horizontal .  | Alcohol and water-insoluble , protein-bound sulfhydryl groups can be demonstrated with ease in human hair follicles ( 8 ) . In active @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its entire length ( Fig. 17 ) . The delicate cytoplasmic processes at the base of the peripheral cells also contain demonstrable amounts of sulfhydryl groups . Intercellular bridges and nodes of Bizzozero , particularly in the middle third of the follicle , show a moderate reaction . In the inner sheath , Henle 's layer is more strongly reactive than Huxley 's layer . The cells of Henle 's layer are more strongly reactive in the region of the bulb than farther up in the follicle , where they become keratinized . The  | trichohyalin granules remain unstained ( Figs. 17 and 21 ) . The cuticle of the inner sheath is moderately reactive , but that of the cortex is strongly reactive from the bulb to the surface of the skin . The lower bulb , or the matrix , is only mildly reactive . The upper bulb is rich in sulfhydryl groups and the reaction becomes exceedingly strong just above this level ( 58 , 94 , and 100 ) , in the keratogenous zone of Giroud and Bulliard ( 52 ) . The keratinized hair shaft above @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ composed of strongly reactive , closely packed , parallel fibrils ( Fig. 21 ) . The cells of the medulla contain only a moderate amount of sulfhydryl groups . The glassy membrane and the connective tissue sheath show no sulfhydryl reaction . The fibroblasts and mast cells in the connective tissue sheath and the dermal papilla are lightly reactive . The arrectores pilorum muscles are strongly reactive . In resting hair follicles , the thick epithelial sac and the epithelial cord , which extends below the sac to the dermal papilla , are lightly reactive . The club itself , except for some strongly reactive streaks which run parallel to its long axis , is unreactive . The capsule , which is made up of the brush-like processes of the club and the inner cells of the epithelial sac , is intensely reactive . The distribution of sulfhydryl groups in the hair follicles of the mouse and guinea pig is essentially similar to that in human follicles ( 35 ) . During early anagen , when the follicles become elongated and form a bull ) , both the follicle and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ anagen the follicles begin to produce a hair , the epidermis becomes thinner and its concentration of sulfhydryl groups becomes slight . During late anagen , only the keratogenous zone of hair follicles has a great concentration of sulfhydryl groups . In catagen , a very intense reaction is found around the developing club hair , and the outer sheath shows a stronger reaction than during anagen . In resting hair follicles , high concentrations of sulfhydryl groups are found only around the brush of the club hair . Although the strongest concentration of sulfhydryl groups in growing hair follicles is found in the keratogenous zone , free  | sulfhydryl groups , not demonstrated by histochemical techniques , may also be present in the hair bulb and dermal papilla . Glutathione might be abundant in the matrix cells since it is known to play an important role in cell division ( 107 and 108 ) . On the basis of staining reactions with nitroprusside , two types of keratinization , soft and hard , have been identified in the skin ( 52 , 53 , 55 , and 56 ) . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ keratinization occurs in the hair cortex , horns , hoofs , and claws . The designation of soft and hard keratinization on the basis of cytochemical reactions for - SH groups is unfortunate ( 7 , 43 , 62 , 71 , 80 , and 129 ) , since similar regions rich in sulfhydryl groups may be found in the tongue and esophagus , or in epidermis where the corneal layer is not fully keratinized . This is discussed more fully in the chapter on the epidermis . The cells of the outer root sheath and those of the hair bulb contain a moderate amount of disulfide groups . In the middle region of the follicle , the peripheral cells of the outer sheath have basal cytoplasmic processes which contain disulfide groups . In the inner sheath , Henle 's layer is more strongly reactive than Huxley 's layer . The trichohyalin granules in both layers contain no disulfide groups . The cells of the cuticle of the inner sheath show no appreciable reaction . The keratinized cortex of the hair is intensely reactive . The dermal papilla stains moderately . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The reaction is strong in the capsule around the club but mild in the epithelial sac . Hairs are part of a homologous series of epidermal derivatives which have a remarkably constant amino acid composition . These substances are called keratins ( from the Greek kerns , horn ) . They are resistant to digestion by pepsin and are insoluble in   water , organic solvents , and dilute acids and alkalis . On acid hydrolysis , hair , horn , and nails yield histidine , lysine , and arginine in a constant molecular ratio of approximately 1:4:12 ( 11 ) . The protein of hair consists of polypeptide chains which are apparently held together by disulfide bonds and which give X-ray diffraction patterns with a periodicity of 5.1 A ; this protein is a keratin ( 2 ) . The physicochemical properties of keratins have been thoroughly discussed by Bear and Rugo ( 9 ) . The customary division of keratins as hard and soft is , as is stated elsewhere in this book , misleading . Such a division infers that sulfhydryl groups are abundant only in sites where @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 55 , and 56 ) . Sulfhydryl groups , however , are also abundant in the mucous membranes , which never undergo hard keratinization ( 35 and 129 ) . Furthermore , the inner sheath of hair follicles , the medulla of hairs , and the stratum corneum of the epidermis have all been called soft keratin , although they probably all represent different substances . Assuming that cystine provides the cross links between the polypeptide chains of keratin , Bekker and King ( 10 ) suggest that the term keratinization be used synonymously with cystinization , and that cornification , long used as a synonym for keratinization , be used to denote only a general hardening of protein without the intervention of cystinization . If this nomenclature were used , each term would have greater significance . Some keratinous substances contain more sulfur than others and may represent " different " keratins . Hot sodium plumbite applied to hairs or hoofs turns them black , whereas it turns the keratin of the stratum corneum brown ( 56 ) . Chemical analyses also show more sulfur in some keratins than in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) , studying the sulfur content of wool fibers and porcupine quills by chemical and histochemical methods , concluded that the keratinization of the cuticle , the cortex , and the medulla must all be different . The cuticle undergoes true keratinization , or cystinization . In the cortex keratinization involves the incorporation of both cystine and tyrosine . In the medulla , however , they found tyrosine but no sulfur , and they assumed that its cells dry up by a process of cornification , per@@1562.txt  | Cortical Representation Figure 5-11 also demonstrates the unequal cortical representation of the various parts of the body . It will be readily seen that the tongue and fingers have a relatively large representation , whereas the body trunk has a very small area relegated to it . It has been shown that the larger the cortical allocation , the greater the mobility and flexibility of the part . This is easy to understand , because a larger cortical representation means that there are many Betz cells sending fibers to specific muscles such as those of the tongue , lips , and fingers , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . When a nerve fiber reaches a muscle , it divides into several branches , and each branch then innervates a single muscle fiber . Thus , a large part of the muscle in innervated by one neuron . On the other hand , several neurons may arborize very little , and yet the same amount of muscle tissue may be innervated in this instance as in the former . The difference is that in the second case there are more neurons , greater cortical representation , and consequently greater dexterity of the muscle . In the first instance , the entire muscle area must contract as a unit , whereas in the second case it is possible to contract small segments of the muscle . This relationship between neurons and muscle fibers is sometimes referred to as the innervation ratio . One can thus say that the greater the innervation ratio ( neuron-to-muscle fiber relationship ) , the greater and more precise and delicate the movement . Decortication The removal of the cerebral cortex is termed decortication . This can be done in experimental animals without fatal results . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is seen in cases of massive hemorrhage involving the internal capsule . In lower animals , decortication does not cause paralysis . The motor deficit becomes progressively more severe in higher forms . Yet even in primates some movement is still possible following recovery from the operation . But this is a very gross movement completely devoid of any influence of learning or conditioning . In addition , there is a degree of rigidity . Decorticate rigidity is not as marked as decerebrate rigidity . Movement . although stiff and difficult , is often possible . In experimental animals , the placing and hopping reactions are disrupted by decortication . In the placing reaction an animal will lilt its legs and place them on the surface , say of a table , when the animal 's leg are touched to the edge of the table . In the hopping response the leg are quickly moved to support the animal when it is pushed sideways . These reactions depend , to a great extent , upon the integrity of the cerebral cortex . Thus , these reactions ale used to evaluat cortical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ also called subcortical nuclei , are extremely important centers of coordination . The basal ganglia include the caudate , putamen , and globus pallidus nuclei . The putamen and globus pallidus together are referred to as the lenticular nucleus . The caudate and lenticular nuclei together with the internal capsule which separates them constitute the corpus striatum . The clue to the function of the basal ganglia is provided by experiments in which the various nuclei are stimulated . If no movement is taking place , stimulation of the basal ganglia is usually without demonstrable effect . However , if movement is first elicited , for example , by stimulating the motor cortex , then activation of the basal ganglia promptly inhibits that movement . From this and other lines of evidence , it is generally believed that the major function of the basal ganglia is inhibition . The general activation or facilitation resulting from cortical activation can thus be appropriately inhibited by the basal ganglia and thereby bring about orderly , smooth , purposeful , and coordinated movement . To put it another way , movement is initiated by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ needs refinement . Such the locomot ion abnormalities were mentioned . These disorders are due to a pathologic condition within the muscle itself . There are , however , many other conditions in which muscular activity is deranged but in which the difficulty lies within the nervous system and is manifest only in abnormalities of voluntary movement . Paralysis is the most common abnormality of voluntary movement . Paralysis means the loss of voluntary movement . It is important to bear in mind that in many types of paralysis reflex movement of the part may still be elicited even though that same region can not be moved volitionally . For example , following damage to the middle of the spinal cord , a man may be unable to move his leg even though it is still possible to evoke the knee-jerk.  | is used to distinguish it from the intention or terminal tremor which occurs only when the person attempts a delicate , controlled muscular gesture . As yet there is no satisfactory explanation for the former type . The movement is indeed involuntary and can not be controlled . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one or more of the subcortical motor nuclei . It is believed that these nuclei are inhibitory centers . It may well be that the motor areas of the cerebral cortex fire continuously and under normal conditions this incessant barrage is inhibited or contained by the subcortical nuclei until voluntary movement is desired . However , when there is damage to these nuclei , some of the impulses from the motor areas break through the funnel down to the final common pathway , producing rhythmic , involuntary , purposeless muscular contractions , that is , a tremor . It is interesting to observe that in many such conditions there is also some degree of spastic paralysis . This added evidence supports the contention that inhibitory nuclei are deranged . However , at present the mechanism by which the tremor is produced is still obscure . All that can be said is that the difficulty apparently resides in higher centers , possibly in most instances in the subcortical motor nuclei . In adult man , complex muscular acts are executed with such ease , with so little conscious attention , that we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and what superlative degree of synchrony is required . This fact is dramatically illustrated , however , when a patient with a nervous-system lesion which destroys this superb degree of coordination is observed . The patient 's hand begins to shake , to tremble more and more as the movement becomes finer and finer . When such a person attempts to feed himself , his hand will be quite steady until it begins to approach the lips . Then it will begin to shake , and as he comes closer and attempts to guide the fork into his mouth the tremor will become very pronounced . The tremor may become so severe that the fork can not be introduced into the mouth . The difficulty lies in the loss of coordination which makes it possible to guide the hand with smoothness and accuracy . This type of tremor is usually clue to cerebellar dysfunction . The great role of the cerebellum in coordination will be considered in Chap . 9 . The bones of the skeleton are in articulation with one another . The are held together by ligaments . Some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ some totally immobile . Skeletal muscle moves the bones of the body and is connected to the bones by tendons.  | A reflex is an involuntary response to a stimulus . The simplest reflex involves a receptor , an afferent limb , a synapse , an efferent limb , an effector organ , and the pathways which impinge upon it from higher brain centers . The reflex latent period includes the time required for transmission of the impulse over the pathways plus the delay in the synapse and neuromuscular junction . In addition , training apparently can alter this period . Impulses arriving at the synapse between the afferent and efferent limbs from higher centers may facilitate or inhibit the transmission of the impulse across the synapse . Following spinal-cord section in man , all reflex action below the lesion is lost . This condition is called spinal shock . The loss of reflex response is thought to be due to the removal of the dominant facilitatory influence . The effective stimulus of the stretch reflex is stretch , which eventuates in muscular contraction . The main purpose of this mechanism @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reflex determines muscle tonus . In decerebrate rigidity , there is an exaggeration of the stretch reflexes so that all extensor muscles are in a hypertonic state . The flexor reflexes serve to protect man . Injurious circumstances excite the nociceptors , and as a result , the part is withdrawn to a safe position . The supporting reflexes involve both the extensor and flexor muscle groups and serve to keep man erect as well as to aid in locomotion . Voluntary movement is initiated by areas 4 and 6 in the frontal lobe of the cerebral cortex . Area 4 is the primary motor area . It is characterized by the presence of very large pyramidal cells called Betz cells which give rise to upper motor neurons . The axons of these neurons descend into the brain stem and spinal cord . The lower motor neurons arise from cells residing in the brain stem and spinal cord and conduct the impulses to the muscles . The upper motor neurons arising in area 4 descend in the pyramidal tracts . All other upper motor neurons originating in area 6 , or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ There is a point-to-point relationship between the motor area and all the muscles of the body . The greater the innervation ratio , the broader the cortical representation , the more specific , the more delicate , the act . Area 4 is responsible for the discrete activity of individual muscles . Area 6 is concerned with movement patterns . The basal ganglia ( subcortical nuclei ) serve to integrate muscular movement . They play , for the most part , an inhibitory role . Interference with any part of the motor system results in paralysis . I f t lie lesion is in the lower motor neuron , the paralysis is flaccid . If the disorder involves the upper motor neuron or higher centers , the paralysis is usually spastic.  | THE BASIC components of the nervous system have been considered in previous chapters . The nervous system consists essentially of a mechanism for perceiving changes in the environment and another system for reacting to that environment . Part of the motor member is under voluntary control . Another segment , the autonomic system , operates outside the voluntary sphere @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made to demonstrate the incredible degree of coordination which is required for the nervous system to operate as an integrated and purposeful whole . But first there are highly developed and important special systems which must be considered such as vision , audition , olfaction , and gustation . These are sensory functions , but they differ in many respects from the simple appreciation of pain and temperature , and of touch and pressure . Vision is the most important of all the senses . Blind people can and do learn to depend upon the other senses to a remarkable degree , but for the loss of vision there is never anything approaching complete compensation . We rely upon vision for protection , for equilibration , for coordination , for creation , and for pleasure . Fundamentally , the sense of vision is similar to all other sensory modalities in that there are receptors ( sensitive to light , in this instance ) , there is an afferent pathway which conveys the impulses to the cerebral cortex , and there is an area of the cerebrum necessary for the appreciation of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ synaptic union with diverse efferent limbs for reflex responses to vision . But vision is far more complex than the relatively primitive modalities of pain and temperature . In order to understand fully the means by which man sees , it is necessary to consider the physics , anatomy , physiology , biochemistry , and psychology of vision .  | Light is a form of radiant energy which travels in waves at the " rate of about 300,000 kilometers per second . The length of each wave varies from 3.85 to 7.60 ten-thousandths of a millimeter . This is obviously an inconvenient way of expressing the wavelength of light . Light wavelengths are sometimes measured in angstroms or , as is now more common , in millimicrons . A millimicron is , as the term indicates , 1/1,000 of 0.001 mm . Put more simply , a millimicron is equal to 1/1,000,000 mm . A millimicron is usually designated by the symbol m ? . The wavelengths of light which can be perceived by the human eye may then be said to range from about 385 to 760 m ? ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? ) . The word refraction means " to bend " or " turn aside . " This is precisely what occurs when a ray of light passes from one medium into another of different refractive index . If the light penetrates a transparent medium at a right angle , there is no bending . But , as shown in Fig. 6-1 , when rays of light pass at an angle from air into a medium of different refractive index , the beam is bent . The bending results from the fact that the velocity of light is determined by the optical density of the medium it traverses . The more dense the medium , the slower is the speed of light through it . It can be seen , therefore , that if rays of light are projected through air into a dense medium at an angle , the rays on one side of the beam will still be in the less dense medium for a fraction of a second after the rays on the other side have already entered . In observing a beam of light passing from its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ water ( a second medium of greater optical density ) , and emerging again into air , at any instant ( luring the observation we view the components of the beam at different velocities . An apparent change in the direction of the beam occurs at each interface between mediums of different optical density . The angle that the beam makes with a perpendicular line extended from the surface of the denser medium is the angle of refraction . The index of refraction is the ratio of the velocity of light in air to the velocity of light in the denser medium . It will be noted that when the light strikes the surface it is bent toward a line drawn perpendicular to the surface . On the other hand , when the light emerges from the glass into the air medium , it is bent away from this perpendicular axis . The two angles arc identical ; thus the rays of light entering and emerging are truly parallel . The general law of refraction may be summarized as follows . Light , in passing from a rarer medium ( air @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ refracted  | toward the perpendicular ; when light is caused to pass from a denser medium into a rarer medium , it is bent away from the perpendicular . A lens is a transparent substance which causes light to converge or diverge . Artificial lenses are usually made of glass and possess two surfaces . The two surfaces may be convex or concave , or one may be convex and the other concave . It is also possible to have one surface straight and the other either convex or concave . By referring to Fig. 6-2 , one can see that the passage of light through a lens follows the general rules of refraction . This is true whatever the type of lens . In the case of a biconvex lens , the parallel rays are bent on entering the lens and bent again , in the same direction , as they emerge . If the ray of light strikes the center of the lens , it passes through without being refracted . This is true because the ray of light at that point is aleady perpendicular to the surface of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rays striking the lens at every other point are oblique in relation to the lens surface . For example , consider the uppermost ray . It can be seen that as the ray of light enters the denser medium it is bent down , that is , deflected toward the perpendicular . When this same ray emerges into the rarer medium , it is also bent down , but this time away from the perpendicular . The lowermost ray follows the same principles of refraction and is bent up both upon entering and upon emerging from the denser medium . The net result of a biconvex lens , then , is to cause the parallel rays to converge . The light rays converge to meet at a point . This point is termed the principal focus of the lens . Strictly speaking , light rays are rarely parallel . But when the light source is at a considerable distance from the lens , for all practical purposes the rays of light may be considered parallel . If the light source is close to the lens , the rays will diverge as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be gathered that the closer the source of light to the lens , the farther back will be the point of focus . Accordingly , it is proper to speak of the focal point of parallel rays as the principal focus , whereas the focal point of diverging rays of light is known as the conjugate focus . Employing the same basic principle of refraction , it is simple to determine the manner in which light passes through a biconcave lens . Figure 6-2 demonstrates that rays of light are dispersed by such a lens . The rays of light which strike the top of the lens are bent up on entering and in the same direction as they emerge . The rays striking the bottom of the lens pass in the opposite direction . Thus the emerging rays diverge and no focus is attained . The power of a lens to refract light depends upon two factors : ( 1 ) the substance used and ( 2 ) the curvature of the lens . For example , the higher the refractive index , the greater will be the refraction . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ same density . Thus variations in refraction are achieved by altering the curvature of the surfaces . Figure 6-3 demonstrates that the greater the curvature , the greater will be the refraction . The ability of a lens to bend light , that is , its strength , is measured according to its focal distance . The focal distance is the number of centimeters the principal focus lies from the center of the lens . An arbitrary distance of 100 cm has been taken to represent the unit of measure of lens strength . This unit has been termed the diopter . The term diopter is derived from two Greek stems and means " to see through . " In a sense , the term implies the ability to see through the lens , or its power to bring parallel rays into focus . A lens which focuses parallel rays of light at a point 100 cm away has a strength of 1 diopter . If the lens is more convex  | and focuses parallel rays at a point only 20 cm away , it has a strength of 5 diopters @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a diopter that only the strength of a biconvex lens can be so indicated . This is , however , not the case . If a biconcave lens is placed between a convex lens and the principal focus , the focal point will be caused to recede . Thus convex lenses are arbitrarily designated as plus and concave lenses as minus . The strength of a concave lens may be determined by ascertaining the angle of refraction of parallel rays and then extrapolating them back to a virtual focal point on the same side of the lens as the source of light . The distance from the center of the lens to the focal point is then measured . Again 100 cm is taken as 1 diopter , in this case -1 diopter . Thus if the focal distance is 50 cm , the concave lens would have a power of -2 diopter ( Fig. 6-3 ) .  | The anatomical structures essential to vision are ( 1 ) the eye , ( 2 ) the visual pathways , and ( 3 ) the visual areas of the cerebral cortex @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the eyeball . The outer layer consists of a tough , resistant material . It is termed the sclera , which means " hard . " The sclera gives shape and substance to the eyeball . The most anterior or forward continuation of the sclera is transparent . This area is referred to as the cornea , which connotes the horny nature of this tissue . It , too , is a tough , resistant material and thus not only permits the passage of light but effectively protects the eye . ( ht the inside of the posterior or back two-thirds of the eyeball is the retina . Retina means ' a net , " and that quite accurately describes the network .  | of highly specialized nerve cells and their processes . There are about 130,000,000 such cells in each eye . These cells are the receptors sensitive to light . The image is focused on this layer . Consequently , the receptors are activated and the impulses transmitted via the optic pathways to appropriate centers in the cerebral cortex . The processes from all the nerve cells which reside @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nerve . The retina consists of two types of visual cells : ( 1 ) the rods and ( 2 ) the cones . These cells differ not only anatomically but physiologically as well . Between the retina and the sclera is a layer of tissue called the choroid , which means " skinlike , " because this layer resembles the corium or true skin . The choroid layer , like the true skin , is extremely vascular . Its prime function is to supply blood to the other layers of the eyeball , especially the retina . Anteriorly , at the front of the eye , the choroid is modified and continues as the ciliary muscles . These muscles support and modify the shape of the lens . The lens is a transparent , colorless body , consisting of a more or less semisolid substance enveloped by a very thin capsule . It can be seen from Fig. 6-4 that the human lens is biconvex although the anterior and posterior surfaces do not have identical curvatures . Thus it serves to converge rays of light and focus them on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thin muscular layer called the iris . Iris is derived from the term meaning " rainbow " and probably refers to the fact that it is this structure which gives color to the eye . It has an opening at the center through which light may pass . This circular aperture is termed the pupil . Examination of Fig. 6-4 reveals two spaces , one between the cornea and  | the lens and the other between the lens and retina . The more anterior space contains aqueous humor , while the posterior space is filled with a more viscid vitreous humor . In man , the two eyes move together and possess considerable range of action . This movement is a function of the six  | muscles which are attached to each eyeball ( Fig. 6-5 ) . These extrinsic muscles are true skeletal muscles which are innervated by three of the cranial nerves . There are 12 cranial nerves in all , and these are usually designated by their numbers . Some of these nerves have a purely sensory role , others contain only motor fibers , while the remaining @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nerves which innervate the extrinsic eye muscles are purely motor in function . These are cranial nerves III ( oculomotor ) , IV ( trochlear ) , and VI ( abducens ) . Figure 6-5 illustrates the arrangement of the six extrinsic eye muscles . In a general way it can be noted that they are so distributed as to permit extremely varied movements of the eyeball . The innervation and action of each of these muscles are summarized in Table 6-1 . It should be noted that the same muscle on either side moves the eye in opposite directions . For example , the lateral rectus will move the right eyeball to the right and the left eyeball to the left . Yet these muscles are both innervated by nerve VI . Normally both eyes will move either to the left or to the right . If movement is to the right , there must be contraction of the right lateral rectus and the left medial rectus . In other words , impulses must traverse cranial nerve VI on the right and cranial nerve III on the left . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so-called conjugate movement , which involves all the eye muscles , requires coordination at higher brain levels . The cell bodies which give rise to the primary fibers of the visual pathways reside in the retina . The processes from these cell bodies sweep across the internal surface of the retina to be gathered at a depressed point on the retina called the optic disk . It can be seen in Fig. 6-6 that ( Wets emerge from the eyeball as the optic nerve ( see Fig. 6-4 ) . It is important to note that the neurons which innervate the medial half of each retina cross at the optic chiasm . On the other hand , the fibers which  | supply the lateral half of the retina do not cross but continue back on the same side . The two discrete pathways beyond the chiasm are known as the optic tracts . Most of these primary neurons terminate in a part of the brain called the lateral geniculate bodies . From these bodies arise secondary neurons which collectively form the optic radiations . The  | secondary link in the optic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fan out or radiate as they sweep around the temporal lobe to end in the occipital lobe of the cerebral cortex . The visual pathways , then , consist of a two-neuron chain . The areas of the cerebral cortex essential for vision and the coordination of vision with other bodily functions are designated as areas 17 , 18 , and 19 ( see Fig. 4-11 ) . Area 17 is the primary visual area . Bilateral removal of this portion of the human occipital cortex results in total blindness . In lower animals it is possible to destroy area 17 and yet the organism retains some appreciation of light . In man , however , all visual responsibility has apparently been shifted to the cerebral cortex . Areas 18 and 19 , on the other hand , may be destroyed without loss of vision , although the individual suffers marked impairment in the integration of vision with other activities . Areas 18 and 19 are known as association areas . They house cell bodies and pathways which integrate that which is seen with that which is done . For example @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is , in reality , a highly complex act . It can be readily understood that what we see must be coordinated with voluntary movement . The visual association areas , areas 18 and 19 , serve man in this way . Figure 6-7 is designed to illustrate the striking similarities between a camera and the human eye . They function in much the same manner . In the camera , the image is cast on the sensitive film by the lens . In the eye , the image falls on the sensitive retina . In the camera , there is a mecha- nism for bringing the image into sharp focus ; the eye is also so equipped . In the camera , there is a diaphragm to regulate the amount of light which enters the lens . In the eye , the iris assumes this function . Finally , the image is inverted in both . The student who is familiar with simple photographic technique should have little difficulty in understanding the physiology of vision . It should be recalled that the lens is biconvex . From our consideration of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a biconvex lens , are caused to converge at the focal point . This is the point at which the image is sharpest . In other words , if a camera with a ground-glass back is used , it will be found that by shifting the lens back and forth the image passes in and out of focus . When the lens is held at a distance from the glass equal to the focal distance of that lens , the image appears sharp . The same rule applies to the eye . But in the human eye the distance between the lens and the retina can not be varied . To effect a sharp image , the curvature of the lens must change . The alteration in lens curvature in order to focus the image sharply is termed accommodation . When an object is held close to the eye , the light rays diverge as they approach the eye . The radius of the curvature of the lens must be decreased so as to bend those rays more acutely in order to bring them to their focal point upon the retina @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the rays are practically parallel . In this case they require little bending . Hence the lens is now flatter than in the previous example . The curvature of the lens is controlled by the ciliary muscles . The eyeball contains fluid ( vitreous and aqueous humors ) under pressure . This intraocular pressure tends to hold the eyeball round and firm . The lens which is attached at its periphery to the suspensory ligaments is held taut and relatively flat ( large radius of curvature ) by intraocular pressure . When the ciliary muscles contract , the choroid layer is drawn forward . This releases the tension on the suspensory ligaments . The lens , because of its inherent elasticity , springs together and bulges . Thus the lens becomes more round and has a lesser radius of curvature . It can be seen that when the ciliary muscle is at rest the intraocular pressure holds the lens stretched , with a relatively flat surface . In this position parallel light rays are brought to focus , in the normal eye , upon the retina . As the object @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ refracted or bent more . To do this , the lens must become rounder . The ciliary muscles contract , tension on the lens is reduced , and the lens , by its inherent elasticity , now assumes a rounder contour . Thus once again  | the light rays are focused on the retina . A point must obviously be reached a which the ciliary muscles are completely contracted and the lens is as round as it can possibly become . If the object is brought still closer , the eye will be unable to focus it sharply . This critical point is appropriately termed the near point . The normal human eye sees objects clearly from a near point of about 6 in. to infinity . A knowledge of this mechanism reveals why the eye is at rest when viewing objects at a distance . Reading , on the other hand , requires the ciliary muscles to remain in a constant state of contraction . This may contribute to the fatigue which accompanies close work . Corresponding Points In man , it is not only necessary that the object be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ both eyes on similar areas so that one sees a single image instead of two . A reexamination of Fig. 6-7 will underscore the fact that fibers from the medial half of one retina cross and then course to the cerebral cortex accompanied by fibers from the lateral half of the other retina . An object to the right of an individual , for example , will be focused on the inner half of the right retina and the outer half of the left retina . Neurons from these areas then transmit the image to the same area of the cerebral cortex , in this case area 17 in the left occipital cortex . In other words , there are points on each retina which correspond to points on the other retina so that the image is viewed as one . These are termed corresponding points . The Blind Spot If the right eye is closed and Fig. 6-8 held about 8 in. from the left eye which is then focused on the cross , the circle may be seen . But if the figure is moved a little closer or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ circle disappears . This effectively demonstrates that there is a spot on the retina which is not sensitive to light . It is termed the blind spot . This is the place on the retina where the neurons  | turn through to form the optic nerve ( Fig. 6-4 ) . At this point there are no receptors ; accordingly , there is no vision . In order to see an object clearly , the object must be focused on the retina . But there are still other factors which determine visual acuity . They are ( 1 ) the size of the object and ( 2 ) the distance of the object from the eye . If two small marks are inscribed very close together on a piece of paper , they will appear as two distinct marks when the paper is held fairly close to the eye . However , at a distance they will be seen to fuse into one mark . In order for two objects to be differentiated as distinct entities , it is necessary for the resulting image of these objects to cover two or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is tested with standard charts known as Snellen charts ( Fig. 6-9 ) . The standard distance from the chart to the eye is arbitrarily set at 20 ft . At this distance , letters of a certain size can be identified with the normal eye . That line of letters is labeled 20 . If , while standing 20 ft from the chart the subject can read the line marked 20 , then his visual acuity is normal and is said to be 20/20 . On the other hand , if he can only read a line with larger letters , say one marked 30 ( which normal vision could read at 30 ft ) then his visual acuity it 20/30 , and so forth . When a distant object is brought progressively closer to the eye , three important changes in the visual mechanism take place : ( 1 ) accommodation , ( 2 ) convergence , and ( 3 ) constriction of the pupil . Accommodation is designed to focus the image sharply on the retina . Convergence assures the image of striking corresponding points . Constriction of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ eye . All these are essential to visual acuity . They are all involuntary ; hence they are reflex mechanisms . Not all the components of the accommodation reflex have as yet been clarified . It is clear that the optic nerve forms the afferent limb and that the parasympathetic component of cranial nerve III ( oculomotor ) makes up the efferent limb , but the central connections remain obscure . It seems logical that the effective stimulus to evoke changes in the lens is an unclear image , that is , one which is out of focus . Accordingly , the impulses so elicited must be transmitted to the visual cortex and then back to the tectal region of the brain where the cell bodies of the involuntary motor fibers are situated . These fibers are part of the oculomotor nerve . Destruction of cranial nerve III , then , not only would partially paralyze extrinsic eye movement but also would prevent accommodation due to interruption of the motor supply to the ciliary muscles .  | Here again the afferent limb is the optic nerve , but now the efferent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , IV , and VI , which supply the extrinsic eye muscles . If the eyes did not converge as the object was brought forward , the image would not strike corresponding points . Apparently the formation of a double image is the effective stimulus which is transmitted to higher centers via the optic pathways and then back to the tectal region for activation of the nerves supplying the extrinsic eye muscles . As a result , the eyes turn synchronously , thus maintaining the image on corresponding points in each retina . Of course , in order to turn the eyes inward ( Fig. 6-10 ) , the lateral recti muscles must relax . These , it should be recalled , are innervated by cranial nerve VI ( abducens ) . It is also necessary that there be relaxation of the superior oblique muscles , indicating that cranial nerves IV ( trochlear ) are also implicated . In other words , the convergence reflex is extremely complex , involving superb reciprocal innervation and a high degree of coordination of all its components . Visual acuity requires optimal illumination . Within @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for controlling the amount of light which strikes the retina . On a bright and sunny clay the pupil appears extremely small , whereas at dusk it is usually relatively large . Changes in pupillary size are a function of the iris . The larger the pupil , the greater will be the quantity of light admitted into the eyeball .  | The smooth muscles which make up the iris are innervated by both divisions of the autonomic nervous system ( Chap . 8 ) . The intensity of the light which strikes the retina is the effective stimulus for initiating the light reflexes . If the light proves too strong for optimal visual acuity , impulses are fired via appropriate nervous pathways . As a result , the pupil constricts , thereby decreasing the amount of light which enters the eye . Conversely , a decrease in illumination , through a comparable reflex mechanism , causes the pupils to enlarge . If a light is directed into only one eye , both pupils will rapidly constrict . This is termed the consensual light reflex ( Fig. 6-11 ) . One @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ connection between the two eyes . In summary , it should be evident that a series of complicated reflexes  | brings the object into focus on corresponding points of the two retinas under optimal illumination . When the student ceases to gaze out of the window and turns his attention to this text , there are simultaneous accommodation of the lenses , convergence of the eyeballs , and pupillary constriction . If the cornea is touched , the eyelids immediately close . This is a reflex mechanism of a protective nature . Thus , when the cornea is irritated , as by a foreign object blown into the eye , receptors fire impulses to the brain stem where they are transmitted across a synapse to motor neurons which effect the closing of the eyelids and the warding off of the foreign body . In association with each eye there arc lacrimal glands which , upon stimulation , produce a fluid in the form of tears . Tears are copiously produced when any foreign body comes in contact with the cornea . Lacrimation , too , is a protective reflex . Thus @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ blocking the ingress of a foreign body , the lacrimal reflex swings into action , supplying fluid to flush out the noxious agent . It has already been mentioned that the light receptors are located in the retina . Actually , there are two different types of receptors : ( 1 ) the rods and ( 2 ) the cones . These structures not only are histologically distinct but also serve different functions . It has been shown that the cones are utilized under conditions of relatively bright illumination , whereas man relies upon the rods for vision in dim light . This arrangement allows the eye to function under a tremendous range of light intensities . It has already been noted that the iris regulates the quantity of light which strikes the retina , but obviously this mechanism has definite limitations . Under conditions of very low illumination , the pupil is maximally dilated . At this point the highly sensitive rods take over to increase the range of vision . The greatest concentration of cones is found at the center of the retina . As the periphery is approached @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ population becomes more dense , until a point is reached at which the retina consists only of rods . Thus in bright daylight we call examine an object best if we look directly at it ; but at night , or under other conditions of very low light intensities , we can see objects better by looking to one side of them , thus permitting the object to fall on the rod-laden periphery of the retina . Biochemists engaged in the study of vision demonstrated as long ago as 1878 that a chemical substance found in the  | retina plays a role in the adaptation of the eye to conditions of low illumination . The eye is capable of making several adjustments . In passing from the glaring sunlight into a darkened theater , the pupil rapidly dilates to admit the maximum available light . At the same time , the image is focused on the rods which are vastly more sensitive than the cones . Finally , a series of chemical changes takes place which increases the sensitivity of the rods even more . Extensive research now indicates that rhodopsin @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ radiant energy of light into nerve impulses , that is , into electrical impulses which can be conveyed by the optic pathways . Bright light causes rhodopsin ( or visual purple , as it is also called ) to bleach . Under these conditions the rods are relatively inactive and the eye depends chiefly upon the cones . When the light intensity is once again reduced , rhodopsin is re-formed and the rods assume their appropriate role . The time required for the resynthesis of rhodopsin accounts for the time delay required to adapt the eye to night vision . It explains why , when an individual enters a darkened theater , he can see very little at first but after a few minutes is able to distinguish considerable detail . The sequence of events of the rhodopsin cycle is now known . Figure 6-12 shows that light causes rhodopsin to be converted to lumirhodopsin which is then rapidly converted to metarhodopsin . Next metarhodopsin breaks down to scotopsin and retinene . These two substances are capable of slowly combining to re-form rhodopsin , thus completing the cycle . But it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vitamin A. If there is too little vitamin A , retinene is converted to the vitamin and thus is not available for rhodopsin formation . For this reason individuals with vitamin A deficiency have difficulty seeing under conditions of low illumination . For a long while this photochemical theory of vision was weakened by  | the inability to demonstrate a comparable chemical substance in the cones . Recently , however , such an agent has been found . It is a violet pigment and is , accordingly , called iodopsin . This substance , it is thought , converts the radiant light energy into nerve impulses emanating from the cones . The normal eye can appreciate and differentiate various colors . The mechanism which makes this possible is still not completely understood . A comprehensive consideration of color vision requires cutting a broad pathway through the physics , biochemistry , and psychology of vision , which is clearly beyond the scope of this text . We know that white light is made up of light of various wavelengths . When this light is broken down into its component parts , light @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ theories of color vision assumes that the retina contains receptors which are sensitive to specific colors . This theory states that the three basic psychological and physiological colors of blue , red , and green stimulate specific receptors , and impulses are then transmitted to the visual cortex . Here , depending on the number of receptors being fired , mixing is clone . As a result , we can appreciate the entire range of the color spectrum . The cones are primarily concerned with color appreciation . As the light gradually decreases in intensity , we lose our color sense . At twilight all objects appear as varying intensities of gray . The rods apparently do not permit color vision . Approximately 5 to 6 per cent of Americans can not differentiate colors in the entire range . Careful testing reveals that they may not perceive one or even two of the basic colors . According to the above theory of color vision , it seems probable that such individuals suffer a congenital lack of one or more of the specific receptors required for color appreciation . Color vision is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ consist of dots of various colors with numbers formed by dots of specific colors . Individuals who are colorblind can not identify the numbers . The phenomenon of colorblindness has had a rather exciting history . Early in the Second World War it was felt that air-force personnel were seriously handicapped if they were colorblind . Later it was learned that these individuals are extremely well suited as observers in the detection of camouflage . This is so because camouflage is usually designed to mislead normal vision . Thus it was learned that these people can often detect the most well-executed camouflage techniques .  | Normal vision is a highly complex function involving many essential components . If any one of its constituents is impaired , there may be an abnormality of vision . The more common disturbances concern the eye itself , the visual pathways , and the visual cortex . Many people can see objects clearly only when held close to the eyes . They are therefore nearsighted . Everything in the distance is blurred . They have a tendency to squint , and the term myopia , which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this condition . Figure 6-13 demonstrates that the difficulty in many of these cases is that the eyeball is abnormally long . As a result , the focal point lies in front of the retina . The eye has no way in which it can accommodate itself to this condition . Only when objects are brought close to the eye and the light rays have diverged will they then be focused on the retina . Such individuals , in order to see distant objects , must wear glasses with biconcave lenses . Figure 6-13 illustrates how a concave lens causes parallel rays to diverge , thus permitting the lens of the myopic eye to focus them upon the distant retina . The reverse of myopia is also frequently encountered . In these cases the eyeball is shorter than normal . Consequently the individual must accommodate even when he looks at distant objects . As the object is brought closer , greater accommodation is required . In such cases the near point will be farther away than in a normal person . The term hyperopia means " beyond the eye . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rays of light , the image would , theoreti- cally , be focused behind the eyeball ( Fig. 6-14 ) . The important observation to note in these cases is that the lens must accommodate at all times . In other words , the ciliary muscle is always in a state of partial contraction . It can relax only when the eyes are closed . In the normal eye ( emmetropia ) , distant objects are viewed with the ciliary muscle completely relaxed , but in the hyperopic eye this is not the case . The degree of contraction , of course , depends on just how short the eyeball is . Most young people , however , possess enough accommodation so that they can get along quite successfully without glasses . When they read , their eyes are maximally accommodated , and sometimes they report fatigue more readily than do others . There is a difference of opinion among experts as to whether or not glasses should be worn in mild cases of hyperopia . If the eyeball is so short that the individual can not do close work , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that there are other causes of both myopia and hyperopia than the length of the eyeball . For example , the eyeball may be of normal dimensions , but the curvature of the lens may be such that the image does not come to focus upon the retina . The term presbyopia means " old eye . " As one ages , various changes occur . There is a gradual loss of the ability to accommodate . Presumably the lens loses some of its elasticity , so that when the ciliary muscle pulls the choroid forward the lens does not become so round as it formerly did . As a result , the light rays can not be bent as sharply . Thus there is a progressive recession of the near point with advancing age . Everyone is familiar with older people who must hold small print at arm 's length in order to read it . The hyperopic eye , it will be recalled , must accommodate at all times , and for close work maximum accommodation is required . As the lens hardens with age , such changes are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ objects clearly , but for all  | close work glasses with biconvex lenses are essential . When the aging processes finally cause almost a complete loss of the power of accommodation , glasses are required in any case , and ones with two types of lenses are usually preferred . The person then looks through the top of the lens for distant objects and the lower part ( which is a different lens ) for close work . These glasses are called bifocals . The near point , that is , the minimum distance from the eye that an object can be clearly seen , is a good measure of the ability of the eye to accommodate . In children and young adults the near point is less than 10 cm . Usually , between 40 and 50 years of age the near point recedes rapidly and by the time man is about 60 the near point is over 80 cm ( Fig. 6-15 ) . Astigmatism Thus far we have discussed lenses as being parts of a perfect sphere . The lens of the eye does not usually attain this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Consequently , different parts of the lens or cornea vary in refractive power . Therefore , when an individual looks at an object , some areas of it will be in focus whereas other parts will not be . The term astigmatism means " without a point . " In other words , there is no point upon which the eye can focus all its rays ( Fig. 6-16 ) . Everyone has a degree of astigmatism , but it is usually so slight as not to inter- fere with work , or be noticeable . However , if the condition is severe , it proves very annoying and may promote fatigue and chronic headaches . Astigmatism is corrected by specially ground lenses which compensate for the inequalities of refraction . A review of the visual pathways will make it obvious that a lesion which interrupts these tracts , or a part of them , will cause visual deficits . Figure 6-7 summarizes the more common locations where such lesions occur . In each case there is partial or half-blindness , termed hemianopsia . In designating the hemianopsia , we refer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . For example , if the left optic tract is destroyed , no impulses will be received from the left half of the left retina or from the left half of the right retina . As a result , the individual will be half-blind and will see nothing to his right . He is said to have a right homonymous hemianopsia . The term homonymous refers to the fact that both right fields are involved . Hemianopsia means half-blindness . A careful study of Fig. 6-6 will disclose the anatomical basis of the various types of disorders due to lesions of the visual pathways , along with the proper designation of each . Complete destruction of area 17 on both sides results in total blindness . Figure 6-6 shows that if this area is destroyed on only one side there is homonymous hemianopsia , as is to be expected , but the central area of the blinded visual field is spared . The explanation for this observation is not yet certain , but it seems probable that some of the fibers which come from the central part of the retina cross @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is actually a dual cortical representation for this central retinal region . Thus , destruction of only one side of the visual cortex leaves central vision relatively unaffecte.  | It is believed that these areas serve to coordinate visual sensation with other bodily functions . However , since it is extremely difficult to remove them without interfering with area 17 or the optic radiations to area 17 , the precise function of areas 18 and 19 can not be stated . Patients who have tumors involving these areas have been studied . Such neoplasms are frequently associated with visual hallucinations . These people report seeing objects , usually highly developed patterns , which do not in fact exist . There may also be an inability to interpret the written word . The patient can see the word but can no longer translate its meaning . Yet in speech he will use the word in good context . In addition , there may be impairment of coordination between vision and muscular activity . Fortunately , such disorders in the visual cortex are not common . Light is a form of radiant energy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ medium to another of different density , it is bent . This bending phenomenon is called refraction . Convex lenses converge light to a point termed the principal focus . Concave lenses diverge parallel light rays , and no image is formed . The strength of a lens is expressed in diopters . A lens which focuses parallel rays of light at a distance of 100 cm has a strength of 1 diopter . In the eye , light is focused by the lens on the retina which consists of light-sensitive receptors . These cells are of two kinds : ( 1 ) the rods and ( 2 ) the cones . They give rise to fibers which are gathered together to form the optic nerve . In front of the lens is the iris , which controls the amount of light which enters the eye . The lens is elastic and held stretched by intraocular pressure . Contraction of the ciliary muscle opposes this pressure and allows the lens to bulge , become rounder , and thus exert greater refraction , or bending of light rays . The lens focuses @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the rays of light to diverge ; thus the lens must bend them more to bring them to a focal point . This is called accommodation . A reflex mechanism controls the ciliary muscle . In order to see one image with both eyes , that image must fall on corresponding points on the two retinas . This is accomplished by having the eyes converge as the object is brought closer . Convergence is also a reflex mechanism . The third reflex evoked by bringing an object closer is constriction of the pupil . The iris responds to hanging intensities of light . The eye is protected by the corneal reflex and the lacrimal mechanism . The ones are not as sensitive as arc the rods and are utilized under conditions of bright illumination . In low intensities of light the highly  | sensitive rods make vision possible . The transformation of the radiant energy of light into nerve impulses in the rods is believed to be the function of rhodopsin . Iodopsin is said to serve this role for the cones . The cones are essential to color vision . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It is believed that there are receptors sensitive to three basic colors ? red , green , and blue . The mixing of these colors to result in the perception of all hues is thought to occur in the visual cortex . Some individuals can not perceive one or perhaps two of the basic colors . They are said to be colorblind . This condition may be due to a congenital lack of the proper color receptors in the retina . Myopia is a condition characterized by an elongated eyeball which causes the image to be focused in front of the retina . In hyperopia , the eyeball is too short , and constant accommodation is required to focus the image on the retina . Presbyopia is an abnormality of old age in which the lens hardens and the range of accommodation is decreased so that the near point recedes . Astigmatism is a condition of unequal refraction by the lens or cornea so that part of the image is in focus while other parts are blurred . Disturbances involving areas 18 and 19 may produce visual hallucinations , loss of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  | VISION IS BY FAR THE MOST IMPORTANT OF THE SPECIAL SENSES . It iS for this reason that so much space has been devoted to its analysis . The other special senses of audition , gustation , and olfaction have progressively less importance , in that order . Audition ranks perhaps almost with vision , but certainly in man , olfactory acuity has been allowed to atrophy . Lower animal forms are far more dependent upon an acute sense of smell than we are . In fact , in many cases , actual survival hinges upon the animal 's ability to find food and to avoid his enemies . A keen sense of smell is important to the animal for these purposes . Modern man , however , need not resort to these methods . In fact , it is the rare person today who car ascertain by sniffing whether or not food is fresh . It is approximately true that we use our olfactory ability fundamentally and almost exclusively for pleasure ? to enjoy exotic perfumes , to savor the fragrance of the rose , and to augment our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ olfaction , has at least by some men been developed to a fine art . The lower creatures and even our ancestors ate according to their caloric needs . They took what they could get ; there was very little opportunity to select or reject purely by gustatory sensations . Today , despite economic limitations , the ingestion of food is highly selective . This selectivity in some cases has been developed to a remarkable degree . The sense of taste serves more than the simple function of pleasure , for it is also truly protective . In a series of ingenious experiments it has been shown conclusively that animals and young children will select a diet , if given a random choice , which coincides astonishingly with their physiological needs . However , before the child grows very old , other more compelling forces govern his selection of food . Thus , in the adult at least , the importance of gustatory function is not very great . In short , it seems fair to conclude that gustation and olfaction serve primarily to make man 's life more pleasurable . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but it must also be considered to be a very vital sense . A person who can not hear can speak only after arduous training , and then speech is never normal . Audition , like vision , is important for protection because this sense informs one of the environment , of impending danger . Sound is produced by vibrations of air . Sound waves travel through air at approximately 336 meters ( 1,100 ft ) per second . If this figure is compared with the speed of light waves ( about 300,000 kilometers per second ) , it becomes clear why we often hear the noise produced by something we see only after a considerable time interval . For example , we see the lightning before we hear the thunder . Sound has three important properties : ( 1 ) pitch , ( 2 ) intensity , and ( 3 ) timbre . The pitch is a function of the number of vibrations per second . Figure 7-1 shows some typical sound waves . The greater the number of vibrations , the higher the pitch . For example , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The number of vibrations per second is called  | the frequency . The human ear can discriminate frequencies as low as 20 and as high as 20,000 , though , of course , this ability varies from person to person . Intensity of sound is varied by changing the amplitude of the wave . The greater the wave amplitude , and therefore the intensity of the sound , the louder will it seem to the listener . It has been found convenient to express sound intensity in decibels . A decibel is only a relative measure and is based on a logarithmic scale . An arbitrary intensity has been selected as a reference point . A sound which has an intensity about 26 per cent greater is said to be 1 decibel more intense or louder . A whisper at approximately 4 ft has a decibel rating of about 20 , normal conversation at 12 ft is 50 decibels , while a pneumatic drill produces sound of about 120 decibels . Above this critical level , sound is not only heard but felt as well . At higher intensities , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , as the term indicates , is one-tenth of a bel . A bel is defined as an increase in sound intensity of 10 times . Thus , if the normal hearing range is from 20 to 120 decibels , on the bel scale this would be 2 to 12 . Because each bel equals a tenfold increase , a change from 2 to 12 equals 1010 , or a 10-billionfold increase in intensity . This calculation strikingly illustrates the range to which the ear can respond . There is , finally , the third property of sound , which is called its quality or timbre . Even though middle C always has the same frequency and can be produced with the same intensity , for example , on both the tuba and the zither , one can readily differentiate between the two instruments . This is because the sound has a different quality due to the presence of overtones . When a string , a reed , the human voice , or any other vibrating body is analyzed , it is found to oscillate not only as a whole but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a vibrating violin string . When the string is set in motion by the bow , it vibrates as a whole and then divides itself into segments which oscillate at their own frequencies , which are inversely related to their length . For example , if the string is bowed so that 256 cycles per second are produced , we hear middle C. At the same time , each half of the string vibrates at twice that frequency ( 512 cycles per second ) , so that we also hear C above middle C. Middle C is called the fundamental tone , and C above middle C is called a partial tone or an overtone . Likewise , each half of each half ( one-fourth of the whole string ) vibrates it 1,021 cycles per second . This produces a second overtone . Theoretically , ; l t least , there are as many overtones as there are segments of the string , Although all these overtones can not be discerned by the normal human ( ' , ii . For practical purposes , they fuse into one full , rich @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a tone differs from one instrument to another . The only way to distinguish pitches of equal intensity is by the constellation of overtones . With training , one soon learns to identify any particular instrument . The ear functions to gather and concentrate sound waves onto an area containing receptors sensitive to sound vibrations . Anatomically , the ear may be considered as consisting of three parts : ( 1 ) the external ear , ( 2 ) the middle ear , and ( 3 ) the inner ear . In man , the external part of the ear has more of an esthetic than a functional value . This part of the ear is called the pinna ( meaning " wing " ) or better the auricle , which is derived from the Latin signifying ear . In many of the lower animals , the auricle serves the very useful function of capturing the sound waves . A dog , for example , can perk up its ears and move them so as to serve this purpose . But in man the auricle is relatively immobile , and it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there is minimal hearing loss . From the auricle there is a tube leading to the eardrum . This tube is termed the external auditory meatus . Meatus means " passage . " The eardrum is called the tympanic membrane ( Fig. 7-2 ) . The middle ear is a cavity which lies beyond the tympanic membrane in the temporal bone . It is lined with a mucous membrane and contains three small bones in articulation with one another . These are termed the auditory ossicles . Figure 7-2 shows that the ossicles serve to connect the eardrum with the membrane in the oval window . In order , the ossicles are named the malleus ( hammer ) , the incus ( anvil ) , and the stapes ( stirrup ) . The middle ear is not a closed chamber . It communicates with the oral cavity by means of the eustachian tube , which extends from the floor of the middle ear to the pharynx ( Fig. 7-2 ) . This tube must remain patent in order to maintain equal pressure on either side of the tympanic membrane . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a winding cavity within the temporal bone . This tortuous tube is coiled like a snail and accordingly is labeled the cochlea . Figure 7-2 in eludes a cross section of the cochlea . The cavity is seen to be divided into three compartments . All three compartments are filled with fluid . Fibers of cranial nerve VIII , also known as the auditory nerve , course along the basilar membrane to innervate the highly important organ of Corti. ' 1 III , organ , in conjunction with the basilar membrane , is essential for the ception of sound . Close examination of the basilar membrane reveals that  | it is made up of progressively shorter fibers arranged much as in a harp . This design is thought to lie at the basis of pitch appreciation . The hair cells rest on these fibers and are innervated by the neurons of the auditory nerve . Figure 7-3 illustrates the auditory pathways . It will be noted that this is a multineuron chain . The primary fiber arises in the cell bodies lying in the spiral ganglion in the inner ear @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cochlear nuclei in the brain stern . Figure 7-3 shows  | only the simplest , most direct pathways to the cerebral cortex . But in addition there are many more complex routes . The impulse may be conducted by as many as five neurons before reaching the auditory area in the temporal lobe . In man the specific area of the temporal lobe to be considered the primary acoustic area is still in doubt . The large region designated as area 22 is definitely involved , but there is some evidence , in animals at least , that the smaller areas , 41 and 42 , constitute the primary acoustic area ( Fig. 4-11 ) . It is interesting that ablation of the temporal lobes does not cause complete deafness , although there is marked hearing deficiency . In man , tumors involving the temporal lobes are associated with auditory disturbances , speech defects , and vertigo . It is important to realize that the auditory fibers have an orderly dis- tribution in the organ of Corti and a point-to-point projection onto the cerebral cortex . This is believed to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been pointed out that the auricle plays a surprisingly insignificant role in the transmission of sound waves into the middle ear . Sound waves are transmitted through the external auditory meatus to beat against the tympanic membrane . As a result , the tympanic membrane is caused to vibrate in harmony with the frequency of the sound waves . The tympanic membrane is , in reality , a very effective diaphragm . It responds accurately to all frequencies , and its movements stop almost instantly upon cessation of sound . The vibrations of the tympanic membrane in response to sound waves cause the auditory ossicles to move with it . The handle of the malleus is embedded in the tympanic membrane , and its head is articulated with the incus . Therefore , as the membrane moves , the motion is transmitted through the head of the hammer onto the anvil and finally onto the stapes , which is fixed to the membrane of the oval window . This membrane now moves in harmony with the eardrum . It should be recalled that the inner ear is filled with fluid . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ created in this fluid . These waves will now be carried to the basilar membrane and exert their effects upon fibers of varying length . The movement of these fibers stimulates the hair cells of the organ of Corti . The motion of the fluid , then , is the effective stimulus for the sound receptors made up of the basilar-membrane fibers and the hair cells of the organ of Corti . Consequently , nerve impulses are fired along the auditory pathways to the temporal cortex for the appreciation of sound . Under normal conditions , sound waves pass through the external auditory meatus and strike the eardrum , causing it to vibrate . This energy is then amplified and transmitted by the ossicles to the fluid of the inner car and , in turn , the hair cells in the organ of Corti are caused to move and initiate auditory impulses . Actually , some of the sound energy is simultaneously conveyed to the inner ear via the bony tissues around the ear . Under normal circumstances , however , the amount of energy transmitted in this way does not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ physician utilizes bone conduction to ascertain whether there is hearing loss and precisely what part of the hearing system is deranged . The examiner customarily strikes a tuning fork and places it on the bony prominece just behind the ear . He instructs the patient to motion  | when he can no longer hear the sound . Then the tuning fork is brought next to the external ear . Under normal conditions , the sound produced by the tuning fork can be heard twice as long by air conduction as by bone conduction . If there is obstruction in the external auditory meatus ( excessive wax , for example ) , if the eardrum can not vibrate , or if the ossicles are rigid for one of several reasons , air conduction will be impaired . In these cases the subject will hear the sound via bone conduction and not through air conduction . This is so because the bony tissues bypass the external and middle ear and transmit the sound directly to the inner ear . A person with normal hearing can localize the direction from which sound waves are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time of the sound at the two ears . Even though the sound may originate to the right , for example , it is heard by both ears , but the waves arrive at the right ear slightly before they impinge upon the left ear . Consequently , the listener interprets the sound as coming from the right . Another factor which aids in localization is the difference in the intensity of the sound . The sound which strikes the right ear , in this example , will be slightly louder than that which arrives at the left ear . This explanation for sound localization obviously applies only to discontinuous sound . If the sound is continuous , the ears will be stimulated constantly , ruling out the differences in arrival time . The factor of intensity still plays a role , but this clue alone is inadequate to localize accurately the sound source . In the case of continuous sound of less than about 800 cycles per sound , the waves will impinge upon the two ears in different phases . This permits localization . But when the frequency is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ provide an adequate clue . As a result , the individual believes the sound to be coming from all sides at once . This is well known to the combat soldier as he listens to the scream of the shell above him . One concept of man 's appreciation of variations in intensity of sound is easy to understand . It is similar to the estimation of intensity of any of the other sensory modalities . The louder the sound , the greater will be the amplitude of the sound waves . As a result , the waves transmitted to the basilar membrane and organ of Corti will also have a greater amplitude . Consequently , each receptor fires more rapidly , and more receptors are activated . The net result is to deliver more fin pulses per unit time to the auditory cortex . This is recognized as increase in intensity . The mechanism by which man discriminates pitch is complex . Basic to this ability is the anatomy of the basilar membrane.  | The basilar membrane is about 0.04 millimeter wide close to the oval window . It then @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the other end . In addition , it also becomes progressively less stiff . There is a difference in stiffness from one end to the other of at least one hundredfold . The frequency of vibrations in any system is : ( 1 ) directly proportional to the stiffness ( elastic coefficiency ) , and ( 2 ) inversely proportional to the inertia . The short , stiff fibers ( close to the oval window ) will respond to waves of high frequency ; the larger , less stiff fibers at the other end respond to low frequencies . The current concept , instead of visualizing only a specific area of the basilar membrane as responding , concludes that there is a traveling wave of displacement . This wave increases in amplitude as it moves from the oval window apically . It reaches a maximum at the point of the membrane which resonates with the frequency of the driving waves . The amplitude then falls off rapidly ( Fig. 7-4 ) . The peak amplitude of the wave varies with the frequency of the sound . It is thought to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ influenced by the greatest amplitude of this traveling wave that provides the clue for pitch discrimination . Because a specific pitch activates a definite place on the basilar membrane more than it activates any other part of the membrane , this concept of pitch discrimination is termed the place theory . In other words , one localizes the place on the basilar membrane which is being most actively stimulated just as he localizes an area of the skin that is stimulated . There is a point-to-point representation between the membrane and the cerebral cortex which makes such localization possible .  | This explanation , however , is probably not the entire story . The number of impulses conducted by the auditory neurons per unit time varies with the frequency of the sound up to a maximum of about 4,000 cycles per second . It is thought that for all pitches below this figure the number of impulses conducted per unit time provides an important clue for pitch discrimination . This is the volley , or periodicity principle . Current thinking on this problem embraces both the place and the volley concepts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , frequencies below 4,000 cycles per second are primarily discriminated according to the rate of impulse propagation per unit time . The place theory provides the explanation for pitch discrimination of frequencies above 4,000 cycles per second . If the volley theory is valid , then our explanation for intensity discrimination needs modification , because it has long been assumed that frequency of impulses arriving in the temporal cortex was concerned only with discrimination of intensity . According to the volley theory , frequency gives the essential clue as to pitch . To reconcile this problem it has been suggested that there are high-threshold receptors which are only activated when the sound becomes intense . It is then assumed that it is the activity of these neurons and not the frequency of the impulses that permits us to discriminate various intensities . Clearly , the entire field of audition needs further investigation . One frequently hears the remark , " He has an ear for music , " or perhaps , " He has absolute pitch . " What is really meant is that the individual can listen to a pitch @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ able to identify it as middle C. The ramifications of this problem are truly many and beyond the scope of this text . Suffice it to say here that this ability may appear early in life , that it can be acquired to some degree with training , and that it is not an all-or-none affair . All individuals possess it to some degree . Disturbances of any part of the auditory mechanism may eventuate in partial or complete deafness . This may be caused by a failure of transmission of sound waves , it may be associated with occlusion of the eustachian tube , or there may be an interruption of the central auditory pathways . Any object in the external auditory meatus , such as wax or a foreign body , will buffer the transmission of the sound waves and may also dampen the tympanic membrane , resulting in hearing loss . This condition is usually transient , and normal hearing is resumed just as soon as the external car is cleaned .  | Acute otitis media is a condition in which there is , as the term indicates @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ often associated with the common cold , influenza , and other upper-respiratory disorders . The inflammatory process spreads from the pharynx up the eustachian tube to involve the structures in the middle ear . As a result , this cavity may become filled with fluid . The accumulation of fluid increases the pressure within the middle ear , causing the eardrum to bulge outward . This not only impairs hearing but is painful and may eventuate in a ruptured eardrum and the pouring out of a purulent exudate , popularly referred to as a " running ear . " Ordinarily the inflammation is mild and does not progress to the point where fluid accumulates . In some cases the eardrum is surgically incised to allow the exudate to escape . In these instances the eardrum heals rapidly without any subsequent hearing deficit . But should the condition become chronic , there may develop fibrous adhesions of the auditory ossicles . As a result , these little bones move less freely and hearing will be impaired . The internal ear , as well as the middle ear , may become involved in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the transmission of the sound waves through the fluid of the cochlea , as well as damage to the sensitive hair cells of the organ of Corti . A few cases of partial deafness have been reported in which a tumor growth within the cochlea has blocked sound-wave transmission . Finally , there are instances of a congenital defect in the formation of the inner ear resulting in varying degrees of deafness . A review of the anatomy of the auditory pathways will convince the student that a unilateral lesion can cause hearing loss only if it involves the auditory nerve close to the ear before crossing of the nerve fibers takes place . Unilateral lesions anywhere else are not so serious , because there is such great fiber crossing that each ear is represented on both sensory cortices . For the same reason , there is very little acoustic loss when there is destruction of the auditory cortex on one side . But if the lesion involves the auditory nerve before the fibers decussate , unilateral hearing impairment will ensue . It has been stressed that the function of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ side of the ympanic membrane to be equalized . Everyone is now familiar with the fact that when descending in an airplane one must swallow periodically in ( ider to relieve the pressure within the ear . If this maneuver fails , the pressure may cause pain and the eardrum may even rupture . When one swallows , the pharyngeal end of the eustachian tube is caused to open . Since the pressure within the pharynx is now greater than it is in the  | middle ear , air rushes into the middle ear , and once again the pressure on either side of the membrane is equal ( Fig. 7-5 ) . While ascending in an airplane , no conscious effort need be made to keep the pressures equal ; when the pressure in the middle ear builds up , it finally becomes great enough to force the eustachian tube open , permitting equalization . Under normal circumstances one experiences no difficuty in ascending or descending , but it is easy to understand that , should the individual suffer with a cold which has resulted in a blocking of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may be forced in one or the other direction and result in pain and possible rupture . Aside from air travel , occlusion of the eustachian tube can prove serious . In severe inflammatory conditions , not only may the tube be blocked but the inflammatory process may migrate into the middle ear as well . This may lead to fluid accumulation which can not be relieved because the occluded eustachian tube does not allow drainage . In such cases the tympanic membrane may rupture . There are two hearing tests which are commonly used . One estimates sound transmission ; the other measures auditory acuity . If a tuning fork is made to vibrate and then pressed against the forehead , the normal person will localize the sound as being directly in front of him . If there is blockage of sound-wave transmission through the middle ear on one side , the patient will report the sound as coming from the impaired side . If the experiment is conducted in a completely soundproof room , this result will not follow lie explanation lies  | in the fact that , in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ those emanating from the tuning fork . The patient does not detect these extraneous sounds with the defective ear . With that ear he recognizes only the tuning-fork vibrations , because these sound waves are being transmitted to the internal ear by bone conduction . The normal ear hears both the extrinsic sounds and the tuning fork by bone conduction , but the patient evaluates the vibrations of the tuning fork as being louder on the defective side and reports the sound as originating from that direction . A more satisfactory test of failure of middle-ear transmission is to evaluate each ear separately . The tuning fork is struck and then held on the bony prominence just behind the ear . Sound is heard because of bone conduction . After the sound is no longer heard , the tuning fork is placed just in front of the external auditory meatus . If there is sound-wave-transmission interference , it will not be heard , whereas the normal ear will perceive the vibrations . The normal ear can hear the sound after bone transmission has ceased . The hearing threshold or auditory sensitivity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . This is an instrument which produces sounds of varying pitches at different intensities . The subject wears a set of earphones , and the instrument is set to emit a specific pitch . Then the intensity is slowly increased until the subject reports that he hears the sound . The entire range of audible pitches is then tested and plotted . The record so obtained is called an audiogram . These are compared with normal audiographic patterns , and the degree of auditory impairment may be easily determined . Taste is a chemical sense . The effective stimulus to initiate gustatory sensation is a change in the chemical environment . There are chemical receptors which are sensitive to such changes . These chemoreceptors are called taste buds . Careful testing has revealed that there must be at least four different types of taste buds . This is so because man can easily distinguish among substances that are ( 1 ) sweet , ( 2 ) salty , ( a ) bitter , and ( 4 ) acid or sour . The anatomists have yet to describe morphological differences in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are ever discerned , the fact remains that the taste buds are capable of discriminating among these four gustatory sensations . The taste finds are found on the tongue , floor of the mouth , palate ,  | pharynx , tonsils , and epiglottis . They are so widely distributed that food entering the mouth , no matter how casually , should give rise to gustatory sensations . Taste buds are goblet-shaped modified epithelial cells . They have a small pore opening to the mucosal surface . In man they measure about 70 microns in length and close to 40 microns in diameter . It has been estimated that there are approximately 10,000 taste buds . This number remains fairly constant until about age 45 , after which it decreases . Figure 7-6 portrays the gustatory pathways . It will be observed that three cranial nerves participate . Afferent fibers from the taste buds course in cranial nerves VII , IX , and X. These nerves are also termed , respectively , the facial , the glossopharyngeal , and the vagus . It can be seen that these afferent fibers enter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fibers . The secondary fibers cross  | the brain stem and then ascend in the medial lemniscus to the thalamus . From the thalamus , tertiary fibers are projected to the sensory cortex in the parietal lobe . Taste Perception The taste buds are chemoreceptors , so-called because they respond to a change in the chemical environment . The taste buds are stimulated by fluids introduced into the mouth , or by solids that are dissolved in the saliva after entering the oral cavity . Dry solids are not effective . Just how the solution stimulates these receptors is not understood . It has been postulated that specific solutions can cause an alteration in permeability and thereby initiate the action potential . Another hypothesis suggests that the charge on the small hairs of the taste bud is altered by the solution sufficiently to discharge the cell . The adaptation of taste receptors to stimuli is very rapid . The four basic tastes are sweet , sour , salty , and bitter . It is possible to map the taste buds ( Fig. 7-7 ) . Gourmets unknowingly recognize this anatomical fact @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the mouth . Some foods will be sipped slowly , a solid substance will be rolled about on the tip of the tongue , and other foods will be tossed into the back of the mouth for finer appreciation . It is common experience that we can easily differentiate among far more than the four basic tastes . This ability depends upon two factors : ( 1 ) utilizing more than one type of taste bud in a blend , so to speak , and ( 2 ) deriving clues from activation of extragustatory receptors such as those of temperature , pressure , pain , and olfaction . For example , if an individual were to chew a piece of raw potato he could distinguish it from a morsel of raw carrot or an apple . Yet it is clear that none of these foods can he described as truly acid or sour , bitter , or sweet . The texture of the substance , its moisture content , the temperature , the relative proportion of the various types of taste buds stimulated , and finally the sense of smell @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sensory cortex , and in the light of past experience , a mental image is created . The precise role that olfaction plays in gustation is often difficult to evaluate . Everyone knows that when he has a cold his gustatory appre- ciation and discrimination are diminished . This and other evidence lead to the incontrovertible conclusion that clues obtained through the olfactory system play an important role in gustation . It is possible to perceive taste even though there in nothing in the mouth . For example , the presence of some substances in the blood stream gives rise to a sensation of taste . This is thought to be due to the compounds reaching the taste buds via the circulating blood . There are numerous drugs which fall into this category . For example , if vitamin B1 ( thiamine ) is injected into a vein , the patient may report within a few seconds a nutty or fruity taste . If a substance is diluted extensively , a point will be reached at which it can no longer be identified . The threshold dilution of different substances varies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ part in over a million can still be reported as bitter . However , if sugar is dissolved and diluted over about one part in 200 , the sensation of sweetness is lost . Actually , very little difference has been noted among normal subjects in the gustatory thresholds . There can be no question , however , but that some people can identify foods with greater case and accuracy than can others . This ability is almost exclusively the result of training , although a part of it may certainly be explicable on the basis of greater receptor sensitivity . It is easy to demonstrate that the taste of a substance depends upon contrast . For example , coffee consumed after a very sweet dessert does not taste nearly so sweet as the same coffee does in the morning when nothing else has preceded it . Again , the individual who has taken pains to develop his gustatory sensibilities takes cognizance of this fact and avoids the commingling of various foodstuffs . For example , the true lover of wines never touches his salad until he has finished the wine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can impart to the wine a disastrous flavor . Figure 7-8 shows schematically the arrangement of the odor receptors in the olfactory epithelium . Herein lies a distinctive characteristic . In every case considered so far , the receptor was found to be innervated by an afferent neuron which transmitted the impulse toward the central nervous system . In other words , there is one cell for reception and another cell belonging to the neuron . Close examination of Fig. 7-8 reveals only one cell . This one cell serves the dual role of imitating impulse for olfaction and then transmitting it to higher brain centers.  | The axons of the cell which serves both as a receptor and as a neuron enter the cranial vault through the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone . These axons are called the olfactory nerves , also referred to as cranial nerves I. These primary neurons end in the olfactory bulb . From the olfactory bulb arise the secondary neurons , which course along the undersurface of the frontal lobe of the brain , forming the olfactory tract . From this point on , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ connections have been described , but the reports are not in harmony and the fact remains that olfactory impairment can be demonstrated only after interruption of the olfactory nerves or tracts . Lesions placed in various parts of the cerebral cortex as well as in subcortical nuclei have consistently failed to influence olfaction significantly . Thus , for the present , the anatomical apparatus for the perception of odors must remain undescribed . The olfactory receptors are considered to be chemo-receptors similar to the taste buds . In order for substances to be tasted , they must be solution . Perfectly dry salt placed upon the tongue does not excite a salty sensation . But once it is dissolved in fluid , it is capable of chemically activating the taste buds . Likewise there are reasons to believe that in order for a substance to stimulate the olfactory receptors  | it must be in the form of a vapor and that the vapor must enter the fluid which constantly bathes the olfactory epithelium . In order to detect an odor the vapor must reach the olfactory receptors . These receptors reside @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ passing in and out during ordinary respiration does not pass over them . Thus , many investigators insist that in order to smell a substance it is necessary to sniff so as to bring the vapor-laden air into contact with these receptors . It is admitted , however , that without sniffing , the vapor will ultimately reach the sensitive cells by diffusion . Although these concepts are no doubt fundamentally valid , they leave much to be desired . It is certainly common experience that as soon as one walks into a kitchen where shrimp are being boiled , or drives by a paper mill or a garbage dump , the sense of smell is rapidly awakened . One need not sniff , and it is doubtful if the diffusion process , being characteristically slow , is adequate to account for the ability to detect these pungent odors so rapidly . However the olfactory receptors are stimulated , they fire impulses via the olfactory pathways , undoubtedly to some area of the sensory cerebral cortex for awareness . Odor , just as other sensory modalities , may be perceived as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the same . But once again the subject of discrimination confronts the physiologist , a problem that has been seen to be perplexing in all the special senses . For color discrimination it has been assumed that the retina contains three different types of receptors , each one sensitive to a specific color . The visual cortex could then mix these colors to allow perception of the entire color spectrum . For pitch discrimination the theory has been advanced that sounds of different wavelengths activate specific parts of the basilar membrane . In this case the auditory area of the cerebral cortex localizes the active receptors on the basilar membrane , and pitch may accordingly be discriminated . But what about odor ? We can certainly differentiate a rose from limburger cheese . It is a simple matter to identity wet paint , alcohol , and a host of other substances . It is inconceivable that there are specific receptors for each particular odor . It has therefore been suggested that there are certain basic odors . There would then be receptors which are relatively more responsive to one of those @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ odors are said to be , camphoraccous , musky , floral , pepperminty , ethereal , pungent , and putrid ; seven in all . In order for a substance to be perceived by the olfactory mechanism it must be volatile , it must be at least slightly soluble in water , and it must be soluble in lipids . In addition , according to this so-called stercochemical theory of odor , each of the seven primary substances has a specific molecular shape . There are assumed to be seven different of olfactory receptors , each of which will accept a molecul of appropriate configura- tion " just as a socket takes a plug . " Such receptors have not been identified , but action potential studies have shown that different odors do selectively activate specific receptors and not others . In some way the odorproducing substance must alter the permeability of the olfactory receptors so as to generate the action potential , but how this is accomplished is not known . The stereochemical theory may provide the necessary clue . As with all other modalities of sensation , the concentration @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it is detected . That concentration or threshold varies with the substance . Some chemicals may be detected in extremely small concentrations . In comparing the sense of taste and of smell , it has been found that olfaction is many thousands of times more sensitive than gustation . As was pointed out in the introduction to this chapter , the sense of smell in man is , in comparison with that in lower animal forms , very poor . Animals must rely upon their sense of smell for protection and food , and it also plays a significant role in sexual activities . In man , olfaction contributes immeasurably to the enjoyment of food and in some cases prevents the eating of spoiled foods , but for the most part we do not depend upon this sense . We use it fundamentally for pleasure and stimulation . Just how important olfaction is to man 's sexual activities can not be determined . Certainly the manufacturers of perfume believe it to be of inestimable importance , but meaningful statistics on this subject are rather difficult to obtain . Ingenious but simple @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The most widely used olfactometer consists of two tubes , glass or plastic , one of which slides within the other ( Fig. 7-9 ) . The outer tube is lined with an odorous material . When the inner tube is completely within the other and the small end is placed in the nostril , there will be no olfactory sensation . But as the inner tube is withdrawn , more of the odorous material will be exposed . This tube is graded , and thus the olfactory acuity may be ascertained . The gradations are in arbit terry units sometimes referred to as olfacties . Sound travels in waves . The frequency of the waves determines the pitch . The amplitude of the waves indicates the intensity of the sound . There is a third property , timbre or the quality or richness of the sound . The human ear can appreciate frequencies from about 20 to 20,000 cycles per ounce . The intensity of sound is expressed in decibels . Sounds louder than about 120 decibles are felt as well as heard , and if louder may cause @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into the external ear , the middle ear , and the internal ear . The esthetic external part of the ear is termed the pinna or auricle . The external auditory meatus is the tube which leads to the tympanic membrane . The three bony ossicles , the malleus , incus , and stapes , connect the tympanic membrane to the oval window . The middle ear is connected to the outside via the eustachian tube . The inner ear is composed of a winding tube termed the cochlea . The cochlea is divided into three cavities which are all filled with fluid . The organ of Corti is in contact with the basilar membrane , which is composed of fibers of varying length arranged in harplike fashion . Cranial nerve VIII or the auditory nerve innervates the hair cells of the organ of Corti . The central process of these neurons ends in the brain stem . Secondary fibers cross and ascend on the same side to the medial geniculate body . Tertiary fibers then course from here to the temporal lobe of the cerebral cortex . The most tenable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that sounds of different pitches activate a particular area of the basilar membrane more than any other part . Since there is a point to  | the localization of the part stimulated indicates the pitch . Intensity discrimination is probably , at least in part , a function of how much of the basilar membrane is activated and how frequently each receptor fires . The taste buds are the receptors for gustation . They are chemoreceptors sensitive to the chemical environment . In order for them to be stimulated , the substance must be in solution . There are apparently four types of taste buds , those which give rise to the sensations of ( 1 ) sweet , ( 2 ) salty , ( 3 ) bitter , and ( 4 ) sour . The taste buds are distributed , in varying concentrations , throughout the oral cavity . Afferent fibers from these receptors course in the facial , glossopharyngeal , and vagus nerves . The primary fibers enter the medulla oblongata . Secondary fibers cross the brain stem and ascend , to end in the thalamus . Tertiary fibers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lobe . Taste discrimination depends upon the relative stimulation of the four basic types of receptors plus clues from other senses , such as olfaction , temperature , pressure , touch , and even pain . The sensory cortex interprets these clues in the light of previous experience . The olfactory receptors are found in the upper regions of the nasal passages . The cells play the dual role of reception and transmission . The primary axons make up the olfactory nerves . They traverse the cribriform plate to end in the olfactory bulb . Fibers which make up the olfactory tract arise here . The central connections essential to olfaction are uncertain . In order for a substance to be smelled , the vapor must dissolve in the fluid which bathes the olfactory epithelium . The stereochemical theory purports to explain the ability to discriminate among odors . Olfactory acuity may be tested by the use of the olfactometer . Such an instrument measures olfaction in arbitrary units termed olfacties.  | THUS FAR WE HAVE CONSIDERED perception and movement pertaining to the external regions of the body . Within the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ called the viscera . Stimulation of the viscera in some cases can be perceived . For example , excessive distention of the urinary bladder is recognizable , as is acute cardiac pain . In some instances the viscera prove completely insensitive . It is possible to anesthetize the body wall with a local anesthetic agent , open the abdominal cavity , and then manipulate the viscera without pain to the patient . The viscera contain glands which secrete ; in many cases , this secretion is under nervous control . The viscera also contain smooth muscle which contracts ; its contraction is usually governed by the nervous system . There is a member of the nervous system which has not yet been discussed . This component is termed the autonomic nervous system . The autonomic nervous system , by definition , is that part of the nervous system which innervates smooth muscle , cardiac muscle , and glands . It is therefore a motor system . All perception emanating from the viscera involves pathways similar to the ones already discussed . Thus there are visceral afferent fibers which pass from the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ascend the cord to the thalamus and are projected onto the sensory cortex . On the other hand , important visceral reflex arcs use the visceral afferent fibers to channel the impulse into the ord , but the efferent limb of the visceral reflex is the autonomic nervous system . Visceral reflexes , like somatic reflexes , are under constant higher-center surveillance , but since the autonomic nervous system can not be utilized as a final common pathway for voluntary movement , it is seldom possible volitionally to influence visceral reflexes . The system is , as the name implies , autonomous , that is , self-governing . Before considering the autonomic nervous system in detail , a word of  | caution is needed . It is important to realize that the autonomic nervous system is not something apart from the nervous system as a whole . It is one part of the nervous mechanism and is , at all times , intimately integrated with all other components . An acute attack of appendicitis , for example , will give rise to pain . In addition , it may cause the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ illustrates the intimate interplay of a visceral afferent limb and a somatic efferent limb to produce a reflex . Simultaneously , there may be marked alterations in blood pressure . This reflex involves the same afferent visceral limb , but now in liaison with the visceral efferent limb of the autonomic nervous system . It should be obvious that numerous other illustrations could be cited to emphasize the fact that the autonomic nervous system is an integral constituent of the total nervous mechanism . The autonomic nervous system differs anatomically from the somatic motor mechanism . The chief difference lies in the fact that the autonomic fibers which originate in the spinal cord do not innervate muscle or gland . It may be seen that the fiber ends in synaptic union with a second neuron which does innervate a muscle or gland ( Fig. 8-1 ) . This is in direct  | contradistinction to the somatic fiber which , it will be recalled , connects the spinal cord directly with an effector organ . Thus , in considering the autonomic nervous system , we speak of preanglionic and postganglionic fibers . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bodies which give rise to postganglionic fibers . These latter fibers innervate smooth muscles and glands . The autonomic nervous system is composed of two parts : ( 1 ) the sympathetic and ( 2 ) the parasympathetic divisions ( Fig. 8-2 ) . These components differ both anatomically and physiologically . However , they are alike in that both contain preganglionic and postganglionic fibers . Figure 8-2 reveals that anatomically the sympathetic fibers arise from the lateral-horn substance of the thoracolumbar segments of the spinal cord . These neurons then leave the spinal cord and course to one of the sympathetic chains of ganglia . The two sympathetic chains run parallel to the spinal cord . It can be noted that there is a nodular swelling , that is , a ganglion , at each spinal-cord segment . A ganglion consists of an aggregate of cell bodies . These cell bodies give rise to the postganglionic fibers which are then projected to the muscles and glands . The preganglionic fiber which arises in one of the thoracolumbar segments may end in the sympathetic ganglion at that same segmental level . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ own level and ascend or descend the sympathetic chain for a variable distance to terminate in another ganglion where it synapses with the cell body of a postganglionic fiber . Some of the preganglionic fibers may pass through the sympathetic ganglion and course out to other ganglia . The postganglionic fibers usually leave the ganglia and embrace neighboring blood vessels . In this way they travel to all parts of the body in close association with vascular channels . Thus we see that even though the origin of sympathetic fibers is limited to the thoracolumbar section of the spinal cord , nonetheless this system wends its way to all parts of the body . The origin of the parasympathetic fibers is much more diverse than is the case with the sympathetic system . The parasympathetic fibers originate from four major levels . In the spinal cord these neurons leave the sacral segments and are directed to the pelvic viscera ( Fig. 8-3 ) . Here the preganglionic parasympathetic fibers end . Very short postganglionic fibers then convey the impulse to the regional muscles and glands . Herein lies an important anantimcal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ system . The sympathetic system has an orderly chain of ganglia situated close to the spinal cord . The parasympathetic system does not . These parasympathetic preganglionic fibers are long and extend almost to the organ to be innervated . It is here that they synapse in ganglia . A second major outflow of parasympathetic fibers is located in the brain stem . These neurons are associated with cranial nerves VII , IX , and X ( Fig. 8-2 ) . Another source of parasympathetic neurons is found in the so-called tectal region . These fibers are associated with cranial nerve III and supply the eye ( see Chap . 6 ) . Finally , nuclei in the hypothalamus give rise to neurons which are properly classified as parasympathetic . It has been already emphatically underscored that perhaps the most important concept in the entire study of physiology is embraced by the word homeostasis . In discussing the steady state , it was noted that the increased demands of the actively contracting muscles are met so that the percentage ( imposition of the blood remains constant . This is a superb @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stasis , or a static situation , it ix important to realize from the outset that the stasis is the end result ; the mechanisms which make possible these constancies are indeed dynamic , moveable , and exquisitely attuned to any forces which threaten to  | upset the desired balance . The autonomic nervous system plays an indispensable role in the maintenance of the constancy of the internal environment . It contributes , in short , to important homeostatic mechanisms . The two divisions of the autonomic nervous system differ not only anatomically but in their functions as well . Most viscera , but not all , are innervated by both types of fibers . Stimulation of one division usually produces effects just opposite to those noted upon stimulation of the other member ( see Table 8-1 ) . This makes fora convenient and effective mechanism . The interplay between the divisions is analogous to a tug of war . The handkerchief tied to the middle of the rope does not move so long as the teams pull with equal force . Should the handkerchief move , increased activity on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to its original neutral position . This is precisely what occurs in man . If , because of a sudden forceful action of the parasympathetic system , the blood pressure should fall , the sympathetic system will , through complicated reflexes , oppose the fall and quickly restore the blood pressure to within normal limits . One reason for the antagonistic effects of the two autonomic divisions is the difference between the chemical substances secreted by the postganglionic fibers . Adrenergic Fibers Activation of a postganglionic neuron of the sympathetic nervous system causes an impulse to travel the length of the neuron . When the impulse reaches the end of the axon , a chemical substance is liberated . This compound is now known to be norepinephrine . Norepinephrine and epinephrine are hormones secreted by the adrenal glands , accordingly , neurons that liberate these substances are termed adrenergic . There is now general agreement that in most , if not all instances , the specific compound is norepinephrine . Not all postganglionic sympathetic neurons are adrenergic . For example , those that innervate the sweat glands are cholinergic ( see @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ innervate some of the blood vessels of skeletal muscle . Examination of Table 8-1 will disclose that adrenergic fibers sometimes inhibit and in other organs they excite . For example , they dilate the coronary vessels but constrict the skin vessels ; they excite the heart muscle but inhibit the gut muscle . There is , as yet , no satisfactory explanation for this difference . It has been postulated that there must be some substance in the effector cell which reacts with norepineplritie to produce a compound which is either excitatory or inhibitory . " Hie of this substance , if it exists , is not known .  | Cholinergic Fibers In so far as is known , all active postganglionic fibers of the parasympathetic division liberate acetylcholine when activated . Such fibers are termed cholinergic . Actually , the great majority of neurons in man are of the cholinergic type . It will be recalled that an essential element of synaptic transmission from one neuron to another involves the elaboration of acetylcholine by the presynaptic neuron . Likewise , it has already been mentioned that somatic motor fibers activate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this same substance . In the autonomic nervous system , all preganglionic fibers are cholinergic , as are the postganglionic neurons of the parasympathetic division . Thus , only , the postganglionic fibers of the sympathetic component , with a few exceptions , are adrenergic . A complete study of visceral reflexes involves all of the physiology of man . When circulation is studied , it will be learned that heart action as well as blood pressure is controlled to a great extent by visceral reflexes . When we review respiration , it will be found that the breathing rate is dictated by visceral reflexes . The ingestion and digestion of foodstuffs evoke numerous visceral reflexes . These mechanisms will be analyzed in detail  | in more appropriate sections . For the present it is necessary to understand the anatomy and basic physiology of the visceral-reflex arc . It has already been noted that the autonomic nervous system is a motor system . It is the motor system which makes up the efferent limb of visceral reflexes . Figure 8-4 shows a typical visceral reflex . This one controls the activity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the most part of smooth muscle . Within the muscle tissue are proprioceptors . As the urine collects , the bladder wall is stretched and the proprioceptors are activated . Consequently , impulses are carried by the visceral afferent fibers to the spinal cord . Here they synapse with fibers of the parasympathetic division of the autonomic nervous system . These fibers carry the impulse back to the very same smooth muscle of the bladder wall and cause it to contract . Hence , urine is expelled and the stretch is relieved . In brief , the anatomical configuration of  | du . visceral and somatic reflexes is the same . The primary difference is that the autonomic nervous system makes up the efferent limb in a visceral reflex . As in the somatic system , visceral reflexes are facilitated or inhibited by higher-center censorship . Thus , following spinal-cord damage in man , visceral as well as somatic reflexes are lost . Obviously , the unfortunate individual in spinal shock is in a precarious state . The bladder then fills to an abnormal degree . There is no expulsion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of damage drops precipitously . After spinal shock fades , these reflexes reappear . They are then completely automatic , having been divorced from higher-center control . ' rims when the rectum fills to a critical point , it automatically evacuates ; when urine accumulates to a threshold degree , the bladder empties quite spontaneously . It is unquestionably true that the effects of some of the visceral reflexes may be altered by the will . For example , it is quite possible to prevent voluntarily urination or defecation . But this inhibition is probably brought about more by somatic sphincter control than by inhibition of the visceral reflexes . For the most part , visceral reflexes can not be altered by volition . Thus we note that it is impossible for the average person to vary his heart rate , raise his blood pressure , or dictate the flow of digestive juices . In reviewing the somatic reflexes , it was noted that a variety of stimuli could evoke them . The same applies for the visceral mechanisms . In the urinary-bladder illustration , the effective stimulus was stretch . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there are receptors which respond only to pressure , others responsive only to changes in the chemical composition of the blood . Thus , through these highly specialized receptors , adjustments to a specific aspect of the internal environment may be made . There are many so-called mixed reflexes . A change in the external milieu , acting through a somatic afferent limb , brings about alterations within the body through the autonomic efferent limb . For example , if on a hot and humid July afternoon one leaves an air-conditioned theater , marked physiological adjustments swing into action . Temperature receptors in the skin notify the central nervous system , and then through autonomic activity , widespread circulatory changes effect the shunting of blood from the internal areas to the surface of the body . Once again the superb rapport of autonomic fibers with ail other parts of the nervous stem is emphasized . The most expeditious way to illustrate the homeostatic role of the autonomic nervous system is to examine the hypothalamus . Hypothalamus  | means " under the thalamus . " This has reference to its position at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a family of nuclei which project fibers to all parts of the brain and into the spinal cord and which markedly influence autonomic function . In view of the fact that the two autonomic divisions have diametrically opposite effects , it is to be expected that there would be one great center of integration of these two systems . The hypothalamus serves this function . Although visceral reflexes are still operative after hypothalamic destruction , the experimental animal is far from normal . The major defect following hypothalamic destruction is the loss of rapid and effective adjustment to sudden environmental changes . It is possible experimentally either to stimulate or to destroy specific nuclei in the hypothalamus . By this procedure it has been disclosed that some hypothalamic nuclei are concerned with sympathetic activity and others with parasympathetic function . In other words , these two great divisions have representation in the hypothalamus ; it is here that highercenter coordination takes place . There are other centers of autonomic-nervous-system integration . It will be seen that there are brain-stem centers which govern the circulatory and respiratory mechanisms . And the cerebral @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The hypothalamus plays a major role in many functions including temperature regulation , alimentation , sexual reactions , and water balance . Only temperature regulation will be discussed now . The other functions are more properly considered in later chapters . Even the layman knows that body temperature remains , or should remain , within a very narrow range . Under normal circumstances the internal temperature of man is about 98.6 ? F. Even the most uneducated people are surprised and become alarmed when body temperature varies as much as a degree or two . What is most remarkable is that body temperature remains so constant despite such wide variations in the external temperature . The autonomic nervous system and the hypothalamus play a paramount part in maintaining body temperature . The hypothalamus may be likened to the thermostat of a modern heating plant . Most homes today have thermostats to regulate the production of heat . A thermostat consists of a mechanism which is sensitively attuned to deviations in the temperature . When the temperature rises above a desired point , the thermostat , through its electrical circuit , shuts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ impulses arc fired through the circuit , whit II start the furnace . By this method the temperature of the house is kept within  | narrow range . The hypothalamus functions as the human thermostat , and the nerve fibers of the autonomic nervous system supply the circuit which can start or stop the furnace and control the dampers . Body heat is produced as a result of all the metabolic processes . Every metabolic process requires energy , and some of this energy is dissipated as heat . For example , when a muscle contracts , a measurable quantity of heat is produced . It is for this reason that people in bitter cold weather swing their arms and jump about . More subtle muscular activity is involved in the shivering act . This is an involuntary expression designed to increase heat production . Through all the basic metabolic processes , by shivering , and finally by voluntary muscular contraction , heat is made available to the body . The heat which is so produced can be lost from the body at a greater or lesser rate . Heat is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to objects at lower-than-body temperature . There is also some loss through convection ( a cold gust of wind ) and conduction ( standing barefooted on a cold bathroom floor ) . If the great mass of blood is brought close to the body surface , and the surface arterioles and capillaries are opened wide , a large radiation surface will be presented , thus enhancing heat loss . If the blood is shunted away from the skin surface to the interior , it is protected , and heat loss becomes minimal . Another route for heat loss available to man is through perspiration . When water evaporates , it utilizes and hence removes heat . The heat of evaporation can be graphically demonstrated by placing a highly volatile substance , such as ether , on the back of the hand . As the ether evaporates , the hand feels noticeably colder . The rate of perspiration varies with the temperature , but even at low temperatures there is still some perspiration . This is called insensible water loss . It averages about 100 ml per day . During vigorous exercise @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can exceed 100 ml per hour . In summary , man is endowed with efficient mechanisms by which heat may be ( 1 ) produced , ( 2 ) conserved , or ( 3 ) lost . By the control of these factors , body temperature can be maintained surprisingly constant despite a wide range in the external temperature . A simple example will illustrate how this system operates . Assume for the moment that you have been inadvertently locked in a large meat locker with the temperature below freezing . As soon as you enter the locker , cutaneous temperature receptors will be activated . Impulses will be fired into the spinal cord and to the sensory cortex for awareness of your dilemma as well as to the hypothalamus for action . Within a matter of seconds , perspiration will be cut to a minimum , shivering will be  | initiated , and by widespread circulatory changes blood will be shunted away from the skin surfaces . If these changes fail to protect the internal environment , the temperature of the blood itself will start to fall . This chilled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the already mentioned mechanisms are reinforced . Should this still prove unequal to the task , you will begin to jump about , breathe deeply and rapidly , and wave your arms about , all of which increases heat production . The result is to increase heat production to a maximum and to reduce heat loss to a minimum . You have now done all in your power . If the conditions are too extreme , these mechanisms will be overwhelmed , body temperature will fall , and death will result . In very hot weather , muscular contraction is kept at a minimum , there is no shivering , one takes it easy , and heat production is kept at low ebb . One sees the classic caricature in the tired old man half asleep under the apple tree who , when told that he has a fly on his nose , simply says , " Just let ' im alone , he 's fall off with the first frost . " In this case the hypothalamus has been apprised of the situation through information obtained from the cutaneous warmth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the autonomic nervous system . The result is the shunting of blood to the surface and an increase in perspiration . Consequently , heat production is low and heat loss high ; the body temperature remains constant , The complete picture then shows that man has two lines of defense . ( 1 ) Small changes in temperature stimulate the temperature receptors in the skin , and impulses reach the hypothalamus via the sensory system . The hypothalamus , like the thermostat , alters heat production and loss so as to compensate for those external changes . For this purpose the autonomic nervous system is utilized . ( 2 ) If this system proves inadequate , the blood temperature drops and directly influences the hypothalamus to reinforce its efforts . Under some circumstances the body temperature rises and is maintained at this new abnormal level . In such a case the person is said to have a fever . To exploit our analogy once again , we may say that in : t fever state the thermostat has been set for a higher temperature . It is well known that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and may even shiver . The skin usually becomes pale . In other words , heat production is raised and heat loss cut clown . Therefore , the body tent perature rises and the patient is feverish . Conversely , when the lever " breaks , " the individual sweats profusely . This returns the temperature to within the normal range . Infectious processes often affect the thermostat in just this way .  | The autonomic nervous system is that component of the nervous system which innervates smooth muscle , cardiac muscle , and glands . It contains only motor fibers . They constitute the efferent limbs of the visceral reflexes . Unlike somatic motor fibers , autonomic neurons synapse , in ganglia , before reaching the effector organ . There are , therefore , preganglionic and postganglionic neurons . The autonomic nervous system is divided into sympathetic and parasympathetic divisions . Most preganglionic sympathetic neurons course to an orderly sympathetic chain of ganglia which lie close to and on either side of the spinal cord . Most postganglionic fibers arise in the ganglia and are projected to the organ to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the parasympathetic division . These fibers usually synapse close to the effector organ . Sympathetic neurons arise from the thoracolumbar segments of the spinal cord . Parasympathetic neurons originate from the sacral segments , from the brain stem , in the tectal region , and in the hypothalamus . The autonomic nervous system is an important homeostatic mechanism . Its two divisions usually have antagonistic effects . The constancy of the internal environment is maintained by balancing these forces . Fibers which when stimulated liberate norepinephrine are called adrenergic . Most postganglionic sympathetic fibers are of this type . Those which produce acetylcholine are termed cholinergic . These include all preganglionic fibers , parasympathetic postganglionic fibers , and a few postganglionic sympathetic neurons . Visceral reflexes are similar to somatic reflexes , the major difference being that autonomic fibers make up the efferent limb . These reflex patterns are controlled by higher centers , but after a period of spinal shock they establish an inherent automaticity . A variety of internal stimuli such as stretch , pressure , temperature , and chemical composition of the blood evoke the visceral reflexes . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hypothalamus is the center of integration for the autonomic nervous system . It plays an essential role in ( 1 ) the digestive mechanisms , ( 2 ) temperature regulation , ( 3 ) sexual reactions , and ( 4 ) water balance .  | NO PART OF THE BODY FUNCTIONS INDEPENDENTLY . Simply flexing and extending one finger brings about widespread alterations throughout the body . Even with the movement of one digit there are measurable changes in respiration and circulation , while nervous impulses are distributed to practically all parts of the nervous system . That is why it is necessary , in order truly to understand the physiology of man , to integrate one 's evergrowing knowledge . For teaching purposes , small units are considered as seeming independent wholes , but once each quantum is understood , it should be fitted into the constellation which is really the physiology of man . This integration is singularly important in the comprehension of the nervous system . Thus far the basic components of the nervous system have been studied . The mechanisms for perception , for reflex and voluntary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But clearly none of these mechanisms functions independently . The nervous system in normal man acts as an integrated whole ; there is ever present exquisite coordination of all its components . Important areas of coordination are the reticular formation and the cerebellum . The mechanism within the bony labyrinth functions in collaboration with the cerebellum and will also be considered in this chapter . The reticular formation is a mass of gray matter that extends from the audal end of the brain stem on up to the thalamus . Pathways from the basal ganglia , the cerebellum , various brain stem nuclei , and the spinal cord feed impulses into the reticular formation . The reticular formation , on the other hand , initiates pathways that go to these various structures . The reticular formation , in essence , is a complex network of afferent and  | efferent neurons . In the reticular formation there are vital centers for the regulation of circulation , respiration , and gastrointestinal activities . These functions will be considered in detail in later chapters . The activities of the reticular formation in coordinating @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the reticular formation is stimulated , both discrete and more generalized movements are elicited . This does not mean that this area initiates movement . It does suggest that the reticular formation participates in movement that is initiated at higher levels . More importantly , stimulation experiments disclose that certain parts of the reticular formation inhibit and other areas facilitate movement . Thus , the reticular formation probably coordinates at least the grosser types of movement which involve large groups of muscles . All of the sensory pathways , as they traverse the brain stem , send collaterals into the reticular formation . This input undoubtedly is utilized by the reticular formation in its role of coordinating motor activitiy . It also forms the basis for the firing of the reticular formation into higher centers . There is a diffuse projection of impulses up to the thalamus , the basal ganglia , and to all parts of the cerebral cortex . As a result , these higher centers are activated . In the absence of this reticular function , wakefulness is not maintained . Clinically this is seen in cases involving @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In such cases , the patient remains in a coma and can not be aroused . Apparently , under normal circumstances , all sensory activity is funneled into the reticular formation which then fires nonspecifically into higher centers to activate them . Figure 9-1 illustrates the position of the cerebellum in relation to the other parts of the brain . This relatively large structure lies just behind the larger cerebral hemispheres . In lower animals , the cerebellum is small and comparatively inconspicuous . It becomes larger as one ascends the phylogenetic scale ; in man , it is very prominent and highly important Upon detailed examination , the cerehellrnn is found to resenihle Elie cerebral hemispheres in that it consists ol a mantle ol rav mallet lank  | ing the internal white fibrous substance . And , like the cerebral cortex , the cerebellum is divided into lobes by deep and distinct fissures . Figure 9-2 shows the boundaries of the three major lobes of the cerebellum . They are ( 1 ) the anterior lobe , ( 2 ) the posterior lobe , and ( 3 ) the flocculonodular @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of ( 1 ) the flocculonodular lobe , ( 2 ) the paleocerebellum , and ( 3 ) the neocerebellum . Paleocerebellum implies an old part , that is , one that was present very early in the development of the species . Neocerebellum , on the other hand , is a term to describe an area that is newer . In view of the fact that the following discussion concerns the specific lobes , it is well to point out that the paleocerebellum is composed of the anterior lobe and a small portion of the posterior lobe . The neocerebellum is comprised of the remainder of the posterior lobe . CONNECTING PATHWAYS There is good reason to believe that the cerebellum is connected by fferent and efferent pathways with all other parts of the nervous system . For example , it is possible to stimulate discrete parts of the cerebellum and pick up action potentials in other areas of the braip . One must conclude from such experiments that there is a pathway over which the impulses have traveled from the cerebellum to the position of the recording ch. ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ identified  | ( Fig. 9-3 ) . Though only a few of the more important connections are shown , it is clear from the figure that the cerebellum is admirably situated to receive information from every part of the body and , at the same time , to influence all parts of the body . In short , anatomically the cerebellum is designed to coordinate sensory and motor functions . In discussing reciprocal innervation , it was emphasized that whenever one muscle contracts an opposing muscle must relax . That is true , but it is only part of the story . All muscular movement in man involves four distinct types of muscles . These are ( 1 ) the prime movers , ( 2 ) the antagonists , ( 3 ) the synergists , and ( 4 ) the fixation muscles . The prime movers are the muscles which actually produce the desired movement . If a weight is to be lifted , the arm must flex at the elbow . This is brought about principally by contraction of the biceps muscle . Flexion at the elbow is opposed by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the biceps is contracting , the triceps rel ; tzes I1ut not ( 0111 pletely or all at once . A degree of tension is maintained which opposes  | or antagonizes the flexion act . This is not so inefficient as it may appear upon first thought . The small amount of antagonistic tension steadies the joint and makes the movement smooth and controlled . Thus the muscles which oppose any movement are known as the antagonists . The roles of prime movers and antagonists may be switched . When the arm is extended , the triceps becomes the prime mover and the biceps assumes the role of antagonist . The designation synergist means " to work together . " Thus this term aptly applies to those muscle groups which work together with the prime  | mover and antagonists to produce the desired motion . These muscles are especially important in a freely moving articulation . To return to the weight-lifting example , it should be clear that the freely movable elbow joint must be supported in such a way that as the biceps contracts the forearm is brought up with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this act , there must be contraction of the muscles which insert upon the lateral surfaces of the forearm . These latter muscles cooperate with the prime movers to bring about flexion and the elevation of the weight . In addition to the muscle groups discussed , it is apparent that in order to produce movement of any sort there must be fixation of various parts of the body . In our illustration the forearm , the shoulder , the trunk , and the wrist must be rigid so that the contraction of the biceps can bring the forearm up with the weight . Muscles which fix a part so that bones in articulation with it can move are called fixation muscles . One should be impressed with the fact that even the simplest movement is a highly complex process involving many muscles ? some contract , others relax , and still others maintain a steady tension throughout the process . It follows that if movement is to be smooth and efficient there must be a higher center to coordinate the activity of these muscle groups . The major function of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ coordination . For years attempts have been made to associate each part of the cerebellum with a specific function . With the exception of the flocculonodular lobe , these attempts have caused more confusion than enlightenment . Thus , the flocculonodular lobe function will first be discussed , and then the remainder of the cerebellum as a whole will be analyzed . The flocculonodular lobe functions in connection with the vestibular mechanism in the bony labyrinth ( see below ) . Accordingly , this lobe is essential to equilibration . The vestibular apparatus feeds information concerning the position of the head in space , and its rotation , into the flocculonodular lobe . This lobe , through its connections with descending motor pathways , is able to coordinate the information with movement and thus maintain equilibrium even during highly coil plex and violent movements . The importance of the lobe is emphasized when it is destroyed . Such individuals have difficulty standing erect ; when they walk , they do so with their legs wide apart , that is , on a broad base . and still they tend to stagger @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the cerebellum receive impulses from all the proprioceptors throughout the body . These receptors fire neurons that are very large and conduct im- pulses at rates up to 120 meters per second . The anterior and posterior lobes also receive impulses from the cerebral cortex each time they send out motor commands . These lobes have pathways over which impulses can be sent to the lower motor neurons or to the motor cortex ( Fig. 9-3 ) . Finally , there is an input from the visual and auditory receptors . In short , these lobes receive sensory and motor information , and they send out impulses to the motor cortex and to the lower motor neurons . It is , then , in a superb position to coordinate motor function in the light of sensory data ; and that is exactly what it does . Each time the motor cortex sends out a stream of impulses to initiate movement , the cerebellum is immediately apprised of this activity . At that instant it has information of a visual , auditory , and proprioceptive nature . It can now modulate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the lower motor neurons . It can also influence subsequent motor activity by firing back to the motor cortex . In addition , as the movement proceeds , there is continuous feedback from vision , the proprioceptors , and perhaps audition . All of this information is utilized to adjust , refine , and perfect the movement . We have already seen how lesions in various parts of the cerebellum result in disorders of equilibration , posture , and movement . In clinical practice , such discrete lesions are seldom seen ; there is usually involvement of one or more lobes , so that the findings represent a combination of disturbances . A few of the more obvious clinical entities will be mentioned in order to illustrate the great function of coordination performed by the cerebellum . The term dysmetria is derived from dys- , " difficult , " and metria , " measure . " The patient , then , has difficulty measuring the extent of his muscular movements . If the examiner holds his finger pointed to the patient and instructs him to touch it with his finger @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ task . He will point all about it , or past it . Dysmetria is usually accompanied by the so-called intention , or terminal tremor . Not only does the patient find it difficult to point precisely , but as the finger approaches the target it begins to shake . The tremor only occurs when there is great intention on hitting the mark , that is , at the end or termination of the act . For example , in eating , as the fork is brought closer and closer to the mouth , the hand shakes more and more . This frightening word , when reduced to its components , means " loss of successive movements . " It thus aptly describes the deficiency noted in many patients with cerebellar damage . A normal  | person can pronate and supinate ( in other words , rotate his wrist one way and then the other ) with great rapidity . With cerebellar dysfunction this apparently simple exercise can be performed only very slowly and tediously . The movement requires alternating roles between the prime movers and the antagonists . One muscle @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a sudden reversal . Apparently this can be accomplished only with the assistance of the cerebellum . If a patient with extensive cerebellar damage is observed , it will be noted that he executes movements in robotlike fashion . Every movement is broken down into its individual units . There is decomposition of the usually smooth and efficient pattern . If the subject wishes to lift a glass from the table , he first brings the forearm up , then the entire arm is thrust forward , then the hand opens , and the arm moves forward once again until the hand comes in contact with the glass ; then the fingers close about it . Each muscle must act independently . The striking feature is that there is no coordination . If a normal person pushes against the examiner 's hand which is then slid away , the individual 's arm will move forward just a few inches before he inhibits the motion . If the patient with cerebellar dysfunction is tested in the same way , his arm will jump forward unchecked . If the test is carried out @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ against the examiner 's hand , as soon as the examiner lets go the patient 's forearm rebounds with great force . Once again this test makes apparent the loss of muscular coordination which depends upon an intact cerebellum . By this time the student should be impressed with the fact that maintaining the upright position both while standing still and during locomotion requires the coordination of many mechanisms . This balance , or equilibration , is dependent upon ( 1 ) functional reflexes , ( 2 ) an uninterrupted flow of proprioceptive impulses to the cerebral and cerebellar cortices , ( 3 ) vision , ( 4 ) voluntary adjustments , and ( 5 ) impulses originating from the bony labyrinth . All except the last have been discussed . Now the anatomy and physiology of the bony labyrinth will be considered . Within the temporal bone , beyond the oval window , there arc several winding cavities . We have already learned that one of these cavities contains the cochlea , a spiral structure essential to audition . The other chambers house the uttricle , the saccule , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shows two membranous sacs . The smaller is the saccule , and the larger is the utricle . Saccule means " a small sac , " while utricle is the diminutive of uter and refers to " a skin bag . " The utricle , and probably the saccule as well , are concerned with balance , with awareness of position . Within each of these organs there is a sense organ composed of delicate hair cells covered by a gelatinous substance . This sense organ is termed the macula ( Fig. 9-5 ) . The utricle and saccule are in communication with one another and are filled with endolymph . Semicircular Canals The remaining cavities within the temporal bone contain the three membranous semicircular canals . Figure 9-4 illustrates that these canals lie approximately at right angles to each other . In other words , there is a semicircular canal in each of the three planes . The canals have a swelling at one end known as the ampulla . The ampulla contains the receptors sensitive to a change in velocity . It is composed of sensory hair cells and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ semicircular canals are in communication with the utricle and saccule and are filled with the same endolymph . Innervation Cranial nerve VIII supplies the utricle , saccule , and semicircular canals as well as the cochlea . This nerve , also known as the auditory nerve , has two major branches : ( 1 ) the cochlear division which innervates the organ of Corti and ( 2 ) the vestibular division which supplies the crista of the semicircular canals and the macula of the utricle and saccule . Because of this dual role of the auditory nerve , individuals who are congenitally deaf may also demonstrate equilibratory deficits .  | Most of the neurons which innervate the equilibratory receptors pass to the medulla , where they end . Some continue on to the cerebellum . Secondary fibers are projected in several different directions . Some ascend to terminate in the nuclei of cranial nerves III , IV , and VI , thus forming the connections for reflex movements of the eyes in response to change in position . Other fibers descend the spinal cord to end in synaptic union with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ movement in response to positional change . Finally , some fibers undoubtedly wend their way , probably via the thalamus , to the sensory cortex so as to make one aware of position and changes in velocity . The bony labyrinth apparently serves a dual role : ( 1 ) to initiate , appropriate reactions to movement and ( 2 ) to aid the maintenance of the upright position . The semicircular canals are sensitive to movement , while the utricle is fundamentally concerned with position . The semicircular canals are arranged at right angles to each other , thus no matter in what plane the movement takes place , at least one pair of canals is involved . The canals are filled with  | endolymph which has inertia . Accordingly , when the canal is accelerating or decelerating there is movement of the fluid . It is similar to being thrown backwards in a car that starts off abruptly , or being thrown forward when it is stopped suddenly . As the endolymph moves forward or backward is bends the hair tufts . Whenever these tufts are bent , impulses @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the auditory nerve to the brain stem . As a result there are reflex movements of the eyes as well as changes in the autonomic nervous system , plus the usual dizziness or giddiness which is associated with rapid rotation . In addition , following the termination of rotation , the individual demonstrates characteristic errors in voluntary motion . Impulses which arise in the semicircular canals are conducted by a two-neuron chain to the nuclei of cranial nerves III , IV , and VI . It will be recalled that these nerves innervate the extrinsic ocular muscles . This , then , is the anatomical background for the reflex movements of the eyes which accompany rotation . If the subject is rotated to the right , it will be noted that during the acceleration phase there is a slow conjugate movement of the eyes to the left . This is then followed by a rapid jerk back to the right , another slow movement to the left , and so forth . This rhythmic oscillation of the eyeballs is termed nystagmus . The term is derived from the Greek and means @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in sleep . " The term probably has reference to the fact that as one falls sleeps , especially in the sitting position , one begins slowly to drop his head , then suddenly and quickly the head is raised , and the process is repeated . In a sense , then , the dozing act consists of a slow and a quick phase . Nystagmus is also composed of two components : ( 1 ) the slow phase and ( 2 ) the rapid phase . During acceleration the slow phase is in the opposite direction to the rotation . Nystagmus is classified according to the direction of the quick phase as well as the plane in which the eyes move . For example , in the illustration just cited , the quick phase is to the right and the eyes move in the horizontal plane . It is therefore referred to as a right horizontal nystagmus . Should the body be rotated with the head flexed so as to rest on one or the other shoulder , a vertical nystagmus will appear . Finally it is possible , by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , to produce a rotary nystagmus . The slow phase of nystagmus is a reflex act . The eyes attempt to remain fixed upon an object so that as the head turns in one direction the eyes , remaining stationary , appear to be moving in the opposite direction . A limit is reached , and then by voluntary effort the eyes attempt to " catch up , " thus leap back to the opposite side . This phenomenon can be readily substantiated by watching a passenger 's eyes as he views the  | scenery from a rapidly moving train . The eyes will be seen to fix upon the passing telephone poles ; then the eyes must periodically jump ahead to come to focus upon another one . In short , the slow phase of nystagmus is away from the direction of rotation ; the quick phase is in the direction of movement . If rotation is continued at a steady rate , nystagmus ceases . When rotation decelerates , the nystagmus once again occurs , but this time the quick phase is in the opposite direction . These facts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as movement per se , but rather to movement during acceleration and deceleration . It is change in velocity which activates these receptors , and not velocity as such . This is understandable when it is recalled that the crista is activated by being bent by the movement of the endolymph . The endolymph moves only during acceleration and deceleration . If a subject who has just been rotated in a chair attempts to stand up , he will invariably fall to one side . This is not a reflex act but an error in volitional movement . The subject 's equilibratory mechanism has been disturbed by the rotation . As a result , when he stands erect he is under the impression that he is falling to one side when actually he is not . Consequently , he throws himself in the opposite direction in an attempt to compensate for the imagined movement . It is precisely for this reason that pilots are instructed not to trust to the " seat of their pants " when flying , especially in combat maneuvers which involve rapid changes in direction and acceleration @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fatal unless the pilot relies on his instruments more than his sensations . If the external auditory meatus is irrigated with warm water , reactions similar to those just described take place . There follows nystagmus , autonomic-system alterations , and disturbances of equilibration . The mechanism of the reaction to heat is very similar to the response to movement . The heat applied to the external ear causes an increase in the temperature of the endolymph in the end of the semi circular canal lying nearer the outer ear . As a result , convection currents are initiated which bend the hairs of the crista and thus evoke the typical responses . Nystagmus in the opposite direction results from cold-water irrigations . It has been stressed that the semicircular canals respond only to acceleration and deceleration or , put another way to a change in velocity . The utricle , on the other hand , is stimulated by any change in position of the body . The receptor is the unacula . This  | consists of a mass of sensitive hair cells covered by a gelatinous substance . On this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 9-5 ) . These lime crystals are called otoconia . The otoconia give weight to the hair cells , so that the entire mass is influenced by gravity and , accordingly , moves with any deviation of the body . This movement of the otoconia in the utricle and saccule initiates impulses which are conducted to the medulla and then down the spinal cord to synapse with the anterior horn cells . As a result , volitional and reflex movements are modified . In this way , a deviation of the body from the upright position will give rise to appropriate responses so as to oppose that particular movement . In most living forms , equilibration is so perfect that one pays little heed to it . A man 5 to 6 ft tall has no difficulty supporting himself upon a base of approximately 12 in . If a cat is dropped , it will invariably land on its feet . An athlete can hurl himself horizontally over a bar and land upright . Such illustrations are almost limitless . The common denominator in all of them is that the body @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , serve to inform the individual of his position and simultaneously bring about appropriate reflex and voluntary acts so as to maintain the desired posture . Muscles and tendons contain proprioceptors which are sensitive to a change in tension . Thus , when a muscle or tendon is stretched , there is an increase in tension . As a result , the proprioceptors fire impulses which are conducted by an afferent neuron to the spinal cord or brain stem . If there is appropriate facilitation at the synapse , the motor neuron will be activated , thereby causing a contraction of the stretched muscle . This is a fundamental reflex mechanism which requires no volitional assistance . It suffices to a degree to support the individual against gravity . There are two important physiological structures in the horsy labyrinth : ( 1 ) the semicircular canals and ( 2 ) the utricle . These systems are sensitive to a change in velocity as well as in position . It has heel ) stressed that the proprioceptors are stimulated by a change in position but this is true only if the muscles @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ example , when a standing individual begins to sway to one side , the muscles on the opposite side will be stretched and the pro-prioceptors will be fired . Simultaneously the utricle will be activated . In  | this case the body is apprised of its position by two separate mechanisms , and they function synergistically to reinforce one another . On the other hand , the semicircular canals constitute , for all practical purposes , the only available means for detection of changes in velocity . The proprioceptors , the semicircular canals , and the utricle maintain ever-constant vigil over the body 's position and movement . The information which they gather is utilized for reflex compensation , is fired into the sensory cortex , thus making the subject conscious of his position at all times , and is also directed to the cerebellum . The cerebellum , it will be recalled , is also kept continuously informed of plans for voluntary movement . In a sense , the cerebellum previews things to come . Therefore , before the movement is actually undertaken , necessary adjustments , in the light @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , are made . The cerebellum then conveys this integrated information back to the motor cortex which can now execute the planned movement with smoothness and efficiency . The visual sense plays an important role in equilibration . It is true that with the eyes closed the normal person can maintain balance , but with the eyes open all the mechanisms thus far discussed are refined and reinforced . The importance of vision is underscored in conditions in which one or more of the other equilibratory mechanisms is impaired . For example , in tabes dorsalis , more commonly called locomotor ataxia , the posterior columns of the spinal cord are destroyed . As a result , there can be no transmission of proprioceptive impulses to the higher brain centers . If an individual so afflicted closes his eyes , he will sway backward and forward and from side to side . Such patients depend upon vision for much of their equilibration . Likewise interruption of the auditory nerve disconnects the bony labyrinth and , as a result , there is impairment of balance . But as long as vision is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have drowned because , having dived into deep water , they can not see the surface ; they have no knowledge of their position and are as likely to swim down as up . It has been mentioned that if a cat is held upside down and released it will whip about , land on its feet , and then support itself . This rapid act involves many reflexes . An analysis will serve to integrate the various equilibratory mechanisms . While the cat is suspended upside down , impulses from the utricle inform the animal of its position . It will be  | noted that even while being held the head is twisted in an attempt to regain the normal position . As soon as the animal is dropped , the head turns , thus causing stretch upon the opposing neck muscles . During rotation the semicircular canals are excited , and these impulses also serve to orient the animal . The turning of the head in response to labyrinthine stimuli causes stretch of the opposing neck muscles . Thus proprioceptive impulses not only cause these muscles to contract and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ up reflexes which involve appropriate contraction of the trunk muscles as well , thereby completing the rotary act . If the animal is blindfolded and dropped , it still rights itself without difficulty . This does not mean , however , that the visual reflexes are not important for equilibration . For example , if an animal in which the labyrinth has been destroyed is dropped , it still rotates , but if it is blindfolded , it does not . The visual reflexes serve to reinforce the labyrinthine mechanism . The normal animal utilizes both . The supporting reflexes have already been discussed but for the sake of integration are reintroduced here . While the animal is falling , it rotates so that it comes into contact with the ground on all fours . As soon as the toes touch , they are spread apart by the weight of the animal . This toe-spreading initiates widespread stretchreflex contraction . Next the extensor muscles are stretched by the weight of the falling animal . These muscles now respond vigorously by contracting . At the same time the flexor muscles contract so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rigid pillars to support the animal . This coordination between opposing muscle groups is purely reflex in nature , but the basic reflexes are controlled and modified by the cerebellum . Thus the animal spins about , falls upon its feet , is supported , and then prances off . The entire act requires but a fraction of a second and is performed with great ease and economy of motion . All these mechanisms functioning together make it possible for man to engage in an endless variety of activities . Any equilibratory deficit manifests itself in such a seemingly simple act as walking , which we come to take for granted and to which we give little consideration . It should be evident that the complex abilities required to drive a car or fly an airplane , to participate in sports , and to carry out all the requirements of modern living would be impossible were it not for the highly synchronized equilibratory mechanisms .  | The reticular formation is a mass of gray matter that extends from the caudal end of the brain stem on up to the thalamus . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ functions to coordinate motor functions and essential visceral activities . The cerebellum is a large cone-shaped structure which lies just behind the cerebral hemispheres . The cerebellum is connected by afferent and efferent pathways with all other parts of the nervous system . Proprioceptive impulses from every muscle in the body flow into the cerebellum . Here they are coordinated with messages from the motor cortex and then fired back to the appropriate motor nuclei to effect smooth , coordinated , and purposeful movement . The cerebellum is fundamentally concerned with posture , movement , and equilibration . These activities are underscored by lesions which produce discrete deficiencies . Disturbances of the flocculonodular lobe are associated with a loss of equilibration , forcing the patient to walk on a broad base . Other cerebellar disorders result in dysmetria , tremor , adiadochokinesis , decomposition of movement , and the rebound phenomenon . There is a series of cavities in the temporal bone containing the utricle , the saccule , and the semicircular canals . The utricle is a spherical structure containing a sense organ termed the macula . The macula is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ semicircular canals arranged perpendicularly to one another . At one end they are enlarged into an ampulla . Within the ampulla is a tuft of hair called the crista . The semicircular canals are filled with endolymph , which , because of inertia , moves in the opposite direction to movement of the head . As a result of this movement , the hair cells are bent ; this initiates impulses which inform the individual of , t change in velocity . These impulses not only permit cognizance of this change but also bring about eye movements as well as muscular adjust ments throughout the body . As a result of change in velocity , the eyes move slowly in a direction opposite to the movement and then quickly snap back . This two-phase response is called nystagmus . Nystagmus is classified according to ( I ) the plane of movement and ( 2 ) the direction of the quick phase . During acceleration the quick phase is in the same direction as the movement During deceleration it is opposite to the movement . The slow phase is a reflex act @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ up . During constant motion there is no nystagmus . Man is endowed with several mechanisms , available for equilibratrion . Normal activity demands fine integration of all of them . These mecha- nisms include proprioceptive impulses from muscles and tendons , stretch reflexes , impulses from the labyrinth , coordination by the cerebellum , visual adjustments , and voluntary movements in the light of sensory data .  | FIGURE 4-11 shows that the regions of the cerebral cortex thus far studied occupy a relatively small portion of the hemispheres . By far the larger fraction is made up of areas which are concerned with the coordination of the basic mechanisms into a functional whole . These are the association areas . Investigation of such regions in lower animals has not been too fruitful . Thus , what little is known has been culled from clinical cases in which there is evidence of disorder in the association areas . At best our knowledge is scanty , and until the association areas are better understood there can be no true comprehension of the physiology of the nervous system . All that can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a few of these areas and how they relate to the physiology of man . Speech is a complex mechanism which involves superb integration of sensorimotor functions and learning . There is perhaps no human activity which requires greater nervous-system coordination than speech . At one time an attempt was made to locate a speech center in a relatively small area of the cerebral cortex , but it is now known that much greater space is relegated to normal speech . In order to produce sound , and this is as true in a musical instrument as it is in the human vocal apparatus , three me ( ha nisms must be available . There must be some force which sees a vibrating part in motion , there must be a vibrating object , and there is need of one or more resonators which serve to reinforce the Vibrations . In the piano , for example , the forte is represented by the hands which spike the keys , the strings are the vibrating bodies , and the sounding board serves  | as a resonator . In man , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is emitted from the lungs , the vibrating bodies are the true vocal cords . The pharynx , mouth , and nose collectively act as resonators . In order to make possible a blast of air , the pressure within the lungs must be increased . This is accomplished by the simultaneous action of the muscles of the chest and abdomen . While lung pressure is being built up , the vocal cords are closed . As the air passes up through the larynx , the vocal cords are forced apart and caused to vibrate . The greater the pressure of the expelled air , the wider will be vibratory oscillations . It will be recalled that the amplitude of the sound wave signifies the intensity of the sound . In other words , the loudness of the . voice is controlled by the muscles of the chest and abdomen . The vocal cords are highly mobile structures and , as such , are capable of modifying their length , position , and degree of tension . In the production of high-pitched sound , the cords become long and very tense @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we find that the cords are relaxed and shortened . The third and last important sound component is the resonator . In man , the resonating apparatus consists of the pharynx , mouth , nose , and possibly the paranasal sinuses . These areas contribute . to the quality of the voice , reinforce the sound produced in the larynx , and make it possible for the individual to utter vowels and consonants . One has only to recall the change of one 's voice during a cold or sore throat or following the loss of the teeth to appreciate the importance of these resonating chambers . The muscular movement required to control respiration , to force air past the vocal cords , to vary pitch and timbre , and finally for articulation depends , fundamentally , upon the integrity of the primary motor area ( area 4 ) . Isolated movement of these muscles , however , would not even produce a sound , let alone speech . Obviously area 6 must also be implicated . For the coordination of all these muscles , the cerebellum is indispensable ; in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , in addition to these basic centers , large association areas are also needed . Figure 10-1 shows the areas of the cerebral cortex which are involved in speech . The frontal lobe is concerned with voluntary muscular movements which are necessary in speech . One important part of the frontal lobe has been designated as area 44 or Broca 's area . Broca 's at ca sloes not directly control the muscles of speech , for these muscles are influenced by area 9 . Broca 's area is essential for the synchronization of all these muscles . If Broca 's area is bilaterally destroyed , there is no paralysis of the various muscles utilized in speech ; each one can still be ! mixed individually , Ind the subject can not coordinate them so as to produce articulation . Area 44 , then , is an association area essential to speech .  | The term aphasia really means the complete loss of speech . However , the designation is generally applied more loosely so as to include any impairment of speaking . When aphasia is due to paralysis of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the other hand , there may be a sensory deficit which makes speech impossible ; this is known as sensory aphasia . Finally , difficulty may lie only in the coordination or intellectual sphere . This type of aphasia is termed amnesic aphasia . If one is suffering with a lesion which interferes with the use of the muscles utilized for speech , there will be impairment . Thus we find that a " stroke " is frequently accompanied by paralysis of the speech muscles . Similarly , destructive lesions in the motor areas of the cerebral cortex result in motor aphasia . But aside from these cases , motor aphasia also develops as a result of lesions in area 44 ( Fig. 10-1 ) . In this case each muscle can be moved at will . Thus the aphasia can not be due to paralysis . In addition , these subjects are also unable to write . This indicates that there is a loss in the ability to form words . Interestingly enough , even though the patient can not declare himself with words , nonetheless emotional expression remains so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to say even though it is in pantomime . It is almost as though one were watching television without sound . The individual knows what he wishes to say , there may be no paralysis of of the speech muscles , yet he can not coordinate the muscular apparatus so as to produce speech . There is a large area on the cerbral cortex which tends from the temporal lobe back into the occipital legion . Sensory aphasia FIG. 10-1 Aphasia . Lesions involving the shaded areas cause either motor or sensory aphasia.  | This portion of the brain is presumably necessary for comprehension of the written and spoken word . The visual cortex is concerned with visual acuity , but simply because a person sees a word clearly does not mean that he understands the word . Comprehension involves training and memory , functions of the association areas . The same , of course , applies to the spoken word . Thus , in clinical practice , one encounters cases of word blindness or word deafness which upon examination are found to be caused by lesions involving these very large @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the individual does not understand words that he sees or hears , his speech will be very limited and he will be unable to carry on a conversation or to read aloud . Since the deficit is on the sensory side , the impairment is called sensory aphasia . This is a type of speech deficit which is often difficult to distinguish from motor or sensory aphasia . But upon careful testing it becomes clear that the patient can utter some words , indicating no motor impairment , and that he can understand the written and spoken word . But when he attempts to speak , he has great difficulty in finding his words even though they be very simple and common ones . If the examiner suggests or supplies the words , the patient will repeat it as though he had simply forgotten it and the clinician 's prompting helped in recall . Because of this seeming forgetfulness , the disorder is termed amnesic , which means " to forget . " As one might suspect , these cases are generally associated with widespread cortical damage . As yet our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cortex , is inadequate to permit a physiological analysis of intelligence . It is known that the more intelligent the animal , the larger and more highly developed is the cerebral cortex . But little can be added to that gross observation . Intelligence depends on the ability to observe , to comprehend , to retain , and to recall . The physiological basis of both learning and memory is probably the same . It is well known that information can be funneled into the central nervous system , that it can be understood , interpreted , stored , and then recalled . Some primitive types of learning and memory can be carried out it lower levels , but for the most part , the cerebral cortex would seem to be of primary importance . Attempts have been made to explain learning and memory in accord with the mechanism of an electronic computer in  | circuits are maintained , the data is retained and can be recalled and utilized at any time . Thus , one visualizes neuronal circuits being activated during the learning process . This , however , is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ explanation . In the first place , it is known that experimental lesions and also various types of brain damage cause loss of memory for recent events but not for more distant occurrences . Secondly , if memory simply involved the activation of neuronal circuits , electroshock treatment would be expected to obliterate all memory by interfering with the propagation in these circuits . This does not occur except for memory of very recently learned information . Thus , it seems as though in the process of learning some more or less permanent alteration occurs in the cortex . There is some evidence that RNA plays a role . Perhaps the RNA of the neuron becomes altered in the learning process . Since RNA acts as the model , or template , for subsequent protein synthesis so long as no further alteration in this particular RNA occurs , the change will be permanent and self-regenerative . The particular area of the cerebral cortex primarily concerned with learning and memory , indeed if there is such specialization , is not known . Some evidence implicates the temporal lobes , but this is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the emotional response . These areas include the limbic system , the hypothalamus , and the prefrontal areas 9 to 13 ( Fig. 4-11 ) . Much of what was formerly called the rhinencephalon is now known as the limbic system . It was Broca who first made this distinction . Rhinencephalon refers to the part of the bra in that has to do with olfaction , but it is amply clear that not all of the rhinencephalon , certainly not in man , has this function . " Limbic , " on the other hand , means border and in this sense designates its position , but not its function . The limbic system consists of two rings of medially located cortex along with the amygdala , hippocampus , and septal nuclei . The limbic system sends efferent fibers to the thalamus via the mammillary bodies . There are afferent fibers from the thalamus back to the hippocampus . ' Met c ale also circuits to and from the hypothalamus . The limbic system , along with other parts of the central nervous system , but particularly the hypothalamus @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Sexual behavior will he out lined in a later chapter . That the hypothalanus and the limbic system play some role in emo- tion is shown when these areas are stimulated ( Fig. 10-2 ) . The animal may show fear , rage , or a combination of both . In contradistinction , lesions in these areas seem to leave the animal completely unruffled in the face of even highly provocative circumstances . Thus , if the stimulating electrodes are in the hypothalamus , the animal shows rage but is , apparently , unaware of this state . The animal has all of the outward signs including the usual associated autonomic changes , but it can be shown that inwardly rage is not being experienced . So the hypothalamus seems to be a coordinating center for the outward expression of rage , but the areas of the brain necessary . for the inward appreciation of rage are not known . It does not seem to be the function of the limbic system . As a matter of fact , if electrodes are placed within the limbic system and the animal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ area , he soon finds the experience so pleasurable that he continues to stimulate for prolonged periods of time . It is hardly likely that the stimulus gives rise to a sensation of rage . PrIn the middle of the last century a man by the name of Phineas Gage had a crowbar blown through his head by an explosion . It entered the left eye and emerged from the center of the head . Not only was he not killed , but after getting over his astonishment , he was able to walk to a doctor 's office . He then lived for 12 years , but with marked personality changes . Subsequent investigation revealed that the prefrontal areas had been destroyed without harming the motor centers . The case was widely studied and stimulated extensive research into the function of the prefrontal cortex .  | In this day and age , when the individual is torn by such highly complex problems of love and hate , peace and war , freedom and subjugation , it is not surprising that the incidence of psychiatric disease has risen phenomenally . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to brought forth a great deal of information to suggest that the prefrontal areas are intimately concerned with the psychological operation of man . It was therefore reasoned that if this area of the cortex could be divorced from the rest of the brain this might be a form of therapy for some types of psychiatric disorders . This has ushered in the now wellpopularized prefrontal lobotomy . The operation consists of undercutting the prefrontal areas so that the neurons which enter and leave at this point are separated from the prefrontal region . Individuals who have suffered with severe depressions have been found to become euphoric and amiable after this surgical procedure . Prefrontal lobotomy does not seem to cause any loss of intelligence , but the patient responds to various situations without inhibition and with almost complete euphoria . There is usually loss of drive or ambition , and an individual who formerly could evaluate his environment and then act with good judgment now responds apparently without thinking , quite rapidly , and with little or no evaluation of the consequences of his act . These findings suggest that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the brain . They seem to cause one to pause before responding , to evaluate all of the factors and consequences . These areas appear essential to careful planning . But in some cases , this inhibitory function is so exaggerated that the individual can not reach a decision at all , is completely incapable of responding , and , as a result , becomes abnormally depressed . There are numerous drugs which have a central nervous system effect . Some excite ; others tranquilize . As these drugs have become better evaluated , the drastic operation of prefrontal lobotomy has been performed less frequently . There is general optimism that chemotherapy will one day permit exacting control of the emotions . It should be pointed out that the changes which accompany sleep can he described , but the basic physiological mechanisms concerned with this pleasurable phenomenon are mostly in the realm of pure conjecture . Soundness The soundness of sleep has been measured in several different ways . One method is to generate noise of increasing intensity until  | the sleeping subject is aroused . The intensity of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ This any student can attest to . Another procedure is to have the subject sleep on a bed which automatically records movement . It is then assumed that the amount of movement is inversely related to the soundness of sleep . By means of these methods , it has been determined that a person quickly approaches maximal soundness . But Fig. 10-3 shows that this state of sound sleep it not maintained for long . It can be seen that there is a constant oscillation in the depth of sleep throughout the night . As a matter of fact , the curve indicates that several times the subject almost awakens . The usual and most satisfactory explanation for this waxing and waning in the depth of sleep is that the subject becomes uncomfortable in one position . This growing discomfort steadily lessens the depth of sleep until the sleeper does something about it , that is , assumes a new position . Equipment which records the sleeper 's movements confirms this viewpoint . Figure 10-3 also indicates that the fluctuations in the depth of sleep become more and more frequent as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ depth of sleep steadily lessens . In short , it can be concluded that the average individual quickly falls asleep and soon afterward reaches the maximum soundness . Throughout the remainder of the period there are marked variations in the depth of sleep , with a progressive over-all decrease in soundness . An analysis of curves obtained in the above manner reveals that people vary widely in their sleeping pattern . Most individuals conform to the  | picture presented in Fig. 10-3 , but others show a reversal of the curve in that they sleeply lightly at first , and only as morning approaches do they settle into a sound sleep . Such individuals find it extremely difficult to arouse themselves in the morning and never really collect their faculties until midafternoon . Whether these marked differences are due to habit or more fundamental physiological causes has not been resolved . Requirements just how much sleep a person requires can not be stated precisely . Sleep is a commodity difficult to measure objectively and to control adequately so as to produce reliable data . It seems clear that sleep requirements are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ But here again there are wide individual variations depending upon one 's activities , habits , and psychophysiological make-up . During the sleeping state , many changes in the so-called physiological values are noted . For example , the blood pressure decreases , the basal metabolic rate is lessened , the body temperature falls a fraction of a degree , urine formation is suppressed , and reflex activity is conspicuously reduced . However , it is interesting to note that perspiration is elaborated in surprisingly large amounts . It has been calculated that ( luring the sleeping hours one perspires as much as one does ( luring exercise . Sleep has fascinated man throughout history . Yet today we seem to know little more about the mechanism than our ancestors did . But , with the degrees of interest it evokes , it is not surprising to learn that numerous theories have been proposed . None , however , is truly adequate . In view of the fact that the cerebral cortex is essential for sensory appreciation and voluntary movement , and since both of these capacities are reduced during sleep @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ explanation of the sleeping state . There is one current theory which postulates that sleep results from a decrease of impulses flowing to the cerebral cortex . According to this concept , the most important element is fatigue or inhibition at the neuromuscular junction and , as a result , a decrease in proprioceptive impulses . In addition , it is well known that sleep usually requires a reduction in light and sound which would also minimize the sensory barrage to the cortex ' . There should also be freedom from anxiety and other emotional states which would tend to excite the cortex . But all that this theory does is describe the conditions conducive to sleep . It contributes very little to the explanation of the mechanism of sleep . Experimentally , it is possible to place lesions in the hypothalamus which cause sleep in animals . People suffering with ab- normal somnolence may have a tumor in the hypothalamic region . These observations have pointed to the hypothalamus as a possible sleep center . This theory is supported by the many autonomic function changes which accompany sleep and which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gained from these studies is that there is in the hypothalamus a waking center , and when this center is inhibited or depressed sleep ensues . But this theory has now been discredited . Reticular Formation and the Thalamus It has been established that a sensory input into the reticular formation causes activation of the thalamus and the cerebral cortex . In addition , it is possible to stimulate thalamic nuclei at low frequency and produce sleep . Higher frequencies cause arousal . On the basis of these observations it has been postulated that the thalamus has a basic , synchronous rhythm which is projected to the cortex to cause , or at least , to permit , sleep . When there is adequate sensory input , collaterals going to the reticular formation activate this area which , in turn , fires to higher centers and brings about arousal and wakefulness . Again it would seem that in the absence of sufficient sensory input , sleep occurs . Though this theory does define some of the essential centers and pathways , it leaves many unanswered questions . rue development of suitable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cerebral cortex gives rise to electrical activity . This electrical activity constitutes the so-called brain waves . The very small voltage of the brain waves is amplified and recorded by an instrument called the electroencephalograph . Usually several electrodes are attached to the scalp and , after suitable amplification , the electrical activity of the brain is amplified to activate ink writers which form a record upon fast-moving paper . The record obtained by the use of the electroencephalograph is called the electroencephalogram or EEG ( Fig. 10-4 ) . At first glance it may seem as though the records would prove quite meaningless , but extensive investigation has revealed that there are typical wave forms . The waves are usually classified into three categories : ( 1 ) alpha waves which predominate have a frequency of from about 6 to 13 per second and the amplitude is approximately 51 ) microvolts : ( 2 ) beta waves with frequencies higher than  | 13 per second and with low voltage ; and ( 3 ) delta waves of high voltage but a frequency lower than 6 per second . Brain waves @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ very slow but the voltage increases . Intense mental activity is characterized by low-voltage , high-frequency waves . The EEG has developed into a valuable tool for the neurologist . Epilepsy , for example , is a chronic disorder characterized by attacks of unconsciousness and convulsions . The EEG in such cases is distinctive ( Fig. 10-4 ) . Thus far the brain has been considered as though it were a single , unpaired organ . Actually it consists , for the most part , of two halves bound together and bridged by the commissures . The commissures are bundles of nerve fibers which connect the two cerebral hemispheres . The largest , by far , is the great cerebral commissure , termed the corpus callosum ( Fig. 10-5 ) . Others are the hippocampal commissure , habenular commissure , posterior commissure , anterior commissure , and the massa intermedia . The optic chiasm should also be included . Interestingly , these bridges may be cut and after recovery from the operation , the animal appears to function quite normally unless special testing is carried out . In man , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ relief of epileptic convulsions . Aga without special test procedures , it is impossible to note any change in the patient other than dramatic relief From the convulsions . With various testing methods , however , it has been demonstrated that the nerve fibers that make up the interhemispheral bridges save to transmit information  | from one half of the brain to the other . As already noted , the left half of the brain is primarily concerned with the right side of the body , and the right half with the left side . If the commissures are cut , the experimental animal can be taught to respond say with its left hand . The normal animal could then give the same response with the right hand ; but following section of the commissures this is impossible . In short , the information learned by one side of the brain is normally available to the other side if the commissures are intact . In man , one hemisphere is dominant . In the right-handed individual , it is the left hemisphere . By virtue of the intact commissures , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is damaged , the right hemisphere can take over . If the commissures are cut , each half can function independently in the control of an opposite side of the body . It is as though there were two independent brains . Clearly , this could lead to interesting conflicts , and it has been suggested that such conflict between the two hemispheres may underlie certain mental illnesses .  | Speech is a complex , highly coordinated function . The integrity of areas 4 , 6 , 44 , 22 , 17 , 18 , and 19 is essential . Damage to these areas or to the large association areas causes aphasia . Learning and memory are thought to depend upon alteration of the RNA of the cerebral neurons . Emotional responses involve the limbic system , the hypothalamus , and the prefrontal areas 9 to 13 . Sleep occurs when there is inadequate arousal input into the cerebral cortex . Arousal depends upon sensory input into the reticular formation which fires into the thalamus which in turn arouses the cerebral cortex . Why sleep is essential is not known . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , beta , and delta waves . Alpha waves have a frequency of 6 to 13 per second and an amplitude of about 50 microvolts ; beta waves have a higher frequency but lower voltage ; delta waves have a lower frequency but a higher voltage . The commissures serve physically and functionally to connect the two halves of the cerebral hemisphere . When these connections are severed , the two halves function independently in their control of opposite sides of the body .  | BLOOD MAY BE LIKENED TO THE TRANSIT SYSTEM OF A CITY . If transportation were halted , the inhabitants would be deprived of many of the necessities of life , and survival would indeed become difficult . The analogy may be translated to the body . The individual cells are like the millions of people in a metropolis . The blood provides these cells with their necessities . When the circulation fails , the cells can not survive ; death ensues . The blood is propelled through the vessels by the pumping action of the heart . The blood receives its essential oxygen supply through the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ collect foodstuffs from the alimentary tract . Other vital substances are manufactured by specially designed cells and secreted into the circulating blood for delivery to other parts of the human city . Finally , undesirable materials are extracted from the blood by the kidneys , the skin , the lungs , and the liver . All these mechanisms will be considered in detail in subsequent chapters . First it is necessary to examine the blood itself . We are all acquainted with blood . Normally it appears brilliantly red , thick , opaque , and homogeneous . It is about five times more viscid than water and has a specific gravity of about 1.055 . Actually , blood is not homogeneous . If a thin film is placed under a microscope , its heterogeneous character becomes obvious . If blood is allowed to stand or if it is centrifuged , it separates into two distinct fractions . After centrifugation less than half the tube is packed with the so-called formed elements , consisting of red blood cells , white blood cells , and platelets . The upper fraction is a clear @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of iron ( Fe ) in the molecule . It is the iron that combines with oxygen . Accordingly , abnormalities involving iron metabolism strikingly alter the oxygen-carrying capacity of the blood . A decreased oxygen-carrying capacity of the blood is termed anemia . Hemoglobin is produced by the erythrocyte while the cell is being formed in the bone marrow , and this production continues for many clays after the red cell enters the circulation . Hemoglobin is synthesized from glycine and ketoglutaric acid . The final product is a relatively large molecule that has a molecular weight of 68,800 . After the disintegration of the erythrocyte ( see below ) , the hemoglobin is liberated and then undergoes a series of changes . The iron is set free . A small amount of this iron is excreted , but most of it is used again to be incorporated into new hemoglobin . The reCH2 mainder of the hemoglobin molecule is converted to biliverdin and then to bilirubin . The liver removes these end products from the blood and secretes them into the gut in the bile . Bilirubin is excreted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out , are very flexible and elastic , but they can be caused to rupture by abnormal stresses . For example , if the cells are placed in a hypotonic solution , fluid will pass through the semipermeable wall of the red cell because of the osmotic gradient between the fluid within and the fluid outside the cell . As a result , the cell will swell and ultimately rupture ( Fig. 11-4 ) . This rupture , or destruction , is termed hemolysis , which is derived from the stem lysis , meaning " to break down , " and hemo , meaning " blood . " On the other hand , if the cells are placed in a hypertonic solution , fluid will pass out of the cell , and the red cell will shrink and shrivel . This shrinkage is referred to as crenation . But apparently this process does not necessarily damage the erythrocytes , for when the cells are returned to their normal medium they may regain their usual appearance . Red cells can also be damaged mechanically . When blood is drawn from a vein @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the cells will be torn or broken , the hemoglobin will escape , and the plasma , instead of being straw-colored , will now display a red tinge . The erythrocyte develops in the red bone marrow . During the early stages it contains a nucleus , but this is usually  | extruded before the cell enters the circulation . In the blood stream the red cells function for a period of time and then disintegrate , and the remains are removed from the blood by the liver and spleen . The life span of the erythrocyte has been determined by the use of radioisotopes , usually radioactive iron which becomes a part of the hemoglobin molecule and thus " tags " the cell that carries it . By this method it is now known that the average life span of the red blood cells is about 120 days . It has further been calculated that approximately 2.5 million red cells are formed and destroyed each second . This seems to be an incredibly large number , but when it is compared with the total number of erythrocytes in the circulation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that 2.5 X 100 is but a small fraction . Under normal conditions , the number of circulating erythrocytes remains remarkably constant ? so steady , in fact , that a red-hood-cell count is a routine clinical procedure . Any variation from the normal is usually indicative of a pathological condition . Obviously , if 2,500,000 red cells arc destroyed every second , there must be an equal number put into the blood system to maintain the balance . We have seen that the bone marrow produces the cells , but there must be some mechanism to control the rate of erythrocyte production and the rate at which the cells are introduced the circulation . The bone marrow is apparently controlled  | by the oxygen content of the blood . It is the hemoglobin in the red cells that carries the oxygen . Thus , if there is a shortage of red cells , the oxygen content of the blood will decrease . This stimulates the bone marrow , and more red cells are produced and introduced into the circulation . Figure 11-5 demonstrates that this is a self-regulating homeostatic mechanism @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It does not matter what causes a decrease in oxygen content . This is shown clearly in individuals who live at elevated altitudes , such as atop a high mountain . As a result of the lowered oxygen pressure , the blood contains less oxygen , the bone marrow is excited , and more red blood cells enter the blood stream . Since there was the normal quantity to begin with , such people , after a short residence at high altitude , display a red-cell concentration considerably above the average . A greater than normal number of red cells is termed polycythemia . The formation of erythrocytes is termed erythropoiesis . The increased rate of production as a result of decreased oxygen carrying capacity of ' the blood is thought to be mediated by a substance called erythropoietin ( Fig. 11-5 ) . Erythropoietin is believed to be secreted by the kidneys . The exact mechanism by which anoxemia stimulates the production of erythropoietin is not known . The white blood cells are also termed leukocytes , derived from /claw , meaning " white , " and cyte , signifying @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is about 6,000 to 8,000 per cubic millimeter in comp ; ' ism ! with 5,000,000 red cells . There are various types of leulocytes which can be easily identified under the microscope . Examination of reptesentative  | types of white cells shown in Fig. 11-1 reveals that they differ in the shape of the nucleus and in the character and staining qualities of the cytoplasm . The important types of white cells are ( 1 ) the neutrophil , ( 2 ) the lymphocyte , ( 3 ) the monocyte , ( 4 ) the basophil , and ( 5 ) the eosinophil . The neutrophils make up about 60 to 70 per cent of the white cells , the lymphocytes about 20 to 30 per cent . The others are relatively scarce . Life of a White Cell It will be recalled that the red blood cells form in the red bone marrow . This marrow is also the site of origin of the neutrophils , eosinophils , and basophils . In fact , there is evidence to indicate that these white and red blood cells may develop from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ erythrocytes , continue to differentiate after they enter the blood stream . They retain their nuclei and are capable of further development . The red cells , without nuclei , can only eventually disintegrate . The lymphocytes and the monocytes are formed in the spleen , lymph nodes , thymus , and tonsils . In view of the fact that white cells are constantly being formed by the bone marrow and the lymphoid tissue , and since the white-blood-cell count remains constant , it is clear that there must also be a steady disintegration of leukocytes . The granulocytes are thought to have a life span of about 10 days , the lymphocytes 2 to 3 days . Little is known of the monocytes . Function of the White Cells By far the most important function of the white cells is to combat foreign substances that enter the body . The neutrophils are the major combatants . They are so small that they can readily leave the circulation by squeezing through the pores of the capillaries . This process is termed diapedesis . Not only are the neutrophils capable of quickly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have the power of independent locomotion . They move in the same manner that an ameba does . A part of the cell is protruded , becomes attached to a stationary object , and then the remainder of the cell pulls itself forward . Even more remarkable is the phenomenon of chemotaxis . This means that the cell becomes oriented toward , and moves toward , he site of the invading substance . The mechanism is not known , but it Is believed that the invading foreign substance causes tissue damage and , is a , result , a chemical called leukotaxine is liberated . In some manner lukotaxine attracts the neutrophil . When the neutrophil reaches the foreign substance it engulfs it and snakes it a part of its own cell . This process is termed phagocytosis . Once inside the cell intracellular enzymes go to work and effectively destroy or neutralize the substance . In the process the neutrophil itself may be destroyed . The hastiness debris is then removed by the lymph nodes .  | Finally , an invasion of foreign substances , such as bacteria , stimulate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( neutrophilia ) . It is thought that the cells damaged by the invasion release not only leukotaxine which attracts the leukocytes , but also forms another substance which is responsible for increased leukocyte formation . Monocytes and eosinophils function in a similar manner to the neutrophils , but it is thought that they may have specific functions , as yet undefined , in combating invasion . Basophils can carry out a similar function . In addition , there is evidence that they release heparin into the circulating blood . Heparin is a potent anticoagulant . This function of the monocytes may be essential to prevent intravascular clotting . The lymphocytes are something of a mystery . Many roles have been assigned to them . It is known that they can be transformed into other types of cells and thus may serve as a ready source of such cells when the demand arises . There is growing evidence that the lymphocytes are involved in the development of allergy , but their precise role remains to be defined . Platelets are very small structures which do not contain nuclei . The normal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ close to 300,000 per cubic millimeter of blood . The platelets contain a precursor of thromboplastin and also large quantities of serotonin . Both of these substances are important in hemostasis , that is , the control of bleeding ( see below ) . Little is known about the life cycle of the platelets . A few of the more important abnormal conditions will be mentioned so as to illustrate the importance of the formed elements in the physiology of man . The term anemia means , literally , " a lack of blood . " This is , of course , a misnomer . In most cases of anemia there is no true lack of blood . The term is used to describe any condition in which the oxygen carrying capacity of the blood is reduced . This may be because of ( I ) , t decrease in the number of circulating erythrocytes per unit volume of blood , ( 2 ) a decrease in the total number of red blood cells , as in hemorhage , or ( 3 ) a reduction in the hemoglobin concentration of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cases , the common denominator is a decrease in the N able hemoglobin . Since this is the agent responsible for the transport of oxygen , it logically follows that in all such cases there will result a re-.  | duced oxygen-carrying capacity of the blood . Each molecule of hemoglobin may be thought of as a bus . If these buses are filled to capacity and if there is a decrease in the number of buses , the only way in which the usual number of people can be delivered to their destinations is by increasing the speed at which each bus circulates over its route . This is precisely what occurs in man when there is a decrease in the total number of hemoglobin molecules . In order for the normal number of molecules of oxygen to be delivered to their destinations , the circulatory velocity must be increased . Thus , all forms of anemia are characterized by an accelerated circulatory rate . The sequence of physiological events by which this increase is brought about will be analyzed in subsequent chapters . If the basic principle of anemia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in which the oxygen-carrying capacity of the blood is decreased , then the student can readily understand the various types of anemia . For example , in some cases the bone marrow ceases to produce an adequate quantity of erythrocytes . It may be because of a defect in the bone marrow or an inadequate diet which fails to supply the bone marrow with the necessary building materials . This latter type is termed nutritional anemia . In other cases , the rate of destruction of the red cells may greatly exceed the rate of formation , even when the rate of formation is within normal limits . As a result there will be a progressive decrease in the red-cell count . One such type is congenital hemolytic anemia . Finally , hemorrhagic anemia is due simply to massive hemorrhage or loss of blood such as may occur following a severe injury . It has already been pointed out that leukocyte refers to the " white blood cell . " Osis signifies an increase , and penia denotes a " lack of . " Thus , leukocytosis refers to an increase @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ leukopenia implies an abnormally low white count . Leukocytosis is the more commonly observed . Practically all acute infectious processes evoke leukocytosis . Thus , even in the absence of any other findings , a high white-cell count causes the physician to suspect the presence of infection . There are conditions in which the leukocyte ount soars to as high as 500,000 per cubic millimeter . This state is termed leukemia , which means " white blood . " Leukemia is a fatal form of cancer . In this condition the white cells are formed very rapidly in the bone marrow , so rapidly that the embryonic red cells are literally " starved out . " This , of course , leads to a severe anemia which predisposes to many other diseases which , in turn , may lead to death . In addition , the tremendous number of circulating white cells may actually plug up important blood vessels in the brain , heart , and kidney . This sequence  | of events may also create physiological inconsistencies which are incompatible with life . The cause of this type of " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ problems as other types of malignant growths . Leukopenia is often associated with many of the viral diseases such as measles , mumps , chickenpox , and infantile paralysis . In other words , acute infections clue to a virus usually result in a decreased rather than an increased leukocyte count . The reasons for this state are still poorly understood . The plasma is the fluid portion of the blood . Under normal conditions , it occupies over half of the total blood volume . This percentage varies within a small range , but under pathological conditions it may exceed its usual limits . Like all other values to be studied , the blood-plasma volume is controlled by many homeostatic mechanisms , so that despite variations in the fluid intake , despite the amount of fluid loss by perspiration on a hot and humid day , despite even massive hemorrhage , the total blood volume and the ratio between plasma and the formed elements are rapidly restored and maintained constant ( see Table 11-1 ) . Blood plasma is a straw-colored fluid composed of about 91 percent water and 9 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of substances . A discussion of ' all of them is clearly within the realm of bio- chemistry and beyond the scope of this textbook . Only a few of the more important constituents will be briefly mentioned . Of all the blood constituents , perhaps the plasma proteins remain most constant . This great constancy has led many observers to deny that the plasma proteins represent a balance between the protein ingested and the protein utilized . That this is so , however , is indicated by the fact that in prolonged malnutrition plasma proteins decrease . But the usual dietary variations , mild hemorrhage , and wide changes in bodily activity all fail to produce a significant alteration in the plasmaprotein concentration . Beyond question these blood constituents are exquisitely governed by very effective and dynamic homeostatic mechanisms . The extraordinary efficiency and complexity of the physiology of man is illustrated by the fact that while the plasma proteins on the one hand are maintained constant by a series of mechanisms , the plasma proteins in turn function as a homeostatic mechanism to control other activities . For example @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ proteins is to regulate the body water balance . If the human body were completely desiccated , it would lose about 65 per cent of its weight . In other words , over half of the body weight is made up of fluids . The total blood volume constitutes only about 9 per cent of the body weight ; the remainder is in the tissues . Thus we say that the body possesses two fluid compartments : ( 1 ) intravascular and ( 2 ) extravascular . There is , at all times , a balance between these two compartments , so that the ratio remains constant . The plasma proteins help to maintain this ratio . The capillary walls are semipermeable , which means that water and other substances of small molecular size can pass through the walls in either direction . But the plasma proteins are large molecules which normally can not diffuse through the capillary wall . As a result there exists an osmotic relationship between the intra- and extra-vascular compartinents . If large quantities of fluid are imbibed , the plasma proteins will be diluted and fluid @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is rapidly righted . On the other hand , if there is a loss of plasma protein through a damaged kidney , the ratio will be upset , allowing an abnormal amount of fluid to enter the extravascular compartment . This condition is termed edema . The plasma proteins , through their osmotic effect , not only regulate the fluid ratio between the two compartments but also aid in maintaining constant the total quantity of fluid within the body . For example , if one gulped a gallon or two of beer , both compartments would be flooded it a like quantity were not promptly excreted . When kidney physiology is studied it will be learned that the osmotic state of the blood determines  | to a large extent the quantity of urine formed . The osmotic state is a function of the plasma proteins . In short , the plasma proteins are large molecules which can not diffuse through the capillary walls . They thus establish an osmotic gradient which serves ( 1 ) to regulate the ratio between the fluid compartments and ( 2 ) to control the total @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . This protein is fabricated in the liver and circulates in solution in the plasma . During hemorrhage it is converted into a gel called fibrin . This gel forms the stroma , or framework , of the blood clot and aids in stemming the hemorrhage . Glucose is dissolved in the plasma and delivered to all the cells in the body to supply them with energy . It is one of the most important energy foods . Although the blood-sugar levels do not remain nearly so constant as do those of the proteins , nonetheless there are excellent homeostatic devices which control carbohydrate metabolism and keep the blood-sugar levels within a relatively narrow range despite wide variations in ingestion and bodily activity . The fasting individual has a bloodglucose level of about 80 mg per cent ( 80 mg glucose per 100 ml of blood ) . Abnormal variations from this norm are associated with widespread disorders which will be discussed later . The plasma contains varying quantities of many of the electrolytes such as sodium , potassium , magnesium , chlorides , phosphates , and bicarbonates . Like the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in very constant concentrations . It will be seen that even slight variations of potassium , for example , may prove fatal , whereas an increase in the sodium concentration is accompanied by drastic waterbalance shifts . It is impossible to discuss even a small percentage of all the plasma constituents . Such substances as urea , uric acid , and creatine are important excretory substances . The plasma also contains a host of essential enzymes and hormones . The components necessary for the coagulation of blood are dissolved in the plasma . Finally , the respiratory gases ( oxygen and carbon dioxide ) must pass through the plasma en route to and from the red cells . In short , the plasma is a fluid containing a wide variety of substances all of which play important roles in the total physiology of man . Scarcely a day passes in which a person does not injure himself , at least to the extent of allowing a drop or two of blood to escape from the vascular system . Men who shave daily certainly have the opportunity to  | examine the redness @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ injuries hardly evoke our serious attention . The bleeding is slight and ceases spontaneously . Hemostasis means the stoppage of bleeding . Hemostasis involves coagulation of blood , clot retraction , and vasoconstriction . Research into the mechanism of coagulation has been so fruitful that the most widely held concepts have undergone considerable modification in recent years . Even today there is not complete agreement as to the role of each factor , but all agree that there are two essential reactions : ( 1 ) prothrombin is converted to thrombin , and ( 2 ) fibrinogen is converted to fibrin . Fibrin is a gel that becomes deposited in a network . The network then traps the formed elements of the blood to build a clot . As will be discussed below , the fibrin also retracts to pull the edges of the wound together . Exactly how prothrombin is converted to thrombin is the subject of considerable research and debate . There is general agreement that once thrombin is formed it catalyzes the conversion of fibrinogen to fibrin . At the present writing there are at least six major @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . They vary in detail . One of these concepts is outlined in Fig. 11-6 . It will be noted that the platelets and also the plasma contain precursors of thromboplastin . The role of the antihemophilic factor ( AHF ) is not certain . It has been postulated that the rupture of platelets at the site of blood vessel injury is enhanced by AHF . In the absence of this factor , blood does not readily clot , probably because of inadequate thromboplastin formation . Figure 11-6 indicates that prothrombin is formed in the liver , enters the circulation , and then is converted to thrombin under the influence of thromboplastin , calcium , Ac-globulin , and Factor VII . Thrombin , as it is formed , is also thought to catalyze the prothrombin reaction , but its major function is to bring about the conversion of fibrinogen to fibrin . It will be noted that there are substances which inhibit each of the essential reactions , or destroy the end-products . Were it not for these substances , such as heparin and antithrombin , intravascular clotting would quickly prove @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to 5 minutes . The prothrombin-thrombin reaction takes 13 to 15 seconds . The formation of fibrin from fibrinogen occurs in less than 1 second . Not only ate there many theories of blood coagulation , but several different terms ale often used to refer to the same factor . Table 11-2 lists some of these synonyms .  | The threads of fibrin form a network which traps blood cells and plasma . The clot then undergoes contraction . In the process of contraction , serum ( defibrinated plasma ) is squeezed out . Contraction is probably the result of shortening of the fibrin threads . Fibrin also clings to the edges of the opening in the blood vessel . Therefore , as the threads shorten , the clot becomes smaller and pulls the edges of the wound closer together . The force of contraction is about 9 mm Hg . Clot retraction requires the presence of a large number of platelets.  | Why retraction fails to occur if these platelets are not present is not known . When arterioles and capillaries are injured they undergo constriction . This narrowing of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ complete enough to stern the flow of blood even in the face of high pressures . Vasoconstriction , under these circumstances , is thought to result from the liberation of serotonin from ruptured platelets at the site of injury . For many techniques it is necessary to prevent coagulation . If the mechanism of coagulation is understood , the various procedures used to prevent clotting will logically follow . Mechanical Procedures As has been stressed , clotting will not occur unless thromboplastin is formed . If blood is drawn into a syringe very carefully so that there is minimal damage to the skin , the only source of thromboplastin is from the platelets . If the syringe is coated with paraffin and the blood drawn most cautiously , the platelets will not be damaged and the thromboplastin will not be available to initiate the clotting mechanism . The paraffin smooths the walls of the glass syringe , thus preventing platelet damage . Another mechanical procedure is to stir the blood sample with a glass rod . As the fibrin is formed , it will adhere to the glass rod and thus @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can be no clot . The blood is now said to be defibrinated.  | All the chemical procedures used to prevent coagulation depend upon the inactivation or removal of one of the essential constituents of the clotting mechanism . Heparin is one of the most widely used anticoagulants . It is extremely potent ; only a few drops are required to prevent a large volume of blood from clotting . This substance is called heparin because it was first extracted from the liver . It has now been found to exist in other tissues as well . Heparin acts in two ways : ( 1 ) it inhibits the conversion of prothrombin to thrombin , and ( 2 ) it inactivates thrombin . Its inactivating role is believed to be the more important . In any case , with no active thrombin available , fibrinogen can not be converted to fibrin and coagulation is thus prevented . In recent years , heparin not only has been used to prevent clotting for experimental purposes but is now being injected following surgical procedures where it is desirable to diminish the possibility of intravascular @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , which is extracted from the buccal glands of the leech . And there are now synthetic anticoagulants , such as Dicumarol , which are widely used in clinical medicine . A common laboratory procedure to prevent coagulation is to precipitate the calcium . Without calcium , prothrombin is not converted to thrombin . Calcium can be precipitated by adding oxalates or citrates to the blood . Should blood fail to coagulate , the slightest injury might prove fatal . If coagulation were to occur intravascularly , serious impairment or even death would result . No blood disorder could be more inappropriately named . Hemophilia means , literally , " I like blood . " In view of the fact that a person suffering with this disorder may readily bleed to death , the very sight of blood is a horrifying experience . The disorder is characterized by a failure of the clotting mechanism , so that even a small injury , such as a cut on a finger , may result in prolonged bleeding . It is generally believed by hematologists that hemophilia is due to a lack or deficiency @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the injection of large quantities of normal blood into hemophiliacs proves very effective in controlling hemorrhage , at least temporarily . Hemophilia an inheritable disorder and is seen most frequently in the male member of the family . Thrombocytopenic Purpura A condition characterized by subcutaneous hemorrhage is termed thrombocytopenic purpura . As the term indica  | there are very few thrombocytes ( platelets ) in the blood . As a result , clotting does not readily occur , any clots that do form fail to retract , and , in the absence of adequate serotonin concentration , vasoconstriction at the site of injury does not occur . Thus , minor trauma leads to uncontrolled bleeding into the subcutaneous space . Thrombus and Embolus A thrombus is a clot . The term is used clinically to designate an intravascular blood clot which is adherent to the vessel wall at its site of formation . An embolus , on the other hand , means " a piece . " It is actually a piece of a thrombus which has broken free and has been carried by the circulating blood elsewhere , to become @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ embolus may interfere with circulation , and if the involved vessel is large or supplies a vital organ , death may result . It is often advantageous to know the total quantity of blood in the body . As has been emphasized , considerable value is placed by the clinician upon the blood-cell count . But there are obviously many cases in which such a measure will be meaningless because it simply indicates the concentration of cells in the blood . In order to know the total cell number or the absolute amount of any other blood constituent , one must ascertain the concentration of that component and also the volume of blood . In other words , concentration times blood volume will give the total quantity of any substance in the blood . There are several methods of ascertaining the blood volume in man . One of these procedures , the so-called dye method , is relatively simple and is undertaken as an experiment in many student laboratories . A known quantity of an inert dye is injected into a vein . After a short period of time , an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the blood , a sample of blood is drawn and then compared colorimetrically with known dilutions of blood and dye . The greater the blood volume , the less intense the dye will be because it will be more diluted . A few actual figures will help to clarify this procedure . The dye most commonly employed in Evans ' blue . It is particularly suitable because it has an intense color , it is innocuous , and it is only slowly eliminated from the circulation . Assume that 1 ml of the dye is injected into the arm vein . After adequate mixing , the drawn sample is compared with known dilutions and is found to compare to a dilution of 1:5,000 . This must mean that the blood volume is 5,000 ml , or 5 liters . In actual practice ,  | several samples are drawn at 20-minute intervals . The concentration will be found to decrease progressively . A graph is then constructed and extrapolated back to the time of injection ( Fig. 11-7 ) . The concentration at the time of injection is then used for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ slowly but steadily eliminated from the circulation . By this method , as well as other more accurate but also more complicated procedures , the blood volume for a man of average size is found to be about 5 liters . It is now more common to use radioisotopes to determine blood volume . The same dilution principle is employed . Radioactive iodine attached to globulin is selected because the iodine has a short half-life , it is easy to determine , and attached to globulin it does not readily leave the circulatory system . Red blood cells that have been labelled with radioactive chromium or radioactive iron are also used . By these means the total ; blood volume , the volume of plasma , and the volume of red cells may al be quickly and easily determined . The spleen is a large organ situated on the left side of the abdomen j below the diaphragm . The spleen is composed of a mass of sinuses co  | taining various-sized openings . The arterial blood flows into the organ and is circulated about and through the sinuses to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ spleen is thus admirably designed and located to serve two important functions : ( 1 ) to filter the blood and thus remove disintegrating red blood cells and ( 2 ) to act as a reservoir for blood . The blood held in reserve in the spleen has a very high cell count . Therefore , when this blood is added to the circulation , the circulatingblood-cell count increases . This is particularly advantageous following hemorrhage , for fluid is drawn into the vascular system from the extravascular compartment . As a result the hematocrit falls . But reflexly , the spleen is forced to contract , thus ejecting a high concentration of cells into the circulation . This mechanism , therefore , helps to restore the normal red-blood-cell count . The exact nature of the reflex which controls splenic contraction has not been completely worked out . If the organ is denervated , it does not respond to hemorrhage and other conditions which demand increased blood . But just how hemorrhage evokes this response and through what pathways are still unknown . There are many circumstances in which it is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ possible to use substitutes such as saline , glucose solutions , and plasma preparations , the fact remains that none takes the place of whole blood , and in many cases , whole blood is truly indispensable . Unfortunately , however , blood can not be transfused into a person indiscriminately , because not all blood is the same . Some types of blood when mixed cause the formed elements to clump together . This is termed agglutination , which means " to paste . " The cells stick together and form aggregates , and these masses may block vital vessels and lead to death . There are four basic types of human blood . Blood is classified according to the manner in which it reacts with other blood groups . The serum of this group agglutinates the cells of all other blood groups . But the cells of this group are not agglutinated by any other sera . This serum agglutinates the cells of the B and AB groups . The cells are agglutinated by the sera of 0 and B groups .  | Group B This serum agglutinates the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the sera of 0 and A groups . Group AB The serum of this group does not agglutinate any cells . The cells , however , are agglutinated by the sera of all other groups . After studying the above classification , one will probably be . convinced that blood grouping is an extremely complex and confusing process . This is not the case . If one basic principle is borne in mind , no confusion can arise . That principle states that if the cells of the blood to be transfused will be agglutinated by the recipient 's serum , the transfusion should not be made . With that principle in mind , let us examine a few of the possibilities . Assume that group A blood is to be transfused into a patient with group B blood . Is it safe ? According to the classification , the cells of A blood are agglutinated by B serum . The answer is no ; the transfusion should not be done . Let us take another case . Assume that 0 blood is to be transfused into a patient with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the cells of group 0 blood are not agglutinated by any sera . Obviously , the transfusion is feasible . Theoretically , group 0 blood can be injected into anyone , because its cells are not agglutinated by any sera . For this reason , an individual with group 0 blood is termed the universal donor . Finally , if group AB is examined , it will be seen that the serum of this blood does not agglutinate the cells of any blood . Theoretically , then , any type of blood can be transfused into a patient with AB blood . Such an individual is called a universal recipient . One may well be wondering why group 0 blood can be transfused so safely if its serum agglutinates the cells of all other groups . The answer to this question is that when blood is transfused into a patient it is greatly diluted by the greater volume of the patient 's blood , so that transfused serum becomes too dilute to agglutinate the host cells . And so we return to the basic principle , namely , that it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the deciding factor . The group into which a person 's blood should be classified may be quickly and easily determined . It is , of course , a routine procedure in al hospitals . As a matter of fact , it is well for everyone to have his blo classified so as to avoid delay in cases of emergency . A small amount of blood is diluted with saline , and then a drop this mixture is added to two test sera , one belonging to group A and th  | other to group B. The examiner then observes whether or not agglutination has taken place . The clumping of the cells can be seen with the naked eye but is usually checked with a microscope ( Fig. 11-8 ) . Then the technician need only refer to Table 11-3 to determine the blood group . This table simply sets out in tabular form what has already been stated concerning each blood type . The minus sign indicates no agglutination , while the plus mark signifies agglutination . Other types of blood have been described , but it is not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . For years it has been known that in some cases , even though the bloods have been carefully and correctly classified , fatal results have followed transfusions . It is now known that some of these accidents are unquestionably due to the so-called Rh factor . The Rh factor is an antigen , which means " to produce antibodies , " and that is precisely what the Rh  | factor does . Thus if a person who does not possess the Rh factor receives transfused blood which does have it , his blood will form antibodies . But the recipient suffers no ill effects . The tragedy occurs when , at a future date , he is again transfused with Rh-positive blood . Now the antibodies which have previously formed cause the cells of the newly transfused blood to agglutinate . People are classified as Rh positive or negative , depending upon whether or not this antigen is present . About 85 per cent of the white population are Rh positive . Other races seem to be 100 per cent Rh positive . The Rh factor also has great importance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an Rh-negative woman to be pregnant with an Rhpositive fetus . As a result of the Rh factor in the blood of the embryo , the mother 's blood soon develops antibodies . If the mother were then or later to receive a transfusion of Rh-positive blood , the transfused cells might be agglutinated . On the other hand , the Rh-negative mother with the Rh-positive antibodies may again become pregnant , and again carry . an Rh-positive fetus . The Rh-positive antibodies may enter the fetus where they will destroy the blood of the developing embryo . Thus , the second child may be born dead , or at least seriously ill with an unusual type of jaundice ( yellow skin ) . The sequence in these cases is that an Rhnegative woman married to an Rh-positive man delivers a healthy Rhpositive child . But the second pregnancy results in a stillborn , or a seriously ill , infant . It is interesting to learn the origin of the term Rh . During the early phases of the experimental work which clarified this problem , it was discovered that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . For that reason the antigen has been assigned the designation Rh ( Rhesus ) . Because blood contains many antigens in addition to those discussed above , it is best , in addition to determing the blood group of the donor and the recipient , to cross-match their bloods . In this procedure a sample of blood is drawn from each . Then cells from one are mixed with seru from the other and vice versa . To be absolutely certain when making transfusion , no agglutination should occur in the cross-matching . Blood is a red and viscous fluid with a specific gravity of about 1.0 It is composed of formed elements and plasma . The percentage of  | blood cells is called the hematocrit . It is normally 40 to 45 per cent . The total blood volume in the average man is about 5 liters . The red cells are also known as erythrocytes . They are small , biconcave disks without nuclei . There are normally about 5,000,00 red cells per cubic millimeter of blood . They contain hemoglobin , a protein responsible for the carriage @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; reduced hemoglobin is blue . Red cells are formed by the red bone marrow , survive about 120 days in the circulation , and then disintegrate . The spleen serves as a blood reservoir with a high concentration of cells . Erythrocyte production by the bone marrow is controlled by the oxygen content of the blood . There are only about 6,000 to 8,000 white cells or leukocytes per cubic millimeter of blood . The important types of white cells are ( 1 ) lymphocytes , ( 2 ) monocytes , ( 3 ) neutrophils , ( 4 ) basophils , and ( 5 ) eosinophils . Most of the white cells are also formed by the bone marrow ; the lymphocytes and probably the monocytes arise from lymphatic tissue . The white cells function primarily to combat foreign agents . The cells migrate to the site of an infection , engulf the foreign particles , and destroy them . This engulfing process is termed phagocytosis . An excessive number of white cells is termed leukocytosis . It characterizes most acute infectious states . In leukemia , the white count @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cancer " behaves like other malignant diseases . An abnormally low white-blood-cell count is called leukopenia . It is customarily associated with many of the virus diseases . The platelets , or thrombocytes , number about 300,000 per cubic millimeter of blood . They are essential to hemostasis . Any condition in which the oxygen-carrying capacity of the blood is reduced is termed anemia . It may be caused by ( 1 ) a decrease in the number of red cells or ( 2 ) a reduction in the hemoglobin concentration . The plasma is the fluid portion of the blood . It is a straw-colored fluid composed of about 91 per cent water and 9 per cent solids . The most important constituents are ( 1 ) the proteins , which control water balance and play a role in coagulation ; ( 2 ) blood glucose , which is the basic source of cellular energy ; and ( 3 ) the essential electrolytes ; as well as many other constituents such as enzymes , hormones , excretory substances , and the respiratory gases . Hemostasis depends upon the coagulation of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ occurs when prothrombin is converted to thrombin . The thrombin then catalyzes the conversion of fibrinogen to fibrin . Fibrin forms the network of the clot and is responsible for the retraction of the clot . Vasoconstriction is brought about by acrotonin , a substance carried by the platelets.  | Blood falls into one of four groups , depending on its agglutinating properties . The four groups are termed 0 , A , B , and AB . If the cells of the donor blood will be agglutinated by the recipient 's serum , the transfusion should not be made . It is the cellular reaction of the donor 's blood which is important . The Rh factor is an antigen which , when given to an Rh-negative person , causes antibody formation . About 85 per cent of the white population are Rh positive .  | THE HEART IS THE PUMP WHICH SUPPLIES THE ENERGY to propel the blood throughout the body . If the heart stops even briefly , irreversible changes occur and death quickly ensues . The importance of the heart can not be overemphasized . The problems @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Not only is it required to pump blood continuously , but it is necessary for it to propel varying quantities of blood in accordance with body needs . There must obviously be highly delicate mechanisms to control this function . The study of the physiology of the heart resolves itself into two major considerations : ( 1 ) the means by which the heart pumps blood and ( 2 ) the mechanisms which control heart function . But before these problems can be approached , it is necessary to understand the basic principles of cardiac dynamics . Figure 12-1 shows the heart in highly schematic fashion . In man , the heart weighs about 350 gm or about 3/4 lb . The principal constituent of the heart wall is the myocardium , that is , cardiac muscle , which differs structurally and functionally from both skeletal and smooth muscle . The inner surface of the cardiac muscle is lined with a thin layer , termed the endocardium . On the outer surface of the myocardium is a slick serous membrane called the epicardium . The epicardium bends back to be continuous @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ two membranes exists the pericardial space ( Fig. 12-1 ) . Normally , it contains a small quantity of fluid sufficient to lubricate the outer surface of the heart and thereby permit it to slide with minimum friction against the inner surface of the pericardium.  | The human heart contains four cavities . There are two atria and two ventricles . The atria are sometimes called auricles , the two terms being used interchangeably . Actually , auricle means " ear " and in the heart refers to the small outpouchings of the atria . Strictly speaking , the proper term for the entire structure is atrium , although auricle has gained widespread acceptance . Shortly after birth , the opening between the right and left atria closes so that in the normal individual the atria do not communicate with one another . There is also a thick septum separating the two ventricles . Blood enters the left atrium of the heart from the lungs . It then flows into the left ventricle which pumps it out into the aorta for distribution throughout the body . The blood returns from all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and inferior venae cavae which open into the right atrium . The blood flows into the right ventricle to be pumpe through the pulmonary arteries into the lungs . It returns via the pulmonary veins to enter the left atrium , thus completing the cycle ( Fig. 12-2 Examination of the heart discloses that the thickness of the wall varied in different chambers . The atrial walls are very thin , whereas those the ventricles are thick and muscular , especially the left ventricular wa which is many times thicker than the right . The thickness of the wall determined by the amount of cardiac muscle . The part of the heart muscle  | which does the most work becomes the largest . The atria , as will be pointed out subsequently , are required to do very little work . The left ventricle , on the other hand , must eject large quantities of blood rapidly against a very high pressure . This requires considerable energy . There are four valves in the heart : ( 1 ) the mitral valve between the left atrium and left ventricle , ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ right ventricle , ( 3 ) the aortic valve between the left ventricle and the aorta , and ( 4 ) the pulmonic valve between the right ventricle and pulmonary artery . All of the valves , with the exception of the mitral valve , possess three leaflets or cusps . The mitral valve has only two cusps . The A-V valves are continuous with the endocardium , and their free ends are supported by delicate tendons called chordae tendineae . The chordae tendineae are seen to insert into the papillary muscles . If the direction of blood flow is kept in mind while examining the valves , it will be clear that they can open only in one direction and that this arrangement determines the flow of blood . The papillary muscles and the chordae tendineae prevent the A-V valves from opening in the opposite direction . This mechanism is of utmost importance to cardiac dynamics . In order to pump blood the heart must contract ; then it must relax to allow more blood to enter it ; then it must contract again . There are consequently two important @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and ( 2 ) the relaxation phase . The former is termed systole , which means " a contracting . " The relaxation phase is called diastole . This term signifies " a dilatation " and , of course , during the relaxation phase blood enters the heart and causes it to be dilated . Cardiac muscle , like all other body tissues , must receive a steady supply of oxygen for survival . The more active muscle is , the greater its oxygen requirement ( Fig. 12-3 ) . But there is one extremely important observation to be made from Fig. 12-3 , and that is the increased oxygen demand after the cardiac output declines . In other words , the oxygen utilized by the heart increases with the initial length of the fiber and so does the work of the heart . But , according to Starling 's law , after a critical point is reached the cardiac output falls off , while the initial length continues to increase . After this point is reached the heart still demands more and more oxygen , at the same time ejecting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ set up which will be terminated by death if not properly treated . A fall in cardiac output delivers less blood to the tissues of the body in- cluding the cardiac muscle , and because of a shortage of oxygen the muscle is weakened and puts out even less blood . All chemical reactions are influenced by temperature . Generally speaking , the higher the temperature , the more rapid will be the chemical reaction . Cellular metabolism consists of a series of complex chemical processes , the speed of which varies with temperature . Thus it is that the higher the temperature of the blood , the faster will be the heartbeat . But since the temperature of the blood is maintained by exquisitely sensitive homeostatic mechanisms within such a narrow range , this factor is not of great importance-in the physiology of man . The blood contains a wide variety of substances , as was pointed out in the previous chapter . Several of these constituents modify heart action significantly . Thus , every physiological laboratory is equipped with a supply of Ringer 's solution . This is a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to maintain the perfused heart in normal activity . For example , if the isolated turtle or frog heart is perfused with isotonic sodium chloride ( NaCl ) , it soon ceases to beat . It is necessary to include not only sodium and chloride but also potassium , calcium , and bicarbonate ions . Not only must these constituents be present , but they must appear in a very definite ratio . Table 12-1 gives the percentage composition of Ringer 's solution . Finally , it should be noted that a change in the acidity of the blood alters cardiac function . Usually , the reaction of the blood is maintained close to the neutral point ( actually the pH is about 7.4 ) , but under some conditions it does vary and evokes not only reflex responses but also direct cardiac changes . Cardiac muscle derives its energy for contraction from the transformation of adenosine triphosphate to the diphosphate form . Normally , diastole is long enough to permit complete recovery of the original essential compounds . This allows the heart to beat steadily for years . As a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the heart muscle will beat for incredibly long periods of time so long as there is an adequate supply of oxygen and nutrients and so long as waste products are removed . Abnormally , the heart rate may become so rapid , the rest periods so abbreviated that there is not adequate time for the resynthesis of the basic compounds . As a result , the heart fatigues and ceases to beat . Cardiac muscle , unlike skeletal muscle , has an inherent power of rhythmic contraction . It is true that the heart is liberally innervated by the autonomic nervous system which can modify the beat of the heart , but there is a fundamental rhythm to the normal heart muscle which is completely independent of any innervation . For example , if the heart is removed from an animal and perfused under optimal pressure with the proper constituents , it will continue to beat indefinitely . But that rhythm can be , and in man is , modified by the autonomic nervous system . If the living heart is watched , it is impossible to determine just where @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ investigations , it is now known that the beat of the heart originates in the right atrium . Microscopically , a specialized spot of tissue may be discerned in the right atrial wall just at the point of entry of the superior and inferior venae cavae . This specialized tissue mass is composed of interwoven thin strips of modified cardiac muscle . It is termed the sinoatrial node ( Fig. 12-4 ) and derives its name from sinus , which implies a dilated channel for venous blood , and atrium , which has already been described . The sinoatrial node is popularly referred to as the S-A node . There is excellent evidence to indicate that the heartbeat originates in the S-A node . For example , if heat is applied to the node , the heart rate increases , whereas if heat is applied to other parts of the atrium no such increase can be detected . Likewise , if the node is destroyed , there results a marked slowing of the heart . Destruction of a comparable area elsewhere in the atrium does not have this effect . This @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ originates in the sinoatrial node : It is for this reason that the node is referred to as the pacemaker of t heart . The S-A node is supplied with fibers from both divisions of the autonomic nervous system . Impulses which arrive over these pathways modifies the sinoatrial node and thus influence the heart rate .  | After the heartbeat is initiated by the S-A node , the impulse spreads out over both atria in more or less concentric rings . There are thought to be no special pathways in the atria , and since the muscle acts as a syncytium all parts of it progressively contract as the impulse spreads . As a result of the manner in which the impulse spreads , the muscle immediately surrounding the sinoatrial node contracts first , and then more distant atrial areas subsequently join in . The pressure within the atria , therefore , slowly increases and then decreases . The impulse spreads throughout the atria but is not transmitted across the atrioventricular septum which separates the atria from the ventricles . However , there is another specialized mass of tissue termed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of thin strips of interwoven specialized cardiac muscle and is similar , in this respect , to the sinoatrial node ( Fig. 12-4 ) . It is referred to as the A-V node . The impulse from the atria activates the A-V node , and in this way the ventricles are activated . The atrioventricular node is the only pathway by which the impulse can be transmitted from the atria to the ventricles . If this node is destroyed , and it may be by disease , the atria and ventricles then beat completely independently of one another and at different rates . Such a condition is called complete heart block . On the other hand , if the disease process is not extensive , so that impulses do pass through the node but only after a considerable delay , or if not all  | the atrial impulses fire the A-V node , the disorder is spoken of as partial heart block . In such cases the atria may beat two or three times for every beat of the ventricles , but there is a definite ratio between the atrial and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ being transmitted . The impulse does not fan out concentrically through the ventricles as it does in the atria . This is so because there is a ventricular conducting system . Figure 12-4 shows that there is a bundle of elongated tissue continuous with the atrioventricular node . It is called the atrioventricular bundle of His in honor of one of the men who first described it . The bundle of His splits into two , each part of which is continuous with the long conducting pathway which passes to the individual ventricles ( Fig. 12-4 ) . These branches of the bundle , so-called Purkinje fibers , spread out in the ventricles . Thus the impulse is delivered to all parts of both ventricles almost simultaneously . As a result , the ventricles contract sharply and vigorously . It has been pointed out that if the sinoatrial node , the pacemaker , is destroyed , the heart continues to beat but at a much slower rate . It has been found that the atrioventricular node also has an inherent rhythm , and when it is removed from the influence of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ much slower rate . This condition prevails following destruction of the pacemaker . Therefore , the slower heart rate can be assumed to be the inherent rate of the atrioventricular node . Likewise , if the A-V node is destroyed as well as the pacemaker , then the atrioventricular bundle exerts its own inherent rhythm which is even slower than that of the A-V node . Finally , it can be shown that a small piece of cardiac muscle will beat even after it has been excised from the heart . Thus the musculature must have its own rhythm ; but since it requires so much cardiac insult to demonstrate this inherent rhythm , the exact rate can not be stated with certainty , although it seems clear that it is slower than the A-V bundle rate . Table 12-2 summarizes these relationships .  | Knowledge of the rhythm of the heart has yielded , in recent years , exciting practical applications . It is now possible to provide the patient with an artificial pacemaker which initiates ventricular contraction by the application of evenly spaced repetitive electrical impulses . The electrodes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the chest ( external pacemaker ) or wires may be fixed to the myocardium directly ( internal pacemaker ) . There is electrical activity associated with the contraction of cardiac muscle which may be recorded by suitable equipment . Such records have proved invaluable both in the physiology laboratory and clinically . A complete discussion of electrocardiography is clearly beyond the scope of this book . The primary principles are here summarized , first because such a study emphasizes basic physiological factors of cardiology , and second so that the student may , if he so desires , go beyond the limits of this course and familiarize himself with this important technique . The instrument used to amplify and record the electrical activity of the heart is called the electrocardiograph . The record so produced is referred to as an electrocardiogram ( EKG or ECG ) . The first recordings of the electrical activity of the heart were made using a sensitive string galvanometer . In this instrument a string made of quartz-glass fiber and coated with silver is suspended between the two poles of an electromagnet . Variation of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ electromagnets . To obtain a recording of this movement a light is focused on the string so that it casts a shadow on photosensitive paper . The paper has a mechanism to move it at a steady , standard rate , thus after development , a permanent record of string movement results . More modern instruments utilize electronic amplification systems to amplify the cardiac action potentials sufficiently so that a pen is caused to move . Paper flows at a standard speed under the pen to obtain the record . The advantage of the newer method is that the record may be observed as it is being recorded and no development is necessary . In addition , polygraphs may be used in order to obtain the record from several leads simultaneously . The electrodes may be placed directly on the heart , as is sometimes done in experimental animal work , or they may be attached to most any part  | of the body . The relative position of the two electrodes will , of course , influence the direction and amplitude of the record ; therefore , a conventional system @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ electrodes is termed a lead . The electrodes are generally made of metal and slightly concave so as to make good contact with the skin in the regions of the wrists and ankles . A jelly consisting of an electrolyte and an abrasive is first rubbed over the surface of the skin . The abrasive removes dead cells and other accumulations that would interfere with the conduction of the impulse . The electrolyte forms a surface between the skin and the metal electrode , and thus facilitates the conduction of the impulse . In place of the jelly , thin paper pads presaturated with an electrolyte solution are often preferred because they are inexpensive , less messy than the jelly , and convenient to use . The electrodes are securely held by means of wide rubber straps . The first electrocardiograms were made by Einthoven who attached electrodes to the two wrists and to the left ankle . These three electrodes could be used in three different combinations of two , which became known as the standard leads . They are : Lead I , right arm and left arm ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Lead III , left arm and left leg . If the arms are held extended to the sides , a triangle can be visualized connecting the two arms and the left leg . The heart then lies within the triangle . This triangle is known as Einthoven 's triangle ( Fig. 12-5 ) . It has considerable significance in the analysis of the electrocardiogram . The three standard electrodes are used , but two of them are connected , through suitable resistance , to a common terminal and then lead to the negative post of the electrocardiograph . The remaining electrode goes to the positive post . The following designations are used : a VF when the positive terminal is connected to the left leg , a VR when it is the right arm , and a VL when it is the left arm . These leads are also refer d to as augmented limb leads because the magnitud of the deflections Is increased by this wiring procedure . The augmente leads are now used as commonly as the standard leads because the reco so obtained is determined almost exclusively by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the record " views " the heart from the r of that limb . In this case , an indifferent electrode is formed by uniting all of the standard electrodes through resistance to a central termi The potential of the central terminal , therefore , remains at zero throughout the cardiac cycle . The positive terminal is connected to an electrocar- FIG. 12-5 Einthoven 's triangle . The three standard leads form a triangle enclosing the heart . which is placed on various areas of the chest . This electrode , then , is the sole determinant of the observed deflections of the record . Six standard positions on the chest are now commonly used . They are designated V1 , V2 up to Va . The records have great diagnostic value . Esophageal Lead To obtain still another " view , " so to speak , instead of the chest electrode , an electrode is introduced into the esophagus and then connected to the positive post . With the two electrodes attached to the body in any of the combinations already described , while the patient is in the supine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is obtained . It will be noted that the record is superimposed upon a graph . The lines upon the graph have been standardized so that electrocardiograms may be easily interpreted and compared . The vertical lines supply a time record ; the horizontal lines indicate the magnitude of response . The interval between two vertical lines measures 0.04 second . It will be noted that every fifth vertical line is heavier . The time interval between two heavy vertical lines is then 0.20 second . Before a record is taken , the instrument is adjusted so that a current of 0.1 millivolt causes a vertical deflection of one horizontal                     