@@28161

Chapter One It was Christmas morning and a balmy 38 degrees . In other words , a perfect day for golf , and there I stood on the semifrozen mud of the 17th tee at the Creekview Country Club in Winnetka , Illinois . My marriage was disintegrating . My three kids , whom I love more than life itself , did n't know what to make of me lately , and I had a terrible feeling that come January , I was going to be fired from my job at Leo Burnett . Who knows , if everything went as badly as it possibly could , there was a chance I might be one of the homeless after that . Ho ! Ho ! Ho ! I bent down , teed up an old scuffed Titleist , and squinted through the wind at the long tight par 5 , lined on both sides by towering black leafless elms . Now what follows is one of those mystical , largely unexplainable , out-of-body experiences , so please bear with me . Or as Fin Scully used to say @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a chair and make yourself comfortable . I admit that in sheer unlikelihood , this probably ranks right up there with Truman upsetting Dewey , It 's a Wonderful Life , and John Daly winning the British Open . What can I say ? Stuff happens to people . Tragedies befall saints . Fortune smiles on cretins . Extraordinary things happen to ordinary people . And this happened to me . Since it is such a crucial number in this story , I should point out that I was starting my round on 17 . Despite the unseasonable thaw , it was Christmas , the course was empty , and 17 just happened to be the tee closest to where I parked . Anyway , I knocked the cover off my drive . Nothing unusual about that . I hit the ball farther than the pro here at Creekview . I even hit the ball farther than the current champ , Mark Duffel , who 's twenty . I trudged down the fairway , nudged my ball away from a sprinkler head , and hit my second shot , a 185-yard @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ better . To hell with my problems . Golf can have that effect . Now , here comes the weird part . This is where everything gets a little spooky , and I took my first step on this road-either to salvation or damnation . I stroked that putt so clean and solid . Strange . I put such a pure sweet roll on it , the ball traveled over the grass like a bead of mercury rolls across the floor after you break a thermometer . The beginning of a miracle . A harbinger . A sign . The little white ball dropped into the little white cup for eagle . I was hooked . I was elated . I was doomed . I must tell you right now however , that this is n't the so-called Miracle on 17 . Not even close . I hurried to the next tee . ( Continues ... )                     