@@14565

Whiteness . A cube ofwhiteness . A cylinder rolls to Reveal the old man ayoung man enters . We found yourpicture 's , Henry . We found yourpictures . He smiles . It 's too late . Music . We notice a dark dark cloud an oval off to the right of the a girl withgiant strawberry a girl withan umbrella a girl with ram 's hornsall three rush on . Stop Girl with ram 's horns . That isgoing to be a cloudburst . Girlwith an umbrella . I hope thewind wo n't pull my umbrella out ofmy hands . A sign appears beneath the third.This is not a strawberry she is carrying . Silence . Pause . Silence . Someone does something . We found your pictures , Henry.Old man smiles a crinkled smile . It 's too late , he says . General Henry Jose Dargerius , a hero , appears.He is speaking in the Brazilian languagebecause back in 1905 , of a doctor 's diagnosis:Little Henry 's heart is not in the right placeRiver Aronburg Run has itssource from Lake Zannagustapolier.River Angelina Run has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The Hero speaks . Seven little girls listen.They are hidden in this picture . Once , not knowing any better I putlots of newspaper beside the stovenear the wall , and set it on fire . When this battle broke out called the battleof Silver Bell the blue abyss of the skyseemed to have yawned over the worldmore deeply than ever before . TheGlandelinians at Fortress Silver Bellhad thought from the usual quietudethat nothing unusual was going to happenbut a sudden change touched the beautifulscene . The swaying shadow of some vast motion There had been queer sounds far awayearly in the day and then there had seemedfar to the right in front a whole mountain of smoke and debrisseemed to rise bodily up at the sky , the wrinkled horizon line of landscapes not farfrom the christian positionsseemed lifted to a straight line , the linefar away darkened and approached a monstrous , immeasurablefold of purple motionmoving as swift as a cloud shadow pursued bysunlight . Weseesky , withlots of weatherin it . April 30 Saturday 1960 . Rainfrom 6 to 11 am . Cloudyrest of the day.7 to 9 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 6 pm40 degrees . Some darndrop indeed and this seasonis called Spring ? Spring.Heavy de horse radish . Went to mass ; no tantrums The Hero speaks . Plenty of tantrums all day.Three morning masses . One afternoon one.Life history.The Vivian girls speak for him . I got itgood once again from my fatherwhen he thought from my actions thatI was going to do it again.But I had no intention of doing so . Everything stops . Silence . A flower drifts by Every 4th of July I shot off alltypes of firecracker and never washurt or injured once , I was ever socareful.I was also crazy about makingbonfires but was so careful . I wasnever scorched , singed or burned . Ialso loved to splash water at poolsleft by rain especially with my handto pretend it was raining but somehowI never got wet . Blengins at corners of the sky ( Blengins are the ones with wings ) . One thing I must say is that uschildren in those days werelooked on as beneath the dignity the worst to think of of grownups and did not amountto much where as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of strangers , and those Idid not like were less than the dustor mud beneath my feet . Blengins make the picture:Sacred heart ; Explosion.I also had believed that I had readin the Holy Bible , that children especiallyall good and innocent oneswere more important to godthan the grownups , and that he , when on earth as man , Jesus Christ , had said that it was better for a manor any person of any kind , ifharming a child , to have millstones ( not feathers ) to be tied around his neck and be drowned in the depths of thesea . Someone holds a sign . And not feathers . Orthe child guardian angelwill witness against the person who harms a childbefore god who is in heaven Also in my boyhood days ( I was a little devil , if called " kid " ) I had a very queer way of playingin the snow , by motion . All do this . By motion of my left hand , which later on got me into somesome serious trouble , of whichI will explain somewhat later . Do you believe it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ day come when I will bea grown up. I never wanted to.I wished to be young always.I am grown up now and anold lame man , darn it . WILL THE WORLD EVER KNOW thereal dimensions of this disaster of the war ? which crushed the fightingchristian forces at Delight 's Junctionand left them broken and most disconsolateand discouraged like a wounded dove orseagull fluttering on the sandy beachof the ocean and the small but beautiful beachy shoreof the Sunbeam Creekor river near Delight 's Junction ? That once most beautiful river beach , with its long stretches of strangely yetunusually white sand , where long before the war country children used to comeand play What in the world had become of it . Horribly misshapen , unusuallyand strangely distorted , blotchedbeyond comprehensionand drabbledand horribly crimsoned , and wreckage and body strewn itspread away to the north and south , its ugly scars and shell holes and cratersmade by explosions rendered more hideousby the glinting rays of the winter sun . Something is unscrolled . Something partlyrevealed . We hear shapes and voices.Whatis going on down there , Violet ? Let 's maybe get @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? The camp is over there.I would not have thought it . For thatI would have my wings washed.Damnthose murdering **25;3025;TOOLONG is going on down there ? Let 's go and see.What 's the matter ? Am I seeing things down there ? You sure are , Joice.We will.How are we going to find outwho they are ? we should do somethingANYTHING about this What do you see my friends , wow.A sign . Picnic food . They must be able to eat.I ca n't just say it , oh , itis horrible.Where 's the camp ? Over to the rear.Let 's destroy their camp for this. I 'm getting out of here.How horrible . I 'll tell theBlengins . Violet sings:O , River Aronburg'sRun runs runs runs & has its source fromLake Zannagustapolier . O , River Angelina RunRuns &amp; runs &amp; runs & has her limpid sourcefrom Lake Prostentiateneha , O , O and O. The hero speaks a prayer.Primmaradia . Primanadia or Mangaloo Crater.Holds up a cup.Vanishes . Weather reports untrue ; went to mass ; no tantrums . General Vivian appears . A wonderful uniformother generals , also wonderful uniforms.Sunday January 5 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an unexpected fallat bottom of steps.Two masses and communion.A few tantrums in the morning one in afternoon.Life history . General Vivian . It is all on account of thatDarger and his old picture . Bitterness fills the room . I wonder how it could be recovered . He at oncegoes to General Darger 's headquarters andrequests some means for the recovery of thepicture.How am I going to recover it your excellency ? said General Darger sadly . I have triedvarious means , invading the GlandelinianPublic Libraries , and so on , but withoutsuccess.As it is fair in war I would have ceased ( A sign appears : seized ) the book of newspapers the picture was in , but I could not trace it though I examinedbook after book . It was in some dateof either June 1911 or 1912 . June 1911 or 1912 ? General Vivian , sharplyand with ardent suspicion.I thought you received the picture from herwaist ? I did but I lost it . I had received anotherin a newspaper that told of the tragedywhich was also stolen with many othersI had.General Phelan , anAngelinian traitor , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ expose him sono doubt ? he stole the picture so no evidencecould be made against him . Viviana . Ahem , a traitor hey ? Well , I 'll be bound.He must be captured at all costs.What Glandelinian army is he in ? A division of Raymond Richmond Federal 's army , your excellency.He goes under the name of Tamerlinciabut that is not his name at all . He isone of the worst men next toThomas and Raymond Richmond Federal . Could you describe the murder ? Yes , your excellency . I was then a Glandelinianchild labor boss , but much against my willas I was compelled.Federal governed all the slave housesin Calverina and Phelan was his mayor.When the Child Labor Revolutionbroke outthis little girl was elected a leaderby the child rebels and by her gallantryshe made rapid progress whichenraged Phelanwho got permission from Federalto murder her to murder her in cold blood . I was witness to the most blood curdlingcrime ever committed in Calverina . Annie Aronburg , habited in her nighties , had been probablyoccupying her mind for some timeby planning for victorywhen the bruteseized her by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ began to choke her , tearing her nightie to tatters then with one sweep of his muscular armhe nearly severed her chest open with his razor I tried my best to stop himbut astruggle with such afurious giant was useless andhe got away after trying to shootme dead . A Blengin appears . Please returnthis book to its proper owner.This means you , Henry D. The Vivians appear and speak for him.Now to go back to my ill natureand character . I did not and willnot bear things going wrong . Iwo n't stand for the slightest painanywhere , though most of mypains were very severe and I want everything ( under any conditions ) to come my way If things went wrong during any kind of work I do , I 'll sayI lose my temper terriblyand say things the saints and all the angelswould be ashamed of me for At Jennie Richee They are lost in the wildernessin the dark I would not have thoughtof it. I should have had my wingwashed . Back to the dreadful storyof Annie Aronburg.Hegot away after trying to shootme . I called the police @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ offto report the deed toCalverian christian committeesNot long after , I lost both pictures , one after the other . I andthe little girl had been great friends and Ilonged for the picture as a memory of her . General Viviana , hotly . How thenis it that the loss of the photographs of the plain picturealsois responsible for the situation of this war ? General Darger . Thisis a mystery your excellency , even to me . Are you a Christian or just serving in myarmy for revenge ? I 'm a perfect Angelinian and nothing else and have no love for the enemyof my country . Answered Darger.I belong to St Anthony Parish . Do you pray for the return of the stolenpicture ? I have offered a petition for its return Ihave only done this last March , however . Saluting , General Darger withdrawswith abetter hopethan he ever had before . Appearances of the Ghost of Annie Aronburgto Darger . Pleasereturn this bookto its proper place . Thismeans you , Henry D. Someone does something Quietness . It ( the first appearance of the ghost ) was justasI reached @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ aware of a personfollowing me . I had a great dread of the Glandeliniansoldiery , so drawing my pistol I suddenly wheeledupon my follower ; I beheld the very likeness of the onein the picture I had lost : My name is Annie Aronburg.Could n't youfor my sake withdraw the curseon the christians because of yourloss ? Being aroused I said.Do n't talk to me like that , andattempted to seize her to give hera shaking up , but no one was there . As a large tree was standing , just a foot from meI quickly ran around it , expecting that she had darted behind it , but she was not there.She was gone ! My did n't I feel queer . ( The second appearance of the ghost ) At Phelantonburgafter being pursued by theGlandelinians , and then by theAbbiennians who mistook me for a Glandelinian soldieron account of my gray uniform , I escapedthem both . Thirty or forty feet from the McHollester River whenthe same little girl , dressed allwhite with hands outstretched twardme pleadingly andswayingback and forthlight as a breeze , hercurly yellow hair looking yet more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Do n't you dare to touch me , youfriend of the Glandelinians Screams . You refused my request , andand yet by making youfollow me , I saved your life . From where youfirst stood a mine had beenexploded by your would be friends . After this occurrence I continued mywork and though I soonforgot about her , I was moredetermined than ever to recover herpicture , or one just like it . ( The Third appearance of the Ghost ) . Watching the onslaught of theConcentinian calvary.Against the Omarians atMcWhirter Run I had been riding twardMcWhirter Run.WhenI heard her call me , thoughhowever her voice seemed far away and weak.Inlooking tward the placid waters of theriver I thought sureIsaw the beautiful child in the waterwith lily pads all around her ; Was it really the child 's spirit persistent in herrequest ? My answer . My child , Irealize now my mistake , in beingbeing harsh to you . But I swearbefore godthat I have one way togrant your request , and that Iwill tell you , and do , if you will reveal to me whyyou appear to me @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ told you before who I am I amAnnie Aronburg . I was cruelly murderedby Raymond Richardson Federalbecause I was a leaderof the rebel childrenwhorebelled against ourmasters to gain ourfreedom from slavery and misery . As you was the onewhohad secured my picture , and many other articlesbelonging to me , I had trust that as youalonehave the situation of both sidesin your power , I decided to appeal to you to avenge my assassination , or the poorVivian girls Chorus . The poor Vivian girlswillwill have to die for me to save theirnation and father 's armiesfrom complete ruin anddefeat at the hands of theirGlandelinian enemies.Yourefused my requestuntilI appealed asecond time , and thisis the time . If yourefusethis timeallwill be lost for the foe will be victorious . ( The fourth appearance of the murdered child ) . At Aronburg 's Run was the lastattired as a celestialprincess , onlyappearing a moment smiled at me , and then was gone.I have n't seen her since.But now I have joined the christian armies , am an officer , andhave been leading one of the fiercestchargesat Logan Zoe Rae Run . Quiet , of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for some kind of cutting upa teacher boxed my earsand my father had to paythe doctor bill for what Idid to her . ISlashed her on the face and armwith my long knife . I must also saywhen I was arousedI was dangerous.At leastwhen going to schoolafter thatmy father would not let metake my knife , or any other weaponwith me . Outside of that it was all right . But I was expelled from that schoolfor doing that yet if I could whena boy I would severely revengepunishments whether I deserved themor not . Some boy once accused meof stealing his wagon which I didnot.If I would have I really had noplace to hide it . He hit me on the nosewith the palm of his hand . For what I did to him in return he wasin a hospital for a long time . His parentscould do nothing against me or makemy father pay ( and ) any bill becausewitnesses said and was able toprove that he and his gang offollowers ganged up on me , twelveagainst one . Somebody did steal his wagon , butnot I. What good @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wrote before I had no placeto hide it ? If I had brought it into the housemy father would find out who itbelonged to and make me give itback . And punish me for stealingit . As I had no place to hide itI could have fully proved that Inever took it , but they still wouldnot believe me . So I was slammedon the nose , and I believe I nearlykilled him . I was a very dangerous kid if notleft alone.My two losses have been very serious , but the loss of the Aronburg picturehas been the greatest , hascaused the frightfuldisastersduring the battles , the tormentof the Vivian girls , and thefrightful fury of the great war.Went to mass ; no tantrums . Violet , Mary , Joice , Jennie Francio , Catherine Cecilia , Hettie , Annie , Daisy Gertrude , &amp;Evangelina Celestina . Primmaradia . Primanadia or Mangaloo Crater.A twister called " Sweetie Pie " and theterrible harm it did . Storms distance approachDanger in  --  squall ( tropical ) The boy and girl are trying toawaken little Vivian girlprincess sound asleepwhile reclining on rock.Flowering blossom is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bookto its proper place.This means you , Henry D. How horrible . I 'll tell the Blengins . I 'll tell the Blengins.I 'll tell the Blengins . Violet sings:Perhaps theBlengiglomenean serpentPerhaps theBlengiglomenean creaturewill save the little girl ; Perhaps the Perhaps theBlengins will rest ; The Blengins will play in the shade . Perhaps the GrimecianGazoonian , perhapsThe poisonous Blengin , Perhaps the poisonous Blengiglomenean , avery poisonous Blenginof Calverina , perhaps the Perhaps thePerhaps the Will save the little girl andrest to play another day ; The Blengins will playin the shade ; or two spangled Blengins , or Blengins more strangethan they ; Blengiglomenean creatures , Blengiglomenean serpents ; Perhaps thePerhaps the Or in their little girl formwith rams ' hornscoiling out of their headstheir little round head , like hyacinthine curls . Perhaps thePerhaps the Vivian girls . They stand there . With the well-cut and delicately closed mouth ; which looked as ifit always had beenshut upon secrets . And make a sketch of the Vivian girls ashe imagined they looked , hefound himself sayingover and overagain . Penrod , after some considerable thoughts , believed he could @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ andalso their father 's , which hewould show General Greatheartthat he knew and could at leastthat hethat could at least recognizeat least Emperor Vivian . He rises up.He jumps from his cot.Andgoes to a small tablenear the window Draws from his drawer apencil , and a tablet of writing paperwithout lines . Blizzard outside , and the wind wasoccasionallyblowing great quantities of snowagainst the windowpane , andtheblinding snow sheet outsidehiding objects for a hundred feetmade it lighter . Thirty minutes . The face of Emperor Vivianfive or six sketches of the Vivian girls.Very unsatisfactory.Tore them up . Again and again . Tore them up.Tore them up , darn it . Silence . Pause . Silence. @x Saturday January 4 , 1969 . Plenty of tantrums allday three morning masses . One afternoon one.Life history . The Hero appears as Evan , a dashingMan . It is now seen.after their many attempts , thatthere was an impossibility of evercapturing Violet and her sisters aliveas long asEvans was with them . A moment of puzzlement ; brief tantrum . Six carpets , all neatly rolled up . Pause . Silence . Pause . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the little girls had beencaptured , and thoughunsuccessful in escaping twiceThey finally succeeded a third time : The Glandelinians , who had made prisonersof us , at Phelantonburg Run , had ordered us to roll up six rugsso thatthe soldiers could take them out . Looking closely at the rugswe believedthatwe immediately saw our chance to getawayby rolling up the rugs in a wayto leave a good sized hollow in the roll , in which each one of us could hide . ( Plate 1 ) But the rugs being heavy ones , was increased immensely by the weightof Iand my sisters , so that the Glandelinianswho were to take the rugs outhad all they could doto carry themwith us in them The man carrying the rug Iwas concealed inslippedat the head of the stairwayand he fellthe **38;3052;TOOLONG thestairs so **31;3092;TOOLONG was nothurt , nevertheless . Something quiet happens . Pause . Silence . Pause . A Blengin examines herwing . I should have had my wingwashed . Another.They always do that . Saturday January 28 to Thursday September 11 thelong siege of illness from the leg and lefthip from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Stopped.What will it be ? Nevertheless theprecipitationof my quick flightdown thestairsbackwardsand everyformof rollingmade mesee itseemed athrillion stars andplanitsof all colors . Iliterally wentdownmost of thewayhead firstand theGlandelinianscarrying theotherheavierrugs suspectedthe causeof their greatweightwhen they sawme go downthose stepsin such ahurry . And my sisters were at once seized . The officer at the lower room.Trying to escape eh ? You little bratWell you just come right down tothe first floor where we can watchyou . They watch her . Silence . Pause . Silence . Bad fall , pain in head , aggrieved.Say , Colonel Frank Francis , do youthink anyone could come downany faster than I did ? Iand my sisterswere brought down into theofficers ' quarters , andone of the soldiers toldof our attempts to escape , andhowone of ushad been accidentallydumpeddown the stepsby Private Henry Darger , who was carrying the rug ! Who was carrying the rugconcealing me . A rug unrolls . Unscrolls . Reveals A picture . Psst . Do n't worry . We Blenginswill help you escape . The officers laugh at Private HenryDarger.Little girls will do any thingto escape . I guess you @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , have made my hair raise onendat times . What you little girls dowould make me shiver with fright . Music . We notice a dark dark cloud an ovaloff to the right of the At Jennie RicheeDuring full fury of the storm they escape At Jennie RicheeStorm distance approachDanger in  --  squall ( tropical ) The boy and girls are trying to awaken little Vivian girlprincess sound asleepwhile reclining on rock.Flowering blossom is calledCastanallea fruit . Plantsimilar to cantaloupewhen full At Jennie RicheeOut in the open they view the approachingstorm ( Blengins are the ones with horns ) . At Jennie RicheeThey have the suspicion of bad tropical stormapproaching At Jennie RicheeRacing through a field of gigantic flowersto seek shelter as the storm renews . At Jennie RicheeThey mingle with the child prisoners in theabsence of guards they overcome to getthem to quit work and follow them nextmorning . At Jennie RicheeNext morning child prisoners flee acrossAronburg Run River . Little vivians on bankright of picture try to get them to turn backbefore running into trap . At Jennie RicheeHarassed by unseen foe as storm approachesterrified kids hide behind bushes whilethe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ RicheeCross river by swimming and beats escapingpursuers . Land on North side and noticeheight of tropical plants . Burning the crazy images tossed in all ( Plate 13 ) directions by the explosion . Boy hit onthe head by one of them is doctored innext picture . Let 's take him to a doctor . That thing ( Plate 14 ) hit him hard.This is not a surprise . Not playing . This is the real thing.He is a midget doctor.We can burn thosecrazy images overthere.Sign . Picture no two fromother side . At CalmanrinaAlmost engulfed by opposing soldiers of bothsides during hand to hand fight they succeed inescaping by climbing a tall tree in theregion of battle . At Jennie RicheeAll are seized by pursuing Glandelinian soldiersthree hours later . At Jennie RicheeThey are seized by Glandelinians withdogs.Glandelinians . There they go.Vivians . I once hit General Manley with a stone and I amafraid of the enemy ever since.What or who is after you that scaresyou so ? I do not know what is the matter . Shewas running like mad every time I seeher and one looks so scared @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ coming very fast with dogs . See my wing ? What if I tapped you ( Plate 20 ) with it ? I could have injured youbadly . You done wisely to stop . Isaw you always running like crazy.Will you explain why ? Anyone afteryou ? Who owns this ? ( A birdhouse ) ( Plate 21 ) Aw do n't be such a little mouse andput your hands around from yourface . Nothing will happen to you.You said a mouthful.I second the motion . Yeah , darn it . ( Plate 22 ) What is going on down there , Nancy ? *Let 's maybe get Mablee Normandy . She'llknow what to do.Some kids have been cut over there.Have any proof ? This is the knife they used.The camp is over there.Make them who done it give up to usor destroy them all. *Glandelinian soldiers committed a totalmurder of children.They always do that.And how.I feel something 's happened.I would not og it . For that I would havemy wings washed.Damn those murdering Glandelinian solders.What 's wrong ? Call that all fair in war ? That 's first degreemurder . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ A severed head ) and this is no image but the headof a real child.I wish I had those gray-coated devils who didthat . I 'd pray they are baseballs and mywings are baseball bats . I feel like a baby to know those murderous Glandelinianscould do that.Do the same to them.What is going on down there ? Let 's go and see.What 's the matter ? What do you see , my friends ? Wow.What 's the matter ? Am I seeing things down there ? You sure are , Nancy . ( Picnic food . They must be able to eat . ) I just ca n't say it , oh , it is horrible.Where 's the camp ? Over to the rear.Let 's destroy their camp for this.We will.How are we going to find out who they are ? Could n't we do something about this ? I 'm getting out of here.How horrible . I 'll tell the Blengins. *Sure ? What do you think ? What do you think when the Glendaliniansdo this to innocent kids ? A cloaked man.Primmaradia . Primanadia or Mangaloo Crater.How horrible . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Blengins.I 'll tell the Blengins.I 'll tell the Blengins . Violet sings : @x Lost in a cavern darkness visible . An old man . coughing , shuffles about . Pause . Silence . Pause . If I had known at the timeof the causeof my being sent to thatchildrens nuthouse I surely would havenever forgiventhose at theMercy of Our Lady Homeand would haverevenged it the very firstchance I had . I a feeble-minded kid ! I knew more than the whole shebangin that place I was then called crazy.I had I believe more brains than allcombined . None of them I foundever even knew geography orhistory . I did . My spelling , figures , and reading and writing was moreexcellent than theirs.My finding it out there are manycities in this country and the old worldthey could not spell or pronounce I couldBerlin and Dresden are still the mostbeautiful cities in the world.Berlin is the largest next to London andNew York CityFebruary 20 Friday 1970 Same from 1969Till now . Many days of bad tember samework daily mass communion and walkseating Jalooka fruit before its ripe . Primmaradia . Primanadia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a song . As I said before I received admonitionfrom Sister Rose because of my enforced left handedness , untilI could prove it was impossiblewith my right hand . Once In searching for something thatgot lost from mein a very dark place , anenclosure of the out exiton the ground floorbehind the dining room , by which you go outsideby the rear I scared some young woman ( she was cowardly and timid anyhow ) out of her wits accidentally . When Sister Rose heard of itby someone telling her she scolded megood , and said she believed thatI am really crazy . Silence . Pause . Silence . Brief flash of a solitary Blengin washingher wing . Somewhere someone does something . While working at St Joseph Hospitaland then at the Alexian Hospital Igot on me a very mean streakbecause of prayers not being answeredand a question over snow . Before this happened I was adaily attendant at Mass and HolyCommunion . Then foolishly and very sinfullyI stopped going to Mass and HolyCommunion and when workwas unusually heavyat both places I badly sang awfullyblasphemous words at God for hourswithout stoppingI @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ strike me.But no he did not . I believe he knew there was a time comingwhen I would wisely change myways.It did happen . It was whileI was working in thebandage room.Up there were dayswhen the work was so scarce thatI almost had nothing to do . In some sort of a magazineI read of a young fellowwhowhen losing his fortune heturned bandit and robbedand killed at will . He was betrayed by false womenfriends arrested and being foundguilty at his trial was condemned to be hanged . When he died he went to hell and was tormented horribly by fiends . There was not only descriptionsof the story but as many pictures.The pictures of his torments in thefires of hell , and by the demonsscared me into repentanceand I stayed good and afterconfession have been going todaily Mass and confession frequentlyand also Holy Communion ever since . Guard those timid kids from any ( Plate 23 ) more danger . Those prisoners might escape again.The trial is delayed . Too bad . Awful slow getting the trial started . ( Plate 24 ) At Jennie RicheeTwo days later captured again Hurry with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the stockade.What 's keeping you , Mike ? Hurry please63 kids listed here who andwhat 9 kids are nuded andwhy.Child slaves maybe.What 's your hurry ? Hold your horses Mike The trial Sign ( Plate 27 ) will begin Signin three minutes Sign afraid ofWhat 's wrong now ? Here . Put this on scardy . ( Plate 28 ) Scardy ? Do n't make funof me.At Jennie RicheeWho does this belong to ? I would not want to be intheir place SignTheir trial begins at two o'clock SignThey will plead notguilty Sign Hard pressed during attack bypursuing enemy they becomelost in cavern of volcanicMount Soutuumia orPrimarradia or Primanadia or Mangaloo cater . January 1 1971 and also 1st of February1971 . From Friday 1970 till Monday1971 . Everything I did was the same.Including writing a fictional story ofa huge huge twister called " Sweetie Pie " and the unbelievable horror it did . From February 1971 to December 1971Not much history until October whenI had an eye operation of the left onebecause of a serious infection and wasin bed and unstill a little before Christmasbecause I could n't because of anunusual @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a poor avery poor nothing like Christmas.Never had a good Christmas all my lifenor a good new good new year andnow reviewing it I am very bitter but not resentful as I feel I should I do wish I could be backworking there again.To make matters worse I am an artistand can not hardly stand on my feet because ofmy knee to paint on thetop of the long picture . Went to mass ; no tantrums . ! Now I am walking the streets andagain going to Mass as usual whatwill it be for New Years 1972 1972God only knows this year was avery bad one Hope not to repeatif so  --  New Year 's Resolution : I 'll do the samenext year as I did this yearand that is final . January 1 1972  --  to January 1973What will it be ? Violet sings:O , River Aronburg'sRun runs runs runs & has its source fromLake Zannagustapolier . O , River Angelina RunRuns &amp; runs &amp; runs & has her limpid sourcefrom Lake ProstentiatenehaO , O and O. Primmaradia . Primanadia or Mangaloo Crater . At Jennie RicheeHard pressed during storm by pursuingenemy they become @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Out . Another.Three fairy-winged Tuskerhorians . Another.Young Striped Blengin . Another.They admire the beauty of Tropical nimbusclouds . Another two pictures.Gazook ; and Grimecian Gazoonian . Another.Lost in volcanic caverns . And another.Odalisque ; In the garden . A Jennie.A nouveau , la fuite . Silence . Pause . Silence . Another picture.Sacred Heart ; Explosion . Another.Everything is alright . Another.Flowers and girls in polka-dot dresses . A last picture.The Blengins play under shelter . Violet sings:At Jennie RicheeWhat if I tappedyou with my wing ? What if I hurt you badly , sadly ? Who would help you ? Who would help you escape the trap ? What will it be ? What will it be ? O , it all wouldend badly , sadlyat Jennie RicheeWhat will it be ? What will it be ? Someone does something . ( Millstones , not feathers ) . Silence . Pause . Silence .                     