@@30734

Chapter One " Mr. Hauptman , Sir Thomas . " Sir Thomas Caparelli , First Space Lord of the Royal Manticoran Navy , rose with his very best effort at a smile of welcome as his yeoman ushered his guest into his huge office . He suspected it was n't very convincing , but , then , Klaus Hauptman was n't one of his favorite people . " Sir Thomas . " The dark-haired man with the dramatically white sideburns and bulldog jaw gave him a curt nod . He was n't being especially rude ; that was how he greeted almost everyone , and he held out his hand as if to soften his brusqueness . " Thank you for seeing me . " He did not add " at last , " but Sir Thomas heard it anyway and felt his smile become just a bit more fixed . " Please have a seat . " The burly admiral in whom one could still see the bruising soccer player who 'd led the Academy to three system championships waved his guest politely into the comfortable chair @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the yeoman . " Thank you , " Hauptman repeated . He sat in the indicated chair-like , Caparelli thought , an emperor taking his throne-and cleared his throat . " I know you have many charges on your time , Sir Thomas , so I 'll come straight to the point . And the point is that conditions in the Confederacy are becoming intolerable . " " I realize it 's a bad situation , Mr. Hauptman , " Caparelli began , " but the war front is- " " Excuse me , Sir Thomas , " Hauptman interrupted , " but I understand the situation at the front . Indeed , Admiral Cortez and Admiral Givens have-as I 'm certain you instructed them to-explained it to me at considerable length . I realize you and the Navy are under tremendous pressure , but losses in Silesia are becoming catastrophic , and not just for the Hauptman Cartel . " Caparelli clenched his jaw and reminded himself to move carefully . Klaus Hauptman was arrogant , opinionated , and ruthless ... and the wealthiest single individual in the entire @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bit . Despite its limitation to a single star system , the Star Kingdom was the third wealthiest star nation in a five-hundred-light-year sphere in absolute terms . In per capita terms , not even the Solarian League matched Manticore . A great deal of that was fortuitous , the result of the Manticore Worm Hole Junction which made the Manticore Binary System the crossroads of eighty percent of the long-haul commerce of its sector . But almost as much of its wealth stemmed from what the Star Kingdom had done with the opportunity that presented , for generations of monarchs and parliaments had reinvested the Junction 's wealth with care . Outside the Solarian League , no one in the known galaxy could match the Manticoran tech base or output per man-hour , and Manticore 's universities challenged those of Old Earth herself . And , Caparelli admitted , Klaus Hauptman and his father and grandfather had had a great deal to do with building the infrastructure which made that possible . Unfortunately , Hauptman knew it , and he sometimes-often , in Caparelli 's view-acted as if the Star @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hauptman , " the admiral said after a moment , " I 'm very sorry about the losses you and the other cartels are suffering . But your request , however reasonable it may seem , is simply impossible to grant at this time . " " With all due respect , Sir Thomas , the Navy had better make it possible . " Hauptman 's flat tone was just short of insulting , but he stopped himself , then drew a deep breath . " Excuse me , " he said in the voice of one clearly unaccustomed to apologizing . " That was rude and confrontational . Nonetheless , there 's also a kernel of truth in it . The war effort depends upon the strength of our economy . The shipping duties , transfer fees , and inventory taxes my colleagues and I pay are already three times what they were at the start of the war , and- " Caparelli opened his mouth , but Hauptman held up a hand . " Please . I 'm not complaining about duties and taxes . We 're at war @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ someone has to pay the freight . My colleagues and I realize that . But you must realize that if losses continue climbing , we 'll have no choice but to cut back or even entirely eliminate our shipping to Silesia . I leave it to you to estimate what that will mean for the Star Kingdom 's revenues and war effort . " Caparelli 's eyes narrowed , and Hauptman shook his head . " That 's not a threat ; it 's simply a fact of life . Insurance rates have already reached an all-time high , and they 're still climbing ; if they rise another twenty percent , we 'll lose money on cargos which reach their destinations . And in addition to our financial losses , there 's also the loss of life involved . Our people-my people , people who 've worked for me for decades-are being killed , Sir Thomas . " Caparelli sat back with an unwilling sense of agreement , for Hauptman was right . The Confederacy 's weak central government had always made it a risky place , but its worlds @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , machinery , and civilian technology transfers , not to mention an important source of raw materials . And however much Caparelli might personally dislike Hauptman , the magnate had every right to demand the Navy 's help . It was , after all , one of the Navy 's primary missions to protect Manticoran commerce and citizens , and prior to the present war , the Royal Manticoran Navy had done just that in Silesia . Unfortunately , it had required a major fleet presence . Not of battle squadrons-using ships of the wall against pirates would have been like swatting flies with a sledgehammer-but of light combatants . And the critical needs of the RMN 's war against the People 's Republic of Haven had drawn those lighter units off . They were desperately needed to screen the heavy squadrons and for the countless patrols and scouting and convoy escorts the Fleet required for its very survival . There were never enough cruisers and destroyers to go around , and the overriding need for capital ships diverted yard space from building them in the necessary numbers . The admiral @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ RMN 's most brilliant flag officer . He knew his strengths-courage , integrity , and enough bullheaded stubbornness for any three people-but he also admitted his weaknesses . Officers like the Earl of White Haven or Lady Sonja Hemphill always made him uncomfortable , for he knew as well as they that they were his intellectual superiors . And White Haven , Caparelli admitted , had the infuriating gall to be not only a better strategist , but a better tactician , as well . Nonetheless , it was Sir Thomas Caparelli who 'd been named First Space Lord just in time for the war to explode in his face . That made it his job to win the thing , and he was determined to do just that . Yet it was also his job to protect Manticoran civilians in the course of their legitimate commercial activities , and he was desperately conscious of how thin his Navy was stretched . " I understand your concerns , " he said finally , " and I ca n't disagree with anything you 've said . The problem is that we 're @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ n't , but literally cannot-withdraw additional warships from the front to reinforce our convoy escorts in Silesia . " " Well we have to do something . " Hauptman spoke quietly , and Caparelli sensed the arrogant magnate 's very real effort to match his own reasonable tone . " The convoy system helps during transits between sectors , of course . We have n't lost a single ship that was under escort , and , believe me , my colleagues and I all appreciate that . But the raiders realize as well as we do that they ca n't attack the convoys . They also know simple astrographics require us to route over two-thirds of our vessels independently after they reach their destination sectors ... and that the available escorts simply ca n't cover us when we do . " Caparelli nodded somberly . No one was losing any ships in the convoys covering transit between Silesia 's nodal sector administration centers , but the pirates more than made up for that by snapping up merchantmen after they had to leave the convoys to proceed to the individual worlds of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more we can do , Sir , " the admiral said after a long , silent moment . " Admiral White Haven 's returning to Manticore sometime next week . I 'll confer with him then , see if there 's any way we can reorganize and pry a few more escorts loose , but , frankly , until we can somehow take Trevor 's Star , I 'm not optimistic . In the meantime , I 'll put my staff to work on an immediate study of anything-and I do mean anything , Mr. Hauptman-we can do to ease the situation . I assure you that this matter has the second highest priority , after Trevor 's Star itself . I 'll do everything possible to reduce your losses . You have my personal word on that . " Hauptman sat back in his chair , studying the admiral 's face , then grunted . The sound was weary , irate , and just a little desperate , but he nodded grudgingly . " I can ask no more than that , Sir Thomas , " he said heavily . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on miracles , but the situation is very , very grave . I 'm not certain we have another month ... but I am certain we have no more than four , five at the most , before the cartels will be forced to suspend operations in Silesia . " " I understand , " Caparelli repeated , rising to extend his hand . " I 'll do what I can-and as quickly as I can-and I promise I 'll personally brief you on the situation as soon as I 've had a chance to confer with Admiral White Haven . With your permission , I 'll have my yeoman set up another meeting with you for that purpose . Perhaps we can think of something at that time . Until then , please stay in touch . You and your colleagues may actually have a better feel for the situation than we do at the Admiralty , and any input you can offer my analysts and planning people will be greatly appreciated . " " Very well , " Hauptman sighed , standing in turn , and gripped the admiral @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " I realize I 'm not the easiest man in the universe to get along with , Sir Thomas . I 'm trying very hard not to be the proverbial bull in the china shop , and I genuinely appreciate both the difficulties you face and the efforts you 're making on our behalf . I only hope that there 's an answer somewhere . " " So do I , Mr. Hauptman , " Caparelli said quietly , escorting his guest to the door . " So do I. " Admiral of the Green Hamish Alexander , Thirteenth Earl of White Haven , wondered if he looked as weary as he felt . The earl was ninety T-years old , though in a pre-prolong society he would have been taken for no more than a very well preserved forty , and even that would have been only because of the white stranded through his black hair . But there were new lines around his ice-blue eyes , and he was only too well aware of his own fatigue . He watched space 's ebon black give way to deep @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the city of Landing and felt that weariness aching in his bones . The Star Kingdom-or , at least , the realistic part of it-had dreaded the inevitable war with the People 's Republic for over fifty T-years , and the Navy ( and Hamish Alexander ) had spent those years preparing for it . Now that war was almost three years old ... and proving just as brutal as he 'd feared . It was n't that the Peeps were that good ; it was just that they were so damned big . Despite the internal wounds the People 's Republic had inflicted upon itself since Hereditary President Harris 's assassination , despite its ramshackle economy and the pogroms which had cost the People 's Navy its most experienced officers , despite even the indolence of the Republic 's Dolists , it remained a juggernaut . Had its industrial plant been even half as efficient as the Star Kingdom 's , the situation would have been hopeless . As it was , a combination of skill , determination , and more luck than any competent strategist would dare count on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But holding its own was n't enough . White Haven sighed and massaged his aching eyes . He hated leaving the front , but at least he 'd been able to leave Admiral Theodosia Kuzak in command . He could count on Theodosia to hold things together in his absence . White Haven snorted at the thought . Hell , maybe she could actually take Trevor 's Star . God knew he had n't had much success in that department ! He lowered his hand from his eyes and gazed back out the view port while he took himself to task for that last thought . The truth was that he 'd had a very " good " war to date . In the first year of operations , his Sixth Fleet had cut deep into the Republic , inflicting what would have been fatal losses for any smaller navy along the way . He and his fellow admirals had actually managed to equalize the daunting odds they 'd faced at the start of the war , and taken no less than twenty-four star systems . But the second and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on balance , and Rob Pierre 's Committee of Public Safety had initiated a reign of terror guaranteed to stiffen the spine of any Peep admiral . And if the destruction of the Legislaturalist dynasties which had ruled the old People 's Republic had cost the PN its most experienced admirals , it had also destroyed the patronage system which had kept other officers from rising to the seniority their capabilities deserved . Now that the Legislaturalists were out of the way , some of those new admirals were proving very tough customers . Like Admiral Esther McQueen , the senior Peep officer at Trevor 's Star . White Haven grimaced at the view port . According to ONI , the people 's commissioners the Committee of Public Safety had appointed to keep the People 's Navy in line were the ones who really called the shots . If that was so , if political commissars truly were degrading the performance of officers like McQueen , White Haven could only be grateful . He 'd begun getting a feel for the woman over the last few months , and he suspected @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ edge , if in fact he had one , was far thinner than he would have liked , and she had ice water in her veins . She understood the strengths and weaknesses of her forces , knew her technology was more primitive and her officer corps less experienced , but she also knew sufficient numbers and an unflinching refusal to be bullied into mistakes could offset that . When one added the way Manticore 's need to take Trevor 's Star simplified the strategic equation for her , she was giving as good as she got . Losses had been very nearly even since she took over , and Manticore simply could n't afford that . Not in a war that looked like it might well last for decades . And not , White Haven admitted , when every month increased the threat that the Republic would begin to figure out how to redress its technological and industrial disadvantages . Continues ...                     