@@32083

The winter of 1846 , when half of everything alive succumbed to thecold , has been stored for over eighty years in the mysterious mindcommon to the species , and though the owl did n't experience thatwinter , she remembers itthe poisonous smell of the air , the frost thatpinned feathers to skin , the famine . She remembers that time the waya woman remembers her great-grandmother 's death in childbirth . Sothis year , when summer never properly thaws the land and the tidalpools remain fringed with ice , she knows what to expect . Soon the baywill be frozen shore to shore , the ptarmigan scarce , the predators hungry.The owl understands that to survive she must leave early andabandon the north entirely . She sounds the alarm at dawn on the eve of the equinox , waits forthe flock to gather , and sets off From Baffin Bay to Island Lake and ontoward the great expanse of Lake Ontario , she leads the way . Such astrong , sturdy queen of a bird , and so richly attired : gold-ribbed breastfeathers , white coat , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ owlsbelieve her to be fearless . In truth , danger makes this brave , majesticowl as skittish as a gnat . Crossing the vast expanse of Lake Ontariothisfrightens her , though she 'd never admit it . They are met midwayby a mild squall that gains an unexpected intensity as they fly throughit . Bursts of hail scatter the owls , and the last sight the bird has of hermate is his wingtip before the mist sucks him into its center . You shouldlet a storm take you where it will , the bird knows-warp and spinacross the sky with the wind instead of trying to resist it . But the squallthreatens to pull her downwardinto the turbulent lake , so she beatsher powerful wings against the gusts , hovering while the ran swirlsaround her . All reason is swept away by the storm , leaving only thefrenzied effort of life Protecting itself and an insidious , creeping exhaustion . And then , abruptly , the squall passes and the bird flies on throughthe drizzle to the southern shore . She alights on a narrow strip of sand , tucks her @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Shewonders whether the others would agree to call this beach their destination.Her tired body tells her to stay here through the winter months , and her instinct to go on fades to a whisper . The waves of the laketeeter and collapse near her feet . Yes , she persuades herself , it seems assafe a place as any . Then she sees the hen . Just a scrawny red hen that must have wanderedaway from a nearby farm and comes trotting out of the underbrushto say hello . But to the owl , born and bred in the open tundrawhere there are few surprises , it seems a phantom bird . A demon . Herown goblin double . She lifts up into the air with a panicked flapping , sideslips until she finds a southward current , and pushes herselfthrough the air as fast as she can go . She bends east , then southwest , then east again , races along haphazardly , escaping not the killing cold but something else , somethingunnameable . She doubles the distance southward with her zigzags , unable to stop or orient @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a mossy hillock rising out of an egg-shaped pond , a safe refugeat first glimpse , with the surrounding woods sparse enough for her tosee an enemy . She decides to spend the night here . Come morning , shewill set out in search of her flock . She scratches at the wet ground , her talons bidden by thick trouserfeathers . She flaps and wriggles and stomps on the spongy earth untilshe finds a comfortable position . She folds her wings . She bobs andpivots her head to take in the new landscape-the sphagnum mossbeneath her , the sumac and myrtle , the saplings with their burningleaves . Then she blinks her huge eyes slowly and surveys the water , keeping as still as a stone sphinx . This is nothing like her home . But fornow she can pretend that she is queen again , that the trees are full ofowls and the body of water is her own Baffin Bay . She takes a deepbreath and shrieks : Worship me ! And so Ellen Griswood puts another day behind her , an ordinary day:the kitchen floor was scrubbed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ antlers dusted and moose-hoof nut dishes wipedclean . Nothing to remark upon . Now that Mrs. Craxton is asleep atlast , Ellen may relax . She blows out the candle and moves with herusual confidence across the darkened roomshe knows the geographyof this bedroom as intimately as she knows the body of the woman sheserves , from the horny toenails to the rhythms of the bowels , from theragdoll legs to the waxy scalp beneath the thin white hair . Overthe years , Ellen has learned to divide her attention equally between thehouse and its mistress and has rarely , if ever , been found at fault . Shereminds herself of this as she steps out into the hallway , where she 's lefta lamp hanging : she 's an expert in her wayindispensable . She needn'tworry about her position as long as Mrs. Craxton is alive . And here 's the delicious fatigue that proves the hours have been wellspent . She turns toward her weariness as she might turn toward the sunon the first warm day of spring , basks in it , retaining just enoughstrength to drag herself @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The attic room , which Ellen shares with her daughter , is long andnarrow , with a sloping ceiling , flowered wallpaper , and a half windowat the far end . The twin beds are separated by a table , and in the stingylight cast by Ellen 's lamp , the room seems to have the depths of atunnel that continues beyond the window into the night sky . A desolatespace , perhaps , but a haven nonetheless , and if you asked , Ellenwould tell you that she 'd be content to sleep here every night for therest of her life . How different she is from her daughter , who looks forward to theday when she 'll sleep between silk sheets on a canopy bed the size ofDelaware . That 's what eight years at a provincial academy will do toa girl : give her high notions and no useful skills . The insult of Peg'scovers still tossed in a frothy mess makes the room seem strange toEllen , as though she were visiting it for the first time after many years.A regular princess , her daughter , too @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Peg plays these days is a fatal one : toomuch time on her hands and no responsibilities . Even now she 's probablyup to mischief , wandering through forbidden rooms with youngJunket , the groundskeeper 's son , treating the Manikin as her privateproperty . Nonsense . From start to finish the game of leisure is nonsense , and if Peg does n't find a proper job soon , Ellen will . . . what willshe do ? She has let Peg have her own way until now , so there 's notmuch possibility for correction . Peg Griswood does exactly as shepleases , with or without her mother 's blessing . After Ellen has slipped into her flannel nightgown and cap and easedherself beneath the icy spread , she hovers in this wakeful temper for afew minutes , thinking about how her influence over her daughter , alwaysprecarious , has grown negligible . She 's at her wit 's end-and atthe end of a busy day , as well . She has never been one to trade precioussleep for worry . And remember , Mrs. Griswood , she reassures herself @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will be a secure futurefor both yourself and your child . Ultimate security is Ellen Griswood 's goalit meant complete devotionto her husband for six short years . Since his death in 1917 it hasmeant complete loyalty to her employer . Ten years of loyalty , never alapse . So when she hears , or imagines , Mrs. Craxton s voice whisperingher name , a low snap of sound against her ear just as she is driftingto sleep , she responds like a recruit called to attention . Ellen . " Ma'am ? " she says aloud , sitting bolt upright . The lamp , left burningfor her daughter , casts a smoky yellow light , and the room feelsmore snug now . The house is silent again . It must have been nothing.or , if something , merely the crackle of wind through the hickories . Butthe possibilities suggested by the whisper have drawn Ellen back to fullawareness . Does Mrs. Craxton need her ? As the Manikin 's head housekeeper and Mary Craxton 's companion , Ellen is responsible for her employer 's well-being . What if some.thing has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ n't believe in portents , and the nightly routine guarantees consistency . But thewhat-if lingers . If Mrs. Craxton needs her and Ellen is n't quick torespond , she 'll have to bear the brunt of the old woman 's rage . It isn'tlikely , but it 's possible that the imagined whisper had its source inactual distress . Anything 's possible in the Manikin , and Ellen wo n't beable to sleep until she looks in on Mrs. Craxton one more time . " Lord , " she moans in exaggerated misery , weak solace as she descendsthe back stairwell to the first floor . Inside Mrs. Craxton 's bedroom , everything appears undisturbed , but since Ellen has come allthis way she will make sure . She leaves her lamp in the hall and dropsto her hands and knees , keeping below the line of vision in case the oldwoman has her night-eyes open . By the time she reaches the bed , herown eyes have adjusted enough to the darkness to make out form , ifnot precise detail . She sees the stiff billows where the comforter isbunched against @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the bed . She sees the pillow where Mrs. Craxton 's head should be.She sees the carved mahogany bedposts , eagles with folded wings risingup on either side . Where Mrs. Craxton 's head should be . Mrs. Craxton 's place isempty . Empty ! Neither Mary Craxton alive nor Mary Craxton dead.Ellen 's history of competence wo n't be worth a dime if Mrs. Craxtonis missing . It 's her job to sustain Mrs. Craxton so the old woman canwrite her son long , accusing letters while he 's abroad and scold himwhen he 's at home . She 's been known to work herself into such atemper that she faints ; every year their battles are a little fiercer , andwith every battle Ellen holds her breath , expecting disaster . Now here 's a disaster , Ellen thinks . Her misperception will pass ina flash . But how brilliantly that flash illuminates her confused fears . I do n't know how it happened , sir . In her mind Hal Craxton sits inhis velvet wingback chair , glowering , terrifying . Your mother simplydisappeared . Simply ? Simply @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ just sneak from her bed of her own accord , no more thana newborn infant can walk away from its cradle ! Someone must havestolen her , there 's no other explanation possible . Someone must havegagged her , bound her , and carried off the bundle of aged flesh into thewoods . Mrs. Craxton has been kidnapped , and her son will have topay a pretty sum of money to get her back ! The sheriff will want to talkto you , Ellen Griswood , he 'll want to ask you a few questions , so you'dbetter have an alibi ready . Mrs. Craxton has disappeared , and you'regoing to have to answer for it ! Exhaustion , Ellen will be the first to point out , can turn the mindinto a vessel for delusions . In fact , yes , in irrefutable fact , Mary Craxtonis still in bed , asleep , her head sunk so deeply into the pillow thatthe folds almost entirely enclose her face . Which proves not that MaryCraxton has the magical ability to disappear and reappear at will , butthat Ellen was mistaken . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ climbs toher feet , shakes her robe so it falls evenly , and walks from the room.She even lets the latch click as she pulls the door shut . Wake up , youold bat ! Briefly , Ellen is possessed by an overpowering anger . The terribletricks the mind can play . She wants to indulge in hatred , too . Buthatred is just another deception , she tells herself . The lie of senselessblame . She has too much sensible sympathy to hate Mary Craxton.Anyway , by the time she reaches her own bedroom again she feels sotired . This fatigue : her own delicious oblivion . Give her a minute toslip back beneath the blankets , and soon she wo n't care much aboutanything . In 1912 , three years before his death , Henry Craxton Seniorfounderof Craxton 's Scientific Establishmentpurchased two thousand acresin western New York State , on the outskirts of the village of Millworthand adjoining state land . The property included a barn and chickencoop , a smokehouse , a gatehouse , and the ramshackle Big House , builtin the mid-nineteenth century as a water-cure sanitorium @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ boarders . When Craxtonacquired the deed , the Big House , which he renamed the Manikin afterthe durable forms used to replace the animal 's skeleton in taxidermy , had been sitting empty for nearly two decades . He commissioned therenowned firm of Howe , Partridge , and Stilman to renovate thehousethey widened an alcove into a spacious conservatory andknocked down altogether sixteen walls , reducing the number of roomsbut enlarging the spaces . Outside , a landscaper planted shagbark hickoriesin a horseshoe around the front yard , designed a terraced rock gardenalong the sloping eastern lawn , and crisscrossed the orchards andoutlying pastures with paths bordered with currant bushes . The springwas dredged to make a small pool and encircled with a neat brick patio , which was enclosed , in turn , by the full circle of a grape arbor . Henry Craxtonknown as the Founder to his friends and employeeshadrun Craxton 's Scientific Establishment for more than fortyyears and transformed it from a small taxidermy shop to the largestsupply company of its kind . At its height , the company employed threehundred workers , including big-game hunters , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , secretaries , and accountants.Major museums around the world depended on Craxton'sScientific for everything from tiny ammonite fossils to dinosaur bonesto the full-scale dioramas that were so popular at the time , and HenryCraxton became the Henry Ford of natural history . After spending most of his life growing rich , the Founder intended to indulge himself . But the Manikin was a greater luxury than he couldsafely afford . Between the elaborate interior of the house and thegrounds , maintenance costs alone exceeded the annual return onHenry Craxton 's remaining investments by over five percent . Yet hedipped into his capital without compunction . The Manikin was hisreward for success , the refuge that he 'd dreamed of for years , splendidlyremote , without a telephone or electricity . There were other estatesin the area and other society women to quell his wife 's boredom , and at her request they kept their home in Rochester so they wouldn'thave to brave winter in the country . For Henry Craxton , though , theManikin represented a last stronghold against the cutthroat modernworld , and if he could have sealed himself inside the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could n't have foreseen how soon he would be sparedthe world entirelyhe had spent only one full season at the Manikinbefore he was run down by a mail truck on a day trip he took toBuffalo . Nor had his wife been prepared for the consequences of hisdeath . She was too proud to take a huge loss on the Manikin , so in1917 she sold the more marketable Rochester home and retired to thecountry estate to live year-round . As it turned out , she was stuck withthe Manikinan embarrassment , if she 'd been willing to admit it , much too large and too isolated . Her bachelor son , Henry JuniorHal , as he was calledhated it so that he took to trav-eling , stayingaway for months , even years , at a time , selling shares in the familybusiness to pay for his tours and leaving his mother to manage theupkeep on her own . Which enraged Mary Craxton , of course , andafter she slipped down the front steps and injured her hip , she came tobelieve that her husband and son had conspired to build @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Like that other Mary in the tower , shemourned her lost life and plotted impossible escapes . By 1927 Ellen Griswood had been the Manikin 's head housekeeperand Mrs. Craxton 's companion for seven years , on the staff for ten.She had never lost a day to sickness , nor did she bother to take vacations.She had subdued dust and mold and her employer 's fury . Despitethe burden of work , she had grown comfortable and could n't betempted by a change . She was a domestic servant , no more and no less , and was proud of it . Ellen worked hard , and this became the simplejustification for her life . With Mary Craxton as its captive and Hal away more often thannot , the Manikin came to belong , at least in spirit , to the servants.Thanks to Ellen 's supervision , the rooms always looked newly furnished , the oak-paneled walls shone a lustrous blond , the mirrors werespotless . Even the animals left in Henry Senior 's Cabinet of Curiositieswere dusted and their glass eyeballs polished weekly . The gibbons andbats , the giant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tiny dik-dik , thepeacock and quetzal , the crocodile , along with local specimensa raccoon , a family of striped skunks , two beavers : all continued to lookfreshly skinned and stuffed , the fur and feathers sleek , as though theirmemory of life was just hours old . Only outside did time leave its mark , scratching and clawing at theroof , beating relentlessly against the doors , bubbling the whitewash.Henry Craxton had chosen a harsh climate for his country estate ; herein this pocket of northern wilderness , the weather , unlike the housekeeper , was inexhaustible . But there are those who prefer the open sky to a ceiling , the busysilence of nature to the deadening quiet inside the Manikin . They loveto feel a birch-bark canoe gliding over water and to bloody the wrinkled , melancholy faces of deer . Most of all , they love this irascibleclimate , especially the long winter , with its blizzards and shockingcold . You might even say that the weather forces them into an intimacythat would n't have been proper or possible otherwise ; so Peg Griswoodhas a father @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ abrother in Lore 's son , junket . And maybe Junket 's dog , Machine , cocks her tufted ears forward not because she 's trying to hear somethingbut because she , too , loves the challenge of the weather and iscaptivated by the first scent of winter . Last week Lore gave junket a Maynard for his fourteenth birthday.Peg does n't own a rifle , but whenever they hunt together Lore lends herhis old breech-loading shotgun , the weapon hardly more than ornamental , since the few times she has fired out in the field she 's nevercome close to her target . They 're out jacking to reduce the crowdedwhitetail populationthe deer come down to the pond to drink , andwhen one raises its head from the water junket will attempt to put abullet in its heart . Lore might try for a muskrat . Of the two , junket isalready the sharper marksman , and the Maynard.40 calibre , with anextralong cartridgeis designed for high accuracy . It will take weeks , though , before he 's comfortable with the rifle , and during that timethere will be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ washes across the water at an angle , collecting in puddles of melted silver . The full moon hangs low , and they can see the shore with unusual clarity , poplar and beech yellowingabove the mossy shore and behind them peaks of fir . Lore cuts hispaddle into the water soundlessly to ease the canoe full around so theycan survey the opposite shore . Junket will probably be the first to givethe soft chuck in alarm . Whatever might escape his new gun won'tescape his eyes . Or maybe he 'll prove that his skill as a marksman isunconditional . The gun has confused the odds of the hunt-now it'sanyone 's guess . Peg loves the wonder of a hunt , when the momentous act hangs justin front , in the invisible future . Imagine life without wonder : the life ofan ox , for instance . Wonder has been broken out of the species . Out ofthe cow , the horse , the pig . Wild animals are different . Just look at thestuffed cougar in the Manikin 's living roomthe eyes are glass , butstill you can sense the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the moment just before its death it had suddenly been overwhelmedby wonder . How can you do this to me ? it seems to ask.Boggio , Craxton Senior 's leading artisan in the taxidermy departmentfor forty years , now retired and living on the grounds of the estate , supervised the mounting of all the trophies in the Manikin . And theyall have the same taut look of amazement . How can you do this to me ? The working animal never asks this question , not even when it fightsfor its life in the slaughtering pen . Peg 's mother is a working animaldoes what is expected , no surprises.Up before dawn , asleep by ten o'clock . As steady and predictableas the hands of a clock . As an ox . She is a dumb , domesticatedbrute , no self separate from her role as housekeeper , while Peg is asuntamed as the Craxton cougar . But unlike that animal , she has theadvantage of a future . However much she enjoys the thrill of the hunt , her future is elsewhere.Where , she 's not sure . She @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , to experience it in the way that her sixteen-year-oldmind imagines other people do . She 's never been farther than Syracuse , while her mother has n't ventured outside the region for more thantwenty-five years . Ellen has the nasal , dropped-ending accent of anupstate native , and in her cheap charcoal-colored uniform , a kerchieftied over her hair , she 's easily mistaken for Amish . Not Peg , whosefoot-long bundle of hair is more brilliantly red than Craxton 's freshlypainted barn . And that wild future , her own hidden behind the silenceitis waiting to be snatched , seized , bloodied . Lore has tried to impress upon her the importance of this belief : ahunter does n't shoot any white-tailed deerhe shoots his deer , the onethat belonged to him long before he marks it and fires . At the momentan animal crosses into his line of vision , it gives up its life . But thehunter must kill his game with one shot , mercifully shortening the spanof dying . No experienced hunter likes to watch his victim die . Boundup in its fate , he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that isrightfully his , to eat its flesh or wear its skin . Killing is the means andshould elicit only minor pleasure , a sturdy satisfaction , nothing more . Somewhere out there is Peg 's future . Beyond the silence . A silencethat encompasses the meager chirping of the season 's last crickets , theburr-ah of a lone bullfrog , the splash nearby as a fish leaps , as thoughstartled out of sleep by its own dream . Summer and winter both can befelt in the breeze and in the warm currents mingling with cold in thepond . As Peg lets her hand drag through the water she asks herselfwhether she 'll miss her home after she leaves , forgetting for a momentthat she has no home . A housekeeper 's daughter can not call her mother'splace of employment home . Her mother . God knows what she'dhave to say about Peg sitting in a canoe between Lore Bennett andjunket , a shotgun tucked under her arm . So Peg 's thoughts go , swirling on the same side of silence as thecanoe , as Lore and junket and Machine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Peg looks toward the bank and sees something movetheobject is too vague for her to make out its shape , but the motionattracts like an artificial light , absorbing her concentration even as theimage disperses into a blur . Junket raises his gun ; Machine lets out alow , barely audible growl and lifts her front paws onto the rim of thecanoe . And just as the vision folds into the darkness again , Just as Pegthinks , Oh no , Junket 's Maynard goes off . The report of the gun tearsthe silence in half , the air fills with the echo of the explosion , andanother sound followsthe crash of a heavy body rolling down thebank toward the water . And then a splash . Peg does n't finish the thought that was interrupted by the shot , soshe 'll never know exactly what she feared . But she hears herself screamingout Lore 's name , appealing to him , as though he could reversewhat has just happened , forcing , with a great heave of his strong arms , time to go backward . Instead , he bursts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ claws the wood and whines frantically , into the water with a " Fetch ! " the command sandwichedbetween guffaws . Junket should n't have firedthat 's all Peg can say for sure , evenbefore she knows what he has killed . He is panting , grinning uncertainlyat his father , until Peg turns her rage on him : " Stupid , stupidboy ! " Junket 's smile flattens , and his eyes widen in humiliation , asking , How can you do this to me ? The boy 's face , she senses right away , isone of those images that will remain in full detail in the front of hermind , easily recovered . And if she could have ignored the feeling thatprovoked her outburst , she would have pitied him . But now Machine is paddling alongside the canoe , throwing backher head to raise the sopping bundle out of the water . Lore , still laughing , dips both arms and tugs at the prize , coaxes the dog to release itwith a gentle " Drop it now , come on , ' atta girl . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ see that there had n't been any atrocity atall . It is an owl , a white owl as large as a plump , two-year-old child , half its head smashed in , its broad , feathered chest webbed with blood.A snowy owl . Peg recognizes it from Audubon 's painting . A snowyowl , beautiful yet dreadful , like a mournful ghost owl from some forgottenlegend , whose job it is to warn a person of approaching death . Renamed by his father shortly after his mother died . Born Steven Bennettat the maternity hospital in Utica , where his father worked as anurseryman . Now junket . To be Steven Bennett again by his ownchoice when he is eighteen and living in the true wilderness , not thismake-believe version . Junket , called by his father in fondness Junk.Whatever he might have been , his father has made him laughable.Named him after the food he loved so well as a baby : a dish of sweetmilk set with rennet . Cuts his hair in sloppy haste . Never had theinclination to teach his son much of anything , except @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his possession as the locket attached to achain around his neck . The locket , containing a single petal from hisdead wife 's prize-winning violet collection , will hang from his neckforever . Adores his son , as junket well knows , but years ago took tokeeping him home from school so regularly that junket finally gave upschool altogether . Yet despite the stunting effect of his father 's devotion , the temptation to stay by Lore 's protective side , to do as he says , to bring him good luck and keep him company , is strong . And if junkethad had his way with Peg Griswood , he would have stayed for much , much longer . How natural , for the groundskeeper 's son to love the housekeeper'sdaughter . But tonight nothing seems natural here at the Manikin , especiallynot the Craxtons ' two thousand acres . This land is. no wilderness , it is a preserve , sugared and boiled down like plums into jam.After only two years in the field , junket is well on his way to becoming a master hunter . So what ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ aims at a Coca-cola bottle or a white-tailed deer , hewill hit his target . He always hits his target . And by now would havealready moved on to some other diversion if it had n't been for Pegherself , who became his prime target , working her way into his minduntil he could hardly concentrate . But the owl has changed everything . The magnificent white owlfrom the Arctic , a rare visitor this far south , and so early in the seasonShot , struck , felledby mistake . By mistake ! Never in his life has junketmade such an awful mistake with a gun . He committed the supremesin , firing before he had identified his target . The bullet piercedthe owl 's eye and exited messily through the back of the skull . Lore.usually a man so reticent that he can go through an entire day withoututtering a conversational word , had exploded in laughter . He stilldoes n't realize that junket fired too hastily , and junket wo n't bother toexplain . Why spoil it ? Let Lore believe in junket 's purpose . Then Loreneed n't @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Stupid , stupid boy . At last he comprehended that she would neverhave him . Nevera crushing verdict for a fourteen-year-old boy . Buthe 's wise enough to accept her rejection without despising her . To doso privately . Peg was n't oblivious , thoughnot entirely . As they werecrossing the lawn back up to the Manikin , she caught junket by thearm and whispered , " I thought . . . oh , I do n't know what I was thinkingback there ! " laughing with unconvincing lightheartedness . Shemeant to soften the impact of her rebuke , junket believes , to win backhis friendship . And then she did what she had n't for yearsshe tookhis hand and they walked together toward the house . Only then , andonly briefly , did junket want to return her malice and hurt her as shehad hurt him . But the desire for revenge , connected as it was to thecontact of flesh on flesh and to the hair that blew like threads of fireagainst his face , passed as soon as she released his hand a few stepslater , leaving him @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Lore , bouncing on the trampoline lawn , mighthave lured him backward by reminding him of the more sentimentalattachments of childhood . A boy and his dog . But was n't there still aspray of blood across Machine 's snout ? Was n't the dog 's joy bound upin the death of the owl ? Machine reminded junket only of the barbarityof his last kill , and the owl reminded junket of Peg . They went separate ways at the Manikin , Peg up the stairs to herbedroom , Machine and Lore to the kitchen with the owl carcass to seewhat Sylva the cook could do with it , and junket up the drive to the oldgatehouse , where he has lived with his father for ten of his fourteenyears . Junket . Cast-off junk . Plain Steven Bennett . He 'd leave tomorrow ifit were n't for his father , whose penny-ante consolation would beYou 're young , you will outgrow this , you 'll fall in love a dozen timesbefore you 're twenty . But junket knows that there will be no healing , since almost every worthwhile memory @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ forget her would mean obliterating his own self . Ormaybe that 's what he wantsto dissolve into the night . Inside hisbedroom he lifts the window , leans on the sill , and inhales the darkness , imagining that he is alone in the middle of nowhere-whereverthat issurrounded by miles and miles of unmapped land . Thethought of such wilderness soothes him with its promise of vast silence , a natural silence , without the intrusion of voices . Only thesounds of animals and weather , of life in motion . Soon he hears the scratch of pebbles as his father and Machine comeup the driveway . Then a pause , which the dog fills with an impatient.bark . Junket sees Lore standing in the middle of the drive , head slightlycocked as though he were trying to regain his bearings . He holds theowl by the legs and has been letting the head drag so there is a groovein the dirt behind him . Of course Sylva refused to cook this carrion bird . So what can bedone with the carcass ? The answer is obvious to anyone acquainted with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ manand his useless profession , would never admit it . " Bring it to me , Papa , I 'll take it , " junket calls . With a wave of his free hand Lore acknowledges , and he slings the owl over his shoulder , arches to absorb thethud of the dead bird against his back . He 's lost his pleased-as-punchsmile , is considering at last , junket assumes , his son 's error . It isn'tright to kill such a noble animal , a godlike bird , just for fun . It is , Loremust be thinking , as close as a hunter can come to blasphemy . At last , by midnight , the spell has been cast , the Manikin stands luminousin moonlight , everyone is asleep . But no one sleeps as soundly asEllen Griswood . Whatever worries she carries around with her fallaway , and Ellen sleeps the carefree sleep of someone who has washedher hands of the day . No remembered dreams to trouble her . No startlesor insomnia . She does n't even hear her daughter enter the roomand rustle about as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reward forgood day 's work , and she guards it as carefully as a miser guards hisgold . You wo n't catch the Manikin 's housekeeper at rest during theday , but at night , when no one is watching , Ellen indulges herself withthis great luxury , draws the starched cotton sheet up to her nose , anddisappears for seven solid hours . If she could remember the travels of her sleeping mind , however , shemight not be so eager to give up consciousness . A carefree sleep-andall her freed cares mix together in skittish visions . Perhaps tonightshe 'll dream of music rasping as the gramophone needle scratches to ahalt on the record , and it 's her fault . Or she 'll dream that the lampbeside her bed crashes from the table , the flames spill across the floorwith the kerosene , and it 's her fault . She 'll dream of cobwebs in thecorners , of tiny white larvae in the millet , of worms in the eye socketsof the cougar . Where is Mrs. Craxton 's fox fur and where is Mr. Craxton'snewspaper ? Where @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Pegwill be just a wee thing again , crying that little lamb 's bleat of a cry.She 'll hear her husband groan as he spills into her . Ellen ! Foolish of herto have put off sweeping the front steps , and now the rain . Did shewind the clocks on Monday ? And who is that child leaning back on herheels , refusing to go on ? Why , herself a little girl again , imagine ! She'llnotice dust on the antlers above the mantel , ashes in the ashtrays.What else has she neglected ? Mrs. Craxton ? she 'll call , knocking onthe door that has been locked from the inside . Are you there , Mrs.Craxton ? And there she is again , a young girl standing barefoot onhot sand , refusing to go on . The surf roars like a huge fire on the otherside of the dune , no wonder she 's afraid . The sun has fallen from thesky , water burns , dust is sand , and men are made of wax . A tallwoman , her mother , stands at the top of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ she urges gently . Hurry up , poppet . Let 's goand find the sea . And after all this , Ellen will wake at dawn , thoroughly refreshed , the tumult of the night forgotten . Even before she rises from bed she'llcontemplate her sleeping daughter while she plans how to do everything that needs to be done . The Twilight of Common Dreams Why America is Wracked by Culture Wars By Todd Gitlin METROPOLITAN BOOKS TAILER                     