@@28854

Anna had n't seen so much dashing about and popping in and out of doors since the French farce went out of fashion . Given the pomp and posturing surrounding her , she felt like a walk-on in Noises Off . Anna Pigeon was on the overhead team , the second wave to hit CACA  --  the official if unfortunate National Park Service abbreviation for New Mexico 's Carlsbad Caverns , home to two of the most famous caves in the world , the original cave , known and exploited since the late 1800s , and Lechuguilla , discovered in the 1980s and yet to be fully explored . Though Carlsbad was less than an hour 's drive from the Guadalupe Mountains , where Anna had worked some years back , she 'd been down in the cave only once . The parts of Carlsbad open to the public were highly developed : paved paths , theatrical lighting , named formations , benches to sit on while changing film . At the bottom , some seven hundred fifty feet underground , there was a snack bar and souvenir @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ brought into this pristine heart of the earth , their ubiquitous companions came as well : rats , cockroaches , and raccoons . It could be argued that the open areas of the caverns felt as much likea Disney creation as Space Mountain . There were no dangerous mazes , no precipitous heights , no tight squeezes . Still , it was a cave , and so Anna had passed on repeat trips . Given the inevitable nature of things , she would spend much of eternity underground ; no sense rushing on down before the grim reaper called for her . Her love of bats might have overcome her fear of enclosed spaces , but if one waited , the splendid little creatures were good enough to come out and be enjoyed in less stygian realms . This December she had been sent to CACA from her home park in Mesa Verde , Colorado . Trained teams consisting of park rangers from all over the region responded to catastrophes that ranged from hurricanes to presidential visits . This time it was the injury of a caver . Had the caver @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ simple : pop her in a wheelchair , roll her down to the snack bar and onto the elevator . She 'd have been home before her mother knew she was missing . But this caver had been injured in Lechuguilla . The cave was on NPS lands near CACA 's headquarters . Lechuguilla was closed to the general public for the protection of both the cave and the visitors . Nearly ninety miles of the cave had been explored but it would be many years before it was fully mapped . Lech was a monster man-eating cave , dangerous to get into and harder to get out of . Two days into Lechuguilla , a member of the survey team had been hurt in an accident . Not surprisingly there 'd been a contingent of experienced cavers at Carlsbad at the time , a small but dedicated group given to squeezing themselves into dark holes and living to write home about it . Before Anna and her teammates had descended on the park , the cavers had begun doing what they did best : getting one of their own back @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from Lechuguilla , in 1991 , the NPS had mobilized in record time . Within four hours of the report , Anna had been on a plane to El Paso . By the time she reached Carlsbad more than two dozen others from the southwestern region had arrived . With the overhead team came the inevitable Porta-Johns , food trucks , and power struggles . On duty less than three hours , Anna was happy to sit out the political squabbles in Oscar Iverson ' s snug little office . There , far from the madding crowd , she manned the phones in her official capacity as information officer , doling out approved statements to a press already panting for another media glut like that generated by the Baby Jessica case in Texas . When she was eight hundred feet below the surface of the earth and two days travel from the light of day , a grown woman in a limestone cave was almost as good as a baby in a well shaft . For the past half hour reporters had been getting short shrift . Anna was reading . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of caver Floyd Collins , off Iverson 's shelves . It detailed the gruesome death and media circus surrounding the entrapment of a caver in the 1920s . Collins had become wedged in a tight passage ; his attempts to wriggle free had brought down loose dirt and rock , entombing him from neck to heels , his arms pinned at his sides . For thirteen days , friends had made the dangerous descent to feed him , while up above concessionaires sold food and souvenirs to an ever-growing crowd of vultures gathered in curiosity , sympathy , and morbidity . On the fourteenth day rains so softened the earth that the access tunnel collapsed . Collins was left to die alone . Scrawled in the margin of the book were the words " fact : wedge victims die . " Transfixed by the same dread a woman in a stranded VW might feel watching a logging truck bearing down on her , Anna was glued to the book . Iverson , Carlsbad 's cave specialist , gusted into her sanctuary , and she dropped Trapped ! , glad to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into his ergonomically correct office chair and folded himself haphazardly over the comer of the desk . Housed in an old stone building built in the 1920s , the office was small , crowded by two desks , the walls lined with metal shelving and stuffed with books . Sprawled over the cluttered desktop , Oscar looked as homey and leggy as a spider in his web . Long limbs poked out the fabric of his trousers at knee and hip . His arms , seeming to bend in several places along their bony length , were stacked like sticks on his thighs . Come Halloween it would take only a little white paint to pass him off as a respectable skeleton . . . .                     