@@30705

" Chapter One " &lt; Fifteen servants wearing the traditional blue and silver livery of the Earl of Cameron left Havenhurst at dawn on the same day . All of them carried identical , urgent messages that Lady Elizabeth 's uncle , Mr. Julius Cameron , had directed them to deliver at fifteen homes throughout England . The recipients of these messages all had only one thing in common : They had once offered for Lady Elizabeth 's hand in marriage . All fifteen of these gentlemen , upon reading the message , exhibited shock at its contents . Some of them were incredulous , others derisive , and still others cruelly satisfied . Twelve of them promptly wrote out replies declining Julius Cameron 's outrageous suggestion , then they hurried off in search of friends with whom they could sham this unsurpassed , delicious piece of incredible gossip . Three of the recipients reacted differently . Lord John Marchman had just returned from his favorite daily pastime of hunting when the Havenhurst servant arrived at his home , and a footman brought him the message . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ read . The message stated that Mr. Julius Cameron was desirous of seeing his niece , Lady Elizabeth Cameron , suitably and immediately wed . To that end , Mr. Cameron said he would now be willing to reconsider John 's previously rejected offer for Lady Elizabeth 's hand . Cognizant of the year and a half that had passed since they had been in each other 's company , Julius Cameron volunteered to send his niece , properly chaperoned , to spend a night with John so that they might " renew their acquaintance . " Unable to believe what he was reading , Lord Marchman paced the floor and read the entire message twice more . " I 'll be damned , " he said again . Raking a hand through his sandy hair , he glanced distractedly at the wall beside him , which was completely covered with his most prized possessions  --  the heads of the animals he 'd hunted in Europe and abroad . A moose stared back at him through glazed eyes ; beside it a wild boar snarled . Reaching up , he scratched @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ludicrous , gesture that expressed his gratitude for the splendid day of hunting that particular prize had afforded him . A vision of Elizabeth Cameron danced enchantingly before his eyes  --  an incredibly lovely face with green eyes , cameo skin , and soft , smiling lips . A year and a half ago , when he 'd met her , he 'd thought her the most beautiful girl he 'd ever seen . After meeting her only twice he 'd been so taken with the charming , unaffected seventeen-year-old girl that he 'd dashed off to her brother and offered for her , only to be coldly rejected . Evidently Elizabeth 's uncle , who was now her guardian , judged John by different standards . Perhaps the lovely Lady Elizabeth herself had been behind this decision ; perhaps their two meetings in the park had meant as much to her as they had to him . Getting up , John wandered over to the third wall , which held a variety of fishing poles , and thoughtfully selected one . The trout would be biting this afternoon , he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Her hair had glistened in the sunlight , reminding him of the shimmering scales of a beautiful trout as it breaks the water . The analogy seemed so perfect and so poetic that Lord Marchman stopped , spellbound by his own phrasing , and put the fishing pole down . He would compliment Elizabeth 's hair in exactly those words , he decided , when he accepted her uncle 's offer and she came to his home next month . Sir Francis Belhaven , the fourteenth recipient of Julius Cameron 's message , read it while sitting in his bedchamber wrapped in a satin dressing gown , his mistress naked and waiting for him in his bed across the room . " Francis , darling , " she purred , raking her long fingernails down the satin sheets , " what 's important enough about that message to keep you over there instead of here ? " He looked up and frowned at the sound her nails were making . " Do n't scratch the sheets , love , " he said . " They cost 30 apiece . " " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ careful not to sound as if she was whining , " you would n't give a thought to the cost . " Francis Belhaven was so tightfisted that there were times Eloise wondered if marrying him would gain her more than a gown or two a year . " If you cared about me , " he countered smoothly , " You 'd be more careful with my coin . " At five and forty Francis Belhaven had never been married , but he 'd never lacked for feminine companionship . He enjoyed women immensely  --  their bodies , their faces , their bodies ... Now , however , he needed a legitimate heir , and for that he needed a wife . During the last year he 'd been giving a good deal of thought to his rather stringent requirements for the lucky young lady he would eventually choose . He wanted a young wife as well as a beautiful wife with money of her own so she would n't squander his . Glancing up from Julius 's message , he gazed hungrily at Eloise 's breasts and mentally added @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be understanding about his sensual appetite and his need for variety on his sexual menu . It would not do for her to pucker up like a prune merely because he was involved in one trivial little affair or another . At the age of forty-five , he had no intention of being ruled by some chit with pious notions of morality and fidelity . A vision of Elizabeth Cameron was superimposed against his naked mistress . What a lush little beauty she 'd been when he 'd offered for her nearly two years ago . Her breasts had been ripe , her waist tiny , her face ... unforgettable . Her fortune ... adequate . Since then gossip had it that she was practically destitute after her brother 's mysterious disappearance , but her uncle had indicated that she would bring a sizable dowry , which meant the gossip was as wrong as always . " Francis ! " Arising , he walked over to the bed and sat down beside Eloise . Caressingly he laid a hand on her hip , but he reached for the bell pull with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " he said as a servant rushed into the bedchamber . He handed over the note and said , " Instruct my secretary to send an affirmative reply . " The last invitation was forwarded from Ian Thornton 's London town house to Montmayne , his country estate , where it appeared on his desk among a mountain of business and social correspondence awaiting his attention . Ian opened Julius Cameron 's missive while he was in the midst of rapid-fire dictation to his new secretary , and he did not take nearly so long to make a decision as Lord John Marchman or Sir Francis Belhaven . He stared at it in utter disbelief while his secretary , Peters , who 'd only been with him for a fortnight , muttered a silent prayer of gratitude for the break and continued scribbling as fast as he could , trying futilely to catch up with his employees dictation . " This , " said Ian curdy , " was sent to me either by mistake or as a joke . In either case , it 's in excruciatingly bad taste @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's mind  --  a mercenary , shallow little flirt with a face and body that had drugged his mind . She 'd been betrothed to a viscount when he 'd met her . Obviously she had n't married her viscount  --  no doubt she 'd jilted him in favor of someone with even better prospects . The English nobility , as he well knew , married only for prestige and money , then looked elsewhere for sexual fufillment . Evidently Elizabeth Cameron 's relatives were putting her back on the marriage block . If so , they must be damned eager to unload her if they were willing to forsake a title for Ian 's money .... That line of conjecture seemed so unlikely that Ian dismissed it . This note was obviously a stupid prank , perpetrated , no doubt , by someone who remembered the gossip that had exploded over that weekend house party  --  someone who thought he 'd find the note amusing . Completely dismissing the prankster and Elizabeth Cameron from his mind , Ian glanced at his harassed secretary who was frantically scribbling away . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he spoke he flipped the message across his desk toward his secretary , but the white parchment slid across the polished oak and floated to the floor . Peters made an awkward dive to catch it , but as he lurched sideways all the other correspondence that went with his dictation slid off his lap onto the floor . " I  --  I 'm sorry , sir , " he stammered , leaping up and trying to collect the dozens of pieces of paper he 'd scattered on the carpet . " Extremely sorry , Mr. Thornton , " he added , frantically snatching up contracts , invitations and letters and shoving them into a disorderly pile . His employer appeared not to bear him . He was already rapping out more instructions and passing the corresponding invitations and letters across the desk . " Decline the first three , accept the fourth , decline the fifth . Send my condolences on this one . On this one , explain that I 'm going to be in Scotland , and send an invitation to join me there , along with directions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ chest , Peters poked big face up on the opposite side of the desk . " Yes , Mr. Thorton ! " he said , trying to sound confident . But it was hard to be confident when one was on one 's knees . Harder still when one was n't entirely certain which instructions of the morning went with which invitation or piece of correspondence . Ian Thornton spent the rest of the afternoon closeted with Peters , heaping more dictation on the inundated clerk . He spent the evening with the Earl of Melbourne , his future father-in-law , discussing the betrothal contract being drawn up between the earl 's daughter and himself . Peters spent part of his evening trying to learn from the butler which invitations his employer was likely to accept or reject .                     