@@32940

Chapter One From " Dysfunctional Narratives , or : ' Mistakes Were Made ' " Lately I 've been possessed of a singularly unhappy idea : The greatest influence on American fiction for the last twenty years may have been the author of RN Richard Nixon , not in the writing but in the public character . He is the inventor , for our purposes and for our time , of the concept of deniability . Deniability is the almost complete disavowal of intention in relation to bad consequences . A made-up word , it reeks of the landfill-scented landscape of lawyers and litigation and high school . Following Richard Nixon in influence on recent fiction would be two runners-up , Ronald Reagan and George Bush . Their administrations put the passive voice , politically , on the rhetorical map . In their efforts to attain deniability on the arms-for-hostages deal with Iran , their administrations managed to achieve considerable notoriety for self-righteousness , public befuddlement about facts , forgetfulness under oath , and constant disavowals of political error and criminality , culminating in the quasi-confessional passive-voice-mode sentence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Robert E. Lee 's statement the third day after the battle of Gettysburg and the calamity of Pickett 's Charge : " All this has been my fault , " Lee said . " I asked more of men than should have been asked of them . " Lee 's sentences have a slightly antique ring . People just do n't say such things anymore . What difference does it make to writers of stories if public figures are denying their responsibility for their own actions ? So what if they are , in effect , refusing to tell their own stories accurately ? So what if the President of the United States is making himself out to be , of all things , a victim ? Well , to make an obvious point , they create a climate in which social narratives are designed to be deliberately incoherent and misleading . Such narratives humiliate the act of storytelling . You can argue that only a coherent narrative can manage to explain public events , and you can reconstruct a story if someone says , " I made a mistake , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ n't reconstruct a story - you ca n't even know what the story is- if everyone is saying , " Mistakes were made . " Who made them ? Everybody made them and no one did , and it 's history anyway , so let 's forget about it . Every story is a history , however , and when there is no comprehensible story , there is no history . The past , under these circumstances , becomes an unreadable mess . When we hear words like " deniability , " we are in the presence of narrative dysfunction , a phrase employed by the poet C. K. Williams to describe the process by which we lose track of the story of ourselves , the story that tells us who we are supposed to be and how we are supposed to act . The spiritual godfather of the contemporary disavowal movement , the author of RN , set the tenor for the times and reflected the times as well in his lifelong denial of responsibility for the Watergate break-in and cover-up . He has claimed that misjudgments were made , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ although they were by no means his own , and the crimes that were committed were only crimes if you define " crime " in a certain way , in the way , for example , that his enemies like to define the word , in a manner that would be unfavorable to him , that would give him , to use a word derived from the Latin , some culpability . It was n't the law , he claimed . It was all just politics . ( Continues ... )                     