@@27169

PHNOM PENH , Cambodia , April 12 ( Agence France-Presse )  --  The United States abandoned its embassy here this morning , with six helicopters sweeping into the embassy grounds to evacuate the ambassador and his remaining staff . The action came as the last resistance of the Cambodian Army collapsed and Khmer Rouge troops poured into the capital , many of them riding on captured tanks and trucks . The First Day April 12 , 1975 Sirley was giving Moon the caller-on-hold signal when he came through the newsroom door . He acknowledged Shirley with the I'll-call-'em-back signal , threw his hat on the copy desk , sat down , and looked at D. W. Hubbell . " Nothing much , " Hubbell said . " AP has an early tornado in Arkansas . Pretty mediocre , but it could get better . Things are still going to hell in Nam , and Ford has a press conference scheduled for eleven Washington time , and Kissinger issued a statement , and General Motors  --  " " What did Henry say ? " Hubbell did not bother to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ involved chopping copy from the teletype machine into individual stories and sorting them into trays . The trays were variously labeled PAGE ONE , SPORTS , FEATURES , FUNNY , SOB STUFF , and PIG IRON  --  the pig iron being what Hubbell considered " seriously dull stuff that the League of Women Voters reads . " Hubbell said , " What did Henry say ? Let 's see . " He glanced at the top item in the PIG IRON file . " Henry said that Dick Nixon was correct in declaring we had won the war in Southeast Asia.He said the North Viets were just too stubborn to understand that , and the press was playing up the current setbacks to make it look like a disaster , and it was going to be the fault of the Congress for not sending more money , and anyway do n't blame Kissinger . Words to that effect . " " What looks good for the play story ? " Moon asked , and sorted quickly through the FRONT PAGE tray . The United States seemed to be evacuating the embassy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ new president of South Vietnam , something-or-other Thieu , was picking a fight-to-the-death bunch for his cabinet . Moon discarded it . A bill to put a price ceiling on domestic oil production was up for a vote in a Senate committee . That was weak but a possibility . The South Viets were claiming a resounding victory at Xuan Loc , wherever that was . He tossed that one too . Senator Humphrey declared that we should establish a separate U.S. Department of Education . There 'd be some interest in that . The Durance County Commissioners had moved the road to the ski basin up a notch on the priority list . Most of the 28,000 subscribers the paper claimed would be interested in that one . And then there was a colorful , gruesome feature on the plight of refugees pouring into Saigon from points north . It was good human interest stuff , but even as he read it Moon was conscious of how quickly these accounts of tragedy from Vietnam had become merely filler  --  like the comics and Ann Landers and the crossword puzzle . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he 'd searched through the news for references to Ricky 's Air Mobile brigade , for actions using helicopters , for anything involving the Da Nang sector where Ricky 's maintenance company was stationed . But since Ricky resigned his commission in 1968 , Ricky had been out of it . And since 1973 the United States of America was also out of it . What was left of the war was a distant abstraction . As Hubbell had described it once , " Just another case of our gooks killing their gooks . " In the press across America , and in the Morning Press-Register of Durance , Colorado , the war was no longer page one . But it was still page one sometimes at the Press-Register  --  until last month . Ricky was still in Nam , a player on the sidelines . That made Moon interested and made him think the Press-Register 's readers would also be . Now Ricky was dead , no longer running R. M. Air and fixing helicopters for the Army of the Republic of Vietnam just as he had fixed them for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fact . But as Ricky had said in one of his rare letters , he was " getting a hell of a lot more money and a hell of a lot less aggravation from division headquarters . " There was a kickback to ARVN brass , but Ricky considered that " the equivalent of an income tax . " Ricky had said more . He had said , Come and join me , big brother . Come and join the team . Join the fun . It would be like old times . He 'd said , South Nam is going under , and fast . Soon there 'll be no more fat contracts from ARVN , but there will still be plenty of need for what R. M. Air can offer . Help me get this outfit ready for the change . And he 'd said ( Moon remembered the exact words ) , " R. M. Air is no good for slogans . We 'll rename it M. R. Air , for Moon and Rick , and call it Mister Air . I 'll do the business , you @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that money she 's married to now , Mom does n't need you anymore . But I do . " Which was just Ricky buttering him up . Their mother had never needed him . Victoria Mathias was n't a woman who needed people . And neither did Ricky . But bullshit or not , Moon had enjoyed thinking about making the move , even while he was wondering why Ricky had invited him . But he had never answered the letter . There had n't been time . " That Arkansas twister is looking better , " Hubbell said , inspecting the copy now emerging from the teletype . " The new lead says they got thirteen dead now . " He waved the paper at Moon , looking mildly pleased with himself .                     