@@27161

The murder of Samuel Beckwhite in the alley behind Jolly 's Delicatessen was observed by no human witness . Only 4t the gray tomcat saw Beckwhite fall , the big man 's heavy body crumpling , his round , close-trimmed head crushed from the blow of a shiny steel wrench . At the bright swing of the weapon and the thud of breaking bone , the cat stiffened with alarm and backed deeper into the shadows , a sleek silver ripple in the dark . The attack on Beckwhite came without warning . The two men entered the brick-paved alley , walking side by side beneath the dim light of a decorative lamp affixed to the brick wall beside the window of a small shop . The men were talking softly , in a friendly manner . The cat looked up at them carelessly from beside the concealed garbage can , where he was feasting on smoked salmon . The men exchanged no harsh word ; Joe caught no scent of anger or distress before the smaller man struck Beckwhite . Though the evening sky was already dark @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their doors softly lit by the two wrought-iron wall sconces , one at either end of the short lane . The stained glass door of the tiny tearoom reflected the lamplight in round , gleaming patterns of blue and red.The narrow , leaded glass doors leading to the antique shop and the art gallery glinted with interior lights warped into circular designs against the darkness . The closed door to the bistro presented a solid blue face , but there were lights within behind its small , leaded windows , and the easy beat of a forties love song could be heard . The golf shop lights reflected out around the edges of its half-closed shutters , and the shopkeeper could be glimpsed deep within , toting up figures , preparing to close up and go home . The soft thud of the wrench could not have reached him ; he did not look up . There was no sound from the alley to alert anyone to the murder which had just occurred within that peaceful lane . Between each pair of shop doors stood a large ceramic pot planted with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the dim light . All Molena Point 's alleys were small , inviting oases designed to welcome both villagers and tourists . At the near end of the lane , where the tomcat was eating , one ordinary , unremarkable wooden door shut away the kitchen of the delicatessen . The busy front door was around the cornet The trellis , and the sweet-scented jasmine vine which climbed it , concealed behind its lower foliage the delicatessen 's two garbage cans , and now concealed , as well , the astonished cat . Here in the alley , Jolly 's employees received deliveries and brought out their discreetly wrapped trash to discard , carefully saving back the nicest delicacies , which they put down on soggy paper plates for the village cats . The cats of Molena Point were not strays  --  most were blessed with comfortable homes  --  but every cat in the village knew Jolly 's and partook greedily of its rich offerings of leftover broiled chicken , pastrami , a spoonful of salmon salad from an abandoned plate , a sliver of brie or Camembert , or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ must be scraped away with a fastidious paw . Joe ate well at home , sharing his master 's supper , but Jolly 's menu ran more to his tastes and less to fried onions , fried potatoes , and hamburger , and he had only to chase off an occasional contender . He had , at this time in his life , no aversion to eating after humans . And he liked George jolly ; the soft , round old man in his white clothes and white apron would come out sometimes and watch the cats eating , and smile and talk to them . If George jolly had been in the alley at that moment , the murder very likely would not have occurred . The two men would have walked on through . Though the killer might simply have waited for his next opportunity ; it was not a crime of sudden passion . There was nothing Joe could have done to prevent Beckwhite 's murder even if he had so desired , the action coming down too fast . As the men talked softly , strolling along @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or expression , no shifting of pace , suddenly produced the chrome wrench in a whirl of motion describing a bright arc . His swinging weapon hit Beckwhite so hard that Joe heard Beckwhite 's skull crack . Beckwhite collapsed to the brick paving , limp as an empty rat skin . At the far end of the alley , behind the last oleander tree , a shadow moved , then was still , or was gone , impossible to know ; but neither the killer nor the crouching tomcat saw it  --  their attention was on the deed at hand . No question that the victim was dead or swiftly dying . Joe could sense his death , could smell it . The sharp grip of death shivered through him like a sudden winter chill . Joe knew who the dead man was . Samuel Beckwhite owned the local auto agency , and he was Joe 's master 's business associate , the two shared a large , handsome establishment at the upper end of the village . Joe had at first supposed the other man was a customer for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or maybe he worked for Beckwhite and the two were taking a shortcut back to the car agency . He found the smaller man offensive , his walk unnaturally silent , his voice and accent too soft , too artful . But then , there were n't that many humans Joe liked , nothing to cause alarm ; until he saw the bright wrench swing up . Swiftly the deed was done . Beckwhite fell and lay still . The damp breath of the sea and of eucalyptus trees scented the alley , mixed with the perfume of the jasmine vines . Above the love song 's soft , nostalgic melody an occasional hush of tires could be heard on some nearby street ; and Joe could hear the sea crashing six blocks away , against the rocky cliffs . The evening had turned chill .                     