@@28224

The Jar Origins can be difficult to trace . But if we are forced to uncover the origins of Claude Page and his invention , and grant those origins some fine and subtle meaning , we must begin by noting the arrival of the Vengeful Widow on the tenth of September , 1780 . Though the Widow can be compared to the easterly of Devon and the mistral of southern France , that does n't quite do justice to her bite . As winds go , she is drier and nastier than her French and English cousins . Parish records indicate that when she hit in 1741 , the Widow pulled the steeple off the Tournay church-a steeple that had been mounted and secured just two months earlier-and deposited it in the sty of a heretical farmer . The event provided Father Gamot , the local priest , with a chance for some spirited sermonizing . Ten years later the Widow struck again , this time thrusting the branch of a birch tree through the stomach of Philippe Rochat 's piebald pony . Rochat was a devout Catholic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ quiet . But the devastations of ' 41 and ' 51 were only preludes to the attack on the tenth of September , when the Widow grabbed the valley 's inhabitants mercilessly and by surprise . She stripped tiles from roofs , needles from pines . She slipped through unlatched shutters , searching for exposed bits of flesh . Then she struck : cramping toes , deadening udders , waking dormant nipples . On that night , the house of Claude Page was singularly secure from the Widow 's invasion . Madame Page had noticed slight changes in her nailed-up twig of sapling fir and in the demeanor of the family milch cow . The agitation of the beast and movements in the homemade hygroscope foreshadowed the arrival of the unwelcome wind . Madame Page had ordered the family to prepare . Claude and his younger sister , Evangeline , shuttered shutters and tied down what needed tying down . They repositioned the roof rocks before closing themselves inside the cottage , where an oak fire counteracted the Vengeful Widow . Fidlit , the eldest of the three Page children , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cottage walls . She toured the periphery of the kitchen , moving her hand up and down . Occasionally she would shout , " A draft ! " and dispatch Evangeline to daub the trouble spot with a blend of straw and mud , a recipe of her own mixing . Fidlit ordered her sister to push the gravel-filled snake across the threshold and to stuff a length of old lace in the ornate pump lock , thus conjoining two of the trades that made the valley famous-metalwork and lacemaking-in novel fashion . When the Dragon rug was draped over the window , Madame Page declared , " We 're as cozy as a watch in a fat man 's vest . " She then turned her attention to the pinecones she was roasting for her children . It was a scene that catchpenny printers of the period would have titled , with perhaps a touch of irony , Domestic Peace . Claude stretched out in the attic , peering occasionally through an unplugged knot . In his hands he held a crude copybook , a saint 's day gift that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the copybook , as indicated by the solid and dotted lines that marched across the page , was the acquisition of proper handwriting . But Claude had adapted it and a pot of ink to his own purposes , namely drawing . His nose rubbed against the unvarnished oak as he gazed through the knot and lined up the scene below . This peephole perspective was one of Claude 's favorites , and he had filled the copybook with many such views , " as if through Father 's telescope . " He found his target quickly : Fidlit . Though never terribly kind to his elder sister , Claude tried to maintain a peace of sorts . His unspoken frustrations , however , found quick and direct release in the copybook sketches . He discovered the reason for Fidlits tyrannous patching expedition . She had decided to build a house of cards , a project vulnerable to drafts . Claude begrudged the pleasure she took in refusing to let Evangeline do anything but watch , wait , and admire the full scope of her talents . Talents ? Hardly . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the face cards outward in raucous confrontation , at least insofar as the cards could confront each other back to back . Fidlit , on the other hand , lacked inspiration . Her cardhouses , tedious in design , ignored the conjunctions of the kings and knaves who kissed at an apex , or queens flanked by lesser members of the deck . Also , Fidlit cheated by lodging the card edges in the knife cuts of the table before bringing the tops together . This suited Claude 's mocking illustration . He had the cardboard nobility emerge from its surface existence to do battle with the hapless architect . He allowed the King of Hearts to slice off one of Fidlit 's ears , which looked like jug handles , and had the Queen of Cups spit in her eye . Then he transformed an andiron into the little black dog nibbling at his sister 's foot . " It is to be the mansion house of the Count , " Fidlit told her sister . Claude sniggered . The architecture had taken on pathetically monastic dimensions that suggested none @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cloister , and a steeple figured in the plan . Evangeline pestered Fidlit for cards and consequently received a smack . " Your hands are too muddy . " A full-blown , whispered quarrel ensued . Worried by the possibility of parental intervention , Fidlit finally quieted her sister by giving over three cards . The girls returned to their handiwork , and Claude returned to his . There was a rap at the door , but it was faint . The Vengeful Widow did her best to muffle the sound . Claude 's mother , overseeing the pinecones , did n't hear a thing . Fidlit heard-how could she not , with those jug-handle ears ? - but ignored the summons . It was Claude who announced the arrival of an unexpected guest . Madame Page ordered the door opened . Fidlit , with much reluctance , slithered away the snake and freed the lock of its costly wadding .                     