@@31994

The Andromeda Strain Chapter One The Country of Lost Borders A man with binoculars . That is how it began : with a man standing by the side of the road , on a crest overlooking a small Arizona town , on a winter night . Lieutenant Roger Shawn must have found the binoculars difficult . The metal would be cold , and he would be clumsy in his fur parka and heavy gloves . His breath , hissing out into the moonlit air , would have fogged the lenses . He would be forced to pause to wipe them frequently , using a stubby gloved finger . He could not have known the futility of this action . Binoculars were worthless to see into that town and uncover its secrets . He would have been astonished to learn that the men who finally succeeded used instruments a million times more powerful than binoculars . There is something sad , foolish , and human in the image of Shawn leaning against a boulder , propping his arms on it , and holding the binoculars to his eyes . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and familiar in his hands . It would be one of the last familiar sensations before his death . We can imagine , and try to reconstruct , what happened from that point on . Lieutenant Shawn swept over the town slowly and methodically . He could see it was not large , just a half-dozen wooden buildings , set out along a single main street . It was very quiet : no lights , no activity , no sound carried by the gentle wind . He shifted his attention from the town to the surrounding hills . They were low , dusty , and blunted , with scrubby vegetation and an occasional withered yucca tree crusted in snow . Beyond the hills were more hills , and then the flat expanse of the Mojave Desert , trackless and vast . The Indians called it the Country of Lost Borders . Lieutenant Shawn found himself shivering in the wind . It was February , the coldest month , and it was after ten . He walked back up the road toward the Ford Econovan , with the large rotating antenna on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the only sound he could hear . He opened the rear doors and climbed into the back , shutting the doors behind him . He was enveloped in deep-red light : a night light , so that he would not be blinded when he stepped outside . In the red light the banks of instruments and electronic equipment glowed greenly . Private Lewis Crane , the electronics technician , was there , also wearing a parka . He was hunched over a map , making calculations with occasional reference to the instruments before him . Shawn asked Crane if he were certain they had arrived at the place , and Crane confirmed that they had . Both men were tired : they had driven all day from Vandenberg in search of the latest Scoop satellite . Neither knew much about the Scoops , except that they were a series of secret capsules intended to analyze the upper atmosphere and then return . Shawn and Crane had the job of finding the capsules once they had landed . In order to facilitate recovery , the satellites were fitted with electronic beepers that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ altitude of five miles . That was why the van had so much radio-directional equipment . In essence , it was performing its own triangulation . In Army parlance it was known as single-unit triangulation , and it was highly effective , though slow . The procedure was simple enough : the van stopped and fixed its position , recording the strength and direction of the radio beam from the satellite . Once this was done , it would be driven in the most likely direction of the satellite for a distance of twenty miles . Then it would stop and take new coordinates . In this way , a series of triangulation points could be mapped , and the van could proceed to the satellite by a zigzag path , stopping every twenty miles to correct any error . The method was slower than using two vans , but it was safer  --  the Army felt that two vans in an area might arouse suspicion . For six hours , the van had been closing on the Scoop satellite . Now they were almost there . Crane tapped the map @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ name of the town at the foot of the hill : Piedmont , Arizona . Population forty-eight ; both men laughed over that , though they were both inwardly concerned . The Vandenberg ESA , or Estimated Site of Arrival , had been twelve miles north of Piedmont . Vandenberg computed this site on the basis of radar observations and 1410 computer trajectory projections . The estimates were not usually wrong by more than a few hundred yards . Yet there was no denying the radio-directional equipment , which located the satellite beeper directly in the center of town . Shawn suggested that someone from the town might have seen it coming down  --  it would be glowing with the heat  --  and might have retrieved it , bringing it into Piedmont . This was reasonable , except that a native of Piedmont who happened upon an American satellite fresh from space would have told someone  --  reporters , police , NASA , the Army , someone . But they had heard nothing . Shawn climbed back down from the van , with Crane scrambling after him , shivering as the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ looked out over the town . It was peaceful , but completely dark . Shawn noticed that the gas station and the motel both had their lights doused . Yet they represented the only gas station and motel for miles . And then Shawn noticed the birds . In the light of the full moon he could see them , big birds , gliding in slow circles over the buildings , passing like black shadows across the face of the moon . He wondered why he had n't noticed them before , and asked Crane what he made of them . Crane said he did n't make anything of them . As a joke , he added , " Maybe they 're buzzards . "                     