@@30061

Twelve X-wing snubfighters roared down into the atmosphere . The world below , Coruscant , former throne world of the Empire , was an unbroken landscape of urban construction , a vast city reaching from pole to pole , blanketed by gray clouds shot through with white and yellow flashes of lightning . The squadron commander , piloting a black fighter with an incongruously cheerful green and gold checkerboard pattern on the bow , shook his head over the grim vista of the world below . Even after all the time he 'd spent here -- even after the crucial role he 'd played in conquering this world for the New Republic -- he still could not get used to the arrogance of Coruscant . It was a world that could only rule or perish , for it produced nothing but soldiers , officers , and bureaucrats , and could not feed its population without importing massive quantities of food from around the galaxy . He took a visual scan of his immediate surroundings . " Rogue Three , tighten up . We 're putting on a show here . " A @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Yes , sir . " Though distorted by the comm system , the voice sounded indulgent rather than military . " That 's ' Yes , Wedge ' until we 're formally returned to duty . " The commander smiled . " Or perhaps , ' Yes , Exalted One . ' Or ' Yes , O envy of all Corellia . ' Or --  " A chorus of groans interrupted him . The voice of Nawara Ven , the squadron 's Twi'lek executive officer , cut through it : " Stop complaining . He 's earned his little vacation from reality . " Then the voice of Tycho Celchu , Wedge 's second-in-command , sharp and military : " Sensors register a squadron of fighters rising toward us . Speed is X-wing or better ; sensor profiles suggest X-wings . " " Maintain formation , " Wedge said , then switched his comm unit over from squadron frequency to New Republic military frequency . " Rogue Squadron to approaching X-wing formation , please identify yourselves . " The voice responding was brisk , amused , and familiar . " Wrong designations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ simply a rogue squadron . But for the next few minutes we 'll do you the courtesy of designating ourselves Red Squadron to avoid confusion . We 're your escort . " " Hobbie ? Is that you , Lieutenant Klivan ? " " That 's Captain Klivan ... again , just for the next few minutes . " The other X-wing unit rose into view , gradually attaining the altitude of Wedge 's squadron . Wedge was startled to see that the dozen snubfighters were painted in Rogue Squadron 's traditional red stripes and twelve-pointed insignia . " Hobbie , explain this . " " No time , sir . We have a course change for you . High Command has decided to broadcast this entire event across the HoloNet --  " " Oh , no. " "  - -  so set your new course to ninety-three , follow my rate of descent , and we 'll get you there in one piece . After that , you 're on your own . " Within moments their destination was clear : Imperial Plaza , a ground-level ferrocrete circle so broad that in spite @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ high in the air at angles other than directly overhead . The plaza was packed with spectators ; even at this altitude Wedge could see banners and fluttering haze that looked like chaff but had to be some sort of celebratory confetti . A speakers platform had been erected on the plaza 's west side , with barricaded open areas north and south of it -- obvious landing zones for the two squadrons . As they descended toward the plaza , Wedge flipped his comm system back to the squadron channel . " Once around the park , outbound port , return starboard , at five hundred , Rogues . They 're here for a show ; let 's give them one . " Immediately he heard Hobbie 's answer on the same channel : " Same , Reds , but starboard to port return at six hundred meters . Sloppiest flight group buys drinks . " The two squadrons parted , circling the plaza at its perimeter , the wingtips of the X-wings sometimes only meters from the faces of admirers piled up against the skyscraper windows . The squadrons crossed one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and rejoined at their first position , then spiraled down toward the landing zones . Rogue Squadron angled toward the northern area , Red Squadron toward the southern . At three hundred meters , Wedge said , " Landing gear and repulsorlifts , people , " and both squadrons began the safe , vertical descents allowed by the snubfighters ' antigravity engines . Wedge smiled . " Your Red Squadron looks pretty good , Hobbie . A pity you have n't had time to teach them anything about precision flying . " " What ? " " Rogue Squadron , Three Diamonds Parade Formation , execute ! " After a moment 's hesitation -- it had been some time since the unit had practiced the intricate parade formations -- the Rogues split into their three flight groups , each group maneuvering into a diamond-shaped formation -- one X-wing forward , one back , the two others side by side in the middle -- with Wedge 's group forward and the other two side by side behind , making a triangle of diamonds , all facing eastward . Even over the sound of the repulsorlifts , Wedge could hear the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ immediately : " Red Squadron , same maneuver , but one-eighty to their orientation . " He sounded amused rather than angry . And in moments his squadron was in the same Three Diamonds Formation , but his X-wings faced west . More cheers -- the crowd was going wild over the aerial demonstration . " A little wobbly , Hobbie . " " We have n't been together that long , Wedge , but we still know a few tricks . And you started this . Red Group Three , deny Rogue Group One ! " The three-fighter triangle to Hobbie 's starboard rear broke away from the Red Squadron formation , sideslipped and reversed orientation while maintaining the same internal order , and came into position a mere ten meters beneath Wedge 's group , descending toward the spot where Wedge would have landed . " Not bad , Hobbie . Rogue Group Two , deny Red Group One ! " Corran Horn , in his green X-wing with the black and white trim , led his group in a similar maneuver and positioned them directly beneath Hobbie Klivan 's group @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Rogue Group Three ! " " Rogue Group One , substitute Red Two ! " The two squadrons ' flight groups crisscrossed above the speakers platform as they descended , a dazzling display of precision flying , until , when all were a mere ten meters above the ground , Rogue Squadron was reassembled over the southern landing zone , Red Squadron over the northern . The two dozen snubfighters set down within moments of one another . Their pilots climbed down from their cockpits into a whirlwind of celebration : New Republic diplomats and old friends dragging them up onto the speakers platform , clouds of confetti raining down from the skyscrapers ringing the plaza , roars of appreciation and exuberance from the thousands in the plaza . Wedge managed to get handshakes and backslaps from Hobbie and Red Squadron 's second-in-command , Wes Janson , before being dragged into line formation with all the pilots ; the crowd 's roar was too overwhelming to allow them to hear one another 's words . At the front of the platform , at the speakers lectern , stood the New Republic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Alderaan . Unlike most of the New Republic 's representatives present , she was dressed simply , in a belted robe of senatorial white . She caught Wedge 's eye and gave him a smile and half shake of the head , acknowledging their mutual dislike of public spectacles such as this , then turned back toward the crowd . With a few waves of her hand she managed to reduce the crowd 's roar to the point her amplified voice could be heard above it . " Citizens of the New Republic , I present to you Rogue Squadron ! " Another protracted roar , and then she continued , " Before I bring Commander Antilles up to speak , I think I should put the squadron 's recent accomplishments in perspective . With their efforts , we now have , once again , a steady supply of bacta -- a supply sufficient to stamp out the last lingering effects of the Krytos Plague . With their efforts --  " Wedge tuned her out . This was all old news to him . Weeks before , he 'd led Rogue Squadron -- the true Rogue @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a mission that the New Republic military command could not support . Resigning their commissions , the members of Rogue Squadron and a handful of professional insurgents had mounted a civilian action against the new government of the world of Thyferra , the world where the overwhelming majority of bacta , the miracle medicine , was produced . That new government was headed by the Empire 's former espionage leader , Ysanne Isard , and could have become the core of a reunited Empire . But now Ysanne Isard was dead , and Rogue Squadron 's resignations had apparently been creatively misfiled -- meaning that they were never civilians -- meaning that , with the mission 's success , the New Republic was retroactively making the Thyferran mission an officially sanctioned operation .                     