@@30035

On an outer deck of a vast battle cruiser called the Shriwirr , Dev Sibwarra rested his slim brown hand on a pioneer 's left shoulder . " It 'll be all right , " he said softly . The other human 's fear beat at his mind like a three-tailed lash . " There 's no pain . You have a wonderful surprise ahead of you . " Wonderful indeed , a life without hunger , cold , or selfish desire . The prisoner , an Imperial of much lighter complexion than Dev , slumped in the entechment chair . He 'd given up protesting , and his breath came in gasps . Pliable bands secured his forelimbs , neck , and knees -- but only for balance . With his nervous system deionized at the shoulders , he could n't struggle . A slender intravenous tube dripped pale blue magnetizing solution into each of his carotid arteries while tiny servopumps hummed . It only took a few mils of magsol to attune the tiny , fluctuating electromagnetic fields of human brain waves to the Ssi-ruuvi entechment apparatus . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " Is it calmed yet ? " Dev sketched a bow to his master and switched from human speech to Ssi-ruuvi . " Calm enough , " he sang back . " He 's almost ready . " Sleek , russet scales protected Firwirrung 's two-meter length from beaked muzzle to muscular tail tip , and a prominent black V crest marked his forehead . Not large for a Ssi-ruu , he was still growing , with only a few age-scores where scales had begun to separate on his handsome chest . Firwirrung swung a broad , glowing white metal catchment arc down to cover the prisoner from midchest to nose . Dev could just peer over it and watch the man 's pupils dilate . At any moment . . . " Now , " Dev announced . Firwirrung touched a control . His muscular tail twitched with pleasure . The fleet 's capture had been good today . Alongside his master , Dev would work far into the night . Before entechment , prisoners were noisy and dangerous . Afterward , their life energies powered droids of Ssi-ruuvi @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ backed away . Inside that round human skull , a magsol-drugged brain was losing control . Though Master Firwirrung assured him that the transfer of incorporeal energy was pxunless , every prisoner screamed . As did this one , when Firwirrung threw the catchment arc switch . The arc boomed out a sympathetic vibration , as brain energy leaped to an electromagnet perfectly attuned to magsol . Through the Force rippled an ululation of indescribable anguish . Dev staggered and clung to the knowledge his masters had given him : The prisoners only thought they felt pain . He only thought he sensed their pain . By the time the body screamed , all of a subject 's energies had jumped to the catchment arc . The screaming body already was dead .                     