@@30032

High up in a tower suite , up above the surface of Imperial Center , Kirtan Loor allowed himself a smile . At the tower 's pinnacle , the only companions were hawk-bats safe in their shadowed roosts and Special Intelligence operatives who were menacing despite their lack of stormtrooper armor or bulk . He felt alone and aloof , but those sensations came naturally with his sense of superiority . At the top of the world , he had been given all he could see to command and dominate . And destroy . Ysanne Isard had given him the job of creating and leading a Palpatine Counter-insurgency Front . He knew she did not expect grand success from him . He had been given ample resources to make himself a nuisance . He could disrupt the functioning of the New Republic . He could slow their takeover of Coruscant and hamper their ability to master the mechanisms of galactic administration . A bother , minor but vexatious , is what Ysanne Isard had intended he become . Kirtan Loor knew he had to become more . Years @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ officer with the Corellian Security Force on Corellia , he never would have dreamed of finding himself rising so far and playing so deadly a game . Even so , he had always been ambitious , and supremely confident in himself and his abilities . His chief asset was his memory , which allowed him to recall a plethora of facts , no matter how obscure . Once he had seen or read or heard something he could draw it from his memory , and this ability gave him a gross advantage over the criminals and bureaucrats with whom he dealt . His reliance on his memory had also hobbled him . His prodigious feats of recall so overawed his enemies that they would naturally assume he had processed the information he possessed and had drawn the logical conclusions from it . Since they assumed he already knew what only they knew , they would tell him what he had not bothered to figure out for himself . They made it unnecessary for him to truly think , and that skill had begun to atrophy in him . Ysanne Isard , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it abundantly clear that learning to think and not to assume was the key to his continued existence . Her supervision made up in severity what it lacked in duration , putting him through a grueling regimen that rehabilitated his cognitive abilities . By the time she fled Imperial Center , Isard had clearly been confident in his ability to annoy and confound the Rebels . More importantly , Kirtan Loor had become certain that he could do all she wanted and yet more . From his vantage point he looked down on the distant blob of dignitaries and mourners gathered at the memorial for Corran Horn . While he despised them all for their politics , he joined them in mourning Horn 's loss . Corran Horn had been Loor 's nemesis . They had hated each other on Corellia , and Loor had spent a year and a half trying to hunt Corran down after he fled from Corellia . The hunt had ended when Ysanne Isard brought Loor to Imperial Center , but he had anticipated a renewal of his private little war with Horn when given the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's demise hardly made a dent in the legion of enemies Loor had on Imperial Center . Foremost among them was General Airen Cracken , the director of Alliance Intelligence . Cracken 's network of spies and operatives had ultimately made the conquest of the Imperial capital possible , and his security precautions had given Imperial counterintelligence agents fits for years . Cracken -- or Kraken , as some of Loor 's people had taken to calling the Rebel -- would be a difficult foe with whom to grapple . Loor knew he had some other enemies who would pursue him as part of a personal vendetta . The whole of Rogue Squadron , from Antilles to the new recruits , would gladly hunt him down and kill him -- including the spy in their midst since Loor presented a security risk for the spy . Even if they could not connect him with Corran 's death directly , the mere fact that Corran hated him would be a burden they 'd gladly accept and a debt they would attempt to discharge . Della Wessiri was the last of the CorSec personnel Loor had hunted , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had never been as relentless as Corran Horn in her pursuit of criminals , but that had always seemed to Loor to be because she was more thorough than Horn . Whereas Corran might muscle his way through an investigation , Della picked up on small clues and accomplished with lan what Corran did with brute strength . In the shadow game in which Loor was engaged , this meant she was a foe he might not see coming , and that made her the most dangerous of all . Loor backed away from the window and looked at the holographic representation of the figures below as they strode across his holotable . The ceremony had been broadcast planetwide , and would be rebroadcast at various worlds throughout the galaxy . He watched Borsk Fey'lya and Wedge Antilles as they met in close conversation , then split apart and wandered away . Everyone appeared more like toys to him than they did real people . He found it easy to imagine himself a titanic -- no , Imperial -- presence who had deigned to be distracted by the actions of bugs . He picked up @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . A couple of small lights flashed on the black rectangle in his left palm , then a red button in the center of it glowed almost benignly . His thumb hovered over it for a second . He smiled , but killed the impulse to stab his thumb down and gently returned the device to the table . A year before he would have punched that button , detonating the explosives his people had secreted around the memorial . With one casual caress he could have unleashed fire and pain , wiping out a cadre of traitorous planetary officials and eliminating Rogue Squadron . He knew , given a chance , any of the SI operatives under his command would have triggered the nergon 14 charges -- as would the majority of the military command staff still serving the Empire . Loor did not . Isard had pointed out on numerous occasions that before the Empire could be reestablished , the Rebellion had to die . She had pointed out that the Emperor 's obsession with destroying the Jedi Knights had caused him to regard the rest of the Rebellion as a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Emperor . Only by destroying the Rebellion would it be possible to reassert the Empire 's authority over the galaxy . Destroying the Rebellion required methods more subtle than exploding grandstands and planets , accomplishing with a vibroblade what could not be done with a Death Star .                     