@@28932

Chapter One Barrens Let 's set the existence-of-God issues aside for a later volume , and just stipulate that in some way , self-replicating organisms came into existence on this planet and immediately began trying to get rid of each other , either by spamming their environments with rough copies of themselves , or by more direct means which hardly need to be belabored . Most of them failed , and their genetic legacy was erased from the universe forever , but a few found some way to survive and to propagate . After about three billion years of this sometimes zany , frequently tedious fugue of carnality and carnage , Godfrey Waterhouse IV was born , in Murdo , South Dakota , to Blanche , the wife of a Congregational preacher named Bunyan Waterhouse . Like every other creature on the face of the earth , Godfrey was , by birthright , a stupendous badass , albeit in the somewhat narrow technical sense that he could trace his ancestry back up a long line of slightly less highly evolved stupendous badasses to that first self-replicating gizmo-which , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ justifiably be described as the most stupendous badass of all time . Everyone and everything that was n't a stupendous badass was dead . As nightmarishly lethal , memetically programmed death-machines went , these were the nicest you could ever hope to meet . In the tradition of his namesake ( the Puritan writer John Bunyan , who spent much of his life in jail , or trying to avoid it ) the Rev. Waterhouse did not preach in any one place for long . The church moved him from one small town in the Dakotas to another every year or two . It is possible thatGodfrey found the lifestyle more than a little alienating , for , sometime during the course of his studies at Fargo Congregational College , he bolted from the fold and , to the enduring agony of his parents , fell into worldy pursuits , and ended up , somehow , getting a Ph.D . in Classics from a small private university in Ohio . Academics being no less nomadic than Congregational preachers , he took work where he could find it . He became a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enrollment 322 ) in West Point , Virginia , where the Mattaponi and Pamunkey Rivers came together to form the estuarial . James , and the loathsome fumes of the big paper mill permeated every drawer , every closet , even the interior pages of books . Godfrey 's young bride , nee Alice Pritchard , who had grown up following her itinerant-preacher father across the vastnesses of eastern Montana-where air smelt of snow and sage threw up for three months . Six months later she gave birth to Lawrence Pritchard Waterhouse . The boy had a peculiar relationship with sound . When a fire engine passed , he was not troubled by the siren 's howl or the bell 's clang . But when a hornet got into the house and swung across the ceiling in a broad Lissajous , droning almost inaudibly , he cried in pain at the noise . And if he saw or smelled something that scared him , he would clap his hands over his ears . One noise that troubled him not at all was the pipe organ in the chapel at Bolger Christian @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but the organ had been endowed by the paper mill family and would have sufficed for a church four times the size . It nicely complemented the organist , a retired high school math teacher who felt that certain attributes of the Lord ( violence and capriciousness in the Old Testament , majesty and triumph in the New ) could be directly conveyed into the souls of the enpewed sinners through a kind of frontal sonic impregnation . That he ran the risk of blowing out the stained-glass windows was of no consequence since no one liked them anyway , and the paper mill fumes were gnawing at the interstitial lead . But after one little old lady too many staggered down the aisle after a service , reeling from tinnitus , and made a barbed comment to the minister about the exceedingly dramatic music , the organist was replaced . Nevertheless , he continued to give lessons on the instrument . Students were not allowed to touch the organ until they were proficient at the piano , and when this was explained to Lawrence Pritchard Waterhouse , he taught himself @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fugue , and signed up for organ lessons . Since he was only five years old at the time , he was unable to reach both the manuals and the pedals , and had to play standing-or rather strolling , from pedal to pedal . When Lawrence was twelve , the organ broke down . That paper mill family had not left any endowment for maintenance , so the math teacher decided to have a crack at it . He was in poor health and required a nimble assistant : Lawrence , who helped him open up the hood of the thing . For the first time in all those years , the boy saw what had been happening when he had been pressing those keys . For each stop-each timbre , or type of sound , that the organ could make ( viz. blockflte , trumpet , piccolo ) - there was a separate row of pipes , arranged in a line from long to short . Long pipes made low notes , short high . The tops of the pipes defined a graph : not a straight line but an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ few loose pipes , a pencil , and paper , and helped Lawrence figure out why . When Lawrence understood , it was as if the math teacher had suddenly played the good part of Bach 's Fantasia and Fugue in G Minor on a pipe organ the size of the Spiral Nebula in Andromeda-the part where Uncle Johann dissects the architecture of the Universe in one merciless descending ever-mutating chord , as if his foot is thrusting through skidding layers of garbage until it finally strikes bedrock . In particular , the final steps of the organist 's explanation were like a falcon 's dive through layer after layer of pretense and illusion , thrilling or sickening or confusing depending on what you were . The heavens were riven open . Lawrence glimpsed choirs of angels ranking off into geometrical infinity . The pipes sprouted in parallel ranks from a broad flat box of compressed air . All of the pipes for a given note-but belonging to different stops-lined up with each other along one axis . All of the pipes for a given stop-but tuned at different pitches-lined up @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Down there in the flat box of air , then , was a mechanism that got air to the right pipes at the right times . When a key or pedal was depressed , all of the pipes capable of sounding the corresponding note would speak , as long as their stops were pulled out . Mechanically , all of this was handled in a fashion that was perfectly clear , simple , and logical . Lawrence had supposed that the machine must be at least as complicated as the most intricate fugue that could be played on it . Now he had learned that a machine , simple in its design , could produce results of infinite complexity . Stops were rarely used alone . They tended to be piled on top of each other in combinations that were designed to take advantage of the available harmonics ( more tasty mathematics here ! ) . Certain combinations in particular were used over and over again . Lots of blockfltes , in varying lengths , for the quiet Offertory , for example . The organ included an ingenious mechanism called the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ combination of stops-stops he himself had chosen-instantly . He would punch a button and several stops would bolt out from the console , driven by pneumatic pressure , and in that instant the organ would become a different instrument with entirely new timbres . The next summer both Lawrence and Alice , his mother , were colonized by a distant cousin-a stupendous badass of a virus . Lawrence escaped from it with an almost imperceptible tendency to drag one of his feet . Alice wound up in an iron lung . Later , unable to cough effectively , she got pneumonia and died . Lawrence 's father Godfrey freely confessed that he was not ...                     