@@27154

The Passions of Chelsea Kane Chapter One From the plush comfort of the velvet love seat that had been brought into the library for the occasion , Chelsea Kane studied the blond-haired , blue-eyed , beak-nosed members of her mother 's family and decided that wherever she was from herself , it had to be better stock than this . She detested the arrogance and greed she saw before her . With Abby barely cold in her grave , they had been fighting over who would get what . As for Chelsea , all she wanted was Abby . But Abby was gone . Bowing her head , she listened to the whisper of the January wind , the hiss of a Mahler murmur , the snap of her father 's pocket watch , the rustle of papers on the desk . In time she focused on the carpet . It was an Aubusson , elegantly subtle in pale blues and browns . " This carpet is your father , " Abby had always declared in her inimitably buoyant British way , and indeed Kevin was elegantly subtle @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be seen . Things like that were hard to tell with him . He was n't an outwardly demonstrative man . Even now , when Chelsea raised her eyes to his face in search of comfort , she found none . His expression was as heartrendingly somber as the dark suit he wore . Though he shared the love seat with her , he was distanced by his own grief . It had been that way since Abby 's death five days before . Chelsea wanted to slide closer and take his hand ; but she did n't dare . She was a trespasser on the landscape of his grief . He might welcome her , or he might not . Empty as she was feeling , she could n't risk the rejection . Finally ready , Graham Fritts , Abby 's attorney and the executor of her estate , raised the first of his papers . " ' The following are the last wishes of Abigail Mahler Kane ... ' " Chelsea let the words pass her by . They were a grim reminder of what was all too @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the minister 's well-meaning words , and the dozens of yellow roses that should have been poignantly beautiful but were simply and dreadfully sad . Chelsea had n't wanted the will read so soon , but Graham had succumbed to the pressure of the Mahlers , who had come to Baltimore from great distances for the funeral and did n't want to have to come again . Kevin had n't argued . He rarely took on the clan . It was n't that he was weak ; he was an eminently capable person . But where he championed select causes at work , there his store of fire ended , rendering him nonconfrontational at home . Abby had understood that . She had been as compassionate as compassionate ever was , Chelsea realized , and let her thoughts drift . She remembered Abby bathing her in Epsom salts when she had chicken pox , ordering gallons of Chelsea 's favorite black cherry ice cream when the braces went on her teeth , excitedly sending copies to all their friends when a drawing of Chelsea 's won first prize in a local @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . More recently , when Abby 's system had started to deteriorate , as was typical of long-term polio victims , the tables had been turned , with Chelsea doing the bathing , doting , praising , and scolding , and she had been grateful for the opportunity . Abby had given her so much . To be able to give something back was a gift , particularly knowing , as increasingly they both had , that Abby 's time was short . " ' ... this house and the one in Newport I bequeath to my husband , Kevin Kane , along with ... ' " Houses , cars , stocks , and bonds , Kevin did n't need any of those things . He was a successful neurosurgeon , drawing a top salary from the hospital and augmenting it with a lucrative private practice . He had been the one to provide for Chelsea 's everyday needs , and he had insisted that it be that way . Abby had taken care of the extras . Often over the years Chelsea had wished she had n't , for it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ brothers and sisters had felt it wrong that a Mahler trust should be established for Chelsea , who had no Mahler blood . But Abby had been insistent that Chelsea , as her daughter , was to be treated like every other Mahler grandchild . So she had been , technically at least . She had a trust in her name that provided her with sufficient interest to live quite nicely even if she chose never to work . " ' ... to my daughter , Chelsea Kane , I leave ... ' " Chelsea was an architect . At thirty-six she was one of three partners in a firm that was landing plum jobs up and down the East Coast . Moreover , she had personally invested in a well-chosen few of those projects , which meant that her profits were compounded . She lived quite nicely on what she earned . For that reason , perhaps , the accumulation of assets had never been of great interest to her , which was why she barely listened to what Graham read . She did n't want to inherit anything from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ woman was dead . Her aunts and uncles did n't seem to have that problem . Trying to look blas , they sat with their blond heads straight and their hands folded with artful nonchalance in their laps . Only the tension around those pointy noses and their ever-alert blue eyes betrayed them . " ' ... to my brother Malcolm Mahler , I leave ... ' " Malcolm got the yacht , Michael the Packard , Elizabeth the two Thoroughbreds , Anne the Aspen condo . Still they waited while Graham read on . " ' As for the rubies ... ' " The rubies . Only then did it occur to Chelsea that that was what her aunts and uncles had been waiting for , not that any of them lacked for jewels  --  or yachts , or cars , or horses  --  but the rubies were special ...                     