@@29492

Chapter One SATURDAY , JUNE 21 BALLYFORD , IRELAND The thick sweet scent of turf burning in the chimney of Malachy Sheerin 's **30;156;TOOLONG stone cottage , set back from the road yet not too far from the rugged coastline of the West of Ireland , always made him feel at peace . He lived in a little town called Ballyford , just south of the Ring of Kerry . It was practically the westernmost point in all of Europe . Outside , the weather was deliciously foul . Even though the calendar said June , the cold rain and lashing wind made the inside feel that much cozier . It was the kind of night when a cup of hot tea or a slug of whiskey never tasted better . Malachy 's one and only door did n't quite meet the jamb . It probably never had . As a consequence the gusty wind whistled shrilly through it and under it , creating its own night music and causing the door to shudder and shake . Malachy did n't seem to notice . He was well into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tape recorder . " ... You can see why they used to call the fiddle the ' dance of the devil ' or the ' devil 's box . ' It associated with dancing and drinking . Actually , I see it as one of the first great stress relievers . It helped people let loose after a hard day 's work on the land . " He lit his pipe again . This was what he loved : sitting in his favorite chair by the fire , inhaling the pungent aroma he cherished , and hearing himself talk . Old Grizzly , he took to calling himself . His weathered appearance made him look as though he 'd done a lot of hard living in the midst of frequent inclement weather . At seventy-four years of age his face was deeply lined , his shaggy hair was gray with dark streaks running through it , and a protruding belly hung over his favorite turquoise belt buckle . " Music is people 's release around here , even more than the rest of Ireland . Always has been . Out in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more brilliant than gathering in the evening in a neighbor 's parlor and telling tall tales around the fire . Nothing too small to hang your hat on , God knows . Anything at all that comes to mind is ripe for discussion . Talk of weather , ghosts . Old Granny McBride could talk the hind legs off a donkey with her stories of fairies and leprechauns . But then " - Malachy paused as if to savor the memory- " when the time was right , I 'd bring out my magic fiddle and start to play . That moment was always grand . Before you knew it , toes were tapping , arms were raised , and the cares of the day were forgotten as even the most timid got out of their chairs and started to move to the music . Six days ago I bequeathed you the legendary fiddle , my pet , so now it 's your turn to let the magic come alive and play on ! Play on , Brigid ! Ignore what they 're saying about its curse . It 's a bunch @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this fiddle here ... " Malachy Sheerin , the former all-Ireland fiddle champion and notorious traveling storyteller , laid his pipe on the hearth next to his whiskey . After taking a hearty swig he leaned over to pick up the fiddle that was propped against the side of the chair , but the effort was great . With his arthritic fingers he grasped the bow and the fiddle and rested them in his lap . " I 'll just close my eyes for a minute , " he said . A moment later he was asleep . The tape recorder next to him whirred on . Within seconds the door opened and the drenched stranger who had been observing him from the window quickly made his move . He stealthily extricated the fiddle and the bow from Malachy 's lap and placed them in the case he had noticed in the corner of the room . His eyes brightened when he saw the tape recorder . Hurriedly he took off his raincoat , grabbed the little machine , and wrapped the coat around his stash for further protection from the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out of his pocket . It fluttered onto the floor , landing between the heap of Malachy 's old newspapers and the fireplace . Malachy was now snoring gently , but the increasing momentum of the snores made the stranger nervous . One good snort and Malachy would wake himself up . The intruder stole a final glance around the room , grabbed the whiskey bottle for a quick gulp , and slipped out the shaky door to his waiting car . He wanted to make as quick an escape as possible on the dangerous and winding coastal roads . Roads that hugged magnificent cliffs and overlooked the angry roaring waves of the Atlantic Ocean , the same body of water that lapped at shores nearly three thousand miles away on the South Fork of Long Island , on the famous beaches known simply as the Hamptons . ( Continues ... )                     