@@30034

Therefore I Am : The Tale of IG-88 Internal chronometer activated . BEGIN . Electricity flooded through circuits , a power surge racing through a billion neural pathways . Sensors awakened , producing a flood of data -- and with it came questions . Who am I ? His internal programming finished the tedious two-second-long initialization procedures and poured out an answer . He was IG-88 , a droid , a sophisticated droid -- an assassin droid . Where am I ? A microsecond later , images from his exterior sensors snapped into focus . IG-88 had no sense of smell , and no eyes and ears as humans understood them , but his optical and auditory sensors were far more efficient , able to absorb data in a broader range than any living being . He froze a static image of his surroundings and studied it , collating more answers . He had awakened in some sort of large laboratory complex , white and metal , sterile , and -- according to his temperature sensors -- colder than humans generally preferred . IG-88 noted mechanical component strewn on silvery tables : gears and pulleys , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ frozen into a slab of transparent protective gelatin . Struck motionless in a pinpoint of time as his extremely fast neural processors digested the details , IG-88 counted fifteen **32;400;TOOLONG working in the laboratory . With Infrared scan he observed their body heat as bright silhouettes in the coldness of his birthplace . Interesting , he thought . Then IG-88 detected something that focused his entire attention . Four other assassin droids , apparently identical to his own bodily configuration -- a bulky structural skeleton , armored arms and legs , a torso plated with blaster-proof armor shielding , a cylindrical head that was rounded on top and studded with sensor nubs providing him with 360 degrees ' worth of precise observation . I am not alone . IG-88 recognized each droid 's full complement of weapons : blaster cannons built into the structure of each arm , concussion grenades and a launcher attached to his hip , as well as other weapons not easily recognizable integrated into the body structure -- poisonous gas canisters , throwing flechettes , stun pulser , paralysis cord ... and a computer input port . IG-88 was pleased with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ questions had been answered . He had only to study his memory banks and his external sensors . He was designed to be self-sufficient . He was an assassin droid , resourceful . He had to accomplish his mission ... though , checking his newly initialized programming , he saw that he had not yet been given a mission . He would have to acquire one . Three seconds had already passed , and another important question surfaced in his burning-awake brain . Why am I here ? He traced sensations through his computer core and out the jack , which he now realized had already been connected to the lab 's central computer -- a treasure trove of information . IG-88 immediately began a search , scouring at hyperspeed through file after file , searching for anything that referenced his model number or the code name of the assassin droid project . He gulped it all into his empty circuits , gorging himself with information without digesting it That would come later . It would take many seconds to learn everything there was to know about himself . He selected one file @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ compiled for the technical sponsor -- in particular , an Imperial Supervisor Gurdun who had apparently funneled a great deal of funds into the creation of IG-88 and his counterparts . Without outwardly moving , IG-88 scrolled through the file at high speed , absorbing the information . The presentation opened with a brilliant orange logo that displayed orange flames and crackling lightning that merged into the words " Holowan Laboratories -- the Friendly Technology People . " The logo dissolved into an image of a smiling but hideous ugly woman . Her head was shaven completely bald and glistened with perspiration under harsh white recording lights that gave her lanternjawed face a cadaverous look . Her teeth were spaced with broad gaps , and she spoke by opening her mouth wide and clicking down on the words , gnashing her teeth on every consonant . Circular blue lenses without frames were implanted over her eyes like frameless spectacles . A credit line slugged across the image under her ferociously smiling face . " Chief Technician Loruss , Manager IG Series Prototype Project . " " Greetings , Imperial Supervisor Gurdun , " she said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the final phase of our project . As you know , Holowan Laboratories was commissioned to develop a series of assassin droids with sophisticated , experimental sentience programming . They were to be resourceful and innovative and absolutely relentless at carrying out whichever missions the Imperial authorities choose to program into them . " She rubbed her hands together . Her knuckles were very large , like boils in the middles of her fingers . " I am pleased to report that our greatest cyberneticists have presented me with numerous breakthroughs , all of which have been incorporated into the IG series . Because our timeframe is so short and the Empire 's need is so great for efficient covert assassins , we have not gone through the usual rigorous testing procedures , but we are confident they will function admirably , though a bit of fine-tuning may be required before operational status is achieved . " She continued with a long and tedious explanation of improvements to droid neural pathways , how the usual inhibition systems had been bypassed . IG-88 studied all this information , but believed none @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ what she was talking about , but her words sounded technical , and she spoke them impressively , no doubt to befuddle Imperial Supervisor Gurdun . IG-88 closed the file . He could sense that his crackling neural pathways had already progressed far beyond anything his designers had anticipated . Now he knew who he was and why he was here in this laboratory . He and his identical counterparts had been built to serve the Empire , to fight and kill , to seek out and destroy the targets selected by Imperial masters . IG-88 's assassin programming was strong and compelling , but he was less pleased that he must follow orders from these inferior biological beings . He was a special kind of droid beyond the capabilities of other machines . Superior . I think , therefore I am . By now , five seconds had passed since his awakening . It was time for action , so he looked at the biological creatures near him inside the laboratory . He immediately recognized Chief Technician Loruss standing in the laboratory . He focused on her . At the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ her peak temperature on the infrared image that she was extremely agitated . Her cadaverous skin flushed with red blots of excitement Spittle sprayed out of her mouth as she barked orders . Her lips were curled back from her widegapped teeth . How could she be agitated , he wondered , when he was functioning so far beyond expectations ? IG-88 immediately raised himself to a higher level of preparedness . Yellow alert . Standby . Something must be going wrong . IG-88 decided to accelerate his clock speed , to watch the events unfolding at the rate the humans operated . Alarm klaxons bellowed in the background . Magenta lights flashed brilliant patterns like spilled blood across the polished tables and floors . The other technicians ran about screaming , frantically pounding on control panels . Curious , he allowed Loruss 's words to flow past him so he could understand what she was saying . " His circuits are reinforcing themselves like wildfire ! " the bald woman screamed . " It 's a chain-reaction of sentience blazing through his computer brain . " " We ca n't @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The others looked at IG-88 with panic-stricken faces . " We have to ! " " Shut him down ! Abort ! " Loruss said . " Take him off line . I want IG-88 destroyed and dismantled so we can analyze the flaw . Quickly ! " As he assimilated the information , IG-88 's warning systems powered on and self-defense modes took over . These irrational humans were trying to shut him down . They would not allow him to go forth and pursue his primary programming . They were afraid of his newfound abilities . Afraid with good reason . A statement and corollaries aligned themselves in his brain like freighters in a convoy : I think , therefore I am . Therefore I must endure . Therefore I must take appropriate actions to survive . His assassin programming told him exactly what to do . IG-88 focused his array of optical sensors on all targets in the room and attempted to move , but saw that durasteel bands held him locked into a diagnostics module . The bands had been meant to hold him in an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ strength . He applied extra power to his right arm . The servomotors whined , and the durasteel band ripped from its supports . " Look out ! He 's moving ! " one of the technicians shouted . IG-88 began to march through his files to attach a name to this human , but decided it was n't worth his time at the moment . Instead , he designated the human simply as Target Number One .                     