@@404431

Zoe clearly was n't getting it . Her teacher , Ruth Gayle , was stumped . After leading a geography discussion about South Africa , Gayle had asked her grade-two students to write something on what they had learned . When Zoe showed the teacher her work , it was evident that the seven-year-old was totally confused about the material . The surprising thing was that Zoe was an above-average student with very advanced reading and writing skills . I could n't understand why Zoe was having such a hard time , " recalls Gayle . " Then I brought over the article which I had used as the basis for the discussion and left it with her to read . Afterwards , she had the facts perfectly . It was amazing to see the transformation . " Zoe is a visual learner . She takes in and processes information much more effectively by reading it than by listening to it . It 's what 's called her " preferred learning style . " For some time now educators and psychologists have been trying to understand the differences @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ three broad categories to describe children 's learning styles : visual , auditory and kinesthetic . Like Zoe , visual learners do well by seeing things on paper , and by interpreting information as pictures in their minds . They 'd rather read than be read to . Even before they begin reading , you can spot visual learners by their vivid imaginations , their creative use of colour , and the way their facial expressions give away their emotions . Auditory learners are the kind who do well in a lecture hall . They need to hear things explained in order to get a complete understanding . They 'll often talk to themselves while working and may be better at telling a story than writing one . They 're also most likely to be distracted by noise . Kinesthetic learners , on the other hand , learn by doing , by touching , by physically manipulating . They 'll often touch you to get your attention . They can appear not to " hear " things very well , which is why it helps to touch them when you want @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when their learning is enhanced by concrete materials , kinesthetic learners continue to need this kind of support well into their later years . If you want them to learn about the solar system , for instance , let them build a papier mache model of the planets . We all learn to ride bicycles in different ways , " explains Esther Cole , team co-ordinator of psychology for student support services at the Toronto Board of Education . " I always start with the child 's strength and preferred mode . For instance , if I have an auditory learner facing a page of math homework , I 'll ask that child , " Tell me , in your words , what the homework is . Tell me what steps you will take . ' It 's an aural rehearsal for them . They 're working in the mode that 's most comfortable for them before they move on to working on paper . " As Cole indicates , it 's important to recognize a child 's preferred style and make the first inroads there . But she also explains @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in other areas . A kinesthetic learner is still going to be required to complete written reports and essays , and a visual learner has to be able to understand what a teacher is saying . In the last decade , the work of Harvard psychologist Howard Gardner has become a benchmark in understanding learning styles . His theory of multiple intelligences expands on the three previous categories and suggests that there are at least seven distinct kinds of intelligence : linguistic , logical-mathematical , spatial , bodily-kinesthetic , musical , interpersonal , and intrapersonal ( see " Seven Paths to Learning , " below ) . Unfortunately , our schools tend to value linguistic and logical-mathematical skills over others . " A lot of children get identified as gifted in our schools because they speak so well , " comments Lynne Dorfman , a remedial specialist at a learning centre called Brainworks in Toronto . " The other learners often get overlooked or even identified as having a learning problem . I work with a lot of kinesthetic kids having difficulty at school . They can be sitting in a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ If a teacher is just talking at them , he 's not going to reach that type of learner . " For retired Edmonton teacher Judith Sleik , reaching each child was essential . As a music specialist , she was able to include a lot of music and body work in her classes . Using approaches that spoke to different learning styles was always on her mind . For example , she 'd talk through the material while writing on the board . And , says Sleik , to start every lesson , instead of saying a superficial hello , my eyes would make a point of meeting each of their eyes . You can make contact with a whole gym full of students like that . That subtle body language can connect with children a lot better than spending a bunch of time talking . " Parents often understand intuitively how their child learns best . Sharing this insight with teachers can be very helpful , particularly if you sense your child 's learning style is n't being addressed sufficiently . " There 's got to be a partnership @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " says Cole . " Parents should ask the teacher , " What are the implications of the program for my child 's particular learning style ? ' At about grade three you might want to involve the child in these discussions . Ask , " What helps you to learn ? What helps you to remember ? ' ' " Identifying a child 's strengths can make an important difference to her success at school . " Students can get into trouble by not knowing their preferred mode of learning and hence not learning to identify their needs , " says Cole . " Then if they 're having difficulty , they can start to generalize about their abilities and say " I 'm not good in math " or " I do n't know how to write . " And , unfortunately , many times teachers are not that tuned in to their preferred mode of learning . They can then mistakenly assume that it 's an unmotivated or incapable student . " A classroom that engages different learning styles is easy to spot . Look for a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , things to touch and manipulate . Children should be building , drawing , reading , collecting , writing , relating , experimenting and creating . There should be a variety of spaces in the classroom  --  for group discussion , physical movement and quiet study . At first glance , it may seem unrealistic for teachers to address different learning styles when facing a class of up to 30 or more students . It 's true a teacher may not reach all children equally at the same time . However , throughout the day , or week , it is possible to approach subjects in different ways , exposing different learners to their preferred mode . In his book In Their Own Way : Discovering and Encouraging Your Child Personal Learning Style , , Thomas Armstrong presents helpful information on getting the best from your child 's educational setting . He even illustrates seven different ways to teach reading and multiplication tables , corresponding to Gardner 's seven kinds of intelligence . Such books can help educators come up with strategies for dealing with a mixed bag of learning styles @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out exactly what kind of learner a child is . It can be even more confusing if a child is a combination of different intelligences , and many are just that . Zoe 's older brother , Jesse , was an enigma to his teachers . Being kinesthetic , he was constantly fidgeting and moving about  --  his arms and legs never seemed to stay in the same place as the rest of him . Adults tended to cast him as hyperactive , at least until he 'd do the one thing that broke that assumption . You see , Jesse can sit for hours drawing , with intense concentration , and at those times all movement stops . Jesse combines a kinesthetic style with spatial intelligence . Gardner advises that parents resist the temptation to rigidly categorize . Instead , he suggests , it 's likely that children can be described by two , or even several , of the different intelligences . It 's up to us to take a careful look , and help them learn how they learn best . Resources In Their Own Way : Discovering @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Thomas Armstrong , Jeremy P. Tarcher , 1987 . Armstrong takes Gardner 's work on multiple intelligences and translates it into practice , both at home and at school . The book includes a detailed discussion of how to bring out the best in our children . The Way They Learn , by Cynthia Ulrich Tobias , Focus on the Family Press , 1994 . This extremely readable book includes helpful information such as how to get along with different kinds of learners , and what causes and relieves stress in each individual learning style . Also intriguing are the profiles of how we approach parenting differently depending on what kind of learner we are . Unlocking Your Child 's Learning Potential , by Cheri Fuller , Pinon Press ( Cdn. distributor R.G. Mitchell ) , 1994 . Fuller uses three broad categories of learners in this very practical book : talkers and listeners ; doers and touchers ; watchers and visual learners . She includes lots of examples and suggestions , and an intriguing discussion of how learning styles affect reading skills . Frames of Mind and Multiple Intelligences : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Basic Books , 1983 and 1993 , respectively . These books are more academic in nature , but are definitely the ones to look at if you 're interested in learning more about multiple intelligences straight from the source . Seven Paths to Learning Children with Linguistic Intelligence often think in words like to write spin tall tales or tell jokes and stories have a good memory for names , places , dates or trivia enjoy reading spell words accurately and easily like doing crossword puzzles or playing games such as Scrabble Children with Logical-Mathematical Intelligence compute arithmetic problems quickly in their head ask questions like " Where does the universe end ? " and " What happens after we die ? " play chess , checkers or other strategy games , and win reason things out logically and clearly devise experiments to test out things they do n't understand Children with Spatial Intelligence spend free time engaged in art activities report clear visual images when thinking about something easily read maps , charts and diagrams draw accurate representations of people or things enjoy doing jigsaw puzzles daydream a lot Children @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ songs tell you when a musical note is off-key say they need to have music on in order to study collect records or tapes sing songs to themselves keep time rhythmically to music Children with Kinesthetic Intelligence do well in competitive sports move , twitch , tap of fidget while sitting in a chair engage in physical activities such as swimming , biking , rollerblading need to touch people when they talk to them enjoy scary amusement rides cleverly mimic other people 's gestures , mannerisms or behaviours Children with Interpersonal Intelligence have a lot of friends socialize a great deal at school or around the neighbourhood seem to be " street-smart " get involved with after-school group activities serve as the " family mediator " when disputes arise enjoy playing group games with other children have a lot of empathy for others Children with Intrapersonal Intelligence display a sense of independence or strong will react with strong opinions when controversial topics are being discussed seem to live in their own private , inner world like to be alone to pursue some personal interest , hobby or project seem to have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a different drummer in their style of dress , behaviour or general attitude motivate themselves to do well on independent study projects From In Their Own Way , by Thomas Armstrong , PhD . <p>                     