@@481029

Dear In the face of the momentous events of the past year , I 've been giving a lot of thought to socialism and capitalism ? and what would seem to be history 's verdict on the contest between the two systems . I start with the premises we are all familiar with . There has been a massive collapse of the framework of centrally planned socialism and an equally unmistakable , although not so dramatic , decline in the magnetic appeal of " socialism " in the capitalist world . Socialism as an organizing idea is still powerful in the less-developed areas of the world Peru has its Shining Path and China may face another Mao-like regime ? but in the more-developed nations , " socialism " as a distinct social objective has disappeared . Nothing is left of it but a better-run capitalism . The other side of this large-scale development is that capitalism has been as unmistakable a success as socialism has been a failure . In saying this , I recognize , of course , capitalism 's difficulties : slow growth since the early @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the United Stares , international monetary disorder , the foreign-debt dilemma . Nevertheless , there has been no major system-threatening crisis . The problems that beset capitalism appear to be well withinthe range of contradictions that one would expect to arise as a normal consequence of its mode of operation . Moreover , capitalism as a world system has certainly expanded , and many of its problems could perhaps be seen as merely the by-product of that expansion . Most important of all , I do not see any signs of political disaffection within the capitalist world . On the contrary , its economic patriotism has never been higher . If this is not success , what is ? All this , of course , is not news . What I find startling and disconcerting is that these massive historical trends have been largely unanticipated . The conventional wisdom with respect to socialism has been that it was , or would be , a success and that the future very likely belonged to it . The same wisdom with respect to capitalism was that its future was clouded . This @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of social thinkers . But what voice of the present generation has anticipated the demise of socialism or the " triumph of capitalism " ? Not a single writer in the Marxian tradition ! Are there any in the left-centrist group ? None that I can think of , including myself . As for the center itself ? the Samuelsons , Solows , Glazers , Lipsets , Bells , and so on I believe that many expected capitalism to experience serious and mounting , if not fatal , problems and anticipated some form of socialism to be the organizing force of the twenty-first century . That leaves the right . Here is the part that 's hard to swallow . It has been the Friedmans , Hayeks , von Miseses , e tutti quanti who have maintained that capitalism would flourish and that socialism would develop incurable ailments . All three have regarded capitalism as the " natural " system of free men ; all have maintained that left to its own devices capitalism would achieve material growth more successfully than any other system . From this admittedly impressionistic and in18 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ proceed with much greater trepidation . The first temptation is to explain the problem away : Von Mises and Hayek and Friedman were right , but only in the sense of having picked the winner . Their underlying arguments are not convincing , however , so their claim to social foresight is invalid . I think there is something to this . Von Mises 's reasons for the " impossibility " of socialism ? that it had no means of establishing a rational pricing system ? do not appear to be those that have pulled it down . Irrational pricing certainly played a role in its economic difficulties , but its breakdown appears to have been caused by political rather than economic irrationalities . The planning authorities mispriced goods not just because they lacked adequate economic information about demand ( as von Mises wrote ) but because " efficient " pricing would have created unendurable political tensions . The sociological argument is more impressive , if interpreted generously . Hayek and von Mises argue that socialism 's dependence on planning strongly encourages political hierarchy and unfreedom , culminating in totalitarianism ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hayek wrote ) . This is clearly not an argument easily shrugged aside . Although neither author develops the connection between dictatorship and massive misallocation of resources or serious loss of social morale , it is not difficult to supply the missing links . The generous reader , at least , can find in their writings the basis of an explanation for the demise of socialism . In similar fashion , however , the conservative arguments in favor of capitalism also suffer from serious defects . State intervention in the market , the argument goes , is inherently inimical to capitalism 's vitality . I need hardly say that these interventions can also be viewed as the cause of capitalism 's continued vitality . Another defect in the conservative case is its conception of capitalism as static . In the conservative view , capitalism has no self-generated tendencies to instability , stagnation , widening gap in income distribution , etc . This is a view that ignores the past , and seems , therefore , a poor guide to the future . So there are reasons to look askance at ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the decline of socialism and the triumph of capitalism . I would , myself , be quite content with this conclusion were it not for one thing . The left 's reasonings also must have been faulty , for on the basis of reasonings that the conservatives neglected , the left arrived at conclusions we now know to be totally at variance with the facts . If the cogency of the reasoning on both sides is inadequate or unconvincing , this suggests the need for another line of inquiry . Perhaps the question we need to explore is whether there are fundamental differences between the " visions " of conservatives and radicals ? the unspoken premises from which they begin . These visions are surprisingly difficult to articulate . Take the concept of " individuality versus sociality " as the starting point for social conceptualizing . This sounds promising until one realizes that it cuts both ways . One thinks of conservative thought as fundamentally identified with the vision of individualism ? neoclassical economics is an example ? until we remember that there is a powerful countertheme of sociality , for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hayek . So , too , radical thought is often characterized as " starting from " society ? the individual as the " sum of many social determinations , " in Marx 's famous phrase . But again there is the Marxian insistence on the need to emancipate individual human beings . From what ? From their social entanglements . When I try to discover some unambiguous difference in the unspoken premises of conservatives and radicals , only one idea strikes me as unassailable . It lies in the two visions ' different conceptions of " human nature . " The difference , as I see it , lies in the diametrically opposed assumptions as to the fixity or malleability of human behavior . Conservative thought insists that there is a core that resists historical change . To my mind the most convincing evidence of this fixity is the universal need for psychological security , derived from the inescapable trials and anxieties of the infant condition . It is this " psychoanalytic " aspect of human nature that endows it with immutable characteristics ? aggression , narcissism , identification , among @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The radical view sees the inner " nature " of humankind through different lenses . Human nature is conceived as plastic and therefore capable of being shaped through social experience . Genetic and psychoanalytic endowments , though not denied , are judged of limited importance . There are more degrees of freedom in the radical vision , more play between the Kingdom of Necessity and that of Actuality . It follows , of course , that radical views are inherently more optimistic than conservative ones . Through radical glasses society always appears to fall far short of its potential , whereas through conservative ones it always expresses inescapable and insistent needs of abiding human nature . Conversely , the conservative view is always darker than the radical . It is more concerned with avoiding catastrophe than with achieving unrealized possibilities . It can not be progress-oriented or teleological in the way that radical thought must be . If the conservative vision does indeed more accurately anticipate historical development than its opposite , to what aspects of that vision can we ascribe that superiority ? I believe the 20 HARPER 'S @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , a view I can abbreviate by saying that it recognizes that behavior , like the heart , has its reasons that reason knows not . ( Curiously , most conservative thinkers detest Freud . ) Conservative apothegms often reflect these recognitions ? " Plus ca change .. " " Power tends to corrupt .. " ? which always surprise us with their penetration , much as we may dislike them . It is not a coincidence , I think , that there are no such apothegms of the left ( none that I can think of anyway ) . The conclusion to which I come may be disappointingly bland and vague . It is that the radical orientation toward change , progress , perfectibility , social salvation ? attitudes that I am not prepared to discard ? must be joined with conservative reservations about those very possibilities . I have already spoken about the static quality of conservative thought ? which is , to my mind , its fatal flaw . While we need the understanding of historical change that is the very hallmark of radical social analysis , it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It may offer accurate anticipations of the movements of parts of the social whole , but it does not embrace , or at times even perceive , other movements or nonmovements or countermovements that prove to be of incomparably greater importance in determining the overall outcome of things . To be a radical conservative or a conservative radical appears to offer the best chance to position oneself wisely with respect to the future ? not to predict it , which only a fool could aspire to do , but to prepare for its blows and to secure its advances as best we can .                     