@@419040

VICE-PRESIDENT Al Gore on November 18 joined the White House effort to mend political fences damaged by the president 's apparent vacillation over the school-prayer issue . Addressing the annual meeting of the Conference of Jewish Federations  --  held in Denver and attended by more than 3,000 U.S. and Canadian Jewish leaders  --  Gore declared that President Clinton is " adamantly opposed " to any constitutional amendment allowing mandated prayers in the nation 's public schools . Guarantees of church-state separation are not a partisan issue , Gore said , but " an American ideal " that " we will defend . " And : " We must protect First Amendment religious freedoms . " Newt Gingrich ( R. , Ga. ) , soon-to-be House speaker , opened the debate on school prayer by saying he would push for congressional approval of a constitutional amendment reinstating school prayer after a three-decade absence . On November 15 the president , seeking to strike a conciliatory tone toward the new Republican congressional majority , said he might consider supporting such an amendment . After a firestorm of opposition erupted from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Clinton backed off . However , he did say he might still support a less divisive " moment of silence . " Most Jewish groups oppose mandatory school prayer , fearing it will put undue pressure on students who belong to minority religions , and Gore 's remarks were well received at the Denver meeting . However , in his address the vice-president never explicitly mentioned Clinton 's stated position on a moment of silence , which is also widely opposed in the Jewish community . According to Lawrence Rubin , executive vice-chairman of the National Jewish Community Relations Advisory Council , " the issue is not prayer . The issue is the establishment of a time and manner in which prayer or a moment of silence would occur . Any time the government gets involved in prayer or religion in any way , it 's a problem for us . " After his speech , Gore did draw a distinction between prayer and a moment of silence and defended Clinton 's openness to the latter . " They 're very different , " he said to reporters , noting that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his days as Arkansas governor . Clinton " wants to accommodate people who want to silently articulate their own tradition , " while avoiding " government coercion , " Gore explained . When asked if even a moment of silence could become coercive , Gore said he did not foresee that happening , but admitted " it 's hard to predict . " Religious organizations and First Amendment advocacy groups have responded to the latest push for some form of organized prayer in public schools with a mixture of caution and outright hostility . Gingrich 's call for a constitutional change has prompted strong objections in the church world . The congressman 's proposal would allow individual or group prayer in a public school if students are not required to participate and if the government does n't compose the prayer . " A fierce determination to defend the sacredness of prayer , coupled with deep respect for different faiths , has held America 's mainline clergy firm in their opposition to state-sponsored prayer , " wrote Arthur J. Kropp and David Ramage , officials of the constitutional-liberties organization People for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " When prayer in the schools was the norm , " Kropp and Ramage pointed out , " children of minority faiths were routinely sent to the hallway while the rest of the class prayed , a harsh symbol of the exclusion of their religious heritage with the state 's official blessing . " The authors also argued that Gingrich 's proposal contradicts the nation 's " historical reluctance to tamper with the Bill of Rights . " " There is nothing worse for religion than when the government gets too cozy with a particular faith , " said Steve McFarland , director of the Christian Legal Society 's Center for Law and Religious Freedom . " The power to endorse your faith will allow someone else to endorse their faith at your expense . " Various U.S. Supreme Court decisions have upheld the right of students to pray as individuals or in groups as long as the prayers are not organized by school officials . Critics of organized prayer claim that under such a procedure peer pressure would intimidate students  --  particularly adherents of minority religions such as Jews , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not want to . And by choosing what prayers could be said , administrators would , critics say , be guilty of effecting an " establishment of religion " in violation of the First Amendment . But those opposed to the no-pray policy contend that some school districts have gone too far , unlawfully curtailing all religious expression . They want more guarantees written into the Constitution . " We do not want to go back to how it was before 1963 , when the school was setting prayers and scripture readings , " said Richard D. Land , executive director of the Southern Baptist Convention 's Christian Life Commission . " But we also are not going to accept the dismal situation of the last 30 years , where we have had an attempt to actively or passively censor religious expression on the part of students in our public schools . " Forest Montgomery , counsel for the National Association of Evangelicals , based in Carol Stream , Illinois , maintained that the current proposal in Congress suffers from the same shortfall that caused the NAE to oppose a school @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it would allow school administrators to decide what prayers would be said . " We would have the same reservations about Caesar getting in the prayer-composing business that we had in 1982 , " said Montgomery , in a reference to the biblical admonition to " Render unto Caesar that which is Caesar 's and unto God that which is God 's . " Some of the strongest support for school prayer within organized religion appears to come from the American Center for Law and Justice , a legal-action group founded by Christian broadcaster Pat Robertson . Jay Sekulow , lead attorney for the center , called the drive for a school-prayer amendment " almost unstoppable " and said it has been fueled by actions taken by authorities denying students their right to pray in the schools . Even so , Sekulow conceded that the amendment before Congress needs to be revised to have more emphasis on student-led prayer . Caution on the prayer issue seemed to be the order of the day at a recent meeting of the interfaith Coalition for the Free Exercise of Religion , which spans the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ liberal National Council of Churches and the Unitarian Universalist Association . " I could n't find a single lawyer with a conservative organization that supports the amendment as drafted , " coalition chair Oliver Thomas said of the meeting . Cardinal-designate William Keeler of Baltimore , president of the National Conference of Catholic Bishops , expressed qualified support or some type of religious expression in the schools . " Our conference has said that we would be interested in school prayer ... if it is coupled with instruction in students ' ' own faith , " Keeler said . He referred to a phenomenon in many school districts in the 1940s and 1950s known as " release time " in which students received religious instruction  --  either at their public school or some other place  --  by priests or religious teachers . But Keeler declined to comment on the congressional amendment : " We do n't comment on legislation until we see the language it would take . " Not all Republicans share Gingrich 's agenda . A number of participants at a gathering of GOP state governors in Williamsburg , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prayer in the schools . Remarked Michigan 's governor John Engler : " If we do n't deal with the economic issues , we 'll need more than prayer to solve our problems . " On November 22 an ad hoc coalition of Protestant and Jewish leaders announced plans to lobby against any proposed prayer amendment . Said spokesman Robert W. Tiller of the American Baptist Churches : " We oppose any effort of government to poke its nose into our prayers , especially our children 's prayers . " <p>                     