@@390221

BIBLE PROFESSORS usually do n't run for public office , but I could n't resist trying to unseat the Christian Coalition incumbent who represents my district in the Oklahoma legislature . I believe that faith perspectives are important to political conversations , and I wanted Oklahomans to see that in politics the word " Christian " does n't have to be paired with " Coalition . " Though I lost 56 to 44 percent in the Republican tidal wave that swamped Democrats in my part of the state in 1996 , the campaign was a profound experience for me and my family . It confirmed my faith in U.S. democracy and deepened my conviction that political campaigns have spiritual significance . Karl Marx once observed that while philosophers seek only to interpret the world , the point is to change it . For me , the point of Bible study is to help us live more faithfully and build a better world . I see my political activities as an extension of my biblical scholarship . For my campaign I sought to develop a political language , rooted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ my understanding of the gospel and made sense to voters . My goal was to foster hope and a sense of common interest between the politically influential middle class and the politically disenfranchised poor . As a Bible scholar , I wanted to counter the harmful public use of scripture as ammunition in politically and spiritually dangerous " culture wars . " But I also wanted to avoid the moral absolutism that often accompanies left-wing religious politics and marginalizes its progressive agenda . The key , I thought , was to ground my rhetoric in the increasingly difficult experience of middle- and workingclass families . I focused a variety of issues around the theme of " better paying jobs , with wages you can raise a family on . " I advocated more money for public schools and vocational-technical training and campaigned for universal health insurance . And I supported more and betterfunded crime prevention programs , especially job training , youth recreation , and early intervention and support for the victims of domestic crimes . At the outset , my chances seemed slim . Our region of Oklahoma is heavily @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ neither the time nor the legislaive clout to get very many voters mad at him . And I was a novice at electoral politics , an unknown professor labeled as a " liberal " Democrat . In our first televised debate , the incumbent took little note of me . He declared he was running against " the liberal leadership down in Oklahoma City . " A month later , when he joked that I was " impersonating a conservative , " I thought I was making him a little nervous . By the end of the campaign , he was running against me . I did shave my 20-year-old beard for the campaign . " Gosh , Dad , you look like a Republican ! " my daughter exclaimed , disgusted at this compromise of principle . But it was n't my new look that made it hard for my opponents to pigeonhole me . Rather , it was because I talked about the religious roots of my political vision and cited " strengthening families " as its motivating concern . For some time now , the Religious Right has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the language of " family . " This has been a victory partly by default , as mainline churches and synagogues have fled politics and avoided talking about family issues . The Religious Right 's crusader image gives it a lot of media exposure in a time when reporters tend to fit political news into a combat model . Political actors willing to throw hard punches get coverage , while consensusbuilders do not . Consequently , moderate and progressive religious politics are likely to be invisible , incomprehensible or suspect . When I spoke about faith and family , people who had heard such talk only from religious and political conservatives were confused . AS THE CAMPAIGN went on , however , a large and diverse group of people were attracted to the inclusive , religiously based political vision my campain offered . Union members , moderate Republican businesspeople , and Democrats frightened by the tactics of the Religious Right began to support my candidacy . As a minister and seminary professor , I did n't have to prove my Christian credentials . That allowed me to challenge Democrats and moderate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ justice and respect for the fundamental dignity of all people . Focusing on family issues is a good way to articulate a progressive agenda . Of course , the term has its problems as political rhetoric . We all know that families can be dysfunctional and harmful . Because there are multiple models for the family , the language about it has multiple meanings . And " family " is too limited a term to articulate all the complex concerns of political life . But the concept of family nevertheless is deeply symbolic , and a key political metaphor . Because families put their stamp on every person 's psyche , better family life is a key to better political life . The reverse is also true . Better politics make stronger families . Economic factors beyond our individual control carry enormous consequences for family life . Decisions made in corporate boardrooms may determine whether marriages succeed or fail , whether children are educated , whether parents fall into abuse and addiction , whether family members will be able to see doctors or afford healing treatment . Politics can check the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ economic decision-makers to act for the social good . Politics can enable us to set priorities , build an infrastructure , and encourage investment in enterprises that offer meaningful work and living wages . A strong , just political life is essential for strong , healthy family life . THE INCREASINGLY desperate economic conditions of working-class families framed the debate in my campaign . Unemployment is low in my district , and the work ethic is strong . But most jobs do n't pay a living wage . Many families string together three or four part-time jobs with no benefits . Our problem is n't underemployment but overwork and underpay . Better paying jobs are an important family value , with enormous personal and social consequences . Ignoring the advice of political consultants and Democratic legislators , I also campaigned on extending health insurance to all Oklahoma families . Since the failure of the Clinton health plan , the experts consider the idea of universal health coverage to be political poison . But voters do want it . Health care reform struck the most responsive chord in my district . People @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of medical treatments they could n't afford , bills they could never hope to pay , and minor illnesses that became major because they had to delay treatment . Some had lost jobs because their families ' presence in their employer 's risk pool drove insurance costs too high . Many stayed in jobs they hated because they feared losing their insurance . Decent , rational people were forced to avoid doctors and go without necessary treatment to hide " pre-existing conditions " long enough to get coverage . Only about half of Oklahoma 's nonelderly population is insured , and unpayable medical expenses cause a large percentage of personal bankruptcies . It is economically wise and morally right to work toward universal access to affordable health care . Just as Canada 's national health insurance program started and grew province by province , so too is universal coverage in the U.S. likely to occur state by state . Oklahoma is as good a place as any to start upholding the family value of affordable health care . If family was central to my political vision , so too was faith @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ my ministry with my political involvement , how I would maintain the separation between politics and religion , I made it clear that I had no intention of trying to keep them apart . I could no more filter religion out of my politics than I could breathe under water . Most people misunderstand the separation of church and state called for by the First Amendment . Our nation 's founders , who rooted their democratic aspirations in " unalienable rights , endowed by the creator , " did not intend to bar religious reasoning from political processes . The threat to democracy comes not from an openness to religious perspectives in politics but from the impulse to exclude or muffle certain perspectives because they do not support a legally enshrined orthodoxy . Teacher-led worship in public schools is a problem not because it is religious speech in a public setting but because the teacher 's authoritative role is likely to stifle the religious or antireligious speech of students who disagree . The constitutional question is how our various religious perspectives can inform and enrich our political life in a way @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . THERE ARE various ways to bring a religious vision to politics . The Religious Right usually grounds its politics in a highly selective reading of the Bible 's legal texts , especially the purity codes . Following a divine law , untainted by the moral ambiguities of a rapidly changing world , appeals to many , but it 's a problematic use of scripture , since these laws clearly were written for a society vastly different from ours . Most people intuitively know this . People who quote Leviticus to condemn homosexuality are careful not to poke around elsewhere in the book . Do n't look for Pat Robertson to start railing against bacon cheeseburgers , or for the Christian Coalition to call for a Year of Jubilee . The Religious Left , for its part , frequently looks to the biblical prophets as models for religiously based political action . But these prophetic politics appear extreme and unrealistic to many Americans . Though middle- and working-class people are well aware of some of the damaging consequences of the globalizing market economy and favor reforms that would better protect communities @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interests are aligned with market capitalism . The problem is that too many of them are excluded from its benefits . They perceive prophetic denunciations of the whole system as an assault on their reasonable desire for a greater share of the wealth . Some Americans do need to live with less . I favor fairer taxes to liberate the rich from more of their soul-threatening wealth . But many working-class Americans are living one doctor bill away from financial oblivion . They need to live with more , not less . The biblical prophets spoke the unmediated and unambiguous word of God . Few Americans today feel comfortable claiming such authority for their political speech . The uncompromising certitude of prophetic speech seems inappropriate in our morally ambiguous world . In any case , claiming to speak for God is a conversation stopper , whereas good public speech keeps conversation going . In a democracy , public speech should be flexible , tolerant and responsive to new ideas . It seeks truth in the dynamic wisdom of a people struggling to live with integrity in a changing world . Elijah @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Carmel is gripping narrative , but a bad model for democratic action . To construct a theology and rhetoric of politics , I looked to the biblical creation and wisdom traditions . Genesis tells us that we were created " male and female in the image of God . " We somehow reflect God 's nature in our mutual , complementary relationships , in our community and diversity . People are inherently political , since God has called them to govern together , to " rule the earth . " The biblical wisdom tradition shares the priestly creation tradition 's confidence in people 's power to govern their affairs . Rooted in human experience and drawing freely from a wide variety of ancient Near Eastern sources , the wisdom tradition is compatible with the pragmatic outlook and pluralism of American democracy . Its expansive religious vision recognizes the ambiguity of moral action in a world that can never be fully known . Its flexibility and intellectual openness are appropriate to democratic speech . Though these traditions express a troubled awareness of unjust suffering , they nevertheless affirm that the world is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ God intends nature to be bounteous , prosperity is natural ; poverty violates God 's will . Human social order succeeds when it reflects the benevolence , generosity and universal abundance God intended for creation . Though scarcity , poverty and violence may appear intractable , they are counter to God 's plan for the universe . The wisdom tradition also reminds us that the causes of suffering are complex-sometimes too complex to untangle . Often suffering is random and prosperity an accident of birth . Consequently , we must live compassionately and value healing care . The wisdom tradition resists the politically influential heresy that people always deserve what they get , that individuals are personally responsible for everything that happens to them . THE HEALING and preaching ministry of Jesus expresses the abundance theology at the heart of the wisdom and creation traditions . Radical confidence in God 's desire for abundant life for everyone leads to acts of radical hospitality , sharing the abundance with all . When we live this way , the kingdom of God is among us . Democracy gives us the potential to live @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in our ability to govern ourselves wisely and generously , and to give hope to those who feel powerless . I entered the race worried that we were becoming cynical about democracy . But I soon discovered that most people are happy to talk with political candidates and eager to express their ideas and opinions . People want to be part of the process of analyzing and solving our problems . Campaigns are the spiritual exercises of democracy . They help us articulate our dreams , fears and deepest commitments . Good campaigns help us confront the demons of our common life and connect the everyday concerns of personal living with something larger . They make us realize that we have the power and responsibility to make our society just and good . Electoral politics can be a ministry of hope . Author Affiliation Richard H. Lowery is associate professor of Old Testament at Phillips Theological Seminary in Enid , Oklahoma . // <p>                     