@@400337

// We are in the midst of a great historic transition into the Biotech Age . The ability to isolate , identify and recombine genes is making the gene pool available , for the first time , as the primary raw resource for future economic activity on Earth . After thousands of years of fusing , melting , soldering , forging and burning inanimate matter to create useful things , we are now splicing , recombining , inserting and stitching living material for our own economic interests . Lord Ritchie-Calder , the British science writer , cast the biological revolution in the proper historical perspective when he observed that " just as we have manipulated plastics and metals , we are now manufacturing living materials . " The Nobel Prize-winning chemist Robert F. Curl of Rice University spoke for many of his colleagues in science when he proclaimed that the 20th century was " the century of physics and chemistry . But it is clear that the next century will be the century of biology . " Global " life-science " companies promise an economic renaissance in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of history where the genetic blueprints of evolution itself become subject to human authorship . Critics worry that the reseeding of the Earth with a laboratory-conceived second Genesis could lead to a far different future-a biological Tower of Babel and the spread of chaos throughout the biological world , drowning out the ancient language of creation . Second Genesis Human beings have been remaking the Earth for as long as we have had a history . Up to now , however , our ability to create our own second Genesis has been tempered by the restraints imposed by species boundaries . We have been forced to work narrowly , continually crossing close relatives in the plant or animal kingdoms to create new varieties , strains and breeds . Through a long , historical process of tinkering and trial and error , we have redrawn the biological map , creating new agricultural products , new sources of energy , more durable building materials , and lifesaving pharmaceuticals . Still , in all this time , nature dictated the terms of engagement . But the new technologies of the Genetic Age allow scientists @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the most fundamental level  --  the genetic one . Imagine the wholesale transfer of genes between totally unrelated species and across all biological boundaries-plant , animal and humancreating thousands of novel life forms in a brief moment of evolutionary time . Then , with clonal propagation , mass-producing countless replicas of these new creations , releasing them into the biosphere to propagate , mutate , proliferate and migrate . This is , in fact , the radical scientific and commercial experiment now underway . Global Powers at Play Typical of new biotech trends is the bold decision by the Monsanto Corporation , long a world leader in chemical products , to sell off its entire chemical division in 1997 and anchor its research , development and marketing in biotech-based technologies and products . Global conglomerates are rapidly buying up biotech start-up companies , seed companies , agribusiness and agrochemical concerns , pharmaceutical , medical and health businesses , and food and drink companies , creating giant life-science complexes from which to fashion a bio-industrial world . The concentration of power is impressive . The top 10 agrochemical companies control 81 percent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ten life science companies control 37 percent of the $15 billion per year global seed market . Meanwhile , pharmaceutical companies spent more than $3.5 billion in 1995 buying up biotech firms . Novartis , a giant new firm resulting from the $27 billion merger of Sandoz and Ciba-Geigy , is now the world 's largest agrochemical company , the second-largest seed company and the second-largest pharmaceutical company . Global life-science companies are expected to introduce thousands of new genetically engineered organisms into the environment in the coming century . In just the past 18 months , genetically engineered corn , soy and cotton have been planted over millions of acres of U.S. farmland . Genetically engineered insects , fish and domesticated animals have also been introduced , like the sheep/goat hybrid " geep . " Virtually every genetically engineered organism released into the environment poses a potential threat to the ecosystem . To appreciate why this is so , we need to understand why the pollution generated by genetically modified organisms is so different from the pollution resulting from the release of petrochemical products into the environment . Because they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than petrochemicals in the way they interact with other living things in the environment . Consequently , it is much more difficult to assess all of the potential impacts that a genetically engineered organism might have on the Earth 's ecosystems . Genetically engineered products also reproduce . They grow and they migrate . Unlike petrochemical products , it is difficult to constrain them within a given geographical locale . Finally , once released , it is virtually impossible to recall genetically engineered organisms back to the laboratory , especially those organisms that are microscopic in nature . The risks in releasing novel , genetically engineered organisms into the biosphere are similar to those we 've encountered in introducing exotic organisms into the North American habitat . Over the past several hundred years , thousands of non-native organisms have been brought to America from other regions of the world . While many of these creatures have adapted to the North American ecosystems without severe dislocations , a small percentage of them have run wild , wreaking havoc on the flora and fauna of the continent . Gypsy moth , Kudzu vine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mediterranean fruit flies come easily to mind . Whenever a genetically engineered organism is released , there is always a small chance that it , too , will run amok because , like nonindigenous species , it has been artificially introduced into a complex environment that has developed a web of highly integrated relationships over long periods of evolutionary history . Each new synthetic introduction is tantamount to playing ecological roulette . That is , while there is only a small chance of it triggering an environmental explosion , if it does , the consequences could be significant and irreversible . Spreading Genetic Pollution Nowhere are the alarm bells going off faster than in agricultural biotechnology . The lifescience companies are introducing biotech crops containing newly discovered genetic traits from other plants , viruses , bacteria and animals . The new genetically engineered crops are designed to perform in ways that have eluded scientists working with classical breeding techniques . Many of the new genespliced crops emanating from laboratories seem more like creations from the world of science fiction . Scientists have inserted " antifreeze " protein genes from flounder into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ frost damage . Chicken genes have been inserted into potatoes to increase disease resistance . Firefly genes have been injected into the biological code of corn plants . Chinese hamster genes have been inserted into the genome of tobacco plants to increase sterol production . Ecologists are unsure of the impacts of bypassing natural species boundaries by introducing genes into crops from wholly unrelated plant and animal species . The fact is , there is no precedent in history for this kind of " shotgun " experimentation . For more than 10,000 years , classical breeding techniques have been limited to the transference of genes between closely related plants or animals that can sexually interbreed , limiting the number of possible genetic combinations . Natural evolution appears to be similarly circumscribed . By contrast , the new gene-splicing technologies allow us to bypass all previous biological boundaries in nature , creating life forms that have never before existed . For example , consider the ambitious plans to engineer transgenic plants to serve as pharmaceutical factories for the production of chemicals and drugs . Foraging animals , seed-eating birds and soil insects @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , vaccines , industrial enzymes , plastics and hundreds of other foreign substances for the first time , with untold consequences . The notion of large numbers of species consuming plants and plant debris containing a wide assortment of chemicals that they would normally never be exposed to is an unsettling prospect . Much of the current effort in agricultural biotechnology is centered on the creation of herbicide-tolerant , pest-resistant and virus-resistant plants . Herbicide-tolerant crops are a favorite of companies like Monsanto and Novartis that are anxious to corner the lucrative worldwide market for their herbicide products . More than 600 million pounds of poisonous herbicides are dumped on U.S. farm land each year , most sprayed on corn , cotton and soybean crops . Chemical companies gross more than $4 billion per year in U.S. herbicide sales alone . To increase their share of the growing global market for herbicides , life-science companies have created transgenic crops that tolerate their own herbicides ( see " Say It Ai n't Soy , " In Brief March/April , 1997 ) . The idea is to sell farmers patented seeds that are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of increasing a company 's share of both the seed and herbicide markets . Monsanto 's new " Roundup Ready " patented seeds , for example , are resistant to its best-selling chemical herbicide , Roundup . The chemical companies hope to convince farmers that the new herbicide-tolerant crops will allow for a more efficient eradication of weeds . Farmers will be able to spray at any time during the growing season , killing weeds without killing their crops . Critics warn that with new herbicide-tolerant crops planted in the fields , farmers are likely to use even greater quantities of herbicides to control weeds , as there will be less fear of damaging their crops in the process of spraying . The increased use of herbicides , in turn , raises the possibility of weeds developing resistance , forcing an even greater use of herbicides to control the more resistant strains . The potential deleterious impacts on soil fertility , water quality and beneficial insects that result from the increased use of poisonous herbicides , like Monsanto 's Roundup , are a disquieting reminder of the escalating environmental bill that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The new pest-resistant transgenic crops pose similar environmental problems . Life-science companies are readying transgenic crops that produce insecticide in every cell of each plant . Several crops , including Ciba Geigy 's pest-resistant " maximizer corn " and Rohm and Haas 's pest-resistant tobacco are already available on the commercial market . A growing body of scientific evidence points to the likelihood of creating " super bugs " resistant to the effects of the new pesticide-producing genetic crops . The new generation of virus-resistant transgenic crops pose the equally dangerous possibility of creating new viruses that have never before existed in nature . Concerns are surfacing among scientists and in scientific literature over the possibility that the protein genes could recombine with genes in related viruses that find their way naturally into the transgenic plant , creating a recombinant virus with novel features . A growing number of ecologists warn that the biggest danger might lie in what is called " gene flow " - the transfer of genes from altered crops to weedy relatives by way of cross-pollination . Researchers are concerned that manufactured genes for herbicide tolerance , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pollination , insert themselves into the genetic makeup of weedy relatives , creating weeds that are resistant to herbicides , pests and viruses . Fears over the possibility of transgenic genes jumping to wild weedy relatives heightened in 1996 when a Danish research team , working under the auspices of Denmark 's Environmental Science and Technology Department , observed the transfer of just such a gene-something critics of deliberate-release experiments have warned of for years and biotech companies have dismissed as a remote or nonexistent possibility . Transnational life-science companies project that within 10 to 15 years , all of the major crops grown in the world will be genetically engineered to include herbicide- , pest- , virus- , bacteria- , fungus- and stress-resistant genes . Millions of acres of agricultural land and commercial forest will be transformed in the most daring experiment ever undertaken to remake the biological world . Proponents of the new science , armed with powerful gene-splicing tools and precious little data on potential impacts , are charging into this new world of agricultural biotechnology , giddy over the potential benefits and confident that the risks are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , what if they are wrong ? Insuring Disaster The insurance industry quietly let it be known several years ago that it would not insure the release of genetically engineered organisms into the environment against the possibility of catastrophic environmental damage , because the industry lacks a risk-assessment science-a predictive ecology-with which to judge the risk of any given introduction . In short , the insurance industry clearly understands the Kafka-esque implications of a government regime claiming to regulate a technology in the absence of clear scientific knowledge . Increasingly nervous over the insurance question , one of the biotech trade associations attempted early on to raise an insurance pool among its member organizations , but gave up when it failed to raise sufficient funds to make the pool operable . Some observers worried , at the time , and continue to worry-albeit privatelyover what might happen to the biotech industry if a large-scale commercial release of a genetically altered organism were to result in a catastrophic environmental event . For example , the introduction and spread of a new weed or pest comparable to Kudzu vine , Dutch elm disease @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and fauna over extended ranges . Corporate assurances aside , one or more significant environmental mishaps are an inevitability in the years ahead . When that happens , every nation is going to be forced to address the issue of liability . Farmers , landowners , consumers and the public at large are going to demand to know how it could have happened and who is liable for the damages inflicted . When the day arrives-and it 's likely to come sooner rather than later- " genetic pollution " will take its place alongside petrochemical and nuclear pollution as a grave threat to the Earth 's already beleaguered environment . Allergic to Technology The introduction of new genetically engineered organisms also raises a number of serious human health issues that have yet to be resolved . Health professionals and consumer organizations are most concerned about the potential allergenic effects of genetically engineered foods . The Food and Drug Administration ( FDA ) announced in 1992 that special labeling for genetically engineered foods would not be required , touching off protest among food professionals , including the nation 's leading chefs and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and eight percent of children having allergic responses to commonly eaten foods , consumer advocates argue that all gene-spliced foods need to be properly labeled so that consumers can avoid health risks . Their concerns were heightened in 1996 when The New England Journal of Medicine published a study showing genetically engineered soybeans containing a gene from a Brazil nut could create an allergic reaction in people who were allergic to the nuts . The test result was unwelcome news for Pioneer Hi-Bred International , the Iowabased seed company that hoped to market the new genetically engineered soy . Though the FDA said it would label any genetically engineered foods containing genes from common allergenic organisms , the agency fell well short of requiring acrossthe-board labeling , leaving The New England Journal of.Hedicine editors to ask what protection consumers would have against genes from organisms that have never before been part of the human diet and that might be potential allergens . Concerned over the agency 's seeming disregard for human health , the Journal editors concluded that FDA policy " would appear to favor industry over consumer protection . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ efforts to reseed the biosphere with a laboratory-conceived second Genesis may eventually come to naught because of a massive catch-22 that lies at the heart of the new technology revolution . On the one hand , the success of the biotech revolution is wholly dependent on access to a rich reservoir of genes to create new characteristics and properties in crops and animals grown for food , fiber and energy , and products used for pharmaceutical and medical purposes . Genes containing beneficial traits that can be manipulated , transformed and inserted into organisms destined for the commercial market come from either the wild or from traditional crops and animal breeds . Notwithstanding its awesome ability to transform nature into commercially marketable commodities , the biotech industry still remains utterly dependent upon nature 's seed stock-germplasm-for its raw resources . At present , it is impossible to create a " useful " new gene in the laboratory . In this sense , biotechnology remains an extractive industry . It can rearrange genetic material , but can not create it . On the other hand , the very practice of biotechnology-including cloning @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ increasing genetic uniformity , a narrowing of the gene pool , and loss of the very genetic diversity that is so essential to guaranteeing the success of the biotech industry in the future . In his book The Last Harvest , Paul Raeburn , the science editor for Business Week , penetrates to the heart of the problem . He writes , " Scientists can accomplish remarkable feats in manipulating molecules and cells , but they are utterly incapable of re-creating even the simplest forms of life in test tubes . Germplasm provides our lifeline into the future . No breakthrough in fundamental research can compensate for the loss of the genetic material crop breeders depend upon . " Agricultural biotechnology greatly increases the uniformity of agricultural practices , as did the Green Revolution when it was introduced more than 30 years ago . Like its predecessor , the goal is to create superior varieties that can be planted as monocultures in agricultural regions all over the world . A handful of life-science companies are staking out the new biotech turf , each aggressively marketing their own patented brands of " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as well . The new transgenic crops and animals are designed to grow faster , produce greater yields , and withstand more varied environmental and weather-related stresses . Their cost effectiveness , in the short run , is likely to guarantee them a robust market . In an industry where profit margins are notoriously low , farmers will likely jump at the opportunity of saving a few dollars per acre and a few cents per pound by shifting quickly to the new transgenic crops and animals . However , the switch to a handful of patented transgenic seeds and livestock animals will likely further erode the genetic pool as farmers abandon the growing of traditional varieties and breeds in favor of the commercially more competitive patented products . By focusing on short-term market priorities , the biotech industry threatens to destroy the very genetic heirlooms that might one day be worth their weight in gold as a line of defense against new resistant diseases or superbugs . Most molecular biologists and the biotechnology industry at large have all but dismissed the growing criticism of ecologists , whose recent studies suggest that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and spread of genetic pollution and the wholesale loss of genetic diversity . Nonetheless , the uncontrollable spread of super weeds , the buildup of resistant strains of bacteria and new super insects , the creation of novel viruses , the destabilization of whole ecosystems , the genetic contamination of food , and the steady depletion of the gene pool are no longer minor considerations , the mere grumbling of a few disgruntled critics . To ignore the warnings is to place the biosphere and civilization in harm 's way in the coming years . Pestilence , famine , and the spread of new kinds of diseases throughout the world might yet turn out to be the final act in the script being prepared for the biotech century . Is Footnote This article is adapted from Jeremy Rifkin 's new book The Biotech Century : Harnessing the Gene and Remaking the World ( Tarcher/Putnam ) . Rifkin is president of The Foundation on Economic Trends , 1660L Street NW , No. 216 , Washington , DC20036/ ( 202 ) 466-2823 . Book orders : ( 800 ) 788-6262. // <p>  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @          