@@428530

The church should support efforts aimed at employing all economic resources , especially human resources , in the most productive manner . // THANKS TO PAT BUCHANAN and assorted others-Robert Allen , Robert Reich , Albert Dunlap , Newsweek , " Nightline , " The New York Times , The NewsHour With Jim Lehrer , The Wall Street Journal-the " downsizing of America " has become the hottest topic in this election year . Is there a way for church leaders , theologians and economically active lay people to make a distinctively Catholic contribution to the downsizing discussion ? The Rev. Andrew Greeley thinks there is . " To my mind , someone like AT &T; chairman Robert Allen belongs in jail , " he stated in a recent column for Religious News Service . Granted , victims of massive layoffs may derive a certain satisfaction from seeing their " job killers " ( Newsweek 's term for Allen and other downsizing C.E.O . ' s ) behind bars . Nevertheless , I would like to propose a more productive way for Catholics to engage in the downsizing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ understanding of productivity , the intended goal of corporate restructuring and the ultimate source of a society 's prosperity . Were one simple fact about productivity better understood-namely , that productivity increases , not decreases , with the number of productive workers employed-the current antagonism between workers and Wall Street would subside , and the people-oriented economy envisioned in Catholic social teaching would move one giant step closer to reality . Productive workers are not the enemy of profitability ; they are its source . The most prosperous society is not the one that finds a way to get by with the fewest workers , but the one that maximizes the number of persons who are employed productively . What follows is a discussion of four basic misconceptions about productivity . Correcting these misconceptions would allow corporate executives , government policy makers , union leaders , workers and the church to think more clearly about the way all participants in the economy can foster a more productive and more prosperous society . Misconception No. 1 : Timming employment rosters and installing new machinery will automatically raise workers ' productivity . Productivity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a corporation 's costs and improve its sales-per-employee measurement , businesses seeking to increase their long-term profits must be concerned with the volume of economic value they deliver to their customers-not just with efficiency ratios . Productivity is the ability of men and women to fashion goods and services whose value exceeds their costs . As such , productivity is the uniquely human capacity to add value to the economy . Thus , the ultimate challenge faced by corporate executives is not to find ways to minimize a business ' dependence upon its employees . Their challenge , as well as their responsibility to both stockholders and society , is to discover new market opportunities that will warrant the hiring of more " value adders , " and to develop the management skills that will encourage and enable existing workers to generate extra value . Since each new " value adder " ( either a new employee or an existing worker made more productive ) is a " profit producer , " the key to maximizing both corporate profitability and society 's prosperity is to maximize the number of productive workers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the concept embodies a disturbingly unbalanced idea : excess value beyond cost . Corporations themselves survive ( and thrive ) by being productive-that is , they provide customers with value over and above the cost of the goods and services delivered . In other words , corporations sustain themselves only by giving value away for free . In turn , this pressure to provide customers with some form of extra value requires corporations to ask their workers to be productive-to expend at least some effort for which they receive no compensation . That not all managers are adept at asking their workers to give away a portion of their labor for free should not be surprising . Rather than go to workers with the direct appeal to become more generous-the real meaning of becoming more productive-too many managers try an indirect approach , using technology or intimidation . Although equipping employees with better tools does allow them to get more work done , and yelling " work faster or you 're fired " may trigger an immediate reaction , neither approach relieves managers of the mandate to motivate their employees @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the new technology , the business will have little chance of recouping its investment in equipment ; and when managers go to war with their workers , the best they can hope for is to battle to a draw . ( For a delightful summary of the many ways abused workers can undermine productivity enhancement programs , I recommend How To Tell When You 're Tired by longshoreman-author Reg Theriault . ) Eventually , management must find a way to sell the idea of increased productivity by making it worthwhile-in either a financial or non-financial sense-for employees to give more than they receive . Misconception No. 2 : Protecting workers means guaranteeing their current employment . Much has been written about the negative impact corporate downsizing has had on employee loyalty . But a strong case can be made for less loyalty rather than more . One of the most positive developments for workers ' rights is the free agency system adopted , at the urging of the courts , by professional sports teams . Athletes ' salaries have increased dramatically not because the ties that bound them to their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Under the protection of the free agency system , professional athletes are now receiving salaries based directly on the revenues they generate for their employers . Although the salary paid to Michael Jordan may appear astronomical in comparison with your salary or mine ( particularly mine ) , keeping Michael Jordan on the Chicago Bulls ' payroll makes excellent sense economically because he is a productive worker-that is , the revenues he generates exceed his salary . Since the productive worker is always on the wrong side of an unbalanced equation , some form of legislative protection may be necessary to protect workers from corporations seeking to raise productivity and thereby widen the difference between what workers give and what they receive . But government 's involvement in this area should be focused on creating a free agency system for all workers . Such an arrangement would not guarantee each worker an N.B.A.level salary , but it would give each worker the same privilege that Michael Jordan enjoys : the right to bargain for a fair share of the value generated by one 's productivity . What are the necessary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ found in the experience of employees at downsized corporations . Since the suffering caused by massive layoffs could have been reduced had more workers found the courage to remove themselves voluntarily from the unproductive bureaucracies that have metastasized within many large corporations , the question must be asked : Why did so many people stay in jobs where they were not needed ? Because programs that would have given these workers the sense of independence , mobility and self-confidence needed to seek more productive and rewarding employment elsewhere-the basic elements of a free agency system-were not available . Portable pensions , uninterrupted health care , continuing education opportunities and lessrestrictive unemployment benefits are examples of programs that could give workers greater economic freedom and , as a result , improved economic clout . Organized labor , the institution most closely identified with the protection of workers ' rights , faces a particularly difficult challenge in dealing with the growing demand by corporations for increased worker productivity . Since I grew up in West Virginia , I have followed this issue most of my life . My family moved to that state @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mine Workers President John L. Lewis reached an accommodation with the coal operators that allowed them to accelerate the mechanization of the mines . Even though this agreement strengthened the union 's benefit system and raised miners ' pay by a quantum leap , its impact upon the coal-producing regions of Appalachia was devastating . The term " downsizing " does not begin to describe the resulting cutbacks in coal mining employment . More than 40 years later , much of the region still has not recovered . Did Lewis sell out the union ? Was he wrong to support a radical upgrading of coal miners ' productivity ? Or was he a hero ( possibly even a saint ) because he saved thousands of would-be miners from black lung disease , crippling accidents and untimely deaths ? In some ways , every union today faces the same dilemma encountered by the U.M.W. in the 1950 's . As long as organized labor focuses on protecting current jobs , it will be fighting a losing battle against technology and will end up resisting efforts that allow members to improve their productivity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ needed are new organizational structures that will wean unions from their interest in particular forms of employment so they can become a stronger force for the protection of all workers . Misconception No. 3 : A full day 's work for a full day 's pay is enough . Is it coincidental that the growth rate for both the productivity and the real wages of American workers began declining significantly in the 1970 's , the " Me Decade ? " I do not have a definitive answer to that question , but I suspect that the intangible factor of worker attitude deserves more serious attention from both economists and moralists . There is no overlooking the conflict between the logic of productivity and the logic of personal rights that has dominated social policy discussions in the last 20 to 30 years . Once again , the operative word in explaining productivity is " extra . " A worker earns the label " productive " only when he or she adds value to the employing enterprise and to the economy by doing something more than that for which the person is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mentality may be difficult , not even the most severe critic of downsizing has questioned the right of a business to ask its employees to be productive . ( This is one reason why such major journalistic efforts as The New York Times 's seven-day study of downsizing published in March offer so few solutions to the problem ) . Instead of resisting the productivity imperative , workers would be better off recognizing that they can enhance their own job security through those uncompensated extra efforts that add value to the economy . Regardless of rank within an organization , each worker can improve productivity in at least four ways . The first is to bring to the job a sense of craftsmanship that prompts one to refine work skills continuously . Quite simply , the expert is more productive than the novice . The second is to boost the group 's performance through cooperation with colleagues , subordinates and supervisors . The third is to strengthen one 's commitment to genuine customer service . And the fourth and hardest is to accept risk . The most productive employee is the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rather than of certainty . Because the productive worker , by definition , returns more value than is received , hiring such a person is always a wise economic decision . Misconception No. 4 : Any job will do . In some of their public criticisms of layoffs , which rarely make a distinction between unproductive and productive employment , church officials can leave the impression that they regard the economy as a giant sandbox in which every person should be given a bucket and a shovel . But the overriding importance of productive employment is very much in keeping with the contemporary Catholic theology of work . In the understanding articulated by Pope John Paul II in Laborem Exercens and adopted by the U.S. bishops in Economic Justice for All , work has value for the human person first and foremost as a vehicle for self-expression . To work is to be creative . Thus , productive work , work that adds to society 's pool of economic resources rather than subtracts from it , is the type of employment that best reinforces the inherent dignity of the human person @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ For the bishops the ultimate goal of Catholic social teaching is an economy in which all participants are given the opportunity to reach their full self-realization as persons by contributing to the entire human family . In many respects productivity , the willingness to put back into the economy more than one takes out , is similar to solidarity , the epitome of economic virtue in the writings of Pope John Paul II . What he says of solidarity can also be said of productivity : It " seeks to go beyond itself " by adopting a posture of " total gratuity . " When the sacrifice and generosity inherent in voluntary productivity become evident , the economic forces stimulating persons to become more productive acquire a new look . The pressures that encourage every person to find an economic role with the maximum opportunity for self-giving become instruments of grace drawing each of us beyond our immediate self-interest . Thus , one of the most relevant economic messages that the Catholic church can send to employers and employees alike is the message of productivity . Because the world 's volume @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , there will never be a shortage of opportunities to serve other people . For this reason the church should resist the downsizing mentality that despairs of finding new ways to employ people productively . Yet , because the world 's economic needs are so great and the resources available to satisfy them are limited , the church should also support efforts aimed at employing all economic resources , especially human resources , in the most productive manner . The globalization of the economy that is encouraging workers on every continent to find niches that capitalize on their unique talents and training should not provoke suspicion from those schooled in the Catholic theology of vocations . When our productivity is seen as our net contribution to society , then maximizing personal productivity becomes an important way for each of us to respond to the call to maximize God 's glory . Author Affiliation RICHARD C. HAAS is business manager of Commonweal magazine and author of We All Have A Share : A Catholic Vision of Prosperity Through Productivity ( ACTA Publications , Chicago , 1995 ) . // <p>   @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @         