@@350990

It seemed at times like a week out of the early 1992 campaign . Once again Bill Clinton was stumping New Hampshire in the winter ( as well as Boston and Detroit ) . Just as he did two years ago , he sought to take the offensive against attacks on his character and credibility  --  and in some of the same places ; as the President strode through the lobby of the Sheraton Tara in Nashua , New Hampshire , aides reminded him of a 1992 press conference in the same hotel at which he confronted charges that he had dodged the draft . Now , of course , the questions are about Whitewater , but Clinton 's strategy is pretty much the same as it was two years ago : accusing his accusers of trying to distract the public 's attention from far more important issues like health care and crime . At a Democratic dinner in Boston , a red-faced Clinton shouted that instead of engaging in " honest political debate , " the Republican Party " just stands up and says no , no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nine noes , each punctuated by a slam of the presidential fist against the lectern . <P> This time , though , the strategy is not working quite so well . Clinton did draw sympathetic responses from the crowds he worked ; at a " town meeting " in Nashua , a woman remarked that she thought Whitewater was for rafting and canoeing . But back in Washington the Administration was in a worsening bind , facing congressional hearings about Whitewater and the near-certainty of further revelations and unable to stop either . Special prosecutor Robert Fiske subpoenaed a 10th Administration official , senior adviser George Stephanopoulos , possibly to ask him what he may have said about Whitewater in phone conversations with Deputy Treasury Secretary Roger Altman . As for congressional hearings , Clinton knows they will become a highly partisan circus . But the prospect nonetheless puts him in a dilemma pithily summarized by his chief Republican congressional tormentor , Iowa Representative Jim Leach : " If ( ( Democrats ) ) provide me a hearing , their President is likely to be embarrassed . If they do n't @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the Executive Branch to block full disclosure . " <P> At week 's end Senate majority leader George Mitchell and Republican chief Bob Dole struck a deal that enabled the upper chamber to approve the idea of a probe , 98 to 0 . The resolution , however , left in doubt " the appropriate timetable , procedures and forum " ; Mitchell and Dole are to work those out . The Senate also specified that the hearings must not interfere with Fiske 's probe . That means witnesses will not be given immunity . Also , each phase of the hearings will begin only after Fiske has completed the relevant part of his investigation . Thus even the first hearings  --  into contacts between the White House and Treasury officials that have prompted suspicions of a cover-up  --  will not begin for weeks or months . Any hearings into Whitewater proper  --  that is , the Clintons ' land deals in Arkansas  --  would come much later .                     