@@394010

In Toronto , an apostolic administrator is appointed to assist an elderly diocesan bishop who has declined repeated invitations from the Holy See to retire . In Poland , an Eastern-rite diocese is transferred to the jurisdiction of the Warsaw Archdiocese . In Transcarpathian Ukraine , direct Roman jurisdiction is reasserted , while special administrative arrangements are made to accommodate the faithful of an ethnic minority . These seemingly ordinary , remote and unrelated events have more in common than the fact that they all concern the largest of the Eastern Catholic churches , the Ukrainian Greek Catholic Church . In fact , they concern more than those oft-forgotten Eastern churches , for they raise a question about the nature of the Catholic Church as a whole . To some Ukrainian Greek Catholics , who number approximately five million in Ukraine and at least another million abroad , these incidents reveal a concerted effort on the part of certain Vatican circles to do what 45 years of Communism could not do : divide and dissolve their Eastern-rite church , funneling its faithful into Latin-rite Catholicism or Eastern Orthodoxy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , having been the largest of the religious groups banned by the former Soviet Union , can not imagine life without persecution ? Or is there really a plot to curtail the jurisdiction of Cardinal Myroslav Ivan Lubachivsky , Major Archbishop of L'viv , by subjecting his faithful abroad to divisive meddling while indulging splinter groups at home ? In the aftermath of Communism , have the Vatican 's " Ostpoliticians " regrouped with their Russian Orthodox friends to snuff out the re-emergent " Uniate " church once and for all ? Surely no one can doubt the good faith of any of the parties involved . Probably no pontificate has been more supportive of the Ukrainian church than that of Pope John Paul II . Whatever some members of the Roman Curia and the episcopate may feel about the Ukrainian church , they are all motivated by a genuine desire to serve the interests of the church universal . It may have been the case , therefore , that what some Ukranian Catholics interpreted as the ouster last Dec. 29 of a staunch defender of the Ukranian church , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ routine enforcement of the canon law on retirement . ( Bishop Borecky retains the title of residential bishop of the Toronto Diocese , but the Most Rev. Roman Danylak is now the apostolic administrator of the diocese . ) The Ancient Greek Catholic Diocese of Przemysl ' in Poland had been affiliated with the Greek Catholic Archdiocese of L'viv just across the Ukranian border . In March 1992 , a papal bull , Totus Tuus Poloniae Populus , effectively transferred the Greek Catholic Diocese of Przemsyl ' by making it a suffragan see of the Latin-rite Archdiocese of Warsaw . This move could , however , be seen as simply a rational reorganization . After all , the allegiance of half a million of the faithful to a foreign center might be perceived as anomalous or even threatening  --  though no more so than all Catholics ' allegiance to Rome . In the case of the Transcarpathian Greek Catholic Diocese of Uzhhorod , history has created a complex situation . After centuries under a Hungarian Latin-rite jurisdiction , and more recently under direct Roman administration , some of the bishops , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ukranian Greek Catholic metropolitanate . It is true that the logic of post-1945 borders , not to mention the identity of rite , argues for such a change . Nonetheless , continued Vatican jurisdiction here and the designation in February of this year of special administrators both for adherents of the move to a Ukrainian orientation and for dissenters from that move , can be seen as a temporary diplomatic measure to keep the Greek Catholic Church in Transcarpathian Ukraine from splitting along ethnic lines . Whether these three recent actions represent a good-faith defense of church interests is not , however , the question . The question , rather , is how the interests of the universal church are to be understood , particularly with regard to an issue that concerns all Catholics : the nature of that very universality . 1 . A MONOLITHIC CONCEPTION . The Ukrainian Catholic issue brings into focus two opposing visions of the universality of the Catholic Church . The first is a monolithic conception , in which full-fledged , " particular " Eastern Catholic churches have no place . In this view , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nuisance and an embarrassment , particularly in Rome 's relations with their erstwhile co-religionists , the Orthodox . Furthermore , the Ukrainian church is seen as essentially nationalistic , tainted with an un-Christian ideology that some regard as heretical and in any case as inconsistent with Catholic universalism . Thus , it is considered an impediment to the spiritual health and ecumenical progress of Catholics , and , indeed , of all Christians . The corollaries of this position are as follows : First , it is argued that in order to eliminate nationality-based divisions abroad , the jurisdiction of the head of the Ukrainian Greek Catholic Church should be limited to the state borders of Ukraine . While anomalies such as diaspora Ukrainian churches ( for example , in Canada , the United States and Poland ) may persist for some time , in the long run their faithful will assimilate to the dominant nationality of the country in which they now live . To speed this natural process , which tends to draw Eastern-rite Catholics into the larger Latin-rite church , these faithful should be removed from the influence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the jurisdiction of the Latin-rite Catholic hierarchy of the country of their residence and subjected to direct Roman jurisdiction . The Ukrainian nature of the Greek Catholic Church may even work to alienate some believers ( as has happened in Transcarpathia , the Presov region in Slovakia , the Lemko region in Poland and among the Transcarpathian Rusyns in the United Srates ) . These faithful might then transfer to the Latin rite  --  thereby realizing the notion of a less tolerant age that the Uniate church should serve merely as a vehicle to draw the Orthodox into the Roman church . Second , under no circumstances is the Ukrainian church to operate in Orthodox territory , whether Ukrainian or otherwise , since its very origins as a church that broke away from the Orthodox are a scandal to those Orthodox churches . Only Latin-rite Catholic missionaries may work in those regions . Third , and for the same reason , the Ukrainian church must be kept out of the ecumenical process . Once implemented , this position would render the Ukrainian Greek Catholic Church in its homeland a provincial institution @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a diaspora and lacking a missionary or ecumenical purpose . Sooner or later , those believers who cherish Eastern traditions would join a " truly Eastern " Orthodox church , while those committed to Catholicism would join the " truly Catholic " Latin church-precisely what some Russian Orthodox hierarchs have long advocated . Facing the ideological competition of a modern Ukrainian secular state , the Greek Catholic Church would fade into obscurity . 2 . " UNITY IN DIVERSITY . " There is , however , an alternative scenario , which proceeds from a radically different vision of Catholic universality . That vision emphasizes the church 's " unity in diversity . " Following the Second Vatican Council and its " Decree on Eastern Catholic Churches , " this scenario recognizes the special role of the Ukrainian Greek Catholic and other Eastern Catholic churches in the rapprochement of Christian East and West . To realize this vision , both the Ukrainian church and the Holy See would have to take certain steps . First , the Ukrainian church would have to transcend " Uniatism , " a habit and mind-set @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a 16th-century anachronism , an outmoded model of church union . It is not enough for it to declare that it is a particular Eastern church sui juris , legally competent to manage its own affairs . It must behave like one . This means that its hierarchs must exercise their powers as leaders of a church with quasi-patriarchal status . Those powers of the major archbishop and his synod , set out in the Code of Canons of the Eastern Churches , which came into effect in October 1991 , remain a dead letter until they are exercised . At this point , to quote the Most Rev. Michael Hrynchyshyn , " it 's simply a matter of doing it . " ( See the interview with Bishop Hrychyshyn in the April 11 , 1993 , issue of The Ukranian Weekly . ) At the same time , the Ukrainian church would have to attain its proper status as a sister church among all the other Christian churches , including the Latin-rite church of Rome . It would have . That recognition , however , would require Rome to adopt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Overcoming Uniatism also means that the Ukrainian church must continue to renew its distinctive Kievan-Byzantine traditions , as mandated by Vatican II . This is particularly important for a church whose jurisdiction is based not on state borders or the nationality of its faithful , but on its liturgical rite . At the same time , the Ukrainian church must insist on its primary right to receive converts in Ukraine , Russia and Belarus , so that violence not be done to the cultural sensibilities and heritage of men and women with an Eastern Christian background who wish to become Catholic . In recognizing that converts in traditionally Orthodox lands should be encouraged to embrace the Byzantine rite , the Holy See would have to assign to Eastern-rite rather than to Latin-rite priests the lead in missionary work in those areas . Finally , in order to fulfill its special role in realizing the vision of Catholic " unity through diversity , " the Ukrainian Greek Catholic Church would have to transcend its ethnic identity . This may difficult to accept for a church that for most of the last century @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ national institution . To transcend , however , is not to renounce but to go beyond . Ukrainian metropolitanates and eparchies would of course remain Ukrainian . On the patriarchal level , however , this church would become primarily a church of the Kievan-Byzantine rite , uniting not only Ukrainian Greek Catholics but also Greek Catholic Belarusians , Croatians , Hungarians , Romanians , Russians , Slovaks and any others ( such as Americans or Canadians ) who might wish to follow that venerable tradition . Gathering together the diverse Catholic heirs to the Kievan-Byzantine legacy , the Greek Catholic Church would join the multi-ethnic Latin West and Orthodox East in the common enterprise of church union . Whether or not the events in Poland , Toronto and Transcarpathia reveal an underlying pattern , they do point to an inescapable question . Which vision of the church universal  --  monolithic or diverse  --  will better serve her faithful ? Will the Ukrainian Greek Catholic Church , once cast aside , prove the cornerstone or the stumbling-block for the architects of ecumenism ? Whatever the answer , all Catholics will bear the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is managing editor of Harvard Ukranian Studies , a semi-annual journal sponsored by Harvard University 's Ukranian Research Institute , Cambridge , Mass . <p>                     