@@339768

The Gorbachev phenomenon is the result of Soviet pride and Soviet shame . For more than a generation , the citizens of the U.S.S.R. have lived with that contradiction . They have had the satisfaction of knowing their country was a superpower  --  and the frustration of living in a backward economy . They made their homes in crowded , decrepit dwellings . Shopping for necessities was a daily despair . Citizenship itself was often an insult and sometimes an injury . Their government would not let them express their thoughts or travel abroad . For years they could explain it all away : the hardship was the aftermath of the Great Patriotic War against the Nazis ; the repression was a response to the ever present threat of capitalist imperialism . <P> But over time , fewer and fewer Russians fit the stereotype of illiterate peasants on whose bovine passivity Czar or commissar could rely . Soviets were increasingly well educated and well informed , in spite of the propaganda poured over them . And while they reached political maturity , their leadership sank into senility . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ try to form his words and when they learned that his hands were so shaky he had to eat with a spoon at a state dinner . They told scornful jokes : state radio , cynics said , dared not play any work by Tchaikovsky in a minor key for fear that everyone would think another General Secretary had died . <P> The people  --  whose name was so often taken in vain by their rulers  --  longed for a leader with verve and vision , someone who would represent their pride rather than their shame . There was , therefore , a national murmur of interest in 1979 , when the country got its first look at Mikhail Sergeyevich Gorbachev at a televised awards ceremony . Not only did this new Central Committee Secretary , then 48 , seem at ease among the ruling septuagenarians ; he was the only one able to say thank you for his medal without reading from a 3-by-5 card . <P> Since his selection as party chief in 1985 , Gorbachev has exceeded both the hopes of those who longed for reinvigoration and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for him , who worried that he would jeopardize the power and privileges of the elite . He has been a political dynamo , showering sparks inside and outside the country . His commitment to the still elusive goal of perestroika , his effort to make the economy produce what the people want to consume , and glasnost , an end to systematic official lying , have transformed the Soviet Union and made possible a transformation of international relations as well . What were long called , and accurately so , the satellites , or captive nations of Eastern Europe , are defecting en masse to the West . They are doing so because Gorbachev is letting them . In the U.S.S.R. the old order is not just passing ; it is already on what Leon Trotsky called the trash heap of history . No one , certainly including Gorbachev , knows what is coming next . But whatever it is , it will be something new .                     