@@347040

Woody Allen is not Soon-Yi 's biological father ; he is not married to her adoptive mother Mia Farrow ; and he did not live in their home . Moreover , Soon- Yi is a consenting adult . But if the Woody-Soon-Yi affair is not legally out of bounds , it is hardly innocent . At the very least , a man who sleeps with his ex-lover 's daughter appears predatory and manipulative . But the relationship shades into indecency with the claim by Soon-Yi 's siblings that Allen has been a father figure to the entire Farrow brood ever since Soon-Yi was a preteen . Is n't that bringing sex a little too close to home , close , enough to raise the issue of incest ? <P> Defining the ancient taboo becomes hard in an era of recombinant families created by divorce , remarriage and adoption . The traditional stricture  --  no carnal relations between parent and child or brother and sister  --  still holds , but how does it apply to today 's blended and extended families , where blood ties are often thin or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rationale : that inbreeding drains the gene pool , greatly increasing the chances of mental and physical defects in offspring . But modern geneticists have found that such dangers are overstated ; it would take generations of inbreeding for such problems to surface regularly . A more important reason for the taboo is cultural : incest has been banned to preserve family harmony by keeping disruptive rivalries and jealousies at bay . It has also helped to strengthen kinship clans ; by forcing members to marry outside the group , the clan expands its wealth and allies . <P> Today the most significant damage from incest is psychological . The heart of a family , say experts , is not the bloodline but the emotional connection . " Proper human growth involves gradually separating emotionally from your family so that you can go off and start one of your own , " stresses child therapist Carole West of Beverly Hills , California . " Incest disrupts that process . " <P> The surge in nontraditional families increases the risk of disruption . " There are more incidents of incest reported in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Institute Against Social Violence , in Briarcliff Manor , New York . Adopted children may be particularly vulnerable ; no matter how well they are treated by their adoptive families , they frequently struggle with feelings of abandonment by their biological parents . <P> " Anyone who comes into a marriage with a teenage child needs to exercise extra caution about incest , " warns psychiatrist Domeena Renshaw of Loyola School of Medicine , in Chicago . " That child is beginning to blossom , and will sometimes compete with the natural parent . " Freudian theory holds that the earliest erotic impulses are incestuous ; young boys unconsciously rival their father for their mother 's affection , while daughters covet their father , a normal process in development known , in boys and girls respectively , as the Oedipus and Electra complexes . One therapist wonders whether Soon-Yi may never have resolved such early longings and might now be replacing her mother as the father 's lover .                     