@@396015

The lines of humanity and urbanity never coincide .  --  Georg Christoph Lichtenberg On the last Sunday in May President Bill Clinton named David R. Gergen , a prominent Washington journalist and once-upon-a-time Republican media operative , as his principal adviser and chief publicist , and over the next several days the public argument about the wisdom of the appointment took a form that I do n't remember ever having seen before . Instead of dividing along political lines , the opposing voices of reason and conscience divided along geographical lines . Almost without exception , the people who favored the appointment , applauding it as an indication of enlightened and non-partisan judgment , lived in Washington . Again by nearly unanimous consent , the people who detested the appointment , decrying it as an act of betrayal or a proof of bad faith , lived anywhere and everywhere else in the country . The division of opinion was cast in high relief on the editorial pages of the New York Times and the Washington Post , two newspapers that ordinarily find themselves in bland agreement on most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Post welcomed Gergen 's appointment as " a good idea , " and they took considerable pains to present his character as that of the wise counselor and patient friend . President Clinton clearly did n't know how to manage his image , and here at last was " a man who might be able to help head off some of the disasters just waiting to occur and help organize the White House for getting the right things done without a lot of posturing and lip . " The Times thought the appointment " not healthy , " " nonpartisanship run amok , " and its editors presented Gergen as an artful sophist who had served the Reagan Administration ( as director of communications at the White House ) by promoting policies " that coarsened the quality of social compassion , spread suffering among the most undefended citizens ... " Stories published elsewhere in the paper reminded readers that it was Gergen who interpreted the Reagan presidency as a stage set , who polished the lenses of the " warm and fuzzy " photo opportunity , who presented the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) as the work of benign genius , who briefed the cadre of White House press agents ( a.k.a. " the spin patrols " ) on the ways and means of misleading the national news media with the day 's whisper of disinformation , and who , most abominably , defended Reagan 's habit of telling anecdotes about poor people using food stamps to buy vodka ( or welfare money to pay for vacations in Paris ) by explaining that the public did n't care about the literal truth of a statement " so long as the symbolic truth is defensible . " As in the public sectors of opinion , the private views of Gergen 's appointment had more to do with the observer 's occupation and address than with his or her theories of the common good . Throughout the first week in June I listened to various friends and informants in Washington speak of Gergen with palpable gratitude and relief . President Clinton had become the butt of too many jokes  --  about the women he kept failing to appoint to the Justice Department ; about the sublime @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of hide-and-seek with his third cousin , the FBI , and the White House travel bureau  --  and somebody had to teach him the rules of Washington ceremony and etiquette before he brought down on his august office the slops of scorn and ridicule . The American people were urgently in need of bold initiatives and exemplary government , and official Washington could ill afford to discredit the Democratic Party . The weakness of George Bush had ruined the reputation of the Republican Party , and if President Clinton wreaked havoc among the Democrats , then who or what would be left to the country except a procession of demagogues on the and Los Angeles  --  did n't care about the niceties of political maneuver . They cared about the connections between word and deed , and they still assumed some sort of agreement , if only tenuous or speculative , between what a politician said and what a politician did . The Republicans in their midst condemned Gergen as a blasphemer , a man whose record of comfortable success as Reagan 's propagandist should have insured his loyalty to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The disaffected Democrats thought that Gergen 's appointment was tantamount to President Clinton 's disavowal of the principles upon which he had campaigned for office . Not only had Clinton promised to revise or delete the economic program that Gergen had so diligently promoted , but the budget that he submitted to Congress in February took as its premise ( high taxes ; low deficits ) the precisely opposite theorem of the public welfare . If the President could hire as his chief publicist a man whose name and reputation were synonymous with a vigorous defense of the status quo , then who could take him seriously as an apostle of social change ? If the romantic dream of the man from Hope , Arkansas , could expire so quickly in the stale air of Washington intrigue , then how was it possible to believe that Clinton spoke on behalf of the future instead of the past ? While I listened to the many voices of remonstrance , it occurred to me that much of the rancor in the country 's politics follows from a failure to properly understand the language @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ words , but words perceived as ends in themselves ( like marble fountains or Roman sculpture ) , not as the means of expression or thought . The art of government is the maintaining of the facade of government . The sovereign rule of appearances sets the terms of the conversation , and the uses of language bear resemblance to the uses of interior decoration . The resident grandees acquire their opinions for reasons of fashion or state , as if they were jewels or fans , and nobody cares what the words mean as long as they convey a gratifying impression of grave importance . Different opinions come into vogue with different administrations , and the deft careerist learns to clothe his ambition in both a Republican and a Democratic style . What does it matter how anybody wants to dress up the season 's newest economic theory as long as the tax revenue continues to arrive in amounts adequate to the monumental tasks of social engineering ? The obsession with images is as evident in New York and Los Angeles as it is in Washington , but the difference @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and expression and people interested in power . It is the business of New York or Los Angeles to manufacture images ( whimsically transforming unknown southern governors into presidential candidates ) , but it is the business of Washington to trade in those images as the currency of political truism . Once having made the image , New York grows bored with it . In Washington the image becomes useful only after it has acquired the stability of the received wisdom , hammered into the brass of a campaign slogan or worked into the lacquer of a cliche , a word , or a phrase suitable for an appearance on Nightline . At Versailles during the reign of Louis XIV the courtiers were required to play cards and scratch on doors with the little fingers of their left hands . Their knowledge in these matters proved their intimate acquaintance with the unutterable mysteries of the universe . At Washington in the late twentieth century the resident courtiers accomplish a similar purpose by writing op-ed pieces for the Washington Post and by knowing what to say to David Brinkley about Hillary Rodham @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Haitian refugees drifting out to sea in open boats . The trick is to sustain the illusions of progress and change while preserving the freeze-frame of the status quo . One embraces the platitudes of the moment , speaks of " processes , " " structures , " " empowerment , " imposes on any and all political passions the calming principle of " management by objective , " postpones decision by referring the questions at hand to another committee , another authorization , another hearing , another signature , another press conference . What is wanted is not a policy but the perception of a policy  --  a word or an image sufficient to sustain the fiction of virtuous authority , of a government that knows what it is about , of people who are in command of events , or who at least have some sort of idea in their dignified and well-dressed heads . The successful Washington politician , like the accomplished Washington journalist , never makes the mistake of confusing the appearance of a thing with the substance of a thing . Appearances are light , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ easily as a potted palm , and on different days of the week , or in different committees of the Congress , it can be transformed into something that it is not . Substance resembles alimony and steamer trunks . If neither the White House nor the Congress takes much interest in correcting the country 's more difficult or intractable social disorders , it is because solutions belong to the realm of substance . They imply pain , and pain is unacceptable because pain translates into resentment , and resentment loses votes . In place of solutions the courtiers at Washington stage the shows of appearance , and before what they hope will remain a forgiving public they perform the ritual masques and dances of democracy under the headlines of WAR IN THE GULF , NEW WORLD ORDER , THE DEFICIT . Both in his writings and by the trajectory of his career , Gergen perfectly embodies the polished figure of the Washington courtier  --  a man who seldom stays too late or says too much , who regards himself as " a facilitator , " and who never confuses a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ passionate belief . In the first bloom of his ambition he wrote speeches for President Nixon , and during the unpleasantness of the Watergate investigation he proved himself adept at arranging the adjectives meant to preserve his chief from any harmful contact with the truth . Subsequent to his employment in the Reagan Administration he became a columnist for U.S. News &; World Report and a resident sage on the MacNeil/Lehrer NewsHour . Once established as a man who could be counted on in any and all circumstances for the irreproachable platitude , he found it possible not only to work both as a fellow for the American Enterprise Institute ( owned and operated by conservatives ) and for the John F. Kennedy School of Government ( owned and operated by liberals ) but also to maintain , through the long , dark night of the Bush Administration , a close acquaintance with Bill Clinton , then the Democratic governor of Arkansas . To the White House press corps gathered in the Rose Garden on the morning of May 29 , the appearance of Gergen was like that of a god @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as a veritable Polonius , a court chamberlain of the most exalted rank who had arrived not a moment too soon . After four months in Washington , the President still did n't know which promises to keep or what smile to wear . Another four months of the same confusion and the public would begin to ignore the White House , and if , God forbid , the public ignored the White House , then what would become of the White House press corps 's sense of its own importance ? The large and amiable presence of Gergen ratified the abdication of Clinton . Nobody had to put the proposition in quite so many words , but everybody knew that , for the time being at least , the assembled company was safe from ridicule and secure in its rightful place at the still center of the turning world . Who better than Gergen to teach the wayward President how to sustain the necessary fiction of a virtuous and well-ordered commonwealth ? Gergen was one of the media 's own , a man who knew that it was the sacred @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the state from the howling of the mob and preserve them ( for as long as was decently possible ) as images of wisdom and power . The general sense of deliverance was so obvious that it could be seen that evening on the television news broadcasts . Before introducing Gergen , President Clinton made a polite little speech in which he said that he had been " very concerned that the cumulative effect of some of the things which are very much in the news has given to the administration a tinge that is too partisan and not connected to the mainstream , pro-change , future-oriented politics and policies that I ran for President to implement . " He might as well have been talking to the Washington Monument . Nobody paid the slightest attention , and when the President gave over the rostrum to Gergen , stepping diffidently behind his new tutor to lead the applause , it was clear to all present on the lawn that although he would continue to occupy the White House ( and be allowed to keep the household staff and the Marine color @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ captive and ventriloquist for the system he had said he meant to change . <p>                     