@@343254

His physical presence never fails to impress . At 6 ft. 4 in. , Boris Yeltsin looms over listeners and lecterns , taming audiences of 1 to 100,000 . His ramrod-stiff stance , his thick silver hair , his deep , slow voice all suggest a coil of powerful but slow-burning energy . Yet when Yeltsin starts to speak , the effect is not intimidating but mesmerizing , even entertaining . He has the touch of a born orator , able to sense the mood and needs of a crowd and play it for all it 's worth . " When I first came into the room , " he told a dinner audience high in a Dallas skyscraper during his U.S. visit in 1989 , " I thought I was attending the Miss America contest . " Delighted giggles from the women ; knowing chuckles from their escorts . The audience was captivated , and Yeltsin 's great putty face began its expressive dance through another speech . <P> Yeltsin 's rapport with audiences is as instinctive with socialites in Chicago as it is with construction workers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ breakthrough in an unwritten , decades-old rule of Soviet politics that inhibits leaders from relating emotionally with their audiences . If a speaker connects , after all , the implication is that the views of the audience count , that persuasion is involved , that the audience , heaven forbid , actually has something to communicate back to the stage . Yeltsin has tapped the desperate yearning of Russians to be taken seriously by their leaders , to be spoken to rather than lectured at . He is thus not simply the most popular contemporary Russian political figure by far , but also the first genuinely popular Russian political figure since the Bolshevik Revolution . <P> Though Yeltsin fits the label of populist , he possesses a depth of character and an integrity that make him much more than a Huey Long in a Siberian fur hat . Like many populists , Yeltsin has made his share of rash promises  --  to provide all Muscovites with an apartment by the year 2000 , say , or to achieve a measurable improvement in living standards in two years . But unlike most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them . He has perceptibly matured from the brash , almost bullying Moscow party boss of 1987 , who boasted that he fired 40% of the party hacks who ran the city . Says Mikhail Poltaranin , a Yeltsin adviser who edited the pro-Yeltsin Moskovskaya Pravda in 1987 : " When he was being attacked , he had to defend himself , and it was very unnerving . He made mistakes . Nowadays he 's more balanced , calmer , more sure of himself . " <P> How serious is Yeltsin 's conversion to liberal democracy ? The hard-to-please Muscovite intelligentsia were deeply skeptical of Yeltsin at first . After all , as Moscow party boss he actually received a boisterous delegation from Pamyat , the openly anti-Semitic Russian ultranationalist organization . But suspicion turned to respect after Yeltsin won election to the Congress of People 's Deputies in 1989 by winning 5 million out of the 5.5 million votes cast in Moscow .                     