@@356511

Exiles and Emigres , " the exhibition running through May 11 at the Los Angeles County Museum of Art , is a fine example of a genre that often and easily goes wrong : the politically didactic art show . Its curator , Stephanie Barron , in 1991 created a survey named " Degenerate Art . " Her subject then was the censorship , repression and persecution of modern artists in Hitler 's Germany , culminating in the infamous " Entartete Kunst " ( " Degenerate Art " ) show of 1937 , in which hundreds of works by artists from Oskar Kokoschka to Henri Matisse were pilloried with insulting wall labels . " Exiles and Emigres " is the sequel to Barron 's earlier exhibition . With her associate , the German scholar Sabine Eckmann , Barron sets out to describe the exodus of European modernist artists ( and architects , musicians , scholars , photographers and writers ) from Germany and France to refuge in England and America . <P> They were , of course , the lucky ones . Between 1933 and 1944 , America @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a moral blot . Less than half the already stingy immigrant quotas were filled because of the timidity of Franklin Roosevelt and the pigheaded xenophobia of his Under Secretary of State Breckinridge Long . Those in the arts had no special exemptions , of course ; but by a combination of stubbornness , string pulling , blind luck and the help of a tiny number of devotees and friends in the U.S. , some did get through , settling for the most part in Manhattan and Los Angeles . Among them , from Paris , were Fernand Leger , Marc Chagall , Piet Mondrian , Jacques Lipchitz and the core group of Surrealists who went to New York City : Max Ernst , Andre Breton , Yves Tanguy , Andre Masson and Roberto Matta . From Germany , Kokoschka , Kurt Schwitters and the Dada collagist John Heartfield reached London , while Max Beckmann , Josef Albers and George Grosz made it to America . <P> Hitler , one might say , had presented the Allies with an immense cultural gift , not that everyone appreciated it . And it was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the leading experimental visual-arts school in Germany , was suppressed , some of its leading lights  --  Ludwig Mies van der Rohe , Marcel Breuer , Walter Gropius , Laszlo Moholy-Nagy  --  moved to America , where their example and teaching changed its architecture , making New York City and Chicago the epicenters of the postwar International Style . And the academic study of art history in America , which had been fairly larval before the 1930s , was transformed by German-Jewish and Austrian-Jewish refugees like Erwin Panofsky and Richard Krautheimer  --  despite the endemic anti-Semitism of many American universities .                     