@@358008

South Koreans did n't just get mad , they got even . Humiliated by a power structure that had brought their economy to its knees , voters threw the rascals out last week and chose a legendary dissident as their new President , the first opposition candidate they have ever elected . And so , after a long crusade for greater democracy and human rights , Kim Dae Jung finally takes charge of a government that jailed him , exiled him and attempted to assassinate him . It is an epochal choice for Korea , ushering in a promise of political transformation after a half-century of authoritarian orthodoxy and one-party rule . Already Kim has proposed a summit meeting with North Korea as a first move toward reconciliation on the divided Korean peninsula . <P> Kim 's success is all the more remarkable against the background of South Korea 's acute financial turmoil . While his popularity benefited from the economic malfeasance of the long-ruling Grand National Party  --  hastily renamed to distance itself from past mistakes  --  he is an unlikely leader for this difficult time . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are looking for , and he unnerved them during the campaign when he promised he would renegotiate the unpopular terms that were imposed by the International Monetary Fund in return for $57 billion to bail out the economy . Even as Kim slipped into office with 40.3% of the vote , moneymen around the world were wondering whether he had the strength and willingness to launch the far-reaching reforms needed to rebuild the economy . <P> Perhaps it took just such a dramatic moment to elevate a man who is loved and hated in equal measure . " People realized that this was the best chance to change the government , " said Park Hong Keun , 28 , a former student activist who was in hiding during the last election , held in 1992 . Any reservations the voters had about Kim were overwhelmed by their hostility to the incumbent Administration for its role in the current crisis , and Establishment candidate Lee Hoi Chang could not free himself from the taint . More important , though , onetime firebrand Kim , 73 , had by circumstance and strategy finally @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fourth presidential campaign , he boasted that he had been preparing for the job " for 40 years . " His pledge to renegotiate the IMF bailout appealed to his core constituency of workers and the poor . Kim managed to defuse fears that he was too old for the job when he joked that even " young President Clinton " wore a hearing aid , as Kim does . <P> The balloting marked another departure : election of a man from the much scorned southwest . " This is a real turning point for Korean political history , moving toward mature democracy by overcoming regional prejudice , " said Hahm Chai Bong , a political-science professor at Yonsei University . Analysts credit campaign reforms with easing Koreans ' strong provincial allegiances : limits imposed on campaign spending  --  and the introduction of TV debates and advertising  --  finally leveled the playing field enough for a true opposition candidate to compete with the Establishment machine .                     