@@409071

Europe in the 1990s is like ship entering uncharted waters . There is much excitement , but very little knowledge about what lies ahead . Talk of a " new world order " coexists with civil and ethnic-based conflicts . Leaders look toward a homogeneous society , yet their own peoples clamor for ethnic and regional recognition . Experts in the United States and Japan worry about the economic power of a European super state . What will the new Europe be like ? There are few examples from the past to look at , and very few old rules apply in this new game . And yet despite everything , the Community is forging ahead . CURRENCY , CRITICISM , AND REVOLT During 1992 , Europeans received two strong and noteworthy lessons . The first is a very simple one , exhibiting the strength of the concept of European unity . Despite strong forces that threatened to pull the Community apart  --  such as the Danish and French referendums , turbulence in the currency markets , German criticism of the Maastricht Treaty , and revolt against the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Edinburgh European Council last December decided not only to stick together , but to increase the pace of the planned integration . Thus , the forces holding the Community together proved to be stronger than the potential and existing forces attacking unity . The second lesson is slightly more complicated . Ideas such as transparency and decentralization signaled that the Europeans do in fact find the Community decision-making procedure increasingly out of step with reality . Voters have taken the view that the time has come to rethink all or at least part of the decision-making process . They point to a missing link between voters and the politicians . Taken together , these two lessons mark a somewhat different course for European union from what seemed likely when the Treaty of Maastricht was signed in February 1992 . Barring unpredictable events , the institutional process toward a European union will be continuous rather than discontinuous . It is not likely that we will see a grand and pompous gathering paving the way for a treaty that once and for all solves all institutional questions . We are much more likely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will shape some form of common attitude . One thing we should keep in mind is that Europe will not develop into some kind of United States of Europe . Some Europeans do favor that goal , but others do not , and all indications  --  not the least of which is the history of Europe  --  are that it is not to be realized . This sort of union would do away with too many of the fundamental differences between European nations and peoples , and it is simply not in the spirit of Europe . The days when supporters of a " federation " fought the supporters of a " confederation " belong to the past . This quasi-theological question may still raise the temper of a good many people , but it is not dominating the political agenda of Europe . There is no reason to fight over words such as these when it is becoming increasingly clear that the political construction of Europe will not follow any of the well-known or well-defined models of the past . Europe is not going to appear as a new kind @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The people do not want that . The days when Europeans sallied out to conquer and dominate are over . Europeans may be ready to defend what is legally theirs and what they see as in their legitimate ( usually microgeographical ) interest , but no more than that . Nor do they want to emulate the Americans in projecting power over a considerable part of the globe . SPIRIT , NOT FORCE We should look for a new model of unity adapted to European needs and based upon European conditions . The lesson of history shows unequivocally that European integration has grown deep and fast when based upon economics , technology , trade , and culture . Every time military force has been brought in , the venture has failed . Napoleon and Hitler are just two examples of that particular phenomenon . Integration by military force simply does not work : It produces a reaction of forces that break up the integration . Economics , technology , trade , and culture , on the other hand , do produce a strong glue for European integration . They pull different @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one that is held together by spirit instead of force , by the will to stay together , and by a realization of shared interest and common background . The strongest integration in Europe appeared during the medieval period , when the church dominated the thinking of people . On the basis of a common way of thinking ( culture ) , economics , technology , and trade followed to produce a strong integration , lacking only the political institutions to create what could be termed a loose confederation or federation . During the medieval period , there was free circulation of goods , free passage for persons wanting to travel from one part of Europe to another , and a network among the intellectual elite , wiping away the barrier of qualification based on kingdom or principality . The members of this new intellectual elite shared access to the universities of Europe regardless of geography and political borders , and they communicated easily , either in writing or by personal appearance . Craftsmen moved from one corner of Europe to the other . People of all kinds took up positions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ This is precisely the kind of Europe emerging from behind the smoke screen of almost-incomprehensible texts in today 's treaties . It is a loose establishment governed by realities rather than by a supreme political body . Culture , economics , technology , and trade are very much in the driver 's seat . The integration of everyday life governs the integration of political institutions , which follow obediently behind it . We already have a hint of the economic and industrial structure of such a Europe . It will be built around a strong and viable center , supported by some regional centers . Traditional industries will not weigh heavily . Instead , Europe may well be characterized by the science and , perhaps , the art of human-resource development so vital to the two main pillars of tomorrow 's economic and industrial life : information technology and biotechnology . FUTURE HOT SPOTS The pivot for Europe 's economic and technological development is to be found in the broad band around the Rhine from Amsterdam in the north . This hub will encompass large chunks of Nordrhein-Westfalen , Rheinland-Pfalz , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( including Burgundy , the Rhone Valley , Cote d'Azur , and Languedoc ) and Catalonia . Only some of these areas exist on the European political and economic maps of today , but they do nonetheless represent genuine regions ready to fulfill a new role , and one not so far from the role they played several hundred years ago . This center will rival the strong centers in the United States ( the northeastern megalopolis and the Los Angeles-San Diego-San Francisco triad ) and in Japan ( Tokyo and Osaka ) . New centers are also building up around Shanghai and Guangzhou-Hong Kong . Europe will only be a serious contender in the international game if there is at least one such strong center , and there are some strong candidates . The southeastern part of England , around London , has a strong claim for the role of a supporting regional center . Financial services and intellectual production will pull this center ahead . It will never rise to challenge the real center , but its role as a regional center is firmly established for the foreseeable future @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ role of a regional center , making effective use of cheap labor , excellent geographic position , and tourism . It will also play host to a multibillion-dollar business of the future : retirement villages for people seeking to leave parts of Europe with less-enviable weather and physical environs . A third regional center is becoming visible on the other side of the hill , if you care to look . It is the triangle of Vienna-Budapest-Prague , a neo-revival of the Habsburg Empire or the old Austria-Hungary . It would be supported by Vienna as the financial and administrative center , Budapest as the economic center ( for a strong , agriculturally dominated Hungarian economy ) , and Prague in the middle of industrial Bohemia . Following the changes in Hungary and the former Czechoslovakia , all the ingredients are in place . A fourth center is being melded together in the northeastern part of Europe , which includes Denmark , the northeastern part of Germany , northern Poland , the Baltic States , and the southern part of Sweden . Some might call it a revival of the Hanseatic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Most notably , this center will not be trade based , but rather based upon agriculture , food processing , light industry , energy , environmental protection , transportation , and telecommunications . More than likely , that center will be Copenhagen , the only city in that part of Europe with a claim to both Nordic and European capital-city status . Copenhagen is also the only city carrying weight in discussion of facilities such as transportation , communications , culture , leisure , and environment . With the unification of Germany , the political and economic liberalization process ongoing in Poland and the Baltic States , and Sweden 's determination to enter the Community , Copenhagen will be transformed from its current European medium-sized , picturesque , capital-city status to one of the most-promising geographical positions in the European economic theater . European business seems to be adapting well to these new circumstances  --  at least as well as their American and Japanese competitors . European business seems to be thriving , or at least starting to thrive , in an era of competition where the hitherto relatively simple @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ parameters , such as technology , total product , design , quality , service , and environment . To determine the appropriate mix of these parameters in a given market at a given time is quite simply what strategy is all about . It can only be done by having access to both financial and human resources . Thus , the whole secret is simple enough , but quite difficult to carry out . The Europeans will be in an advantageous position as this new era puts emphasis on design , service , and technology , while disengaging itself from physical production . Success is no longer a question of producing something efficiently at low cost , but of finding out what to produce on the basis of long-term consumer preferences . A different skill is required , compared not only with the industrial society ( based upon industrial culture and technology ) , but also with the post industrial society , which is based upon information technology and biotechnology and is still wrapped into the structure of the industrial society . TOWARD THE AGE OF IDEAS We are now truly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be termed " The Nonmaterial Society . " One of the implications is the struggle for supremacy with regard to values , norms , and attitudes  --  in short , culture . Another implication is the complete change of business life . The industrial enterprise is already dead . The diversified producer of ideas is in . To succeed , you need an input of many different , often contradictory , ideas that can be amalgamated into a single concept . To do this , you need access to many different cultures and subcultures-competition with regard to ideas . We have not yet fully grasped the substance of The Nonmaterial Society " because all of the trees cover the woods from our eyes . We no longer have shipping companies but transport companies . Society does not offer hospital beds but health care . Care for elderly people is not a question of old age but of integrated systems developed for and offered on the market . Corporate monoliths are breaking up , and decentralization inside the firm is coming into vogue . Networks of one sort or another among firms @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ must be preserved and safeguarded when several firms enter into cooperation or outright merger . Sometimes firms may even benefit by encouraging subcultures to compete , just as external competition is necessary to keep a firm in top form . Europe 's cultural mosaic puts it in a much better starting position in this race than either Japan or the United States . The challenge for the European Community is to resist the temptation to centralize power . The Soviet empire fell apart precisely because of its emphasis on centralization . Such an error of judgment should not be repeated by Europe . Fortunately , the Europeans seem to have learned the lesson . Contrary to many people 's beliefs , the Community is not moving toward centralization , but toward decentralization . There is no doubt that the economic and monetary union will be decentralized in the same way as the Federal Reserve System and the German Bundesbank . The European model is not so distant from the statecraft that kept the Habsburg Empire going for centuries under extremely difficult conditions . The Habsburgs succeeded in welding together a state @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Every time they tried to centralize more , one or more nationalities threatened to break away . Every time the reins became too loose , the state threatened to cease existence . ( Another apt , but modern , example would be Switzerland , with its multiple languages and cultures . ) Such tightrope walking is called for once again . The European construction can only succeed if a strong protection of minorities , their languages , and their religions is embodied in forthcoming treaties . ABOUT THE AUTHOR J. Orstrom Moller is the State Secretary for the Royal Danish Ministry of Foreign Affairs . This article is excerpted from his upcoming book , The Future European Model . He can be contacted c/o John Rockfellow , Head of International Affairs , The Copenhagen Institute for Futures Studies , Pilestraede 59 , DK-1112 Copenhagen K , Denmark . <p>                     