@@396001

Toward the end of a talk I gave recently at a large Midwestern university I noticed a distinct tension in the audience . All respectful audiences are quiet , but I 've come to understand that when there is disagreement with what 's being said at the podium the silence can become pure enough to constitute a statement . Fidgeting and whispering cease , pencils stay still in notetakers ' hands  --  you sense the quiet filling your pauses as a sign of disquiet , even resistance . A speaker can feel ganged-up on by such a silence . I had gotten myself into this spot by challenging the orthodoxy of diversity that is now so common on university campuses  --  not the notion of diversity , which I wholly subscribe to , but the rigid means by which it is pursued . I had told the students and faculty members on hand that in the late 1960s , without much public debate but with many good intentions , America had embarked upon one of the most dramatic social experiments in its history . The federal government , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ concept of entitlement in America . Rights to justice and to government benefits were henceforth to be extended not simply to individuals but to racial , ethnic , and other groups . Moreover , the essential basis of all entitlement in America  --  the guarantees of the Constitution  --  had apparently been found wanting ; there was to be redress and reparation of past grievances , and the Constitution had nothing to say about that . I went on to explain that Martin Luther King and the early civil rights leaders had demanded only constitutional rights ; they had been found wanting , too . By the late Sixties , among a new set of black leaders , there had developed a presumption of collective entitlement ( based on the redress of past grievances ) that made blacks eligible for rights beyond those provided for in the Constitution , and thus beyond those afforded the nation 's non-black citizens . Thanks to the civil rights movement , a young black citizen as well as a young white citizen could not be turned away from a college because of the color of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ young black citizen , poor or wealthy , now qualified for certain grants and scholarships  --  might even be accepted for admission  --  simply because of the color of his or her skin . I made the point that this new and rather unexamined principle of collective entitlement had led America to pursue a democracy of groups as well as of individuals  --  that collective entitlement enfranchised groups just as the Constitution enfranchised individuals . It was when I introduced a concept I call the New Sovereignty that my audience 's silence became most audible . In America today , I said , sovereignty  --  that is , power to act autonomously  --  is bestowed upon any group that is able to construct itself around a perceived grievance . With the concept of collective entitlement now accepted not only at the federal level but casually at all levels of society , any aggrieved group  --  and , for that matter , any assemblage of citizens that might or might not have previously been thought of as such a group  --  could make its case , attract attention and funding , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attention and funding . Soon this organized group of aggrieved citizens would achieve sovereignty , functioning within our long-sovereign nation and negotiating with that nation for a separate , exclusive set of entitlements . And here I pointed to America 's university campuses , where , in the name of their grievances , blacks , women , Hispanics , Asians , Native Americans , gays , and lesbians had hardened into sovereign constituencies that vied for the entitlements of sovereignty  --  separate " studies " departments for each group , " ethnic " theme dorms , preferential admissions and financial-aid policies , a proportionate number of faculty of their own group , separate student lounges and campus centers , and so on . This push for equality among groups , I said , necessarily made for an inequality among individuals that prepared the ground for precisely the racial , gender , and ethnic divisiveness that , back in the Sixties , we all said we wanted to move beyond . At the reception that followed the talk I was approached by a tall , elegant woman who introduced herself as the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be polite were at war in her face so that her courteous smile at times became a leer . She wanted to " inform " me that she was proud of the fact that women 's studies was a separate department unto itself at her university . I asked her what could be studied in this department that could not be studied in other departments . Take the case of , say , Virginia Woolf : in what way would a female academic teaching in a women's-studies department have a different approach to Woolf 's writing than a woman professor in the English department ? Above her determined smile her eyes became fierce . " You must know as a black that they wo n't accept us "  --  meaning women , blacks , presumably others  --  " in the English department . It 's an oppressive environment for women scholars . We 're not taken seriously there . " I asked her if that was n't all the more reason to be there , to fight the good fight , and to work to have the contributions of women @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I was naive . I said her strategy left the oppressiveness she talked about unchallenged . She said it was a waste of valuable energy to spend time fighting " old white males . " I said that if women were oppressed , there was nothing to do but fight . We each held tiny paper plates with celery sticks and little bricks of cheese , and I 'm sure much body language was subdued by the tea-party postures these plates imposed on us . But her last word was not actually a word . It was a look . She parodied an epiphany of disappointment in herself , as if she 'd caught herself in a bizarre foolishness . Of course , this guy is the enemy . He is the very oppressiveness I 'm talking about . How could I have missed it ? And so , suddenly comfortable in the understanding that I was hopeless , she let her smile become gracious . Grace was something she could afford now . An excuse was made , a hand extended , and then she was gone . Holding my @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Today there are more than five hundred separate women's-studies departments or programs in American colleges and universities . There are nearly four hundred independent black-studies departments or programs , and hundreds of Hispanic , Asian , and Native American programs . Given this degree of entrenchment , it is no wonder this woman found our little debate a waste of her time . She would have had urgent administrative tasks awaiting her attention  --  grant proposals to write , budget requests to work up , personnel matters to attend to . And suppose I had won the debate ? Would she have rushed back to her office and begun to dismantle the women's-studies department by doling out its courses and faculty to long-standing departments like English and history ? Would she have given her secretary notice and relinquished her office equipment ? I do n't think so . I do think I know how it all came to this  --  how what began as an attempt to address the very real grievances of women wound up creating newly sovereign fiefdoms like this women's-studies department . First there was collective entitlement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sovereignty for the grievance group , since sovereignty is only the formalization of collective entitlement . Then , since sovereignty requires autonomy , there had to be a demand for separate and independent stature within the university ( or some other institution of society ) . There would have to be a separate territory , with the trappings that certify sovereignty and are concrete recognition of the grievance identity  --  a building or suite of offices , a budget , faculty , staff , office supplies , letterhead , et cetera . And so the justification for separate women's-and ethnic-studies programs has virtually nothing to do with strictly academic matters and everything to do with the kind of group-identity politics in which the principle of collective entitlement has resulted . My feeling is that there can be no full redress of the woeful neglect of women 's intellectual contributions until those contributions are entirely integrated into the very departments that neglected them in the first place . The same is true for America 's minorities . Only inclusion answers history 's exclusion . But now the sovereignty of grievance-group identities has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ squelched my talk with the women's-studies chairperson . She came to see me as an enemy not because I denied that women writers had been neglected historically ; I was the enemy because my questions challenged the territorial sovereignty of her department and of the larger grievance identity of women . It was not a matter of fairness  --  of justice  --  but of power . She would not put it that way , of course . For in order to rule over her sovereign fiefdom it remains important that she seem to represent the powerless , the aggrieved . It remains important , too , that my objection to the New Sovereignty can be interpreted by her as sexist . When I failed to concede sovereignty , I became an enemy of women . In our age of the New Sovereignty the original grievances  --  those having to do with fundamental questions such as basic rights  --  have in large measure been addressed , if not entirely redressed . But that is of little matter now . The sovereign fiefdoms are ends in themselves  --  providing career tracks and bases @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mostly to defend and extend the fiefdom , often by exaggerating and exploiting secondary , amorphous , or largely symbolic complaints . In this way , America has increasingly become an uneasy federation of newly sovereign nations . In The True Believer , Eric Hoffer wrote presciently of this phenomenon I have come to call the New Sovereignty : When a mass movement begins to attract people who are interested in their individual careers , it is a sign that it has passed its vigorous stage ; that it is no longer engaged in molding a new world but in possessing and preserving the present . It ceases then to be a movement and becomes an enterprise . If it is true that great mass movements begin as spontaneous eruptions of long-smoldering discontent , it is also true that after significant reform is achieved they do not like to pass away or even modify their grievance posture . The redressing of the movement 's grievances wins legitimacy for the movement . Reform , in this way , also means recognition for those who struggled for it . The movement 's leaders @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ meet with elected officials , write books  --  they come to embody the movement . Over time , they and they alone speak for the aggrieved ; and , of course , they continue to speak of the aggrieved , adding fresh grievances to the original complaint . It is their vocation now , and their means to status and power . The idealistic reformers thus become professional spokespersons for the seemingly permanently aggrieved . In the civil rights movement , suits and briefcases replaced the sharecropper 's denim of the early years , and $500-a-plate fund-raisers for the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People replaced volunteers and picket signs . The raucous bra burning of late-Sixties feminism gave way to women's-studies departments and direct-mail campaigns by the National Organization of Women . This sort of evolution , however natural it may appear , is not without problems for the new grievance-group executive class . The winning of reform will have dissipated much of the explosive urgency that started the movement ; yet the new institutionalized movement can not justify its existence without this urgency . The problem becomes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been won . To keep alive the urgency needed to justify itself , the grievance organization will do three things . First , it will work to inspire a perpetual sense of grievance in its constituency so that grievance becomes the very centerpiece of the group itself . To be black , or a woman , or gay , is , in the eyes of the NAACP , NOW , or Act Up , to be essentially threatened , victimized , apart from the rest of America . Second , these organizations will up the ante on what constitutes a grievance by making support of sovereignty itself the new test of grievance . If the women's-studies program has not been made autonomous , this constitutes a grievance . If the National Council of La Raza has n't been consulted , Hispanics have been ignored . The third strategy of grievance organizations is to arrange their priorities in a way that will maximize their grievance profile . Often their agendas will be established more for their grievance potential than for the actual betterment of the group . Those points at which there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ entitlement demands will usually be made into top-priority issues , thereby emphasizing the status of victim and outsider necessary to sustain the sovereign organization . Thus , at its 1989 convention , the NAACP put affirmative action at the very top of its agenda . Never mind the fact that studies conducted by both proponents and opponents of affirmative action indicate the practice has very little real impact on the employment and advancement of blacks . Never mind , too , that surveys show most black Americans do not consider racial preferences their priority . In its wisdom the NAACP thought ( and continues to think ) that the national mood against affirmative-action programs is a bigger problem for black men and women than teen pregnancy , or the disintegrating black family , or black-on-black crime . Why ? Because the very resistance affirmative action meets from the larger society makes it an issue of high grievance potential . Affirmative action can generate the urgency that justifies black sovereignty far more than issues like teen pregnancy or high dropout rates , which carry no load of collective entitlement and which the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's movement , too , the top-priority issues have been those with the highest grievance potential . I think so much effort and resources went into the now-failed Equal Rights Amendment because , in large part , it carried a tremendous load of collective entitlement ( a constitutional amendment for a specific group rather than for all citizens ) and because it faced great resistance from the larger society . It was a win-win venture for the women 's movement . If it succeeded there would be a great bounty of collective entitlement ; if it failed , as it did , the failure could be embraced as a grievance  --  an indication of America 's continuing unwillingness to assure equality for women . America does not want to allow us in !  --  that is how the defeat of the ERA could be interpreted by NOW executives and by female English professors eager to run their own departments ; the defeat of the ERA was a boon for the New Sovereignty . I also believe this quest for sovereignty at least partially explains the leap of abortion rights to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the ERA 's failure . Abortion has always been an extremely divisive , complex , and emotionally charged issue . And for this reason it is also an issue of enormous grievance potential for the women 's movement  --  assuming it can be framed solely in terms of female grievance . My own belief is that abortion is a valid and important issue for the women 's movement to take up , and I completely support the pro-choice position the movement advocates . However , I think women 's organizations like NOW have framed the issue in territorial terms in order to maximize its grievance potential . When they make women 's control of their own bodies the very centerpiece of their argument for choice , they are making the fact of pregnancy the exclusive terrain of women , despite the obvious role of men in conception and despite the fact that the vast majority of married women deciding to have abortions reach their decisions with their husbands . Framed exclusively as a woman 's right , abortion becomes not a societal issue or even a family issue but a grievance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Can women 's organizations continue to frame pro-choice as a grievance issue  --  a question of a right  --  and expect to garner the votes in Congress or in the state legislatures , which is where the abortion question is headed ? I do n't think this framing of the issue as a right is as much about abortion as it is about the sovereignty and permanency of women 's organizations . The trick is exclusivity . If you can make the issue exclusively yours  --  within your territory of final authority  --  then all who do not capitulate are aggrieving you . And then , of course , you must rally and expand your organization to meet all this potential grievance . But this is a pattern that ultimately puts grievance organizations out of touch with their presumed constituencies , who grow tired of the hyperbole . I think it partially explains why so many young women today resist the feminist label and why the membership rolls of the NAACP have fallen so sharply in recent years , particularly among the young . The high grievance profile is being @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . How did America evolve its now rather formalized notion that groups of its citizens could be entitled collectively ? I think it goes back to the most fundamental contradiction in American life . From the beginning America has been a pluralistic society , and one drawn to a radical form of democracy  --  emphasizing the freedom and equality of individuals  --  that could meld such diversity into a coherent nation . In this new nation no group would lord it over any other . But , of course , beneath this America of its ideals there was from the start a much meaner reality , one whose very existence mocked the notion of a nation made singular by the equality of its individuals . By limiting democracy to their own kind  --  white , male landowners  --  the Founding Fathers collectively entitled themselves and banished all others to the edges and underside of American life . There , individual entitlement was either curtailed or  --  in the case of slavery  --  extinguished . The genius of the civil rights movement that changed the fabric of American life in the late @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enemy of black Americans was not the ideal America but the unspoken principle of collective entitlement that had always put the lie to true democracy . This movement , which came to center stage from America 's underside and margins , had as its single , overriding goal the eradication of white entitlement . And , correspondingly , it exhibited a belief in democratic principles at least as strong as that of the Founding Fathers , who themselves had emerged from the ( less harsh ) margins of English society . ln this sense the civil rights movement re-enacted the American Revolution , and its paramount leader , Martin Luther King , spoke as twentieth-century America 's greatest democratic voice . All of this was made clear to me for the umpteenth time by my father on a very cold Saturday afternoon in 1959 . There was a national campaign under way to integrate the lunch counters at Woolworth stores , and my father , who was more a persuader than an intimidator , had made it a point of honor that I join him on the picket line , civil @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . By this time , age twelve or so , I was sick of it . I 'd had enough of watching my parents heading off to still another meeting or march ; I 'd heard too many tedious discussions on everything from the philosophy of passive resistance to the symbolism of going to jail . Added to this , my own experience of picket lines and peace marches had impressed upon me what so many people who 've partaken of these activities know : that in themselves they can be crushingly boring  --  around and around and around holding a sign , watching one 's own feet fall , feeling the minutes like hours . All that Saturday morning I hid from my father and tried to convince myself of what I longed for  --  that he would get so busy that if he did n't forget the march he would at least forget me . He forgot nothing . I did my time on the picket line , but not without building up enough resentment to start a fight on the way home . What was so important about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Woolworth 's . I told him the truth , that he never took us to any restaurants anyway , claiming always that they charged too much money for bad food . But he said calmly that he was proud of me for marching and that he knew I knew food was n't the point . My father  --  forty years a truck driver , with the urges of an intellectual  --  went on to use my little rebellion as the occasion for a discourse , in this case on the concept of integration . Integration had little to do with merely rubbing shoulders with white people , eating bad food beside them . It was about the right to go absolutely anywhere white people could go being the test of freedom and equality . To be anywhere they could be and do anything they could do was the point . Like it or not , white people defined the horizon of freedom in America , and if you could n't touch their shoulder you were n't free . For him integration was the evidence of freedom and equality . My father @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all the blacks in the early civil rights movement , leaders and foot soldiers alike . For them integration was a way of moving from the margins into the mainstream . Today there is considerable ambivalence about integration , but in that day it was nothing less than democracy itself . Integration is also certainly about racial harmony , but it is more fundamentally about the ultimate extension of democracy  --  beyond the racial entitlements that contradict it . The idea of racial integration is quite simply the most democratic principle America has evolved , since all other such principles depend on its reality and are diminished by its absence . But the civil rights movement did not account for one thing : the tremendous release of black anger that would follow its victories . The 1964 Civil Rights Act and the 1965 Voting Rights Act were , on one level , admissions of guilt by American society that it had practiced white entitlement at the expense of all others . When the oppressors admit their crimes , the oppressed can give full vent to their long repressed rage because now @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a wrong was done . This consensus gave blacks the license to release a rage that was three centuries deep , a rage that is still today everywhere visible , a rage that  --  in the wake of the Rodney King verdict , a verdict a vast majority of all Americans thought unfair  --  fueled the worst rioting in recent American history . By the mid-Sixties , the democratic goal of integration was no longer enough to appease black anger . Suddenly for blacks there was a sense that far more was owed , that a huge bill was due . And for many whites there was also the feeling that some kind of repayment was truly in order . This was the moral logic that followed inevitably from the new consensus . But it led to an even simpler logic : if blacks had been oppressed collectively , that oppression would now be redressed by entitling them collectively . So here we were again , in the name of a thousand good intentions , falling away from the hard challenge of a democracy of individuals and embracing the principle of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the first place . Now this old sin would be applied in the name of uplift . And this made an easy sort of sense . If it was good enough for whites for three hundred years , why not let blacks have a little of it to get ahead ? In the context of the Sixties  --  black outrage and white guilt  --  a principle we had just decided was evil for whites was redefined as a social good for blacks . And once the formula was in place for blacks , it could be applied to other groups with similar grievances . By the 1970s more than 60 percent of the American population  --  not only blacks but Hispanics , women , Asians  --  would come under the collective entitlement of affirmative action . In the early days of the civil rights movement , the concept of solidarity was essentially a moral one . That is , all people who believed in human freedom , fairness , and equality were asked to form a solid front against white entitlement . But after the collaboration of black rage and white @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of solidarity changed . It was no longer the rallying of diverse peoples to breach an oppressive group entitlement . It was the very opposite : a rallying of people within a grievance group to pursue their own group entitlement . As early as the mid-Sixties , whites were made unwelcome in the civil rights movement , just as , by the mid-Seventies , men were no longer welcome in the women 's movement . Eventually , collective entitlement always requires separatism . And the irony is obvious : those who once had been the victims of separatism , who had sacrificed so dearly to overcome their being at the margins , would later create an ethos of their own separatism . After the Sixties , solidarity became essentially a separatist concept , an exclusionary principle . One no longer heard words like " integration " or " harmony " ; one heard about " anger " and " power . " Integration is anathema to grievance groups for precisely the same reason it was anathema to racist whites in the civil rights era : because it threatens their collective entitlement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Power is where it 's at today  --  power to set up the organization , attract the following , run the fiefdom . But it must also be said that this could not have come to pass without the cooperation of the society at large and its institutions . Why did the government , the public and private institutions , the corporations and foundations , end up supporting principles that had the effect of turning causes into sovereign fiefdoms ? I think the answer is that those in charge of America 's institutions saw the institutionalization and bureaucratization of the protest movements as ultimately desirable , at least in the short term , and the funding of group entitlements as ultimately a less costly way to redress grievances . The leaders of the newly sovereign fiefdoms were backing off from earlier demands that America live up to its ideals . Gone was the moral indictment . Gone was the call for difficult , soulful transformation . The language of entitlements is essentially the old , comforting language of power politics , and in the halls of power it went down easily @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ voice of Dr. King gave way to the demands and cajolings of poverty-program moguls , class-action lawyers , and community organizers . The compromise that satisfied both political parties was to shift the focus from democracy , integration , and developmental uplift to collective entitlements . This satisfied the institutions because entitlements were cheaper in every way than real change . Better to set up black-studies and women's-studies departments than to have wrenching debates within existing departments . Better to fund these new institutions clamoring for money because who knows what kind of fuss they 'll make if we turn down their proposals . Better to pass laws permitting Hispanic students to get preferred treatment in college admission  --  it costs less than improving kindergartens in East Los Angeles . And this way to uplift satisfied the grievance-group " experts " because it laid the ground for their sovereignty and permanency : You negotiated with us . You funded us . You shared power , at least a bit of it , with us . This negotiation was carried out in a kind of quasi-secrecy . Quotas , set-asides , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ campaign trail . They were implemented by executive orders and Equal Employment Opportunity Commission guidelines without much public scrutiny . Also the courts played a quiet but persistent role in supporting these orders and guidelines and in further spelling out their application . Universities , corporations , and foundations implemented their own grievance entitlements , the workings of which are often kept from the public . Now , it should surprise no one that all this entitlement has most helped those who least need it  --  white middle-class women and the black middle class . Poor blacks do not guide the black grievance groups . Working-class women do not set NOW 's agenda . Poor Hispanics do not clamor for bilingualism . Perhaps there is nothing wrong with middle-class people being helped , but their demands for entitlements are most often in the name of those less well off than themselves . The negotiations that settled on entitlements as the primary form of redress after the Sixties have generated a legalistic grievance industry that argues the interstices of entitlements and does very little to help those truly in need . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gender , ethnicity , or some other group grievance are always undemocratic expedients . Integration , on the other hand , is the most difficult and inexpedient expansion of the democratic ideal ; for in opting for integration , a citizen denies his or her impulse to use our most arbitrary characteristics  --  race , ethnicity , gender , sexual preference  --  as the basis for identity , as a key to status , or for claims to entitlement . Integration is twentieth-century America 's elaboration of democracy . It eliminates such things as race and gender as oppressive barriers to freedom , as democrats of an earlier epoch eliminated religion and property . Our mistake has been to think of integration only as a utopian vision of perfect racial harmony . I think it is better to see integration as the inclusion of all citizens into the same sphere of rights , the same range of opportunities and possibilities that our Founding Fathers themselves enjoyed . Integration is not social engineering or group entitlements ; it is a fundamental absence of arbitrary barriers to freedom . If we can understand @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of integrating all citizens into the same sphere of rights , then it can serve as a principle of democratic conduct . Anything that pushes anybody out of this sphere is undemocratic and must be checked , no matter the good intentions that seem to justify it . Understood in this light , collective entitlements are as undemocratic as racial and gender discrimination , and a group grievance is no more a justification for entitlement than the notion of white supremacy was at an earlier time . We are wrong to think of democracy as a gift of freedom ; it is really a kind of discipline that avails freedom . Sometimes its enemy is racism and sexism ; other times the enemy is our expedient attempts to correct these ills . I think it is time for those who seek identity and power through grievance groups to fashion identities apart from grievance , to grant themselves the widest range of freedom , and to assume responsibility for that freedom . Victimhood lasts only as long as it is accepted , and to exploit it for an empty sovereignty is to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It is the narcissism of victims , and it brings only a negligible power at the exorbitant price of continued victimhood . And all the while integration remains the real work . Shelby Steele has written a number of essays on race for Harper 's Magazine . They can be found in his book The Content of Our Character ( paper , HarperCollins ) . <p>                     