@@393642

Two major projects came to fruition in 1993 : " The Arts and Crafts Movement in California : Living the Good Life , " organized by Kenneth R. Trapp at the Oakland Museum , and " The Ideal Home : 1900-1920 , " organized by Janet Kardon at the American Craft Museum in New York . Now touring , these exhibitions raise provocative issues regarding the nature of such projects and the significance of the American craft movement in general . Each project has an agenda which is closely related to the mission of the sponsoring institution . The Oakland Museum is committed solely to the arts of California . Accordingly , one of the aims of its exhibition is to show that the state 's crafts , if not better than those of the East Coast and the Midwest , were at least " unique "  --  a cliche with little justification here , especially since so many of the Californians had ties to the rest of the country . If there was an Arts and Crafts style specific to California , it is not really discussed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Good Life " might better have emphasized how California 's art followed , even if belatedly , major international currents . The American Craft Museum 's scope is national and its undertaking is potentially of far greater significance , for " The Ideal Home " is the first of an ambitious series of eight exhibitions and companion publications intended to establish a history of 20th-century American craft . Even though the general theme of Arts and Crafts unites these two exhibitions , it might seem unwieldy to consider them together were it not that they have striking similarities . Indeed , it could be argued that the parallels are greater than the differences and that these similarities exemplify issues which plague the field . The two shows opened with slightly more than 200 works in each , though the number has been reduced by approximately half for the traveling version of " The Ideal Home . " Both shows have tried to be all-embracing in their inclusion of media , except that the California exhibition lacks , surprisingly , glass , jewelry and textiles . For those with little background @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pleasant experiences . Certainly the positive reactions of newspaper critics suggest popular appeal . There is a wide variety of objects , colors and textures  --  more than enough to sustain interest . There are sufficiently familiar names to offer the comfort of recognition and unexpected new names to provoke surprise . Not least of all , there is pleasure in the installations . I saw " The Ideal Home " in New York and " Living the Good Life " at the Renwick Gallery in Washington , DC . The two were quite similar , not surprisingly , because Val Lewton designed both . His scheme of walls painted in matte , muted tones and his clever idea of wooden boards to create a frieze around the walls and to decorate the otherwise standard museum cases creates the aura of an American Arts and Crafts bungalow , more so at the Renwick than at the American Craft Museum , where only a rudimentary approximation of this effect was maintained . Those who know the Arts and Crafts field may instead feel disappointment and a sense of deja vu . These @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the subject organized over the last 20 years . Consequently , most of the artists represented and even some of the specific objects shown may be familiar. ( 1 ) Moreover , while each exhibit has some unfamiliar and some extraordinary objects , too many are of middling quality . " Living the Good Life " includes a great deal of puny pottery , undistinguished metalware and crass industrial ceramic tiles . " The Ideal Home " in particular inspired deja vu and betrayed an indifference to quality : wonderful Tiffany glass was juxtaposed with banal examples ; a Stickley cabinet in good condition was displayed next to one whose surface seems to have been refinished badly . Neither show represents distinguished connoisseurship . Each exhibition , to use the common euphemism , is " accompanied by a publication . " ( Museums and publishing houses seem reluctant these days to use the word " catalogue , " a term supposedly too limiting commercially . ) The two books in question do indeed go well beyond simple exhibition catalogues , but this is not necessarily to the good . Ponderous @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ difficult to use either as catalogues or scholarly books . They seem generously illustrated , each having slightly more than 300 images . Living the Good Life , however , depicts only half the objects in the exhibition ; The Ideal Home , though showing all the objects , is marred by many murky black-and-white photographs . Each publication is organized along similar lines : a concentration of essays in front , other sections which constitute the catalogue of the exhibition and , in the back , appendices with artists ' biographies , corporate histories , etc . As with many large-scale museum undertakings these days , the work in both projects was divided among a team of experts , most of whom are not affiliated with the sponsoring institutions . The essays vary considerably in focus and quality , and reveal different levels of expertise . Just as in using the so-called " easy operating instructions " that come with electronic products , one often needs a skilled technician to be guided through the complicated structure of essays , catalogue and appendices . The Ideal Home is the more problematic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ subcategories . It has , for example , an illustrated " Catalogue of the Exhibition " in the middle of the book and a non-illustrated " Checklist of the Catalogue " at the back , both with the same information . Furthermore the checklist is not useful after the first venue of the show , and some of the catalogue information is incorrect. ( 2 ) Equally difficult to use is the appendix at the back of The Ideal Home , a " Resource List " containing entries on Arts and Crafts artists , societies , schools , businesses and publications . Unlike the simple alphabetical listing of biographies and corporate histories in Living the Good Life , the American Craft Museum 's book includes eight independent alphabetical listings which are insufficiently distinguished from each other typographically . Moreover , the section devoted to businesses ( called Production Centers ) is further subdivided into six media categories . Even after you have learned to run through the maze , would you know where to turn ? For example , there are separate biographical entries for Gustav Stickley and Elbert Hubbard as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Production Centers-General " but not under wood , metal or textile , whereas Hubbard 's Roycrofters can be found under " Production Centers-General , " " Production Centers-Wood " and , surprisingly , under " Communities , " along with altruistic craft societies , the Chetimachez Indians and the Shakers ! This appendix is hardly the " select compendium of the most prominent " people and organizations it sets out to be . Missing from it are countless individuals and organizations . One need only think of all the people discussed in the pages of Stickley 's The Craftsman and Adelaide Alsop Robineau 's Keramic Studio , and the names of all those who exhibited just at Boston 's Society of Arts and Crafts . The catalogue lists the decorators of vases produced by the Rookwood and Newcomb potteries included in this show , but it omits a hundred others who were active in these same studios . Most regrettable of all , the information is generally not insightful or factual , and often is incorrect . The simpler scheme of Living the Good Life provides a more useful resource @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ better job . All this points up what I consider to be the basic flaw of " The Ideal Home , " namely that the exhibition and the book were too ambitious a program for the limited resources of its museum . Normally one expects an exhibition and its publication to be in tandem , but this is not always the case with the two shows under review . The organization of the California exhibition follows the tripartite scheme of its book : like ancient Gaul , the state is divided into three areas centered around San Francisco , Los Angeles and San Diego . The distinction may be more historically significant than visually convincing , especially given the migration of artists from one area to the other and their overall stylistic uniformity . There are some unfortunate results , such as the clashing juxtaposition of objects and styles from 1900 and 1920 ( and even later ) , but there is an overall sense of order and the visitor can understand the show 's rationale . The plan for the installation of " The Ideal Home , " on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ book 's essays focus on specific media and on sociopolitical issues , the installation is organized around quite different , amorphous themes such as " Nature , " " The Hand , " " Influences , " " The Future , " though this is not readily apparent . These themes are indicated by wall text that is slight and unrelated to the adjacent objects . The exhibition was like a labyrinth , but without a Theseus or a thread to guide us through . Instead of the objects being grouped by medium as they are in the book , there was a tendency to give primacy to the furniture and to use the smaller objects as dashes of color . Tiffany glass vases were positioned here and there without rhyme or reason . Examples of Charles Rohlfs 's woodworking were dispersed on two levels . A Clemens Friedell silver vase and a Robineau porcelain vase were inexplicably paired in a case , while other Robineau vases were elsewhere ; most of the jewelry was in one area , but a necklace by Edward Everett Oakes was hung in another vitrine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , with no sense of geography or chronology . Saddest of all , the aesthetic identities of the artists were thus weakened . Both exhibitions diverged from their publications in other ways as well . Despite the many chapters in Living the Good Life and The Ideal Home which are devoted to architecture and the interior , and despite the press releases from both museums which emphasize the home as the central focus of the Arts and Crafts movement , the home and the interior were noticeably absent from both installations . There were no groupings of furniture and accessories to recreate Arts and Crafts interiors . Both shows displayed objects in static , museumlike ways , with furniture isolated on pedestals and small items housed in cases . One might have expected drawings or photographs of American interiors , but this was barely attempted . " Living the Good Life " includes only one photograph of a home interior  --  a rustic living room by Irving Gill . Elsewhere , a beautiful Greene and Greene chair and table from the Robert R. Blacker house in Pasadena are exhibited with a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an outdoor veranda rather than the interior . " The Ideal Home " is equally remiss . Two small images on text panels are all that suggest a turn-of-the-century interior : a black-and-white reproduction of a polychromatic watercolor rendering by Will Bradley and a staged photograph taken from a wallpaper catalogue . ( How enticing , by contrast , is the room set up by the American Craft Museum 's education department with reproductions and modern Arts and Crafts-style objects . Unfortunately , even here the solution falls short of the desired goal because some of the works  --  a tiled cocktail table with wrought iron legs , a rug with a Victorian floral border  --  bear no relation to the period from 1900 to 1920 . ) When all is said and done , though , one might question whether the home was indeed the motivating force of the Arts and Crafts movement . Stenciled across a wall of the Renwick installation of " Living the Good Life " is the reassuring axiom from William Morris : " Have nothing in your home that you do not know to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in such virtuous aphorisms is due in no small measure to expectations stemming from the many histories of modern design that have been published . These emphasize architecture and furniture , and assume that crafts can be aligned within that same rational , functionalist sensibility . Inevitably  --  and the two projects under review are no exception  --  undue emphasis is placed on simplicity , as this is one of the basic tenets of industrial modernism . I would argue that more emphasis should be placed on ornament if we are to understand the intent of the Arts and Crafts movement . With a Ruskinian love of labor , craftsmen spent a great deal of energy and time enriching their objects with wonderful designs . More often than not , art rather than function was the dominant issue . Craft magazines were filled with discursive lessons on proper ornament . Although the rule of " simplicity " was often intoned , its meaning must be understood in relation to the excesses of the Rococo Revival and Beaux-Arts classicism . " Form without Ornament " was an important slogan , but only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Frank Lloyd Wright , the popular apostle of American modernism , tellingly wrote : " Simplicity in art ... is a synthetic , positive quality in which we may see evidence of mind , breadth of scheme , wealth of detail . " ( 3 ) Not surprisingly , it was the more commercial firms which tended to eliminate ornament , especially if it involved expensive handwork . Craftsmen of this movement worked toward other goals ; as could be seen in the displays of their work at that time , their masterpieces were lovingly embellished with carefully chosen decoration . Within the architecturally oriented history of design , however , furniture assumes a certain primacy , whereas metalware , ceramics , glass , textiles , jewelry and other media rank further down on this ladder of relative values . Occasionally works in these media can be elevated , especially if they were designed by architects or other notable figures . Is it coincidence , for example , that furniture and objects designed by the architect George Maher were prominently sited at the beginning of " The Ideal Home , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the cover of the publication ? ( 4 ) Equally provocative , these works are identified only by the architect/designer , not by the craftspeople who actually fabricated them . ( Maher 's designs , in this case , were executed by the professional silversmiths at the Gorham Manufacturing Company . ) This is symptomatic of a malaise which minimizes the craftsperson , who one might reasonably think should be at the heart of any discussion of the Arts and Crafts movement . Also , is it not ironic that in exhibitions devoted to the craft movement , so much attention should be lavished on commercial and even machine-produced wares ? This emphasis stems not only from an architecturally oriented history of design but also from a market-driven mentality largely concerned with interior decoration . Those turn-of-the-century companies which were able to capitalize upon an Arts and Crafts look , especially the look of architectural furniture , have become today 's focus . Edward S. Cooke , Jr. , in his essay " Arts and Crafts Furniture : Process or Product ? " in The Ideal Home , is quite @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ He carefully segregates handcrafted furniture and the work of amateurs who welcomed " the physical activity of manual labor " from the work both of commercial firms who used Arts and Crafts as " an attempt to set or lead trends in an increasingly competitive market " and from those , especially architects , who imposed their ideas and control over the furniture makers . Unfortunately , the exhibition does not heed this essay , for almost all the furniture selected comes from the side of commerce and architects . Furniture factories like those run by various members of the Stickley family were , after all , businesses run on a capitalistic basis with the profit motive and the traditional divisions between designer , workmen and selling force . I assume that the inclusion of Teco ware from the Gates Potteries near Chicago would be justified by its association with the Prairie School style , and the Fulper Pottery 's Vase-Kraft line because it has a " Mission-style " look , but these are , after all , machine-made products that fed off the craft movement . What possible justification could @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , a purely commercial firm which did not even make a contribution to design history ? How can one accept all the crass , machine-made tiles , most from the 1920s , which are included in " Living the Good Life " and almost dominate the exhibition ? The industrial , faux-mosaic tiles made by the Malibu Potteries have no place in the history of design or crafts . I can not understand the editorial folly that prompted the choice of a mid-1920s pressed tile from the Claycraft Potteries for both the frontispiece of a chapter devoted to the California bungalow and , no less , the cover of the book . How can such a late , commercial object represent California handicrafts or California style , especially since it depicts a saccharine scene of a thatched Devonshire cottage that looks as though it were lifted from a British biscuit tin ? This is neither art nor craft . It is neither sensitive nor sensible . This brings us back to the issue of quality . I previously mentioned being distressed that examples of Tiffany 's artistic and commercial glass were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " as though there were no difference in quality or importance . Equally upsetting is the presence of glass from Tiffany 's many commercial competitors , such as Frederick Carder and the Quezal Art Glass and Decorating Company. ( 5 ) Carder is characterized as having " inventive genius " and his wares are described as being " highly competitive with Tiffany 's products . " It is perhaps an unintentional oversight , but Tiffany is not comparably praised even though he , not Carder , was the innovative genius . Calling Carder 's glassware " competitive " without acknowledging its totally imitative and commercial nature is a linguistic sleight of hand ; not acknowledging that Carder 's standardized models were produced without the artistic freedom with which Tiffany 's glass was made is putting a curious spin on history . Should firms which plagiarized and negated the true intent of the craft movement be so honored ? There is a tendency in such exhibitions to seek out the larger and better-known establishments . " Living the Good Life " and " The Ideal Home " include relatively commercial though handmade @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( a gold-plated brass coffee server by Shreve &; Co. does not speak to me of craftsmanlike truth to materials ) . Because of its greater geographic range , " The Ideal Home " also presents metalwork from East Coast firms such as Gorham and Tiffany &; Company . All these wares may be hand-hammered , but why should they take precedence over the products of small workshops ? Why , for example , was an essentially uninspired tea set by Tiffany &; Company chosen over Tiffany Studios ' enamel and copper vessels ? Why is Elizabeth Copeland represented by only one small silver and enamel box and the works of Brainerd Thresher and Cole Brigham excluded ? Had the organizers of " The Ideal Home " more carefully heeded W. Scott Braznell 's insightful essay on metalwork , the true heroes of the American craft movement would perhaps have been given proper recognition . To their credit , the two exhibitions rightly emphasize the guilds , schools and settlement houses which supported the craft movement  --  but they do so primarily in the publications . This aspect of the movement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ though such humble work can teach us a great deal about the spirit and appearance of real craft objects  --  in contrast to the professional and manufactured products that successfully adapted the " look . " An exhibition devoted to the Arts and Crafts movement should demonstrate a full commitment . While the books acknowledge that many ceramists began as china decorators , this genre of work was almost totally excluded from both shows. ( 6 ) The activity of amateurs needs to be emphasized , if nothing else than as a counterbalance to the overwhelming presence of architects and factories . Would it not have been illuminating to learn that Edna Gamble , who with her husband owned one of the most splendid Greene and Greene homes in California , was a china decorator and often contributed designs to the pages of Keramic Studio ? Only when we embrace the whole Arts and Crafts spectrum  --  the amateur and the professional craftsperson , the small shop , the art manufactory , and even the factory  --  only then will we understand what really happened . As distant as events and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they still have relevance to the world of contemporary crafts . The issues and problems of a hundred years ago are still with us . The prototypical craftsperson was not simply a Protestant with a strong work ethic but an artisan with deeply rooted artistic and spiritual values . Thus it was refreshing to read Richard Guy Wilson 's essay in Living the Good Life , which , in part , discusses the spiritual interests of several California craftspeople  --  especially their association with Theosophy. ( 7 ) There has been a tendency to romanticize and to avoid discussing the difficulty , if not the impossibility , of earning a living as a craftsperson in an industrial society . But if we go outside the two publications under consideration , we can find the truth of a cold reality . A letter written in 1904 by Sabina E. Wells , a decorator at the Newcomb Pottery , details the straitened financial circumstances in which she found herself after she had paid for her modest room , board and other necessities ; ultimately , she had to give up her artistic aspirations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 8 ) Some craftspeople and communities survived because they were supported by inherited wealth . Many ventures failed ; Rose Valley , which is presented as a prototypical craft community , was saved only because its land had value as real estate . Many of the most talented individuals survived not by their craft skills but because they offered other services : they taught privately or in public institutions , published magazines , or worked for industry . How relevant all this is to the situation of crafts today ! It would also be useful to have had a more detailed exploration of how works of the Arts and Crafts period were exhibited and publicized , since this is largely how careers are established and viability maintained  --  both then and now . The book Living the Good Life does not really touch on these issues , though it poses interesting questions , both in regard to California itself and the way in which those state-bound artists did or did not achieve recognition outside their geographical area . The Ideal Home has a perfunctory listing of some groups across the country @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ explore this crucial issue . Though it lists craft-oriented magazines of the period , this , too , tells us little . While Beverly K. Brandt 's essay supposedly covers this material , it does not adequately elucidate the role of critics and publicity in supporting the craft movement . These two exhibitions and publications suggest that many aspects of the Arts and Crafts movement still need to be defined more clearly . Its ideological parameters need to be charted , its relationship to the history of industrial design needs to be clarified and , not least of all , its stylistic components need to be established . If , as Kardon writes , these " first two decades provide an aesthetic lens for the rest of the century , " then we should be careful to see clearly , especially if we want to envision the history of all of 20th-century American crafts . 1 . Since the first major exhibition , " The Arts and Crafts Movement in America , 1876-1916 , " which was staged by Princeton University and the Art Institute of Chicago in 1972 ( and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , there have been a great many surveys of the American movement . Among the most recent are the Boston Museum of Fine Arts ' " The Art that is Life " ( 1987 ) and the Los Angeles County Museum of Arts ' " American Arts &; Crafts , Virtue in Design " ( 1990 ) ; the later exhibition has been partially resurrected and will tour nationally in 1994-95 . The Pasadena Art Museum organized " California Design 1910 " in 1974 , and this catalogue was reprinted in 1980 . In addition , there have been dozens of exhibitions and catalogues on individual craftspeople , companies and regional developments . Among the previously exhibited objects in " The Ideal Home " are a Grueby Pottery vase , Louis Rorimer silver tea and coffee set , Gustav Stickley corner cabinet , a Maher chair and clock , crib by Frank Jeck , the same model table by John Bradstreet  --  all from " The Art that is Life " ; also vases by Robineau , Charles Volkmar , Newcomb College , Grueby , Artus van Briggle , a Stickley @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and a Greene and Greene chest of drawers from " The Arts and Craft Movement in America , 1876-1916 " ; the same model Stickley settle , Roycroft magazine stand and Hugh Robertson sang-de-boeuf vase as in " American Arts &; Crafts , Virtue in Design . " " Living the Good Life " includes examples from the Stockton Art Pottery , the Roblin Art Pottery , an Irving Gill desk and chair , Lucia Mathews screen and covered jar , an Elizabeth Eaton Burton lamp from " California Design 1910 , " a Harry Dixon desk set , Douglas Donaldson chalice and Valentien Pottery vase from " The Art that is Life . " 2 . The name under which the object is entered is sometimes that of the designer and sometimes that of the craftsman . I very much doubt that the vase attributed to Taxile Doat is actually by him . None of the signatures  --  data critical for the attribution and dating of objects  --  are given ( a serious lacuna in Living the Good Life as well ) . Also , there is a distinct disregard @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . For example , many of the Tiffany Favrile glass vases are merely dated ca. 1900 , though the year of execution can be pinpointed with far greater specificity . Some Favrile vases are assigned to seemingly specific ranges of dates , but these are not correct . A vase dated 1900-1910 should be dated 1896 . Another is dated 1886-1900 , but this is impossible since Tiffany did not begin making glass vases until after 1892-93 and , moreover , the serial number indicates that it was made in 1900 . A similar chaos of dating exists in regard to other makers . A vase produced by the Quezal Art Glass and Decorating Company is dated ca. 1890 , but this , too , is impossible because the company did not start until 1902 . A Newcomb College ceramic vase is assigned to 1910 but its coded registration number indicates that 1908 is the correct year . Also , a large number of objects in the exhibition that are assigned to specific years were in production for a considerable period of time and thus would allow for a much wider @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The Future of Architecture , as quoted by James D. Kornwolf , " The Arts and Crafts in American Houses and Gardens , " in The Ideal Home , 113. 4 . The writer of the dust jacket text of The Ideal Home was sufficiently misled to believe that Maher was a metalsmith. 5 . The Ideal Home , 94 , 267. 6 . " Living the Good Life " includes one example of overglaze decoration : a rather late , ugly commercial vase by Paul Lohman. 7 . In addition to the artists cited by Wilson , I would point out that Adelaide Robineau was interested in Theosophy . This explains why the Syracuse branch of this movement came to donate her kilns to the Theosophy group in Atascadero. 8 . Jessie Poesch , Newcomb Pottery , An Enterprise for Southern Women , 1895-1940 ( Exton , Pennsylvania : Schiffer Publishing , 1984 ) 49. 9 . Janet Kardon , " A Centenary Project : Stage One  --  The Home as Ideological Platform , " in The Ideal Home , 23 . After the Oakland Museum ( February 27-August 15 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in California : Living the Good Life " traveled to the Renwick Gallery , Smithsonian Institution , Washington , DC ( October 8-January 9 , 1994 ) , and the Cincinnati Art Museum , Ohio ( February 18-April 17 ) . The 328-page book , with texts by curator Kenneth R. Trapp and eight contributors , 111 color and 102 black-and-white photographs , published by the Oakland Museum and Abbeville Press , is available for $55 . " The Ideal Home : 1900-1920 " opened at the American Craft Museum ( October 21 , 1993-February 27 , 1994 ) and selections will travel to the J. B. Speed Art Museum , Louisville , Kentucky ( November 8-January 8 , 1995 ) , Fort Wayne Museum of Art , Indiana ( February 25-May 21 , 1995 ) and Whitney Museum of American Art , Fairfield County , Stamford , Connecticut ( June 20-September 13 , 1995 ) . Its companion book , 304 pages , edited by Janet Kardon , with texts by 11 contributors , 100 color and 169 black-and-white illustrations , published by Harry N. Abrams , is available for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ American Federation of Arts : " American Arts &; Crafts : Virtue in Design , " at the Indianapolis Museum of Art ( April 16-June 12 , 1994 ) , " Head , Heart , and Hand : Elbert Hubbard and the Roycrofters , " to open at the Memorial Art Gallery , University of Rochester , New York ( October 28-January 8 , 1995 ) , and " Arthur J. Stone , Designer and Master Silversmith , " to open at the Boston Athenaeum , Massachusetts ( November 21-January 6 , 1995 ) . Works illustrated on pages 46-51 are from " The Ideal Home : 1900-1920 " and on pages 52-53 from " The Arts and Crafts Movement in California : Living The Good Life . " Martin Eidelberg is a professor of art history at Rutgers University . He was one of the authors of The Arts and Crafts Movement in America , 1876-1916 ( 1972 ) and has written on many of the principal figures in the movement . He curated the exhibition " George Ohr : Modern Potter 1857-1918 " at the American Craft Museum ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1935-1965 : What Modern Was ( 1991 ) . <p>                     