@@342660

Psychiatrists were once the power brokers of mental health care . With full medical-school training and M.D.s after their names , they controlled the prestigious institutes of Freudian psychoanalysis . They determined whether patients would be committed to mental hospitals . And they had the exclusive right to prescribe mind-altering medications . But in the past several years psychologists , who have Ph.D.s but no medical school on their resumes , have been chipping away at the psychiatrists ' domain . <P> Now psychologists are poised to grab a share of perhaps the biggest professional prize : prescribing drugs . This fall a pair of psychologists at the Walter Reed Army Medical Center in Washington began selecting and dispensing medications to a handful of patients in an experiment to see if novice prescribers can do the job safely and effectively . The test marks the first time in the field of mental health that non-M.D.s have been permitted to prescribe medication . Last week the American Psychological Association showed its confidence that the experiment will be a success by appointing a study group to explore university curriculum changes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ <P> The push to give prescription privileges to psychologists has intensified tensions between the two groups of mental health professionals . Psychologists insist that the initiative is the only way to get valuable medications to all those who could benefit from them . Psychiatrists and many other doctors contend that granting such powers to people without adequate training is irresponsible and possibly dangerous . Says Dr. Carolyn Robinowitz , deputy medical director of the American Psychiatric Association : " We 're talking about patients and their lives . I just hope people do n't suffer serious complications for the sake of proving a point . " <P> At the heart of the dispute is the groundbreaking experiment at Walter Reed . Two clinical psychologists who recently earned their Ph.D.s are beginning an on-the-job training course that could last up to two years . They will prescribe pills for a broad range of conditions , from hyperactivity to manic depression . At the end of the trial period , independent experts will evaluate the students ' performance and make recommendations to Congress on whether the program should be expanded for general use @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hawaii , whose administrative assistant , Patrick DeLeon , is an American Psychological Association board member . Ostensibly , the study aims to explore ways to deal with physician shortages in the armed services . But several state legislatures are watching the experiment to determine whether psychologists in their regions should have the right to prescribe . <P> Such an expansion of privileges would not be without precedent . Dentists and podiatrists have always prescribed some medications . And other non-M.D.s , including pharmacists , physician 's assistants and nurse practitioners ( registered nurses with some advanced training ) have been granted at least limited privileges  --  either for a restricted number of drugs or under close supervision by physicians  --  in many states . Nurse practitioners can now prescribe in 34 states , up from 28 last year .                     