@@409310

Eating pine bark is a tough way to make a living . It 's sticky , gummy , stringy , and not very nutritious . Yet from late fall , through winter , and well into spring , inner bark is about all the tassel-eared squirrel can find to sustain itself in the pine forests of the Southern Rockies in the United States and the Sierra Madre Occidental in Mexico . During the early summer , this handsome animal  --  also known as Abert 's squirrel  --  feeds on pine pollen , fungi , and buds . Through the summer and into early autumn , it eats pine seeds as well . After that , the squirrel feeds almost exclusively on bark from only one species of tree : the ponderosa pine . With such notable exceptions as bamboo-eating giant pandas in Asia and eucalyptus-eating koalas in Australia , few mammals are as closely tied to specific plants as are tassel-eared squirrels . They live only among ponderosa pines and depend on these trees for both shelter and food . High in tree crowns , the squirrels construct @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ needles and grasses from the forest floor . Nests are sturdy and well insulated . With periodic maintenance , they protect the squirrels from weather and predators , offer them a comfortable place to rest , and serve as a safe nursery for their young . Mating takes place in the spring and early summer , following complex chases that usually involve a female and several males . After six to seven weeks of gestation , a litter averaging three to five babies is born . The young remain in the nest six to seven weeks before venturing forth . Individuals vary in coat color . In the Colorado Front Range , we commonly see animals that are completely black ; others that are grizzled gray with a white belly , bold black lateral stripes , and often a wash of red extending from the ears to midway down the back ; and still others that are sable brown to cinnamon in color . Remarkably , we often see two or three color phases within a single litter . For the first few weeks after emerging from the nest , juveniles @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tree . Siblings play together animatedly , practice acrobatic leaps between adjacent trees , and sample the various foods available during the pleasant montane summers . During this period , youngsters may get their first taste of inner bark , tentatively scraping it from the upper side of branches high in the nest tree . ( Adults , however , do not usually feed in nest trees . ) As summer wanes and seeds fall from opening pine cones , the squirrels begin to rely almost exclusively on the bark . Unlike many other squirrels in temperate habitats , Abert 's squirrels neither cache food nor hibernate during cold winter months . While youngsters ' initial attempts at bark feeding are inefficient , adults process twigs in a series of well-defined steps . First , the squirrel gnaws off a shoot , usually in the upper crown of the tree , then severs the terminal needle cluster , leaving a bare twig about one to eight inches long . Holding this section between its forepaws , the squirrel scrapes off the outer bark and feeds on the inside layers . Afterward @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . A squirrel may repeat this process dozens of times before moving on to another tree . The resultant accumulations of clipped needle clusters and bare " bones " of wood littering the forest floor , coupled with the ragged appearance of defoliated crowns , easily identify a squirrel 's favorite food trees . Why do Abert 's squirrels choose particular trees and leave others untouched ? Do squirrels select trees on the basis of nutrients ? Or are they simply avoiding noxious substances that are present in some trees but not in others ? And how are the trees affected by the squirrels ' feeding ? Although their forest habitats contain hundreds of trees per acre , and individual squirrels range over many acres , the squirrels are fussy , and relatively few trees seem to satisfy them . One of their criteria is that twig processing should not be unpleasant . When squirrels gnaw through twigs , they sever resin canals in the wood . Because resin pressure varies from tree to tree , and fast-flowing resin can quickly gum up their paws and mouth , squirrels tend to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ponderosa pine resin contains a variety of chemical compounds , such as monoterpenes , that vary greatly in toxicity and odor . Even humans , with their comparatively unsophisticated sense of smell , can differentiate among resin odors , which can be reminiscent of vanilla , butterscotch , chocolate , and turpentine . Two monoterpenes , B-pinene and B-phellandrene , appear to be especially offensive to tassel-eared squirrels , and they seem to avoid trees containing pronounced levels of either . We decided to test whether the trees selected by the squirrels have naturally lower resin flow and monoterpene levels or whether these characteristics are induced by the squirrels ' feeding activities . For several years , we clipped twigs and needle clusters from the upper crowns of dozens of trees , but our simulated " feeding " induced no changes in the resins . We also set up feeding trials in next trees to test whether squirrels actively avoided monoterpenes , as we suspected . Proffered delicacies  --  small packets of peanut butter  --  allowed them to choose among treats that were either unaltered or slightly to heavily laced with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ consistently chose the plain peanut butter , but ate significantly less of the lightly laced offerings and even less of the heavily laced variety . However , the squirrels ' feeding choices are not dictated solely by the repellent features of these pines . Nutritional value is also a factor . Preferred trees are relatively high in carbohydrates and sodium , which squirrels probably like for the same reasons that we do : carbohydrates provide energy , and sodium is an essential mineral for metabolism . Conversely , squirrels avoid trees that contain significant levels of iron or mercury , both of which can be poisonous in high concentrations . We therefore examined attributes  --  resin flow and chemistry  --  that are known to be controlled genetically . We wondered whether tassel-eared squirrels could be agents of natural selection in the ponderosa pine forests they inhabit . We examined this herbivore-host relationship from the pine 's perspective . A tree 's food is produced in its leaves via photosynthesis , and is used for general maintenance and reproduction and to fuel growth . Can ponderosa pines provide squirrels with unlimited food @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ damage a tree 's health and reproductive capacity , and ultimately shorten its life span ? Generally , once specific trees have been identified as being especially desirable , squirrels return to them often . Some trees at our study sites have been used for at least nine consecutive years , and others over the course of two decades . After a four-year comparison of growth and reproduction rates between trees used by squirrels and those they left alone , we found our answer : repeated squirrel feeding seriously affects the trees ' well-being . Under normal circumstances , pines grow rapidly during spring and summer , slow down late in summer , and stop growing in winter . When viewed in cross section , tree rings ( which record annual growth ) are visible as alternating bands of pale-colored ( fast growth ) and dark-colored ( slow growth ) bands . When trees are stressed , they produce narrow rings . Using a sampling instrument that extracts pencil-thin wood cores , we measured rings and learned that trees favored by squirrels grow much more slowly than their neighbors , probably @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by squirrels affects not only a tree 's growth rate but also its ability to reproduce . A pine 's fecundity can be measured by counting the pollen-bearing male cones and the seed-bearing female cones . Trees that are defoliated for their inner bark produce only about one-tenth the number of male and female cones produced by uneaten trees . That translates into only one-tenth of the potential fertilizations and potential progeny of untouched trees . By any measure we care to use , the squirrels ' favorite trees appear to be in trouble . Given the squirrels ' effects on trees , they appear to act as agents of natural selection . But we do not yet understand all the complexities of squirrel-pine interactions . The animals might appear to be eating themselves out of a replenishable source of groceries , but they have been associated with ponderosa pine stands for millennia . Why have n't the squirrels eliminated all the trees with suitable characteristics ? First , squirrel population densities can fluctuate wildly , which may allow some trees to recover between concentrated assaults . Second , a number @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are maturing all the time . Many trees probably grow to maturity before being recognized as suitable hosts by the squirrels . Finally , a number of trees grow some distance away from the safe arboreal routes within dense stands of pine that are normally favored by the squirrels . Some of these trees may be chemically palatable , but because their relatively isolated locations might expose the animals to the dangers of sprinting across open ground , they avoid them . Feeding on the inner bark of ponderosa pines is not a habit confined to tassel-eared squirrels . In winter months , when food is scarce in the Southern Rockies , several other mammals resort to bark-feeding : mice , rabbits and hares , as well as mule deer , elk , and bears . In the past , some Native American tribes also utilized this food source during difficult times . No other mammal , however , has been so completely dependent on this low-quality resource as the tassel-eared squirrel . Only their well-developed ability to exploit inner bark allows them to survive in an environment that , for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                     