@@410482

Global warming is certainly a scientific , technical , economic , political and strategic issue . But insofar as it has been induced or enhanced by human actions and affects the good of humans and other forms of life , it is also a moral issue . Any development that threatens to cause a rise in sea levels , shifts in weather patterns and ocean currents , rapid dehabitation for many plants and animals , increases in the extinction of species , agricultural failures , scarcities in food and fresh water , and massive numbers of environmental refugees is clearly a severe moral crisis . Unfortunately , what is obvious to many is obscure to others . Though the United Nations ' Conference on Environment and Development ( UNCED ) and intensified media attention have publicized the problem , most Americans still do n't perceive global warming as a moral issue . If we did see it as a moral problem , for example , presidential candidates ' morality would be judged not only on their sexual misdeeds , but also on their policies concerning global warming . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cynical response to global warming is as much or more a sin than misplaced lust . If we understood global warming as a moral problem , then whenever scientists or economists pronounced an alarm or counseled calm on global warming , we would recognize that they are functioning not simply as technical authorities but also as moralists . As they are generally no more competent  --  and sometimes far less than the rest of us to make moral judgments , we should not leave this as an esoteric subject for technical elites . We all have some competence to bring to the table . We certainly need scientific data and analyses , but we dare not confuse technical judgments with moral ones , or relinquish our obligation to participate in moral decisions to an assortment of scientists , let alone politicians . Finally , if we understood global warming as a critical moral problem , we would be trying to identify the key ethical questions for evaluating the consequences of global warming , so that we could better offer sound answers . Six concerns at least must be brought to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ distinguish between global warming and global ( or even regional ) climate change , although both are induced or enhanced by humans . As the doubters ( not the scientifically scrupulous but the ideologically invested ) are fond of reminding us , global warming might not happen . Maybe environmental propagandists have exaggerated their predictions of the earth 's temperature in the next century . Maybe some climatologists have overestimated the significance of short-term , natural fluctuations in global temperatures . Maybe their computer simulations have failed to consider all the variables , like increased cloud cover resulting from warming , which would mean increased precipitation and the expansion rather than the melting of the polar ice caps . Maybe sulfur compounds from volcanic eruptions , or global shade caused by smoke emanating from the burning of tropical forests , or even acid rain will offset or delay global waning . All of these events are possible , as most parties to the debate admit . And everyone acknowledges the need for more data and analysis . But many people then take a morally dubious step . Those who doubt the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( through the emission of carbon dioxide , nitrous oxide , methane and chlorofluorocarbons ) will likely cause some other significant climate changes . Yet most tend to treat this prospect lightly , almost with a sense of relief , as if any other climate changes caused by human actions are morally irrelevant . And many of those most worried about the warming predictions seem to concur tacitly with this assumption . In reality , any significant climate changes caused by human behavior can have unpredictable and fearful consequences . While the prospect of global waning must be taken seriously , the basic ethical concern is not warming per se , but any significant and potentially harmful climate changes caused by human actions . Whatever climate changes arise , in fact , we will still need an energy and efficiency revolution , including a radical reduction of our use of fossil fuels ; alternative sources of safe , reliable , renewable and ecologically benign energy ; appropriate , efficient and decentralized technologies ; and the reversal of deforestation and the elimination of chlorofluorocarbons ( CFCs ) . Focusing on climate change @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ change the strategies of prevention , but it will shift the focus of moral debate to human responsibilities in any anthropogenic climate changes . Second , the debate should avoid moral compartmentalization and seek a just integration of proposed solutions to the ecological and social crises . This is not a formal criterion but a practical corrective . For instance , some environmental tacticians have used global warming as a tool to recruit the terrified , while avoiding controversies like economic distribution , which might turn off potential converts . This approach , however , reflects not only a misconception of ecological and social connections ; it can also be a discredited device of economic oppression . Nature and human culture are intricately linked . Human overpopulation , for example , will likely increase greenhouse-effect gases and , therefore , climate changes . In turn , these can lead to the endangerment and extinction of animal and plant species . A solution to one ecological or social problem must not cause or exacerbate other social or ecological problems ; when possible , it should help solve the others . This mandate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ economic inequities . The two concerns can not be resolved independently , as the North-South conflicts at UNCED amply illustrated . Concern for economic justice for the poor should permeate the global-warming debate . For example , if the international community implemented a " polluter-pays principle " in general or a " carbon tax " in particular , thereby increasing the costs and reducing the availability of fossil fuels , how would this effect poor consumers and nations ? These generally sound strategies seem unjust without some compensation for the poor . Or how should the benefits and burdens of solutions to global warming be distributed justly among nations ? How should we determine each nation 's appropriate reductions in greenhouse gas emissions ? Should requited cutbacks be equal or proportionate ? An equal reduction across the board would be burdensome to poor nations that have yet to achieve a decent standard of life that the industrialized overachievers have surpassed to a level of indecency . But on what basis would we determine each nation 's fair proportion  --  past or present contributions to climate change ? Percentage of the world @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the formula , we must also determine what amounts and forms of economic and technical assistance from the North to the South are necessary and just to provide poor nations with the means and incentives to combat ecological decline and economic deprivation . These questions were the tacit but still-dominant concerns in the climate-change debates at Rio . They must remain dominant in any ethical discussion of global warming . Third , an ethically adequate response to global warming must advocate that old virtue that was near the heart of the Puritan ethic but has been largely neglected in modern morality : frugality . Frugality is the antithesis of the consumerism and prodigality of affluent and effluent societies  --  the driving forces behind climate change . Frugality connotes thrift , moderation , temperance , efficiency and simplicity . It thrives on conscientious conservation and comprehensive recycling . It forces prosperous individuals and nations to ask , What kind and amounts of goods are necessary or valuable for the good life ? Do our luxuries and conveniences benefit or diminish our lives ? How can we reduce or redesign our wants ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and ecological integrity in the future ? How much is enough in quantity to sustain a reasonable quality of life and to ensure that the rest of humanity and other species , present and future , have similar opportunities ? Frugality is not a world-denying asceticism that makes us feel righteous but woefully deprived . It is rather an earth-affirming , enriching virtue that delights in the simple joys of the mind and flesh , especially the enhanced lives of communities and creatures that disciplined consumption makes possible . As it did in the best of Puritan thought , frugality arises from love of neighbor . It defines in part the character and conduct of the good neighbor . Frugality is also a precondition of distributive justice under conditions of relative scarcity , where enough can be available for all only if essential resources are freely shared . Justice for all  --  human and nonhuman kind , present and future  --  hinges on the private and public virtue of frugality . Fourth , we must recognize that international cooperation is an ecological imperative . Climate change has no respect for international @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the culprits , all will be victims . Therefore , notions of national self-sufficiency are dangerous anachronisms . Nation-states are simply too parochial to respond effectively to a transnational specter like global warming . The planetary effects of climate change make every state 's national security dependent on global ecological security , which in turn depends on international cooperation . Fortunately , most countries recognize this . Now the debate centers on how to organize this cooperation fully and fairly . The grace of UNCED is that it represented an almost universal consensus among nations that their cooperation is essential on macrocosmic concerns . The disgrace of UNCED , however , is that it manifested the depth and dominance of the myopic , protective sovereignties that may finally frustrate an effective form of international cooperation . Fifth , we must give fair consideration to all parties with stakes in the outcome . The two groups most likely to be excluded are future human generations and nonhuman species . One tragedy of global warming is that the benefits that some receive in the present entail costs that will be paid by all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ problem is that it points up our responsibilities across not only space but time . God 's covenant is " with you and your offspring for ever " ( Gen. 13:15 ) . Discounting future interests is simply stealing from our successors . This mortgaging of the future is morbidly captured in a cartoon by Mark Alan Samaty , which portrays a self-indulgent , anti-environmentalist emerging from a theater showing the movie Global Warming Holocaust ( like " King Kong Sauces the Big Apple " ) . He says : " Yeah ! It was great ! It was really scary , because you know it could really happen . But at the same time , you feel sort of safe , because it might not happen until five minutes after our lifetime ! " That is the dominant mood in the tragedy of the me-and-now culture . Similarly , our anthropocentric culture tends to discount the interests of nonhuman forms of life . Yet they too will be big losers . Climate changes can make the earth uninhabitable for millions of species of plants and animals , both marine and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ otherwise depend on specialized climatic conditions . Few are habitat generalists , as humans have become . Many species will not be able to adapt by migration , and few would quickly be able to evolve an adaptation . This matters not only because we humans depend on other creatures , but also because nonhuman lives have intrinsic value . Christian theology calls us to love all that the ultimate Lover loves , and that includes all creatures in the whole good creation . In creating and assessing public policies on climatic change , Christians must speak for the voiceless , represent the unrepresented : future generations of humanity and other beings . Finally , we must interpret the problem in the context of the morality of high risk-taking . Risk is unavoidable and sometimes creative . But some risks present the prospect of intolerable losses . Global warming may or may not materialize , and the consequences might be more or less than feared . One might argue that nations should maintain the status quo and avoid environmental reforms that could , without prudent strategic planning , disrupt economic stability @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ climate change and some dire attendant effects are highly probable . Should we simply ignore their reasoned predictions and fears until they can provide conclusive evidence  --  which is virtually impossible ? What if it 's then too late , as the specialists worry , to take remedial action ? What are the potential consequences of following the moral counsel of the unworried against the potential consequences of following the moral counsel of the reasonably fearful ? Where are the greater risks if the risks become costs ? These queries assume the consummate ethical question : How much and what kinds of risk are justified under conditions of high uncertainty ? In my view , the worst moral response to global warming is a hesitant , business-as-usual policy , waiting for conclusive evidence . That is a high-risk strategy , offering no significant gains and the potential for dangerous losses . The best moral response is a low-risk strategy to minimize harm . That means taking the steps necessary to reduce global warming and doing so quickly . This low-risk approach is morally preferable in both the worst-case and best-case scenarios @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ global warming are exaggerations , the nations will still gain major social and ecological benefits , because every tactic to combat global warming can be justified as essential on other grounds . With or without climate change , we will still benefit from developing energy alternatives and conservation , an efficiency revolution and reforestation . In any case , we will still need an economic conversion to ecological sustainability and social equity in the distribution of finite resources . On the other hand , if global waning is no exaggeration , the nations may avoid catastrophe by acting decisively now . This approach is true conservatism-and cheap insurance . There is little to lose , much to gain and much more to save . These six conditions do not fulfill all the requirements for an ethical stance on global warming . Nor do they reduce complexity and ambiguity ; they may even enhance these frustrating factors . Debates on climate change are not the place for those who prefer the simple and certain . Yet these conditions do provide a moral framework in a controversy hampered by excessive moral confusion . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @            