@@353614

IT WAS THE KIND OF GRISLY ONE-MAN crime spree that leads off the local newscasts and confirms everyone 's worst fears about New York City . Last week a mentally unstable man hacked his wife with a meat cleaver , killed his mother-in-law , stabbed her 2-year-old grandson , stole a car and rammed it into a throng of homeless people waiting outside a soup kitchen on Manhattan 's East Side , injuring 18 . As horrible as the episode was , it was eclipsed by the most promising crime statistic to come out of the city in years : the 585 murders reported in the first half of this year represent a 31% decrease from the 1994 rate . Not only that , but also of the 25 most populous cities in the U.S. , New York ranks 21st in overall crime according to the city 's police department , compared with 18th in 1993 . The city has come a long way from the 2,245 killings recorded in 1990 ( fueled largely by a crack-cocaine epidemic ) , when tabloid headlines implored then Mayor David Dinkins @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reasons for the dramatic decline  --  changes in demographics , shifts in the drug trade , more active community involvement  --  and they note that murder rates are down in most major U.S. cities . But it is clear that in New York aggressive police work is at least partly responsible . And this news comes at a good time for Republican Mayor Rudolph Giuliani and Police Commissioner William Bratton . They have been trying to offset the damage caused in May , when rowdy police , including some of New York 's finest , went on a spree during a convention in Washington , groping guests and prancing naked through hotels . " It 's not the weather , " says Bratton . " It 's not demographics . It 's not economics . What 's happening is that you have 38,000 hardworking cops , a mayor who supports us and a public who is with us . " <P> Much credit belongs to an old-fashioned show of strength . Though facing a $3.1 billion budget gap , the mayor , following his predecessor 's lead , has pumped up @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about 26,000 in 1990 . But numbers make up only part of the picture . Since he took over City Hall in January 1994 , Giuliani , a hard-nosed former federal prosecutor who has long made a subspecialty of studying local law enforcement , has had a laboratory with 7.3 million residents in which to test some innovative theories . One of the most commonsense measures links cops ' promotions and future assignments not to the number of arrests they make but to their ability to keep crime out of their territory . " An arrest is almost a failure , " Giuliani explains . " The better way to manage a police department is to prevent crime in the first place and find ways of measuring that . "                     