@@395611

All her life Marilyn " Trish " Robinson Ringell suffered from severe asthma . As a teenager she had to take such strong medicine to control it that it would make her slim , just-over-100-pound body so hyperactive that she felt she was coming out of her skin . When she became an adult , the Emmy Award-winning TV journalist kept a little inhaler with her at all times , quickly breathing in medication to ward off or ease an attack . She gave herself shots in the hip and tried a number of other remedies , but her asthmatic episodes occurred more and more often . The problems were exacerbated by a smoking habit . Ringell died of an asthma attack at age 45 , leaving behind a husband and two daughters . Now , just a year after Ringell 's death , doctors treat severe asthmatics somewhat differently , monitoring the disease extremely closely and prescribing a different kind of medication that does more than simply stave off attacks . Every year 5,000 Americans die of asthma , a disproportionate number of them Black . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for Blacks than for whites . This frightening death rate , which is rising at a pace that disturbs public-health officials , goes against everything experts know about the problem : Asthma is a serious but treatable disease that should not be life-threatening . It affects 10 million Americans , the vast majority of whom manage it properly and lead active , normal lives . Some , like Jackie Joyner-Kersee , who is one of the world 's best female athletes , are able to exercise regularly and at high levels while keeping their asthma under control . Thanks to new knowledge about asthma and more comprehensive treatment guidelines , no one should die from asthma , and those who are stricken with it should be able to breathe a sigh of relief . ASTHMA BREAKTHROUGHS Asthma is a chronic inflammatory lung disease that causes recurrent mild to severe breathing problems . No one knows exactly what causes the disease , but it tends to run in families . During an attack , the bronchial tubes contract through inflammation , the muscles surrounding the airways tighten , mucus clogs the smaller @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in coughing , wheezing and breathing difficulty . According to some sufferers , the feeling during an attack is akin to trying to breathe through a tiny cocktail straw . What experts have recently uncovered is that asthma is mote than a series of isolated attacks . Says Dr. Floyd J. Malveaux , professor of medicine and microbiology at the Howard University College of Medicine and a member of the National Asthma Education Program 's Expert Panel on the Management of Asthma , " The latest research tells us that asthma is a chronic inflammatory condition , rather than an episodic condition , as it has long been thought . " These new findings have helped experts make management of this incurable problem clearer . " Reducing and , we hope , preventing inflammation , not just reversing bronchial spasm , is central to asthma management , " says Dr. Albert L. Sheffer , M.D. , clinical professor of medicine at Harvard Medical School and chairman of the asthma panel . WHAT TRIGGERS AN ATTACK For most asthma sufferers , sidestepping triggers is still the best way to avoid an attack @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and they include : Airborne pollutants : African-Americans are more likely to live in areas where the air is polluted , and some experts believe that this fact may be associated with the high rates of asthma ( and asthma death ) among Blacks . Of course , it 's difficult to escape air pollution , but it 's easier to avoid another airborne irritant : cigarette smoke . Asthmatics should never smoke and should try to avoid the cigarette smoke of others . Allergens : Asthma is closely associated with allergies , so the same irritants that make allergy sufferers sneeze and cough can trigger an asthma attack . Whenever feasible , asthmatics should stay away from dust , mold , animal hair , feathers and pollen . Emotional stress : It 's almost impossible to eliminate all the stress-inducing factors in our daily lives . Nevertheless , asthmatics should work hard to stay calm , to avoid stimulating or worsening attacks . Exercise : As mentioned , asthma did n't stop Joyner-Kersee from capturing the heptathlon world record , but asthmatics must modulate exercise carefully , especially during @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a physician first and starting slowly and building up the pace . ( Many asthmatic athletes have to take medication before working out . ) Respiratory infections : The coughing and breathing problems that go along with bronchitis , colds and flu may trigger or worsen an attack . Cockroaches : This may surprise you : 10 to 15 million Americans are allergic to cockroaches , and a recent study found that up to 80 percent of all asthmatic children are sensitive to them . It 's a myth that roaches are a sign of untidiness or dirt , but they are attracted to uncovered food . Keep pans and dishes covered and sprinkle boric acid in cracks , holes and kitchen cabinets . Medication : For some people , aspirin or related drugs and some drugs used to treat glaucoma and high blood pressure can provoke an attack . But check with your physician before altering your prescriptions . MANAGING ASTHMA According to Malveaux , the high asthma death rate among African-Americans may be a result of " people with asthma , as well as physicians , taking the disease @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Blacks , especially poor Blacks , may not be able to seek treatment until they are in a crisis state and have to go to the emergency room . Once their condition is under control , follow-up care is not always possible . In many cases , access to continuing care is not available . " To avoid this kind of " treadmill treatment , " it 's important to establish an ongoing relationship with a doctor who can evaluate your condition and educate you about asthma . She will also determine your breathing status through various tests and teach you to monitor your lung function at home . Patients with severe asthma use peak-flow meters , small hand-held devices that they puff into periodically to determine breathing status . Sufferers may need to use them daily or several times daily , as directed by the doctor . A peak-flow meter can signal trouble before the patient feels it , allowing time to act to control the condition before it reaches the " danger zone " when an attack is imminent . " I make sure my patients " plans are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their readings change . They know when to call me and what to do , " says Malveaux . Every asthmatic should have a treatment plan to use daily and one to use in emergencies . For asthma patients who need medication , physicians now recommend two major kinds of drugs : anti-inflammatory medications and bronchodilators . Bronchodilators , which open up the bronchial tubes by relaxing the muscles of the airways , have long been the mainstay of asthma treatment . They commonly come in the form of hand-held inhalers and are available both over the counter and by prescription . A recent study , however , warns that asthma patients who overuse a commonly inhaled drug called beta agonist increase their risk of death nearly fivefold . Sold under such brand names as Proventil and Ventolin , the substance is safe and effective when used correctly , but many patients use it several times a day , far exceeding the recommended dosage . " If a patient is using more than one canister of beta agonist a month , they are using too much and their asthma is probably @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ says Dr. A. Sonia Buist , coauthor of a New England Journal of Medicine report on the drug . Over-the-counter inhalers may be even more commonly misused because they are relatively inexpensive and easy to obtain . Experts warn , however , that although the inhalers relieve asthma symptoms temporarily , they may actually make problems worse by obscuring the need for medical care . If you have severe asthma , do n't self-medicate ; see a doctor regularly for correct treatment . Bronchodilators deal with immediate symptoms , but doctors are increasingly suggesting anti-inflammatory agents , such as corticosteroids , to reduce the swelling of the airways , especially in cases of severe asthma . These come in pill form or they can be inhaled . Speak to your physician about this treatment option . Along with your doctor 's recommendations , there are ways you can help control your asthma . A number of people have eased their woes using natural remedies . Seven years ago , Karen J. Halliburton , 38 , of Teaneck , New Jersey , changed her diet to promote overall well-being and combat breathing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ meat and most dairy products from my diet , " she says . " I also began fasting periodically , eating more fresh fruit and vegetables and drinking lots of water and fresh juices . As a result , I feel better generally and have fewer breathing problems . " Halliburton strongly recommends going the holistic route , but she also keeps an inhaler handy at all times just in case . Paul Goss , N. D. , a naturopathic doctor from Compton , California , recommends that asthmatics try herbal remedies . Goss suggests comfrey , fenugreek and chaparral  --  herbs that help dissolve mucus and that you can find at most health-food stores . Do n't forget that herbs are powerful , so consult a health professional and follow instructions carefully . And use dietary remedies and herbs to help ease asthma symptoms , not as a substitute for medical care . For more information on asthma , contact the American Academy of Allergy and Immunology 's physician-referral and information line at ( 800 ) 822-ASMA , the American College of Allergy and Immunology at ( 800 ) 842-7777 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 800 ) 7-ASTHMA and the National Allergy and Asthma Network/Mothers of Asthmatics at(800) 878-4403 . Patricia Mason Woods is a Washington , D.C.- based freelance writer . <p>                     