@@421022

More than a decade has passed since the exhibition " Difference : On Representation and Sexuality " was presented at the New Museum of Contemporary Art. ( 1 ) That show marked the beginning of the curatorial concern with multiculturalism in American museums , thrusting into the center of art discourse issues of race , ethnicity , gender and sexuality . Many exhibitions related to these questions have since appeared. ( 2 ) One important lesson that has emerged from them is that identity , far from being one-dimensional , is constructed of myriad parts and complicated combinations . Current artistic and theoretical approaches are more likely to regard identity as an amalgam of sexual , racial , gender and ethnic factors . Jews have been conspicuously missing from the multicultural equation. ( 3 ) This is a result of the empowered status of this ethnic minority , whose hard-won position in the art world was consolidated around the end of World War II see A.i.A , Jan. ' ' 92 . ( 4 ) However , in order to obtain institutional access , Jewish artists ( as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ art historians ) were typically required to shed their ethnic identity . " Passing " meant that Jewish identity had to be effaced and that related religious or cultural iconography had to be tastefully submerged if not totally excluded. ( 6 ) For decades , one of the great taboos for Jewish artists was to represent ethnicity in their work . Abstraction became a natural refuge . Since the early 1980s , Jewish issues have begun to appear in the work of a considerable number of contemporary artists. ( 6 ) But the acknowledgement that Jewish artists can speak with multivalent voices is taking place more slowly  --  especially when it comes to issues of sexuality . While the art world has made great strides in coming to terms with formerly repressed issues of sexuality and gender  --  specifically in gay and lesbian representations  --  within Jewish communities the place of gays and lesbians is still highly contested . For example , during the first two weeks of June 1993 , a number of articles examining this subject appeared in both the Jewish and non-Jewish press. ( 7 ) Moment magazine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ encounter " ; the Village Voice presented a cover story dealing with the many individuals in America for whom Jewish , lesbian and gay identity are plainly merged ; and Tikkun also published a feature article exploring lesbian and Jewish identity . In the shadow of this debate , a number of highly vocal lesbian and gay Jewish artists are beginning to appear on the art scene , all of whom insist on combining sexual and ethnic identity and making it the focus of their art . Deborah Kass , Adam Rolston , Cary Leibowitz , Rhonda Lieberman , Neil Goldberg , and the performance group Jew Meat ( Doug Sadownick , Matt Silverstein and John Ellis ) are part of this emerging direction . Encompassing a wide range of mediums and artistic strategies , the work created by these stylistically heterogeneous artists includes painting and drawing , appropriation , installation art , set design and performance . Their use of overt Jewish imagery and themes is calculated , confrontational , highly politicized and , not least , humorous . While I want to concentrate on lesbian and gay Jewish artists @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of art tactics with a larger group of heterosexual Jewish artists who have , during the last decade , explored ethnic themes . They include Ken Aptekar , Helene Aylon , Dennis Kardon , Archie Rand , Ilene Segalove , Art Spiegelman , Allan Wexler and the late Hannah Wilke . Some of these artists have lapsed in their religious observance ; others , who came from nonobservant homes , have used their art to interrogate the reasons for their parents ' drive for assimilation . Many observe piecemeal , and some create new modes of " celebration " through their art . But all identify themselves culturally and ethnically as Jews . Many have also fought in the social and political arenas as feminists , lesbians , gays and intermarrieds . Generally refusing abstraction , these artists have employed representational images or texts to investigate ethnically explicit subjects , often based in American popular culture . In this way they set aside the more discreetly presented subjects popular among previous generations of Jewish artists , such as family ancestry and religious heritage , Jewish liturgy , Biblical narrative and a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In essence their art might be considered a politicized , postmodern and postcolonial extension of the Pop , Conceptual , Fluxus and performance art developed during the 1960s . In forcing the mainstream art world to recognize them as Jews , these artists have explicitly rejected the role of invisible or apologetic minority that was commonplace in postwar America , when Jews  --  at least on the surface  --  passed seamlessly into an Anglo-Saxon , Christian-dominated culture . During the same postwar period , the possibility of a visible identity for gay and lesbian artists was even more limited than for Jews . Here hiding , not passing , was the norm . Only rarely did gays openly refer to their homosexuality , as in the case of David Hockney . Often gay iconography has had to be subsequently unearthed through such art-historical tours de force as the recent reading of Jasper Johns 's and Robert Rauschenberg 's early work by Kenneth Silver. ( 8 ) Today the artistic message of Jewish lesbian and gay artists  --  especially their emphasis on multivalent identity  --  is an extension of the ongoing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Jewish community and the gay and lesbian communities can serve as models of diversity within the multicultural equation . The African-American artist Renee Green posed the question of difference within a community in this manner : It 's still a struggle for power between various groups within ethnic groups about what 's being said and who 's saying what , who 's representing whom . What is a community , anyway ? What is a black community ? What is a Latino community ? I have trouble with these ... monolithic fixed categories. ( 9 ) The gay and lesbian artists whose work I will examine reflect the predominant concerns of today 's art world : issues of the body , the limits of pornography , the failure of technological promise , and the deconstruction of social power structures . Their work follows the current tendency to concentrate on the personal and the subjective , and on disturbing political and social topics . Along with their non-Jewish gay and lesbian colleagues , these artists insist on an overt , confident gay and lesbian identity. ( 10 ) Yet they insist that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they are also Jewish . Deborah Kass 's artistic involvement with identity issues first emerged from her strong feminist convictions . As early as 1986 , feminist issues were hinted at in her abstract paintings , which cited stereotypically " male " painterly gestures and color schemes . By 1989 , these concerns were expressed through a more recognizable iconography , for example quotes from the imagery of Pop art masters . The same year Kass moved to incorporate Jewish references along with feminist ones , realizing that these two inextricably linked aspects of her person needed to be joined in her work . Her first Jewish work began with the large-scale canvas Subject Matters . Kass situated a gold-leafed " I , " based on a medieval manuscript illumination , dead center in this triptych , surrounding that letter/word with imagery from a range of visual sources  --  a decapitated Lucy from Charles Schultz 's comic strip Peanuts , eyeglasses from an early construction by Jasper Johns , and the all-too-familiar piles of eyeglasses from Auschwitz . The painting 's double-entendre title signals her intention to comment on personal subjectivity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ possibilities still extant for representational art. ( 11 ) Kass moved headlong into the realm of Jewish identity in her series of " Jewish Jackies " ( 1992-94 ) . Here she purposely borrowed the multi-image format of Warhol 's early celebrity portraits to call attention to the female Jewish superstar whom Warhol omitted from his Hollywood pantheon : Barbra Streisand . Through Streisand , Kass explores the physical stereotype of Jewish female ethnicity . The critic Maurice Berger has described these works as " question ing the codes of beauty and normalcy that underwrite the subliminal anti-Semitism in American culture . " ( 12 ) It was a short leap from the " Jewish Jackies " to Kass 's " Yentl " paintings ( 1992-94 ) . These works , which show Streisand cross-dressed as Yentl in the film version of Isaac Bashevis Singer 's story , focus on issues of sexual and gender ambiguity . For Kass , Yentl  --  a woman who had to pass as a man in order to obtain the education she longed for  --  is essentially a Talmudic student in drag . Kass 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ third , now lesbian element to the artist 's earlier exploration of her Jewish and feminist selves . In visually recalling both Warhol 's repeating " macho " images of Elvis and Streisand 's portrayal of Yentl , Kass creates a convoluted scenario which questions standard sexual and gender roles as well as the male power structure encountered in both the art world and the traditional Jewish educational hierarchy . Adam Rolston took a different route to the artistic fusion of his gay and Jewish identities . He began with gay imagery , then added Jewish elements , and ultimately a cycle of purely Jewish neo-Pop paintings . These works share the strategy of multiple imagery with Kass 's " Jewish Jackie " and " Yentl " series . This is apparent in two early works with specifically gay content . His Condom Boxes ( 1990 ) combine an obvious allusion to Warhol 's Brillo Box sculptures and an AIDS reference to the necessity for prophylactics . I Love Jody Foster ( 1991 ) , an installation of hundreds of paper coffee cups on which Rolston stamped that phrase , was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as a lesbian. ( 13 ) Rolston 's first attempt at including Jewish references within the homosexual context of his art resulted in an admittedly problematic work , Serial Killings ( 1992 ) . Here Rolston juxtaposed silkscreen portraits of the homosexual serial killer Jeffrey Dahmer , carried out in paint mixed with samples of the artist 's blood , and fabricated replicas of barrels of the poisonous gas used by the Nazis in their attempted annihilation of European Jews and homosexuals . To understand this work , the audience must fathom the connection between the media hysteria over this " sex-driven " homosexual serial killer and the widespread attempt to stigmatize gay men , in the context of the AIDS epidemic , as criminal disease-carriers . The press release for the installation explains : This work springs from the complex identity of the artist as both Jew and homosexual . Rendering the ethnic and cultural identification of these groups in his own blood , Rolston invites the spectator to examine the biological hysteria that is rooted in and supports the figuration of the Jew as a pestilence and the artist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( 14 ) Rolston 's apposition of the Holocaust with AIDS victims mirrors the recent writings of cultural historians Sander Gilman and Alisa Solomon , each of whom exposes the similarities in the semiotics of marginalization used to stigmatize Jews during the Nazi era and gays during the AIDS crisis. ( 15 ) Serial Killings is a highly provocative , even inflammatory , work , one which has drawn mixed reactions . Nevertheless it was this uncomfortable exploration at the intersection of the artist 's Jewish and gay identities that prompted him to further probe Jewish subjects . One series of beautifully drafted drawings details the surgical procedure of rhinoplasty , a common operation for upper-middle-class Jews who seek to change their facial features to conform with the canons of American Anglo-Saxon beauty. ( 16 ) Rolston 's cent exhibition at Fawbush Gallery was a " kosher " spinoff of his condom-box installation. ( 17 ) It consisted of a series of large paintings that depict Goodman 's , Horowitz-Magareten , Manichewitz and Streit 's matzo boxes , all rendered in a Warholesque Pop mode . These extravaganzas reflect Rolston 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ assimilated , Beverly Hills upbringing . In essence , his work is a Jewish variation on Pop art , one that calls attention to the striking absence of ethnic imagery in the cool , secular Pop movement . Cary Leibowitz , who exhibits under the provocative pseudonym Candy Ass , has created a style that is a distinctly gay artistic gloss on an American popular culture dominated by a white , heterosexual male power structure . Leibowitz 's work grows out of the intense alienation he felt growing up in American society , and the verbal and physical abuse he encountered as an outsider from what was considered normative sexual orientation . He offers an upper-middle-class , suburban version of Mike Kelley 's urban working-class esthetic . The art of each is meant to underscore the emotionally repressed nature of life in America , the deceptive security associated with childhood , and the ultimate inability of art to transcend reality . In his various installations at Stux gallery , Leibowitz has presented intentionally humble , " pathetic " reformulations of the typical white male teenager 's bedroom and dorm room , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . His affectionately trivializing homages to modernist male masters , such as a painting that airily announces I Love Picasso ( 1990 ) , are meant as a parody of high art and the way that male artists are stereotyped in terms of roles like " preppie , " " jock " or " bully . " Obviously the cutesy style of his parodies , their confessional tone and often dejected vision offer a terse critique of high modernism and its predominantly male , presumably straight artist-heroes . But Leibowitz has also presented works that criticize the high-tech appropriation tactics of such artists as Jeff Koons , Ashley Bickerton , Meyer Vaisman and Haim Steinbach . Leibowitz 's " loser " art purposely blasts these postmodern examples of macho genius and their sleek , chilly commentaries on the commodification of the art work. ( 18 ) In late 1992 Leibowitz , working with artist/critic Rhonda Lieberman , began to take an interest in Jewish culture. ( 19 ) In the controversial " Fake Chanel " show they presented at Stux in December 1992 see " Artworld , " Feb. ' ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ descent of European designer merchandise into the realm of American kitsch , and in exploring the association of those high-ticket items with the cultural stereotype of the Jewish-American Princess . The exhibition included a variety of transformed Jewish foodstuffs given new trademarks , like Chanel Matzo meal , along with a line of designer black-and-white bejeweled yarmulkes , among other secular consumer wares . One corner displayed fabricated Hanukkah holiday trappings . Included here were such novel concoctions as a standard poor-man 's tin Hanukkah lamp transformed into a high-fashion item through the addition of a Chanel logo , a Hanukkah " geltbelt " ( a Chanel-style chain belt to which are appended the gold-foil chocolate coins given to children at Hanukkah ) and a Chanel Hanukkah menorah . The latter was made from a fake Chanel bag purchased from a street vendor and nine of the designer 's lipsticks , which were used to replace the usual candleholders and candlesticks  --  a " no muss , no fuss " lamp . The " Fake Chanel " show was a tongue-in-cheek indictment of American consumerism and conformism , but it also @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this mythological creature , whose desires focus on high-priced European designer objects that supposedly transform her into a discreet and elegant , ethnically pareve woman ( " neutral , " in Jewish dietary laws ) , a stereotype created by outside culture or an image propagated through Jewish self-hatred ? ( 20 ) While a relative newcomer to the art world , Neil Goldberg has attracted attention with his deceptively upbeat sculptural constructions of 3-D photos of Jewish comedians pasted on matzo and embedded in resin , such as the six-part panel Shecky ( 1992 ) . The image alludes both to the stereotype of the Jewish borscht-belt funnyman and to the more recent aversion among assimilationist Jews to the very comics Jews had once so loyally supported. ( 21 ) As can be seen from the religious and antiracist comments inscribed on his Moses/Jesus/Sammy , Goldberg probes even more troubling issues related to anti-Semitism , such as the notion that Judaism  --  often seen in the U.S. as a " white man 's religion "  --  could be used as a vehicle enabling blacks ( in this case Sammy Davis @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the AIDS crisis and , more specifically , to a Hasidic protest directed against Jewish gays which took place during Passover week in 1993 Goldberg was prompted to create two hinged matzo memorials  --  an AIDS/Plague wall , in which each matzo bears the medical name of one of the infections related to AIDS . He was profoundly upset at the notion that Jews , who had themselves suffered so much as a reviled minority in their millennial history , would ask their God to send plagues upon another , marginalized portion of their own religious group . He was outraged at the hypocrisy of the Hasidic stance against gays , given the insistence of the Hasidim on their own right to practice a highly exclusive religious lifestyle . Goldberg also served as set designer for a multimedia performance called The Third Seder at LaMama theater in 1993 , for which he created a " wailing wall " made entirely of matzo and evocatively backlit by candles. ( 22 ) The performance included the band known as the Klezmatics , dancers David Dorfman and Lisa Race , and writer/actor Richard @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ novel Empathy , which deals with generational conflict in a dysfunctional Jewish family . Presented on the night before the first seder , the event brought together left-wing and gay issues with ethnic shtick in a way that was both humorous and poignant . The seder ceremony , a commemoration of the exodus of the Jews from Egypt , has often been reinterpreted within contemporary contexts , with present-day villains and aggressors substituting for the historical Egyptian thugs. ( 23 ) So the performance collaborative used this secular seder as an opportunity to add AIDS to the list of oppressors and persecutors in Jewish history . Formed in early 1992 , the performance collaborative known as Jew Meat was a specifically gay/Jewish group that included Matthew Silverstein , John Ellis and Doug Sadownick . ( The group disbanded in 1993 , and Silverstein and Sadownick have begun a new group called Two Spirit Salon . ) As with Adam Rolston and Neil Goldberg , Jew Meat 's work critically explored the semiotics of gay stereotyping during the current AIDS epidemic , particularly its similarity to anti-Semitic propaganda of the Nazi era @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ parallels to the Jewish/gay experience , for example in dances conflating gay sexuality with Orthodox Jewish religious rites . Their imagery occasionally hovered near but never descended into blasphemy ; it was obvious that these artists were too soulfully Jewish to mock their religion . Doug Sadownick explained the group 's stance in these words : The message is that for generations and generations Jews have learned to close their eyes to their corporeality and to repress their sexuality . Sex is not a Jewish thing at all . We were oppressed , we were persecuted and we knew that the only means of driving away the goyim was through our intellectual capacities .... We too , as gay men , live in a minority . We too have questions of identity , and sometimes our existence is threatened . And we are building a bridge to religion for ourselves . Yes , we want part in Judaism . Yes , we want the good things that are in it . And not just that , we have something to contribute , and this in a metaphorical sense , is somewhere @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In combining the ethnic , cultural and religious aspects of Jewish identity with sexual orientation , the work of these artists reflects the role played by feminist , lesbian and gay scholarship in directing closer attention to the complex intersections of race , class and gender. ( 25 ) As varied as the new multiple identities they help to create , these artists ' works are an acknowledgement of the ambiguous , often closeted identities that have been constructed for ( and by ) both Jews and gays in America . 1 . See the catalogue Difference : On Representation and Sexuality , New York , The New Museum of Contemporary Art , 1984 , with essays by Graig Owens , Lisa Tickner , Jacqueline Rose , Peter Wollen and Jane Weinstock . The exhibition was organized by Kate Linker and Jane Weinstock. 2 . For a partial list of the museum exhibitions , see Abigail Solomon-Godeau and Constance Lewallen , Mistaken Identities , Santa Barbara , University Art Museum , 1993 , p. 79. 3 . Jews were , however , represented in the recent exhibition " Counterweight , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Barbara Contemporary Arts Forum in 1992 , and in the traveling exhibition " Ciphers of Identity , " organized by Maurice Berger , in 1993 . In the Santa Barbara exhibition , the construction of Jewish identity was based on the model of the Jewish artist as Holocaust survivor . 4 . See Norman L. Kleeblatt and Susan Chevlowe , Painting a Place in America : Jewish Artists in New York , 1900-1945 , New York , The Jewish Museum ( in cooperation with Indiana University ) , 1991. 5 . Adrian Piper was among the earliest and most vocal artists to push ideas about " passing " to the center stage of art . 6 . See Susan Tumarkin Goodman , Jewish Themes/Contemporary American Art , New York , The Jewish Museum , 1982 , and Jewish Themes/Contemporary American Art II , New York , The Jewish Museum , 1986. 7 . The focus of the June 1993 Moment magazine was " Homosexuality and Judaism , " with a series of articles reflecting various opinions on where lesbians and gays stand in relationship to Judaism . See also Alisa Solomon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The Shonder that Dares Not Speak Its Name , " Village Voice , June 29 , 1993 , pp. 26 , 33 , 34 , and Judith Plaskow , " Burning in Hell , Conservative Movement Style , " Tikkun , May/June 1993 , pp. 49-50. 8 . Kenneth E. Silver , " Modes of Disclosure : The Construction of Gay Identity and the Rise of Pop Art , " in Donna De Salvo and Paul Schimmel , Hand-Painted Pop : American Art in Transition , 1955-196 , Los Angeles , The Museum of Contemporary Art , 1993 , pp. 178-203 . For the representation of homosexual themes in earlier American modernist art , see Jonathan Weinberg , Speaking for Vice : Homosexuality in the Art of Charles Demuth , Marsden Hartley , and the First American Avant-Garde , New Haven , Yale University Press , 1993. 9 . Renee Green as quoted in Homi K. Bhabha , " Beyond the Pale : Art in the Age of Multicultural Translation , " in the catalogue 1993 Biennial Exhibition , New York , Whitney Museum of American Art , p. 65. 10 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " 1993 Whitney Biennial , p. 58. 11 . Stephen Westfall , " Deborah Kass : Subject Matters , " Contemporanea 22 , November 1990 , p. 64. 12 . Maurice Berger , " Seeing Myself , Seeing Myself , " unpublished text for " Slittamenti , " an exhibition organized by Christian Leigh for the 1993 Venice Biennale. 13 . For a brief discussion of the journalistic aspects of Foster 's " outing " see Michelangelo Signorile , Queer in America , New York , Random House , 1993 , pp. 89-90 , 309-10. 14 . " Adam Rolston : Serial Killings , " press release from the Fawbush Gallery , June 1992. 15 . Sander Gilman , The Jew 's Body , New York and London , Routledge , 1991 , pp. 210-33 ; and Alisa Solomon , " The Eternal Queer in the Symbolic Landscape of Homophobia . We are the Jews , " Village Voice , Apr. 27 , 1993 , pp. 29 and 34. 16 . For a further discussion of the racist stereotyping related to the " Jew 's nose , " see Gilman , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ exhibition was shown at Fawbush Gallery from Jan. 8 through Feb. 5 , 1994. 18 . For a further extrapolation of these terms see Rhonda Lieberman , " The Loser Thing , " Artforum , September 1992 , pp. 78-92 , and Jack Bankowsky , " Slackers , " Artforum , November 1993 , pp. 96-100. 19 . See Rhonda Lieberman , " Glamourous Jewesses , " Artforum , January 1993 , pp. 5-6 ; " Miami Fantasia , Part One , " Artforum , February 1993 , pp. 8-9 ; " Miami Fantasia , Part Two , " Artforum , March 1993 , pp. 5-6. 20 . The show became quite controversial when Chanel 's attorneys tried to shut it down for trademark infringement . Leibowitz eventually won his point that this was an art show and as such protected by the First Amendment . See Carol Vogel 's " Inside Art " column , New York Times , Dec. 18 , 1992 , and Art in America , " Artworld , " February 1993 , p. 128 . For an anthropological discussion of the stereotype of the Jewish-American Princess @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ n't Sweat : Desire and Consumption in Post-War American Jewish Culture , " in Howard Eilberg-Schwartz , People of the Body : Jews and Judaism from an Embodied Perspective , Albany , SUNY Press , 1992 , pp. 329-59. 21 . For a discussion of the fate of comedian Jackie Mason 's career , see Sander Gilman , Jew 's Body , pp. 25-30. 22 . Alisa Solomon , " Pursued by a Bear : Feast of Freedom , " Village Voice , Apr. 13 , 1993 , p. 93 . This performance has been repeated with some changes in 1994 and 1995. 23 . El Lissitzky 's Had Gadya of 1919 is an example in which the artist used the plight of Jews under the Egyptian bondage as an allegory for the Bolshevik victory . See Chimen Abramsky , " El Lissitsky as Jewish Illustrator and Typographer , " Studio International , October 1966 , pp. 182-85. 24 . Gil Chovev , " Are Gays Like Jews or the Reverse , " from the supplement to Chadashot , Dec. 2 , 1993 . My thanks to Michal Friedlander for her @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Henry Louis Gates , Jr. , " Multiplying Identities , " in Critical Inquiry , vol. 18. , no. 4 , 1992 , pp. 625-29 . <p>                     