@@409288

Almost universally , to be young means to be vulnerable and at risk . Once grown , most animals enjoy a measure of security and freedom unavailable to the small and weak . But the road from birth to adulthood can seem a long one , especially for those animals that start out tiny but  --  if they survive  --  mature into impressively large individuals . One of the most dramatic examples of a species with an immense range in body size through life is the American lobster . Hatching with a body weight of less than one-tenth of a gram , these lobsters can grow to a hefty ten kilograms ( twenty-two pounds ) or more , increasing their weight by a factor of 100,000 . This would be comparable to a 5-pound newborn human growing into a 500,000-pound adult . Many large fish also have tiny larval beginnings , but lobsters are among the very few anthropods that start out so tiny and grow to such relatively gargantuan proportions . As lobsters grow , the changes in their size inevitably present them with different opportunities , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a crucial influence on many aspects of a creature 's life , affecting where it can live and what it can eat , as well as what may eat it . I suppose I have been impressed by the significance of body size ever since  --  at age eight  --  I first confronted a " brontosaurus " at the American Museum of Natural History . Although that first impression was certainly less than intellectual , when the time came to choose a topic for my dissertation , I can not help but think I was attracted to lobsters because of this great range in body size from birth to maturity ( aside , that is , from more culinary interests ) . Homarus americanus is an animal of great commercial and iconic significance . Lobstering is the largest single-species fishery in New England and the Canadian Maritime Provinces , and for many summer tourists , lobsters are nearly synonymous with the state of Maine . Because lobsters are so prized , I was not surprised to find that the species is tremendously well studied . Yet the whereabouts of the lobsters @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the wild remained unknown . To complete our picture of this great arthropod 's life cycle , I would first have to find its nursery ground . When I was a graduate student at the University of Maine , a research grant to my adviser , Bob Steneck , provided me with the financial and logistical support I needed . Like most marine animals that live on the sea floor , lobsters have a life cycle involving a free-swimming larval stage . ( Why such a life cycle is so common is the subject of much debate , but it likely has to do with the greater evolutionary advantages in this environment of dispersing offspring over a large area as opposed to depositing them all in one place . ) Lobster larvae , each about the size of a peppercorn , hatch from a brood of thousands of eggs carried by the mother under her abdomen ( known to most lobster-meat fans as the tail ) . After hatching , they spend several weeks adrift in the sea , joining the countless other tiny plants and animals known as plankton @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Only with the final larval molt are they transformed into recognizable , if tiny , clawed lobsters , prepared to take up life on the sea bottom . By the time these thumbnail-sized postlarvae settle , they are likely to be scores of miles away from their place of birth . Over the years , tag-and-recapture studies of harvestable lobsters ( approximately one pound and up ) caught in conventional traps have added greatly to our knowledge about the animals ' movements and growth . For example , we now know that a mature female can travel as much as 180 miles ( nearly the distance between New York and Boston ) in a year . Such long-distance movements may be seasonal and related to an attraction to warm water , for we also know that lobsters grow faster and mature sooner in warmer water . Lobsters living south of Cape Cod mature within five or six years , whereas those in the perpetually cold Bay of Fundy may take as long as nine years . But because lobster activity is temperature dependent , we can not know from traps alone @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are there . The widespread use of scuba and submersibles since the 1960s has increasingly enabled researchers to study lobsters on their own turf . Now we can take a census of lobster populations and describe their behavior and habitats at the same level of detail field scientists enjoy while studying lions on the Serengeti . From these sorts of studies , we know , for example , that lobsters are nocturnal , foraging for crabs and mussels at night and hiding in shelters along rocks and kelp during the day . Still , there remained a void in our knowledge about what lobsters do between the time they drop out of the plankton and the time they appear in traps several years later . Efforts to catch very young animals ( especially individuals born that year ) with traps and trawls failed , and as recently as the early 1980s , even divers sent down to look for them generally came up empty-handed . Scientists were not completely in the dark about baby lobsters , however . Larvae drifting along near the sea surface can be scooped up with fine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ do very well . State hatcheries , too , have for more than a century had success raising baby lobsters . Some laboratory studies have attempted to determine the kinds of habitats postlarval lobsters might prefer to settle in . The results were ambiguous . Some of the experiments showed that when given a choice at the time of settlement , lobsters take shelter in preexisting structures ( such as under rocks and inside shells , tires , or bottles ) rather than dig a burrow in plain mud . Given no choice , however , lobsters proved themselves born burrowers . Small lobsters excavate U-shaped tubes , even galleries of tubes , which they then ventilate with their swimmerets , the small , feathery appendages under the abdomen . As interesting as this behavioral flexibility is , it unfortunately did not help would-be field investigators narrow down likely nursery habitats . As a newcomer to the field in 1986 , I was naive in my approach to the problem and started diving to explore various sites . At that time , I received good advice from Richard Cooper , now @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Connecticut , who in the early seventies had led some of the first diver surveys of lobster populations in Maine for the National Marine Fisheries Service . On a nautical chart , he pointed out several rocky sites along the Maine coast where his divers had consistently found small lobsters . Upon my own visits to those and other sites , I too found them , including some that looked small enough to have settled just that year . But each time I tried to dismantle the cobblestone matrix in which the little lobsters hid , the silt I stirred up blinded my efforts to get a good count . No wonder earlier attempts had been frustrated . I needed to devise a better way , but winter was closing in , and I would have to wait until the next summer . By the summer of 1987 , I was satisfied I had the solution , using what may best be described as an underwater vacuum cleaner . This device , familiar to professional divers , uses air from a scuba tank to create a suction current . Holding the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can easily vacuum up small animals into a mesh bag as a partner moves the cobbles aside . Pleased with my success , I developed a system to take a census of what I saw as distinct habitats along the coast : sediment , cobble , bedrock , kelp beds , mussel beds , and eelgrass beds . Where I could , I examined these habitats at depths of fifteen and thirty feet . After this first summer of intense sampling , the pattern was clear . The smallest lobsters were concentrated in habitats providing shelter , with the highest densities of young-of-the-year lobsters in shallow cobble habitats : nearly four per square yard . Including the older lobsters , which are found in larger shelters , as many as twenty lobsters have been found in the same square yard . We found lower densities in kelp beds , where the baby lobsters took shelter in the cobblelike clumps of mussels under the kelp . Bedrock surfaces were devoid of lobsters . And despite their ability to burrow in mud , no young-of-the-year were found in featureless sediment . In the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Department of Fisheries and Oceans Canada , had discovered , and published a paper on , a similar pattern in the Gulf of Saint Lawrence . Later , another marine ecologist , Ken Able , of Rutgers University , and co-workers uncovered small lobsters in crevices of old fiddler crab burrows in the thick peat that lines salt-marsh creeks on a Cape Cod estuary . To my surprise , none of us found new settlers in eelgrass beds , long regarded as prime nursery habitat for lobsters and other marine animals . ( Even an eelgrass bed into which more than 90,000 lobsterlings had been released over the preceding three years turned up nothing . Yet a cobble bed immediately adjacent to the stocked eelgrass had one of the densest baby lobster populations in the region . ) These findings began to complete the picture of the lobster life cycle . The youngest lobsters seem restricted to habitats that provide existing shelter , but once they have grown to about the size of a finger  --  usually in their second or third year  --  they are less restricted . Lobsters @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with only the larger ones venturing out in the open very frequently . Since I knew from the earlier lab work that baby lobsters were good burrowers , I wondered why they were so restricted to habitats with ready-made shelter . Not surprisingly , the answer  --  or at least part of it  --  has a great deal to do with the risks of being so small . Traditionally , codfish were thought to be one of the biggest threats to young lobsters . One hundred years ago , Frances Herrick wrote in his classic treatise on the American lobster . " Next to man with his traps , the codfish is probably the most destructive enemy of the lobster ... it takes in soft and hardshell animals alike up to eight inches or more in length . " Herrick further describes a conversation with a Maine lobsterman who had cut open the stomach of a single large cod and found the remains of twenty-six lobsters inside . In his book Sea of Slaughter , Farley Mowat quotes fisherman John Rowan 's description of a 1896 excursion aboard " a schooner @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ three fathoms of water and we could see the bottom actually paved with codfish . I caught a dozen in about fifteen minutes . " Unfortunately , in the waters off the coast of New England today , codfish populations are much smaller than in earlier times , and an experience such as John Rowan 's is now unheard of . Plenty of evidence exists , however , that other fishes and crabs pose a threat to young lobsters . To test just how dangerous the little lobsters ' environment is , I used underwater video cameras to document the fates of lobsters of various sizes that I had tethered to the sea floor on monofilament leashes at a depth of about fifteen feet , In this way , I could record both the exact time a predator attacked and its identity . ( The tethering deprived lobsters of a means of escape or shelter , but since all lobsters in the experiment were treated the same , I could get a relative measure of predation rates on lobsters of different sizes . ) In more than eighty-five hours of daytime @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ crab predators but never a single cod . The most common were sculpin , well-camouflaged fish only a few inches long that lie motionlessly , stalk , and then pounce on their unsuspecting prey . Also common were juvenile cunner , the single species in the northern Gulf of Maine of a mostly tropical family of predatory fishes called wrasses . Collectively , these predators were quick to notice the newly arrived prey . Half of the smallest lobsters ( those just ready to settle ) were attacked within fifteen minutes of being placed on the bottom , and within forty-five minutes , half of the finger-sized lobsters were gone . In contrast , lobsters that had nearly reached harvestable size were never touched . The reason newly settled lobsters were never found burrowed in featureless mud quickly became clear : in spite of the lobsters ' considerable abilities , burrow construction is time consuming and may take hours . In the wild , a new settler would more than likely be attacked before it could dig its way to safety . The risk of being attacked declines sharply with size @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fishes and crabs , but they are not entirely free of predators . On offshore cruises with Bob Steneck 's crew , for example , I have witnessed four-foot-long wolffish attacking one-pound lobsters and bringing them back to their lairs to consume . And all lobsters , no matter how big , are vulnerable for several days after molting until the new exoskeleton has hardened . To examine whether lobsters of different sizes adjust their shelter use in response to predators , I designed a set of laboratory experiments . In these experiments , some of the lobsters were confronted with predators ; others , in the control groups , were left undisturbed . I observed that when a sculpin was present , the smallest lobsters ( those less than one inch long ) rarely ventured out of their shelter , while lobsters in the corresponding control group spent a considerable amount of time exposed . In contrast , when sculpin were placed with some of the larger individuals , these lobsters spent as much time outside their shelters as did their control group and aggressively displayed their claws . This @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , who established the neurological basis for the fight-or-flight response in growing lobsters . Curiously , in my experiment , even hours after the predator had been removed , lobsters continued to behave as they had in the presence of a predator , whether their reaction was to display or hide . Were they at a heightened state of awareness after their encounter or were they still sensing the predator ? To see , I ran another experiment , this time with only the smallest lobsters . I siphoned water from an aquarium that did have a predator into a lobster tank that had none and got the same result . Thus , lobsters are not only able to " smell " food , as every fisherman who baits a trap counts on , and as other research has demonstrated ; they can also detect the odor of predators . And whereas one stimulus lures lobsters from their shelters , the other reverses that response . But how do these conflicting stimuli affect a lobster 's decision to stay sheltered or leave ? Ample field and lab evidence suggests that lobsters @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the food , as do nesting birds and squirrels . I have frequently seen piles of empty mussel shells at the opening of lobster shelters , evidence of previous meals . Peter Lawton , a behavioral ecologist , then at the State University of New York at Stony Brook , demonstrated experimentally that the hungrier juvenile lobsters are , the more time they tend to spend out foraging . Tracy MacKenzie , a graduate student at the University of Rhode Island , conducted further experiments  --  forcing some hungry lobsters to confront the complication of a predator nearby , while letting others build up an appetite in peace . She found that like many other animals , lobsters reduce their foraging time when there is a risk of being killed . The results of these experiments , combined with the striking tendency of small lobsters in my experiments to seek shelter , suggested that the littlest individuals almost always opt for safety and that larger lobsters range more widely simply because they are less likely to be preyed upon . However , the story is more complicated than that , as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Kari Lavalli , and Donald Bryant-Rich revealed . They found that in naturalistic lab setups , minus predators , newly settled lobsters managed to grow without ever leaving their shelters . These young lobsters must have subsisted on whatever food was available within their shelters . In separate experiments , they demonstrated that new settlers survive on a diet of suspended material , such as phytoplankton and zooplankton . These findings suggested , as an alternative to the predation-risk hypothesis , that the shift from a cryptic to a more wide-ranging life style may simply be determined by a growing need for more food . For now , both explanations seem reasonable . As long as their food is essentially delivered to them , the tiniest lobsters may not need to make any trade-off between food and security . Eventually , however , they will need more food than happens to grow or float nearby , and they will have to begin making forays away from home . At this point , growing lobsters must weigh the dangers and benefits ( perhaps perceived via chemical cues ) associated with leaving in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and manages to avoid a lobster trap , it may get impressively large . Lobsters , like many crustaceans and fishes , are indeterminate growers ; that is , they just keep on growing throughout their lives . Greater size brings greater safety , increasing egg production , and competitive superiority , which enhance the chances of leaving offspring . The largest lobster I have found on record was 42.4 pounds ( my five-year-old son weighs 45 pounds ) . Lobsters have no growth rings to tell their age , but it is intriguing to speculate on the possible age of very big lobsters , which may be more than a hundred years old . But no matter how long a lobster lives , the first few moments after it settles on the sea floor may be the most critical of its life . <p>                     