@@401248

This Southern city serves up more than cornbread and country music . // When you hear " Nashville , " what pops into your mind ? A pedal steel guitar ? A plaintive wail about love gone wrong ? How about a Bible-thumpin ' Baptist preacher or an eyelash-battin ' Southern belle ? Whatever your stereotype of Nashville , there 's at least a bit of truth to it . After all , this is the place where " hillbilly music " was transformed into what we now call " country , " and the sound that made the city famous continues to dominate the city 's economy . Nashville is also the self-proclaimed " buckle of the Bible Belt , " the center of the Christian publishing industry and a bastion of conservative politics . But if you think you know Nashville , think again-a visit to this city is likely to surprise you . Nashville has changed a lot in the last 10 years . A revitalized downtown and the unprecedented boom in country music 's popularity have put the city in the national spotlight . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rents and traffic jams , media moguls from both coasts have flocked here . Add in students from more than a dozen universities , medical professionals from a number of hospitals and countless upwardly mobile twentysomethings from the publishing , finance and insurance industries , and you have a vital urban mix that defies any conceivable stereotype . And that goes for the food too . As a vegetarian , you might have expected to scrape by on cole slaw and cornbread-and you can enjoy plenty of both , along with cooked greens and sweet potatoes . But you 'll also be delighted to find flash-fried tofu with Vietnamese chili sauce and miso-tahini " cream cheese " or a yummy Napoleon of crispy fried potatoes and wild mushrooms , drizzled with balsamic vinegar . The truth is , you 'll get a lot more than side dishes from Nashville 's surprisingly cosmopolitan restaurants . THE DISTRICT AND MUSIC ROW When it comes to tourist dollars , country is king-and no one who loves the genre can resist a visit to the downtown area known as " The District . " Here @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Gruhn Guitars or some vintage vinyl at the Ernest Tubb Record Shop . And of course , you 'll find country music shrines like Ryman Auditorium , birthplace of the Grand Ole Opry . Sure , you can still relive the days when stars like Patsy Cline debuted here , but an $8.5 million renovation has breathed new life into the venerable institution , with bluegrass , jazz and classical music sharing the spotlight with country acts . Yet , vegetarians looking to reap the culinary benefits of the new Nashville should forget the downtown area and head to what some locals call the " liberal triangle , " an area bounded by legendary Music Row , the intersection of 1-440 and West End Avenue and Hillsboro Village . Known officially as Music Square East , " Tourist " Music Row is a motley collection of gift shops and " museums " ( read : gift shops ) devoted to country stars like George Jones and Hank Williams Junior and Senior . " See the car Hank died in , " invites one morbid sign . But on the corner of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Country Music Hall of Fame , a great place to delve deeper into the history of the music and its stars . An added bonus : Your hall of fame ticket gets you a tour of RCA 's legendary Studio B , where Johnny Cash , Elvis Presley and Dolly Parton recorded hits , as well as a tour of the real Music Row , a collection of Craftsman-style bungalows on a quiet , tree-lined boulevard . The neighborhood 's musicians , producers and engineers are always on the lookout for delicious , nutritious fast food , and Peaceful Planet delivers . Coowner and chef Gabrielle Mittelstaedt and partners Curtis and Sharlay Westbrook serve an all-vegan , sugar-free lunch buffet to an appreciative local crowd . You 'll find incredible tofu burgers and an outstanding salad bar along with hot items like cooked greens , wild rice pilaf and vegetable ratatouille . When they 're in the mood to celebrate , musicians and moguls alike head over to Bound'ry , a sophisticated veg-friendly hot spot with Chagall-inspired murals and fantastic food . Chef Michael Cribb was among the first to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and he 's constantly experimenting . Tofu is cured and smoked ; squash and melon become veggie " sashimi " and wheat berries team up with pinto and black beans as a phenomenal burrito filling . Because much of Bound'ry 's menu is meat-based , your best bet is to call ahead so that Cribb and his talented colleagues can make something special for you and your party . WEST END AVENUE A journey from Music Row down West End Avenue takes you past Vanderbilt University and Centennial Park , home of Nashville 's beloved Parthenon . This fullscale replica of the Greek temple , built in 1896 for the Tennessee Centennial Exposition , cemented the city 's claim as " The Athens of the South . " In addition to providing a home for Nashville 's art collections , the Parthenon boasts the tallest indoor sculpture in the Western world-a reproduction of the original 's statue of Athena Parthenos . Deborah Paquette , chef and co-owner of Zola ( formerly Cakewalk ) , is practically a Nashville institution herself . The 1978 Culinary Arts Institute graduate has made her mark @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that all of her menus feature a few richly flavored vegetarian options . At Zola , try Sharona 's Egyptian Bean Pot , a savory pie filled with lentils , favas , giant lima beans , portobello mushrooms and feta cheese . Day after day , students , medical staff and music professionals pack the Calypso Cafe near Centennial Park . This deservedly popular lunch spot serves fresh , down-home Caribbean and Southern food ; do n't miss the legendary Cuban black beans , the Boija muffins ( Caribbean sweet cornbread ) or the St. Lucian rice and Martinique callaloo-an island-style take on classic Southern mustard greens . On Church Street , a block from West End Avenue , is The Dancing Bear , the sleeper of the Nashville veggie scene . Owner/chef Daniel Maggipinto attended the New York Restaurant School , broadening his skills with stints as a chef in France and China . But he really learned to cook as a child by watching his mother and grandmother prepare traditional Italian fare . Maggipinto 's menu features more vegetarian offerings than meat dishes , all based on Mediterranean cuisine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and fresh basil leaves topping pappardella noodles-or the decadent Lasagna Nonna with layers of tender eggplant , wild mushrooms and ricotta cheese , topped with fresh mozzarella and Parmigiano-Reggiano cheese . HILLSBORO VILLAGE Though Nashville is somewhat of a haven for conservatives , its residents have had a long history of breaking with tradition . Take Adelicia Acklen , commonly referred to as " the original Steel Magnolia . " In the mid-1800s , the scandal-making Acklen married three different-and wealthymen in an era when divorce was virtually unheard of . Her beloved home , Belmont Mansion , is just south of Hillsboro Village , the third node of the liberal triangle . The shops and restaurants clustered around the intersection of 21st Avenue South and Wedgewood make the Village a great place to find a book , a loaf of bread , a pound of coffee and an excellent meal . Near the Village Center is the Acklen Post Office , named for Adelicia , which boasts a wall of autographed publicity photos donated by country stars and other Nashville notables . Do n't miss the photo of the Mother @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ accident , the " Nun Bun " bears a striking resemblance to its namesake . The photo was donated by Bob Bernstein , vegetarian co-owner of nearby Fido , located on the Village 's main drag . This coffeehouse ( they roast their own coffee beans ) has a particularly veggie-friendly menu , thanks to chef Kim Totzke-Farr and Bernstein 's partner Kate Sage . Beyond the regular coffeehouse fare , the menu includes everything from baked goods to hearty sandwiches , veggie burgers , paella and excellent homemade ratatouille . A huge menu , with a variety of vegetarian dishes , carries the day at the Sunset Grill , right around the corner from Fido . Executive Chef Jeff Lunsford 's cuisine includes an ambrosial potato-mushroom Napoleon and a positively addictive chocolate zucchini cake . The crowd is welldressed , the decor stylish , the wine list impressive and the prices reasonable . In the wee hours , the Grill also serves a halfprice menu , enticing both impoverished students and late night club hoppers . OTHER ENVIRONS Parents with small children rarely go out to eat with their kids @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ But that 's not a problem at Cafe Bambino , a " kid-friendly coffeehouse " with lots of space to run and play . Located near the Hundred Oaks Mall south of the city , the place is owned by proud parents Greg and Susie Razmus . Do n't miss Chef Michael Grey 's Mixed Baby Greens salad with basil vinaigrette , the vegetarian quesadilla and the aptly named Grilled Veggie Bliss sandwich ; all are sublime . A great selection of coffees and sweets by pastry chef Patricia Golter ( try the triple-chocolate torte ) rounds out the menu . Closer to downtown , Jody 's Restaurant and Barcar features unique dishes that match European and Southern ingredients with Mediterranean and Pacific Rim cooking techniques . Like most Nashville restaurants , Jody 's serves vegetarian dishes in addition to meat , but a party of four vegans could order separate appetizers and entrees without stretching the menu to its limits . Highlights include the vegan Buddha Bowl ( brown basmati rice , black beans , steamed kale , baked tofu and delicious Yeasty Gulch Gravy ) and " shake-and-bake tofu @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or picnic fixin 's ? Head over to Sunshine Grocery , a Nashville institution acquired in 1997 by Wild Oats Markets . An excellent selection of natural food staples is complemented by an amazing deli with delicious prepared sides , salads , entrees , vegan cookies , fruit tarts and bread . There 's no doubt about it : Nashville is a great combination of city flash and country charm . Besides plenty of bootscootin ' ' , two-steppin ' ' , star-studded fun , there are loads of mouthwaterin ' ' , fingerlickin ' ' , trendsettin ' food to be found . You do n't even have to look hard . Author Affiliation Susan Shumaker and Than Saffel are working on a series of vegetarian travel guides . // <p>                     