@@394832

Every second a huge amount of energy pours out of the Sun , providing the inhabitants of Earth with light and heat . Created deep in the Sun 's hydrogen-burning heart , this energy flows from the Sun 's visible surface . The brightness of the surface , however , prevents astronomers from gazing directly into the Sun 's interior , even though it 's less than one-thousandth of the Sun 's radius thick . Without a direct view inside , researchers have struggled to learn how the Sun generates energy and how that energy moves from the center to the surface . Fortunately , the energy leaves behind traces of its motion as it passes through the Sun , and solar astronomers are learning how to read these telltale signs and what they reveal about the star 's interior . Unraveling the motion of the energy first requires understanding how the escaping energy interacts with gas at the surface . And then deciphering what the motion says about the interior requires tracing the path of a packet of energy , or photon , back to the Sun @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , a layer several hundred kilometers thick aptly named the photosphere . A close look at the photosphere reveals that it has a rice-grain pattern , called granulation , which results from gas motions in the Sun 's atmosphere ( see the illustration on the next page ) . Granules have diameters of about 1,000 kilometers , so more than a million of them cover the Sun 's surface . They reach a depth of about 300 km , about the same depth as the photosphere . Granules result from convection , the transfer of heat energy by the motion of material . Just below the photosphere the hydrogen gas has a temperature of about 20,000 kelvins , which is cool enough to allow hydrogen nuclei to capture electrons . The capture provides a kick to the gas motions , creating granules . The centers of granules are bright because material there upwells ( at around 2 km/s ) from hotter layers below . Surrounding the irregularly shaped granule is a dark lane of sinking material that is still quite hot , but it appears darker because it is a few @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ granule . Observations of granules reveal that they live for 20 minutes on average . An observer tracking the gas motions of granules also notices another phenomenon called the five-minute oscillations . Gas motions near the surface create low-frequency sound waves , also called pressure modes or p-modes , that cause patches of the surface to rise and fall about every five minutes . One key for probing the Sun 's interior is to study how the sound waves bounce around the surface . Because temperature increases inward , the speed of sound also increases inward . The increasing speed of sound below the photosphere bends the inward-moving waves back toward the surface . The outward-moving sound waves ca n't penetrate the surface , so they bounce off the surface and travel inward once again . The distance between bounces reflects the depth to which the wave penetrated . Besides the granules and sound waves , astronomers detect other motions at the Sun 's surface . Granules have a larger counterpart called supergranules ( see illustration opposite ) . Supergranules are n't visible to the eye because the small temperature difference @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in brightness . They appear only in observations of the gas motions . Gas gently spreads out ( at about 0.5 km/s ) from the centers of these convection cells and sinks at their edges . Supergranules are about 30 times larger than granules , with diameters of around 30,000 km , depths of 10,000 km , and a lifetime of about two days . They , like the granules , help to bring up heat from lower layers to the Sun 's surface . And like the granules , their motions get kick-started . About 20,000 km below the surface , the temperature reaches 150,000 K. Below this region , helium nuclei have no electrons orbiting them . But in this region , helium nuclei capture their first electrons , giving the extra push needed to form supergranules . Besides the motions of the granules , supergranules , and sound waves , another motion of the surface captures astronomers ' attention  --  rotation . The Sun rotates once in about 27 days , but because the Sun is a ball of gas it does not have to rotate at the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ near the Sun 's equator rotates in 24 days while gas near the poles takes more than 30 days to rotate . This " differential rotation " of the Sun results from the interaction between the Sun 's rotation and gas motions in the layer beneath the photosphere . This layer , called the convection zone , extends about 150,000 km below the photosphere , roughly a quarter of the way to the Sun 's center . ( See illustration on page 40 . ) Solar astronomers think broad , slow-moving gas currents called giant cells carry the heat upward from the bottom of the layer , which has a temperature of 2 million K. As the rising gas approaches the surface , it expands and cools . Colder gas sinks to the bottom to be heated by energy from below so it can again rise and carry energy toward the surface . The Sun 's rotation plays an important role in the dynamics of the convection zone . While it is too slow to influence the rapid convective motions in granules and supergranules , its effect on giant cells is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ narrow east-to-west . The resulting giant cells resemble bananas with their small ends near the poles . The horizontal flow in these cells is mostly east and west . However , the Sun 's west-to-east rotation makes the eastward flows turn toward the equator . This motion adds to the rotation and speeds up the equatorial regions so they rotate more rapidly than the average . Westward flows turn toward the poles and act against the rotation , causing the polar regions to rotate more slowly . Gas motions in the convection zone also control the Sun 's magnetic fields . The best known products of these fields are the dark sunspots . During an 11-year cycle , sunspots increase in number and slowly migrate from high to low latitude . In many ways , magnetic fields behave like rubber bands . They can stretch , twist , and break , and they can fold back on themselves to become stronger . Differential rotation stretches out the Sun 's magnetic field and wraps it around the star like thread wound on a spool . This strengthens the field so much that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ through the surface like segments of a giant sea-serpent . The magnetic field at the surface stops the flow of heat , creating the cooler sunspots . Below the convection zone lies the radiative zone , extending from 25 to 90 percent of the way to the center . As its name implies , energy moves through the radiative zone by radiation , namely as photons of energy . Temperature increases slowly through the radiative zone from 2 million K near the convection zone to around 10 million K at its bottom . Throughout this layer , the gas is hot enough to keep the nuclei of hydrogen , helium , and most of the heavier elements completely stripped of electrons . The border between the convection and radiative zones occurs where the temperature allows some heavy nuclei to capture electrons . This makes it more difficult for photons to pass through the gas because atoms absorb and scatter light more efficiently than bare nuclei and electrons do . The increased light-absorbing ability , or opacity , traps some of the radiation , which keeps the temperature elevated . Atoms also @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ do . These two effects , increased opacity and heat capacity , make gas motions a more efficient way of transporting energy than radiation . So from this point outward , convection carries the heat , while inside radiation dominates . All of the energy arises from nuclear burning deep within the Sun 's core . At the center , the temperature reaches 15 million kelvins and the pressure compresses gas to a density about 10 times that of gold or lead . These conditions cause hydrogen nuclei to fuse together , creating helium and giving off energy in the form of X rays . These nuclear reactions take place in the innermost 10 percent of the Sun , a volume about the size of the planet Jupiter . Reaching the core , we can now summarize the path of energy from its source to the surface where it escapes into space . X rays generated by hydrogen fusion rattle around in the core , traveling only a small fraction of a millimeter before being absorbed and reradiated by an atom . Light travels from the Sun 's surface to Earth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ little over 8 minutes . In the same time , an X ray travels only 1 centimeter in the Sun 's interior . The X rays slowly work their way from the core and next wind their way through the radiative zone . The energy has to heat more and more gas as it moves out , so temperatures in the radiative zone drop . By the time the photons reach the junction of the radiative and convection zones , the gas reradiates the energy at longer wavelengths but still as X rays . When the photon enters into the convection zone , it heats the surrounding gas . But instead of reradiating the energy , the gas now rises , carrying the heat energy with it . The motion is part of a larger ballet by giant cells that try to carry the heat all the way to the surface . About 20,000 km from the surface , the dropping temperature causes atoms to form and smaller supergranules to transport the bulk of the heat . Closer to the surface , granules ( rather than supergranules ) are more efficient @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , low-density gas of the photosphere becomes transparent and radiates as visible light the energy of the X rays generated a million years ago in the core . This basic picture of the Sun has existed for decades and forms a cornerstone for understanding other stars . No one doubts that this model is basically correct , but it hits snags when researchers try to meld it with theories describing the Sun 's magnetic field . Solar astronomers have developed two classes of theories to explain the behavior of the Sun 's magnetic activity cycle . The first class makes assumptions about how giant cells twist and fold the magnetic fields and then explores how differential rotation must change with solar radius to reproduce the observed behavior of the activity cycle . These theories predict that the Sun 's rotation rate must increase inward through the convection zone . Otherwise the average latitude of sunspots would not migrate toward the equator during the 11-year sunspot cycle as observed . The second class models the structure and dynamics of the solar interior and allows convective motions to produce the differential rotation . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inward through the convection zone . Although these models represent convection and differential rotation in an internally consistent way , they fail to reproduce the observed magnetic behavior  --  the average latitude of sunspots through the activity cycle moves poleward instead of equatorward . And both groups of theories tend to produce short sunspot cycles , one to two years in length instead of the required 11 years . The fundamental problem is that convective motions seem to be too efficient in moving magnetic fields around in the convection zone . Better theories are needed , but actual observations of the giant cell convection and the internal differential rotation rate would be far more useful in furthering understanding of the solar interior . Direct views of these features are impossible because the opaque photosphere hides them , but solar astronomers have borrowed a trick from geologists to peer below the surface . On Earth , seismologists use seismic waves ( essentially sound waves traveling through rock ) produced by earthquakes to probe our planet 's interior . By measuring the properties of sound waves in the photosphere , helioseismologists can determine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Sound waves produced by convection become trapped within the Sun and set up a pattern of vibrations . By measuring the speeds of different waves , astronomers can determine the temperature of different layers because the speed of sound increases as temperature increases . Likewise , they can deduce internal motions by measuring the difference in the speed of waves moving in opposite horizontal directions . To " see " below the surface , observers must accurately determine both the structure of the waves ( the pattern on the surface ) and their periods  --  the intervals between wave peaks . This requires imaging the Sun almost continuously  --  once a minute for many weeks  --  and with high spatial resolution . Early efforts to observe the waves have produced some results . These measurements indicate that the base of the convection zone lies at a depth of 200,000 km , compared with the 150,000 km that theories suggested . Other wave measurements show that helium makes up about 24 percent of the mass of the convection zone , about what theorists predicted . And it appears that the differential @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ convection zone . This contradicts both classes of theories for the solar activity cycle . The rotation rate , however , does change at the base of the convection zone . In the transition layer between the radiative and convection zones , the differential rotation slowly disappears . Gas in the radiative zone rotates at nearly the same rate , as a rigid body such as Earth rotates . These observations lead researchers to believe that the source of the Sun 's magnetic cycle is in the gas motions of the transition layer . The nature of the magnetic fields also supports this . If a magnetic field arose in the convection zone , it would rise so rapidly through the zone that convective motions would have too little time to act on it . On the other hand , magnetic fields anchored in the transition layer would be stretched out by the differential rotation and twisted and folded by convective flows that penetrate into the region from above . With this insight , theorists have redoubled their efforts to find a model that reproduces the activity cycle . Advances in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ efforts to observe solar waves and oscillations . Most solar observatories can observe for only 10 to 12 hours a day and for a few days at a time while the weather cooperates . From the South Pole , astronomers have observed the Sun for several days without interruption but only for a few weeks out of the year . To get around this , the National Solar Observatory in Tucson , Arizona , is building six identical instruments to measure the oscillations . These instruments will form the Global Oscillation Network Group to observe from six different sites around the world . GONG already has a prototype on line in Tucson and will start deploying equipment to the other sites during early 1995 . This network of observatories will obtain nearly continuous observations of solar oscillations for three years . NASA and the European Space Agency are funding a similar instrument to be flown on the Solar and Heliospheric Observatory ( SOHO ) mission in the summer of 1995 . This space-based instrument will have two months of continuous observations with much higher spatial resolution than GONG and without the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It will then continue to observe for the rest of a year with somewhat less spatial resolution and then repeat the process for two more years . Together , the observations from GONG and SOHO should reveal new information about the dynamics and structure of the Sun 's interior . In particular , the new observations should better resolve the structure and motions in the region between the radiative and convection zones . After 20 years of trying , solar astronomers may finally glimpse giant cells in the convection zone and discover whether they conform to expectations . They may learn new things about the radiative zone and the core , both of which have remained masked from sight until now . The core might be rotating rapidly as some scientists have predicted , and we could find circulating currents in the presumably featureless radiative zone . Undoubtedly the view of the Sun 's interior in 1998 will be dramatically different than the present one , thanks to GONG and SOHO . David H. Hathaway is a solar astronomer at NASA 's Marshall Space Flight Center who specializes in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ <p>                     