@@419036

WHEN CHRISTIANS and Jews approach the topic of Israel and Palestine , they tend either to argue vociferously on the basis of ancient assumptions or evade the topic altogether with polite conversation . Either way , there is very little honest exchange . The Jewish philosopher Martin Buber maintained that only through the " I-thou " encounter would Palestinians and Jews find a way to talk and not fight . Paul Mendes-Flohr , a professor of Jewish thought at Jerusalem 's Hebrew University , writes that for Buber it was essential to find a " radically new mode of discourse . " According to Buber 's vision of dialogue , writes Mendes-Flohr , Jews and Palestinians must " tell their respective tales  --  relating their history , with all it woes and hopes ... while acknowledging and compassionately confirming the tale of the other . " Such a dialogue would acknowledge " that the other who confronts us , who " encroaches " upon our life , also has a tale , a story perhaps no less compelling , certainly no less real , than one 's own @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ story is heard more clearly than that of the Palestinians . As an occupying power since 1967 , Israel has done what any dominant power would do to shape perceptions . It " creates facts " to bolster its version of reality . Edward Said points out another reason that the U.S. media accept the Israeli viewpoint : Israel 's story in some ways seems to fit with the American story . In " The Formation of American Public Opinion on the Question of Palestine , " Said , a Palestinian scholar , maintains that because the U.S. is such a diverse culture , Americans desire some commonality and expect the media to provide us with that commonality . Our common experience as a people who " conquered the western frontier " makes us tend to identify " with foreign societies or cultures projecting a pioneering spirit ( e.g. , Israel ) , with those who are wresting the land from ill-use or from savages . " At the same time , " Americans often mistrust or do not have much interest in traditional cultures , even those in the throes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a national viewpoint emerges that regards Israel as our " Western " ally with a pioneering spirit , and regards Arab culture as backward and incapable of governing itself under a democracy . Political leaders pay a price for shaping reality , however . They must live with the consequences . Exhausted with the intifada 's toll on Israeli morale and military credibility , Israel suddenly agreed to move toward making Palestine a legitimate state . But Israel still appears determined to undermine Yasir Arafat . It treats him as an ineffective leader who has failed to control a rebellious population . In Gaza , Israel is in effect asking Arafat to do what Israel could not do : put down an angry population of refugees crowded into slums created by the absence of any social or economic development . In yet another irony of recent history , Israel admits that it made a mistake by " encouraging " internal Palestinian opposition among religious extremists . While in Israel last month I asked a foreign-ministry spokesman about Israel 's support for extremists in the mid-1980s . He readily agreed that in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the formation of the two radical Islamic groups , Hamas and Islamic Jihad . These are the groups now threatening to undermine the peace process and destabilize Arafat 's role , and they are committing acts of violence against Israel . Since it was in the same office of the foreign ministry that I was informed eight years ago that I should " pay attention " to the religious figures who offered an alternative to Arafat , this briefing felt like a journey to Alice 's Wonderland . Another version of reality Israel continues to put forth involves the future of Jerusalem . So eager is Israel to maintain control over East Jerusalem that officials are looking for ways to downplay the importance of the New Orient House . This prominent Arab landmark and former Turkish hotel in East Jerusalem functions as headquarters for the Palestinian peace negotiation team . Israel 's fear is that the center will begin to serve as an official reception point for diplomatic visitors and thereby assume governmental status in East Jerusalem . These fears were realized recently when the prime minister of Turkey insisted on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Husseini , Arafat 's representative in East Jerusalem . Her visit provoked a loud cry from conservative Israeli politicians who want to close down the center and thus avoid any suggestion that the Palestinians might someday officially be in charge of East Jerusalem  --  what is obviously an Arab city . Israel consistently plays the religious card to lay claim to the city of Jerusalem . The official word is that since Jerusalem is " sacred " to the Jewish people , the expansion of the city 's borders during the occupation is both understandable from a religious perspective and essential for security purposes . Neither claim is true . ( The same foreign-ministry official who regrets the encouragement of Muslim extremists also acknowledged that the gulf war taught Israel that territory is not nearly as crucial for defense as was once believed . ) The housing projects built around East Jerusalem during the occupation are unrelated to any Jewish religious sites ; they are built on Palestinian farmland officially " purchased " or otherwise lifted from absentee owners . Palestinian Christians and Muslims resist vigorously the Israeli notion that Jerusalem @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ quickly acknowledge that West Jerusalem is a part of Israel , but with no religious connotation . East Jerusalem , on the other hand , which includes the walled Old City , is an Arab city , and three-quarters of the Old City is non-Jewish in tradition . In spite of these facts , since 1967 Israel has been creating what it refers to as " facts on the ground " in East Jerusalem , creating a reality it believes no peace agreement can change . Israel has extended the borders of the city  --  an illegal act under international agreements covering occupied areas  --  and has been building housing projects ( incorrectly called " settlements " ) , which is also illegal and consistently condemned by the world community . After more than three decades of development , these housing projects form a massive wall of buildings to the east and north of East Jerusalem separating the city from the Arab West Bank . These projects are in no way " sacred " to the Jewish religion . The " sacred " sites in Jerusalem are within the walled Old @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Aqsa mosque and the Dome of the Rock in the Haram al Sharif area , the Christian Church of the Holy Sepulcher in the Christian quarter , and the Western Wall in the Jewish quarter , the only part of the original temple of Solomon left intact after the destruction of the city in 70 A.D. Final agreement on sovereignty of the Old City will require international assistance to guarantee Jews ' control over the one-quarter of the city that has traditionally been theirs , including the Western Wall . The Christian community will expect some form of control over the Christian and Armenian sectors . Otherwise , Palestinians correctly maintain that East Jerusalem , including the expanded borders , must be part of the emerging Palestinian state . Because the housing projects in East Jerusalem  --  some still under construction  --  attracted such a large Israeli population , they will pose a difficult problem for the new Palestinian state . Some provision will have to made either to give these Israelis a subsidy to move out of the area into Israel , or to persuade them to live under a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ citizenship rights . But there should be no problem in determining what to do with the 120,000 settlers who over the period of occupation have moved into the West Bank and Gaza and now live in 144 Israeli settlements dotted like " Swiss cheese , " in the words of one Israeli official , throughout the area soon to be turned over to the Palestinian authority . These small enclaves are not contiguous to the state of Israel , but are set in the middle of a larger Palestinian population . In some cases , such as the small settlement in the middle of Hebron , the settlements were placed as an act of provocation . They are now an embarrassment to the Israeli government and a financial drain . Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin has repeatedly warned that the cost of guarding these settlements will prove so high that in time they will have to be abandoned . It 's a sign that a politician has made up his mind to do something about a problem when he uses the fear of higher taxes to make his case . Ultra-Orthodox settlers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Bank . I talked to Gary Cooperberg , a resident of the West Bank settlement of Kiryat Arba ' ' , who advocates a Jewish presence in Hebron . Cooperberg was a close friend of Baruch Goldstein , the Israeli doctor who killed 37 Muslims in the Hebron mosque massacre . When I suggested to Cooperberg that perhaps Goldstein had been psychologically unbalanced , he responded , " No , he knew what he was doing ; he was a compassionate man who believed he was doing what he needed to do . " This is the sort of religious fanaticism that will make it difficult to dislodge settlers in the Orthodox communities . Just before my trip to Israel I participated in the Christian-Jewish workshop in Tulsa . The only references I heard there to the Palestinian-Israeli peace process were positive . Observing that Israel 's economy is improving , that Arafat is in Gaza and has his own police force ( which was doing well until it used live ammunition to put down a riot , killing 15 Palestinians ) , many concluded that all is well in Jerusalem @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for financial support and angry that promised funds for his new state are being withheld until he can prove his " accountability . " Among Palestinians  --  both those who support Arafat and those who oppose him  --  President Clinton and the U.S. Congress are viewed as strongly pro-Israel . The Palestinians fear that only a disastrous and costly civil conflict within Palestine will prompt the U.S. to notice their plight . One Palestinian leader told me that he believes Clinton is so surrounded by staff members strongly supportive of Israel that he never hears the case for Palestine . Several leaders and U.S. workers in the area were appalled by the speeches given by Clinton and his wife during their visit to Israel . The president 's speech , according to an American who heard it , sounded like a campaign address to an American Jewish audience . Neither the president nor Hillary Clinton referred to the Palestinians  --  an omission that may have pleased their hosts , but which was a diplomatic and personal affront to the Palestinians , who feel they have made sacrifices for peace and have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the region , the serious imbalance in American support for Israel over the struggling Palestinian state must be corrected . American Christians and Jews must move beyond polite conversation with one another and work for a dialogue that can lead to a greater sensitivity toward the Palestinian situation . Without such a dialogue , the powerful will always dominate the weak . And as we have learned many times , when the weak see no way out , they will resort to violence . <p>                     