@@353510

It may be time to ban the word peacekeeping , or at least to limit its use . As has been widely pointed out , peacekeeping is impossible if there is no peace to keep . It might be said with only slight exaggeration that peacekeeping works only when it is not necessary  --  in other words , when enemies have more or less agreed to stop fighting . In such situations , Blue Helmets can provide the final impetus toward peace and supervise established arrangements , as happened in Cyprus , Mozambique , Cambodia , the Sinai and elsewhere . But it can not work in a cockpit like Bosnia , as U.N . officials themselves warned three years ago . Nevertheless , the Security Council , with the support of the U.S. , imposed a mission that mixed peacekeeping with humanitarian aid . It ensured the present debacle by sending in totally inadequate forces , with NATO in an absurd supporting role . <P> The widely advocated alternative , heavy air strikes plus the lifting of the arms embargo on Bosnia , almost certainly would not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enable the antagonists to fight until exhausted . Of course , some political-diplomatic settlement might still be patched together . But the only sure way to end the conflict is by overwhelming force , meaning up to 100,000 NATO troops prepared to stay for a long time , as advocated by Senator Richard Lugar and others . Is Bosnia worth it ? A case can be made that it is , on moral grounds and as a deterrent to future aggressors . But there is no immediate , major U.S. national interest at stake to justify such a vast military effort . If that is the considered U.S. view , we should quit our hand wringing and stop trying quarter measures . This calculation could change if the fighting were to spread and involve NATO allies . <P> The issue is no longer just Bosnia , but what to do in future , similar situations . Above all avoid the U.N. , say many people , especially the Republicans . They would severely restrict the President 's ability to work with it . That is understandable , given the U.N . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rich enough or powerful enough to undertake major international actions without allies . The U.N . can be useful in marshaling them , as was evident during the Gulf War , which the U.N . authorized . Without it , the U.S. would have more trouble assembling coalitions from scratch in each crisis , or it might have to invent a new international organization ( this may become necessary anyway ) . But the notion that U.S. decisions are subject to the U.N . is a somewhat paranoid fallacy , fed by the Clinton Administration 's vacillations and its rhetoric about multilateralism . We can use the U.N . selectively and avoid asking it to undertake things it was never set up to do . To a large extent we can control it ; we certainly can not be made to do anything against our will .                     