@@481169

The current political debate over family values , personal responsibility , and welfare takes for granted the entrenched American belief that dependence on government assistance is a recent and destructive phenomenon . Conservatives tend to blame this dependence on personal irresponsibility aggravated by a swollen welfare apparatus that saps individual initiative . Liberals are more likely to blame it on personal misfortune magnified by the harsh lot that falls to losers in our competitive market economy . But both sides believe that " winners " in America make it on their own , that dependence reflects some kind of individual or family failure , and that the ideal family is the self-reliant unit of traditional lore ? a family that takes care of its own , carves out a future for its children , and never asks for handouts . Politicians at both ends of the ideological spectrum have wrapped themselves in the mantle of these " family values , " arguing over why the poor have not been able to make do without assistance , or whether aid has exacerbated their situation , but never questioning the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ independence from the government . The myth of family self-reliance is so compelling that our actual national and personal histories often buckle under its emotional weight . " We always stood on our own two feet , " my grandfather liced to say about his pioneer heritage , whenever he walked me to the top of the hill to survey the property in Washington State that his family had bought for next to nothing after it had been logged off in the early 1900s . Perhaps he did n't know that the land came so cheap because much of it was part of a federal subsidy originally allotted to the railroad companies , which had received 183 million acres of the public domain in the nineteenth century . These federal giveaways were the original source of most major Western logging companies ' land , and when some of these logging companies moved on to virgin stands of timber , federal lands trickled down to a few early settlers who were able to purchase them inexpensively . Like my grandparents , few families in Amer .. ican history ? whatever their " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their own resources . Instead , they have depended on the legislative , judicial , and social-support structures set up by governing authorities , whether those authorities were the clan elders of Native American societies , the church courts and city officials of colonial America , or the judicial and legislative bodies established by the Constitution . At America 's inception , this was considered not a dirty little secret but the norm , one that confirmed our social and personal interdepen-dence . The idea that the family should have the sole or even primary responsibility for educating and socializing its members , finding them suitable work , or keeping them from poverty and crime was not only ludicrous to colonial and revolu-tionary thinkers but dangerously Hparochial omy , the government promoted a " family wage system . " This system was designed to strengthen the ability of the male breadwinner to support a family without having his wife or children work . This family wage system was not a natural outgrowth of the market . It was a political response to conditions that the market had produced : child labor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ earnings structure in which 45 percent of industrial workers fell below the poverty level and another 40 percent hovered barely above it , and a system in which thousands of children had been placed in orphanages or other institutions simply because their parents could not afford their keep . The state policies involved in the establishment of the family wage system included abolition of child labor , government pressure on industrialists to negotiate with unions , federal arbitration , expansion of compulsory schooling ? and legislation discriminating against women workers . But even such extensive regulation of economic and social institutions has never been enough : government has always supported families with direct material aid as well . The two best examples of the government 's history of material aid can be found in what many people consider the ideal models of self-reliant families : the Western pioneer family and the 1950s suburban family . In both cases , the ability of these families to establish and sustain themselves required massive underwriting by the government . Pioneer families , such as my grandparents , could never have moved west without government-funded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ state-sponsored economic investment in transportation systems . In addition , the Homestead Act of 1862 allowed settlers to buy 160 acres for $10 ? far below the government 's cost of acquiring the land ? if the homesteader lived on and improved the land for five years . In the twentieth century , a new form of public assistance became crucial to Western families : construction of dams and other federally subsidized irrigation projects . During the 1930s , for example , government electrification projects brought pumps , refrigeration , and household technology to millions of families . The suburban family of the 1950s is another oft-cited example of familial self-reliance . According to legend , after World War II a new , family-oriented generation settled down , saved their pennies , worked hard , and found well-paying jobs that allowed them to purchase homes in the suburbs . In fact , however , the 1950s suburban family was far more dependent on government assistance than any so-called underclass family of today . Federal GI benefit payments , available to 40 percent of the male population between the ages of twenty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ expand their education and improve their job prospects without forgoing marriage and children . The National Defense Education Act retooled science education in America , subsidizing both American industry and the education of individual scientists . Government ? funded research developed the aluminum clapboards , prefabricated walls and ceilings , and plywood paneling that comprised the technological basis of the postwar housing revolution . Government spending was also largely responsible for the new highways , sewer systems , utility services , and traffic-control programs that opened up suburbia . In addition , suburban home ownership depended on an unprecedented expansion of federal regulation and financing . Before the war , banks often required a 50 percent down payment on homes and normally issued mortgages for five to ten years . In the postwar period , however , the Federal Housing Authority , supplemented by the GI Bill , put the federal government in the business of insuring and regulating private loans for single-home construction . FHA policy required down payments of only 5 to 10 percent of the purchase price and guaranteed mortgages of up to thirty years at interest rates @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ required a mere dollar down from veterans . Almost half the housing in suburbia in the 1950s depended on such federal programs . he drawback of these aid programs was that although they worked well for recipients , non-recipients disproportionately poor and urban were left far behind . While the general public financed the roads that suburbanites used to commute , the streetcars and trolleys that served urban and poor families received almost no tax revenues , and our previously thriving rail system was allowed to decay . In addition , federal loan policies , which were a boon to upwardly mobile white families , tended to systematize the pervasive but informal racism that had previously characterized the housing market . FHA redlining practices , for example , took entire urban areas and declared them ineligible for loans , while the government 's two new mortgage institutions , the Federal National Mortgage Association and the Government National Mortgage Association ( Fannie Mae and Ginny Mae ) made it possible for urban banks to transfer savings out of the cities and into new suburban developments in the South and West . Despite @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ receive such assistance , government aid to suburban residents during the 1950s and 1960s produced in its beneficiaries none of READINGS 15 the demoralization usually presumed to afflict recipients of government handouts . Instead , federal subsidies to suburbia encouraged family formation , residential stability , upward occupational mobility , and rising educational aspirations problems of poverty and urban decay in America is to quadruple our spending on welfare . Certainly there are major reforms needed in our current aid policies to the poor . But the debate over such reform should put welfare in the context of all federal assistance programs . As long as we pretend that only poor or single-parent families need outside assistance , while normal families " stand on their own two feet , " we will shortchange poor families , overcompensate rich ones , and fail to come up with effective policies for helping out families in the middle . Current government housing policies are a case in point . The richest 20 percent of American households receives three times as much federal housing aid ? mostly in tax subsidies ? as the poorest 20 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the debate over government policies toward families has never been over whether to intervene but how : to rescue or to warehouse , to prevent or to punish , to moralize about values or mobilize resources for education and job creation . Today 's debate , lacking such historical perspective , caricatures the real issues . Our attempt to sustain the myth of family self-reliance in the face of all the historical evidence to the contrary has led policymakers into theoretical contortions and practical miscalculations that are reminiscent of efforts by medieval philosophers to maintain that the earth and not the sun was the center of the planetary system . In the sixteenth century , leading European thinkers insisted that the planets and the sun all revolved around the earth ? much as American politicians today insist that our society revolves around family self-reliance . When evidence to the contrary mounted , defenders of the Ptolemaic universe postulated all sorts of elaborate planetary orbits in order to reconcile observed reality with their cherished theory . Similarly , rather than admit that all families need some kind of public support , we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ middle-class dependence as an " exception , " an " abnormality , " or even an illusion . We have distributed public aid to families through convoluted bureaucracies that have become impossible to track ; in some cases the system has become so cumbersome that it threatens to collapse around our ears . It is time to break through the old paradigm of self-reliance and substitute a new one that recognizes that assisting families is , simply , what government does .                     