@@395875

My son has a chocolate Lab which used to bark a lot to get attention . I do n't like noisy dogs , so I spent some time teaching the Lab not to bark or whine . Since the animal is energetic and high strung , he had to have some way to express his emotions without making a sound . So he yawns . He makes a gesture precisely opposite to what his inclinations urge him to do . This is called displacement behavior , and it 's as common among humans as it is among other animals . For example , what I may consider to be a common-sensical position on a conservation issue is sometimes perceived by other people as unorthodox and , hence , controversial . Yet rather than deal head-on with my overall point of view , some readers or listeners respond by picking out a single word or minor detail and quibbling over that . If they can prove me " wrong " on an inconsequential point , they feel they can safely dismiss everything else I 've said . This means @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Last April , I participated in a symposium in " Conflicts in Natural Resources Management : Integrating Social and Ecological Concerns " that was held at Utah State University . Each member of our panel of four covered a different conflict . I cited the growing abuses of power by major conservation organizations and their state and federal agency allies who seem to believe that because they 're doing right , they can do no wrong . I particularly referred to the tactics some environmental groups are using to transfer already well-managed private wetlands into the public domain where they immediately become subject to erratic fiscal support and attitudes increasingly hostile to any form of genuine management . I pointed out that you have only to look at the sorry condition of literally dozens of federal wildlife refuges that were once private hunting clubs hosting a great diversity of non-game species to realize that our major conservation institutions should be working to educate and strengthen private land ownership , rather than treat it as a reactionary or subversive idea . I pointed out that limited entry has always been the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ This was as true when that limited access resulted from a sparse human population as it is today when private ownership enables a duck club manager to enforce more restrictive shooting hours than those at a nearby state or federal wildlife management area . Since public land administrators face dwindling budgets and rising political pressure to accommodate every imaginable interest group , conservation easements and other tax incentives for private owners must be regarded as a superior alternative to acquiring their properties for the public realm . I did n't expect everyone in the Utah audience to agree with me  --  especially since it comprised so many present and future public land administrators . I was , however , totally unprepared for some of the off-the-wall objections which clearly came under the heading of displacement behavior . For example , rather than argue directly with anything we 'd said , one woman objected to our panel being all male ! It did n't help matters when one of the symposium organizers explained he 'd tried to find some more women speakers , but we were the best he could do ! @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whites on our panel wore ties and coats , while the fourth member  --  a half Indian , half Irishman  --  was more " appropriately " attired in an open-neck shirt and Native American jewelry . Since I usually wear old shirts , coveralls , and boots on my Virginia farm , it had been a pleasure to exchange them in Utah for a tweed jacket , loafers , and a tie with the logo , Non illegitimi carborundum . Little did I expect to be admonished for breaking a politically correct dress code ! Finally , someone in the audience suggested that the clothing critic and the feminist listen to what was being said rather than getting hung up on the appearance and gender of the speakers . In the lobby , I was stopped by a regional representative for The Nature Conservancy ( TNC )  --  one of the conservation groups I 'd criticized for bullying landowners . She wanted to know why I " had it in " for her and her colleagues . I said I did n't . I 'd been impressed with many TNC projects @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , is to report all conservation news , and if some of her superiors these days are acting more like robber barons than conservationists , I was obliged to report that , too . My ordeal still was n't over . Just as I was about to leave the lobby , a woman ran up to say that my use of the word " fishermen " had greatly offended her . " What would you prefer ? " I asked . " ' Fishers ' or ' fisher persons , ' " she replied . I told her that a medium-sized member of the weasel family had prior dibs on the word " fisher , " and that " fisher person " was such an awkward phrase , it could only be construed as a calculated distraction . I pointed out that while I like the word " angler , " it only represents the recreational side of the ledger . The beauty of " fishermen " is that it includes not just male and female anglers , but male and female commercial fishermen as well . The woman persisted , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if I offended half the potential newcomers by calling them " fishermen ? " I told her that I have no desire to encourage more people to fish  --  especially anyone offended by the word " fishermen "  --  since there 're already too many of us out there . " Are n't you elitist ! " she pronounced . " I sincerely hope so , " I replied . In retrospect , I recall only one question from the audience pertinent to the public versus private land debate . The questioner wanted to know whether I advocated privatizing already public lands in the West . Since I 'd focused on protecting private land rights rather than converting public to private ownership , I fumbled my answer  --  clearing the way for the former executive director of the Sierra Club to jump in with an unequivocal , " NO ! " A more thoughtful response by both of us would have included the recommendation that before renewing the Sagebrush Rebellion , Westerners should first come to grips with their peculiar love-hate relationship with the federal government . Marc Reisner , author @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with a call for Westerners to move beyond their Frontier mentality and mythology . On one hand , Western ranchers and farmers believe they 're the most self-reliant of all Americans while , on the other , they 're dependent on the federal government for supports and subsidies to a degree unimagined in the rest of the country . If , for example , an Eastern landowner wants irrigation water , he has to drill a well or dig a pond . Even then , a severe drought  --  such as the one that affected much of the Southeast last summer  --  may dry up his well or pond . Meanwhile , in the arid West , most farmers pay a fraction of the real cost of publicly provided water in order to grow crops that then compete in price with Eastern-grown crops , even after the Western produce is trucked across the country to Eastern markets . The same is true of Western ranchers who graze cattle on public lands at far less than the cost of what most land-owning ranchers pay in the way of annual property taxes . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the fact that Westerners have only a rudimentary tradition of private land stewardship , while in the East  --  especially along the coastal plain  --  we 've been at it for over 300 years . The point is that rather than try to impose Eastern traditions on the West , or Western traditions on the East , conservation organizations and agencies should seek to protect whatever works best on behalf of the biodiversity of each region , not simply the economic interests of the landowners or land users involved . But before such sensible policies can be set , or even discussed , we must all agree to focus on the true subject  --  how best to manage and conserve our natural resources  --  not a raft of trivialities that can so easily sidetrack or displace genuine debate . <p>                     