@@414328

Natural lakes  --  generally semifertile ( mesotrophic ) bodies of water or highly oxygenated ( oligotrophic ) rocky , northern lakes-feature rich variations in bottom configuration , weed growth , and manmade structure . It is precisely this variety that allows them to support a multitude of species whose migratory paths , feeding zones , and sanctuary areas often overlap . Predator-prey interaction in natural lakes occurs as it does in all bodies of water ; One species ' sanctuary can be another 's feeding grounds , with different species becoming dominant as lakes age and experience natural or man-made alterations . Here 's a look at a typical natural lake and the signs that tell you where a variety of fish might harbor through late summer . 1 . MAN-MADE STRUCTURE Riprap , docks , and launch ramps are the most familiar man-made constructions on natural lakes . Their importance for summer fishing increases the closer they are to drop-offs like channels , deep spreads of natural cover , or simple primary breaks . Largemouth bass and walleyes gravitate to riprap " fingers " and any adjacent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ keep in mind rocks and washouts near launching ramps  --  they 're often overlooked by bass fishermen . Summer crappies now suspend along deepwater breaks near the man-made structure that held them earlier in the season . 2 . OPEN WATER Offshore reefs , sunken islands , sandbars , shoals , and mud basins attract smallmouth bass , walleyes , and yellow perch during summer . Smallmouths love underwater saddles between islands and humps but will leave these I areas early and late in the day to forage in shallower water . Sand points off sunken islands hold walleyes , as do mud basins over which the fish suspend . Yellow perch hang above or work around offshore structure ; they also utilize any vegetation close to drop-offs. 3 . OUTSIDE WEED EDGES Walleyes , largemouth bass , and perch all use deep weed lines close to channels and drop-offs into deeper basins . Larger male bluegills also relate to the deep edges of weeds late in summer , even though they are frequented by predators . If forage is abundant , these areas can be one of the most consistent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ near weed edges is cool , northern pike and muskies use them as ambush spots , but they will move off to deeper water as temperatures climb . Weed-loving walleyes migrate the other way , however , making forays into shallow water during low-light periods . In fertile lakes , smallmouths often leave their traditionally rocky , offshore haunts to roam for food in deep weed lines and pockets . 4 . INSIDE WEED EDGES In shallower water on flats and points , shoreside weed lines hold smaller panfish like bluegills , pumpkinseed , and bullhead catfish late into the summer . These fish move deep into the cover , too , but they 're rarely alone-early and late in the day and at night , largemouth bass , walleyes , and other predators work shallow-lying vegetation , especially inside bends and points formed by the weeds . If deepwater creek channels are close by , these predators can move to weed edges and pockets extremely close to shore . 5 . HOLES AND DEPRESSIONS Isolated depressions , especially if they support vegetation , are favorite summer hideouts for panfish , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bass , pike , and muskies move into these cool-water havens , and their food moves out to safer waters . Broad depressions harbor predators , which use weed lines and creek channels leading to shore-oriented cover as routes to their feeding grounds . 6 . HUMPS Bottom rises and rock piles attract crappies when these structures are in water deeper than surrounding flats . Largemouth bass and walleyes use them as staging areas before moving shallower to feed . Bass and walleyes also relate to rock piles near drop-offs , creek and river channels , and shallow-water weed cover away from shore . 7 . DROP-OFFS AND BREAKS Bends , especially those that feature brush , rocks , and other cover , are especially important to bass and crappies holding in creek channels . Bass also hold near creek edges and in their depths . Drop-off flats attract walleyes , perch , and bass , especially when positioned near points , bends , and other subtle contour changes . 8 . SAND BEACHES Bass and walleyes frequently hunt in weeds off sandy swimming beaches , especially at dusk , after @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ muskies also move in from deeper haunts to work these same stretches . Beaches are extremely productive if their weed beds run along a drop to deeper water . 9 . STUMPS AND LAYDOWNS Though a large percentage of largemouth bass move toward a lake 's deeper cover and bottom structure during summer , there 's always a reliable population that continues to relate to shallow cover . Laydowns with branch networks extending out from shore , stumps , and heavy weed mats ( " slop " ) are examples of productive inshore brush . They are even more likely to be used by summer fish if they extend toward depressions in a cove or bay , or toward rock piles , humps , cuts , or channels . <p>                     