@@351089

BOTH FANS AND FOES OF HENRY Kissinger , whose ranks rival each other in fervor , have long agreed on one thing : he is brilliant at analyzing national interests and balances of power . If only he would step back from his corporate consulting and fashion-set socializing , they say , he might produce the grand tome that secures his place alongside George Kennan among the great diplomatic thinkers of our century . <P> Now he has , and it will . In Diplomacy ( Simon &; Schuster ; 912 pages ; $35 ) , a sweeping portrayal of historical forces that begins with Cardinal Richelieu and ends with the challenges facing the world today , Kissinger makes the most forceful case by any American statesman since Theodore Roosevelt for the role of realism and its Prussian-accented cousin realpolitik in international affairs . Just as Kennan 's odd admixture of romanticism and realism helped shape American attitudes at the outset of the cold war , Kissinger 's emphasis on national interests rather than moral sentiments defines a framework for dealing with the multipolar world now emerging . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ both exciting to read and destined to be a classic of their genre . <P> I should make it clear that I come to this book as an interested party . Two years ago , I wrote a biography of Kissinger , for the same publisher , which many of his detractors , and some of his putative friends , said pulled too many punches , and which his fervent defenders ( himself among them ) decried as too harsh . My conclusion was that Kissinger had a remarkable feel for the interplay of national interests but that he failed to appreciate the strength America derives from the openness of its democratic system . His strategic and tactical brilliance made possible the U.S. 's rapprochement with China , but his secretive style and disdain for the moralism that undergirds America 's sense of mission led to a backlash from both the left and the right against detente with the Soviet Union . Diplomacy reaffirms both my respect for his brilliance as an analyst and my reservations about the low priority he places on the values that have made American democracy such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ writes , is entering an era when many states of comparable strength will compete and cooperate based on shifting national interests . America has never felt comfortable with such balance-of-power arrangements . So to understand what lessons history may hold for this new order , Kissinger maintains , we should study the diplomatic dances that began in Europe 350 years ago  --  a topic that , perhaps not coincidentally , is Kissinger 's area of academic expertise . <P> Cardinal Richelieu , the First Minister of France at the time , developed the concept of national interest while working to prevent the revival of the Holy Roman Empire , which he deemed a threat to France 's security even though both were Catholic . No longer were national interests to be equated with religious or moral goals . During the 18th century , balance-of-power diplomacy was perfected by England , an island state with a security interest in preserving equilibrium on the European continent .                     