@@421024

In organizing the first retrospective of Ross Bleckner 's work , Guggenheim Museum curator Lisa Dennison had some difficult problems to overcome . Despite the fact that the 46-year-old Bleckner has worked with a fairly limited number of stylistic devices and images during his career , his development does not fall into an easy chronological sequence . While much of Bleckner 's work can be divided into distinct groups or series with motifs repeated from painting to painting , he is also in the habit of redeploying and combining old motifs . For example , we find him painting stripes in 1981-82 , then again but with the addition of emblematic figures in 1986-89 , followed by a number of paintings in 1987-88 which return to stripes in a purely abstract context ( the latter are all titled Unkmown Quantities of Light ) . Bleckner keeps adding elements to his repertoire  --  representational ones like the still-life vocabulary of vessels and flowers in 1984 , abstract ones like the fields of color patches a decade later , as in the brilliant Throbbing Hearts ( 1994 ) , or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dots arrayed in starry domelike patterns in the " Architecture of the Sky " paintings ( 1988 ) . But rather than replace earlier subjects , these elements coexist with them ; changes of motif or even of style do not , for Bleckner , correspond to successive " periods . " All this works against the sense of either self-contained phases or of orderly development . The Guggenheim 's hanging reflected this ambiguity . Its initial chronological sequence soon broke up into groups of paintings based on similarity of motif without regard for date ; chronology then retuned , followed by more groupings , and so forth . While this compromise might have worked well on paper , on the wall it gave an impression of mere inconsistency , making it more difficult than necessary to take in an exhibition whose size alone  --  70 large paintings and hundreds of watercolors and small studies  --  could be daunting . Simply sticldng to chronological arrangement would have allowed viewers more freedom to construct their own sense of the relations among different aspects of the artist 's work . Another problem was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's work . Although he achieved notoriety in the 1980s , his career did not begin then . Bleckner was first included in a Whitney Biennial in 1975 , and later that year he had his first solo exhibition , at the Cunningham Ward Gallery in New York . He exhibited in Chicago at the John Doyle Gallery the following year , with Cunningham Ward again the year after , and then switched to the Mary Boone Gallery for his fourth one-person show , in 1979 . The rest , as they say , is history , but it is unfortunate that none of Bleckner 's apparently not insubstantial prehistory was thought fit for representation at the Guggenheim . The exhibition there began with a work from 1980 , although a single work from the previous year earns a tiny reproduction in the catalogue . It would be interesting to know why 1980 was chosen , since Bleckner 's paintings of that year and part of the next are still , at best , transitional . Like many of those he would paint over the next decade and a half , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ later works they are clear indebted to the " New Image " painting of the day ( one thinks of Lois Lane , for example ) in their uneasy concatenations of mute , quasi-emblematic imagery with a neutral , summarily indicated space . From Organism to Architecture ( 1981 ) , for instance , illustrates its title by introducing a brownish snail shell to an otherwise empty abstract room or cage of gridded white lines on a black ground . But 1981 was also the year in which Bleckner produced what this show suggests was his first mature work , stripe paintings whose relentless bright-dark contrasts produced a sense of sometimes shimmering , sometimes throbbing light . With these stripe paintings , Bleckner had arrived at a different and more subtle tension between abstraction and representation . Because their illusion of flickering light so clearly alluded to the Op art of the 1960s , these paintings could be considered images of abstraction , representations of a certain kind of abstract painting . ( In this they cleared the way for the " simulationism " that would soon become so familiar through @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . ) But this representational aspect did not prevent them from being , nonetheless , abstract . A stripe , even if it represents or allegorizes itself as " stripe , " ahyays remains , literaly , a stripe . Even when , in Infatuation ( 1986-87 ) , one of his more problematic efforts , Bleckner seemingly attempts to transmute the stripes into wrapping paper by superimposing the image of a ribbon tied in a bow , they maintain their identity as literal traces of paint . And yet , something about Bleckner 's stripes refuses to be pinned down : the pulsating light they convey precipitates off the canvas . Rather than withdrawing into the distance of representation , they leap into the realm of corporeal exprerience . The glare of the clashing colors , or simply of the stroboscopic or ( as Stephen Melville put it in 1987 ) " shuttering " effect of the rapid intermittency of brightness and darkness as the eye scans through the crowded stripes , approximates a tangible pressure on the viewer 's body. ( 1 ) The disembodied , subjective effect of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more physical than the merey literal marks on the canvas . The real is de-realized by its own effect . It 's not clear whether Bleckner really understood what he was onto at this point . In 1983 he produced a number of paintings , for example God Wo n't Come and Mister , Mister , in which the stripes were eliminated , leaving only an abstract evocation of light and darkness . Effective as they may be , these paintings are more familiar , less challenging than the stripe paintings which preceded them . But in 1984 Bleckner began reintroducing emblematic imagery  --  urns , flowers , chandeliers and , later on , birds  --  into this abstract , artificially lit nocturnal space . This imagery no longer has the halting , quasi-naive , abstract quality that is visible in the stones of Gravity of Matter ( 1981 ) or the shell in From Organism to Architecture . Instead , what it evokes ( without actually reproducing ) is the seamlessness of old-master painting . The inclusion of urns or flowers changed the depicted space from the immensity of landscape @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the paintings a ratio of specificity to suggestive vagueness that functioned more efficiently than the rather naive clunkiness of the earlier work  --  although this slipperiness would not , as we will see , prove congenial to all observers . In classical representation  --  Poussin , let 's say  --  painting displays something absent or fictive as though it were really there . The artist wants us to feel that we are viewing the painted scene as if through a window ; images are constructed so that they can be read as dramatic scenes transpiring on a three-dimensional stage . For all of Bleckner 's allusions to premodernist representational modes , this is cleary not his aim . Instead , the things we see represented in his paintings show themselves as ghostly demarcations , as reflections of light off surfaces without substance , forms without body . I am thinking particularly of the urns and vases in paintings like Hospital Room ( 1985 ) , which are depicted in the act of absconding , as it were , from the painting , leaving only their too-bright radiance behind . By disengaging @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ representation as projection rather than observation , as the product of longing rather than certainty . It is within this context that we can best understand Bleckner 's use , in many paintings , of a glossy , vanished surface recalling that of the old masters and the academy . This surface at first glance appears to be a polemically anti-modernist device , since artistic modernism came into being party in opposition to the " licked " surface encouraged by the 19th-century academies . Disavowing the materiality of paint as such , this high finish was meant to fuse the traces of the artist 's hand into a seamless and inarguable unity that would be considered synonymous with the real . Like that of academic painting , Bleckner 's shiny surface , when he uses it , renders the painting transparent to the image  --  but now in the derogatory sense of the word " image , " as mere appearance . Bleckner 's use of academic technique is turned to an antithetical end , and this is of a piece with his use of a more conventionally modernist roughness elsewhere @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( 1983 ) to some very recent , loosely brushed floral paintings ( among the most recent works in the retrospective ) precisely because both techniques are employed in contradictory ways. ( 2 ) Bleckner does not simply appropriate elements of premodernist pictorial vocabularies . Rather , his paintings subject classical representation and modernist abstraction to stresses that induce both to work against their original ends . But to what end ? Not as an intellectual exercise , it seems . More like a melancholic 's game of reassuring himself of the hollowness of things . Everywhere , Bleckner 's paintings remind us of their memorializing aspiration-through titles ( Memoriam , 1985 ; Wreath , 1986 ; Memorial I and Memorial II , 1994 ) , through imagery ( urns , flowers , birds that might be symbols for the soul liberated from the body ) and through inscriptions , as well as through the somber and mournful atmosphere projected by so many of the paintings . Yet they leave us in doubt as to the possibility of their fulfilling this memorializing desire , or of our truly comprehending it . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a red , white and black painting whose stiffly upright stripes are counterpointed by the support 's fanciful scalloped contours . In this context the stripes can no longer be seen as upholding a pictorial " logic " like the re-making of the framing edge , as they might have been in abstract painting of the ' ' 60s . Instead , they seem to project a subjective stance , one which is neither more nor less arbitrary in its claims than the capricious curves that simultaneously contain and interrupt the stripes . Within the surface of the painting , its title appears as an embossed inscription in simple upper-case block letters : REMEMBER ME . This plea , or command , appearing as it does embedded beneath the skin of the paint , and revealed by the play of ambient light across the painting 's surface , would appear to be proposed as the " unconscious " message of the stripes . Does Bleckner want us to see the putatively contentless stripes as a cover-up ? Is he implying that the abstractionist 's pose of objectivity always masks some naked @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ abstraction is a proper or at least possible expression of this need ? Furthermore , we may wonder what subject is designated in Remember Me by the pronoun " me . " Is it the artist speaking in propria persona , or perhaps the painting itself , through a trope of personification ? Or , as in Poussin 's Arcadian Shepherds , could death be the speaker ? ( 3 ) The elegiac tone of Bleckner 's oeuvre makes it hard to exclude this reading , yet the painting itself can never show us how to decide . Remember Me tells us that someone or something must be remembered , but we can never know whether the plea for memory is being intentionally communicated or inadvertently betrayed by this abstract painting or  --  so the implication might be  --  any other . By using an inscription to literally spell out what might be the subtext of an abstract painting , Bleckner has thrown into doubt the very possibility of that subtext . The painting conveys an exhortation and an emotion , but not the means to understand how to receive them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is proposed by Bleckner 's work as worthy of faith , nor are they to be discarded . Each answers , however inadequately , to some human need . If Bleckner 's " Architecture of the Sky " and " Invisible Heaven " series of the late ' ' 80s and early ' ' 90s submit modernist frontality and alloverness to a simple system of perspectival recession that 's because presence ( the irreducibly insistent repeated dabs of paint ) and transcendence ( the dabs are arranged to suggest the interiors of vast domes ) are needs whose apparent opposition can hardy be adjudicated . And if one of Bleckner 's recurrent images is a two-handled urn or trophy  --  an emblem in Memoriam , it has multiplied into a pattern in Memorial I  --  this is not only because an urn conceals its contents , but also because it is designed to be grasped . For every painting that highlights its own elusiveness , Bleckner has painted one that gives viewers a handle . And it may be precisely this flirtation with accessible meaning in Bleckner 's work that accounts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . A decade or so ago , on the cusp of the transition from an art scene dominated by Neo-Expressionism to one dominated by Neo-Geo , Bleckner seemed congenial to both camps  --  socially as well as artistically . He had been an early supporter of both Julian Schnabel and David Salle and his own cause had been taken up by Peter Halley . In the first half of the ' ' 80s , whether you were counting on the valiity of expressive representation or a disabused contemplation of the simulacrum , early ' ' 80s histrionics or mid- ' ' 80s cool , the advancement of modernist self-reflection or an opening to topical content such as the incipient AIDS crisis , you could find something in Bleckner 's work to support your position . The problem , of course , is that the very ambivalence within Bleckner 's work that once allowed it to be all things to all people is just what now makes it seem manipulative or merely evasive to many . Michael Kimmelman , for instance , accused Bleckner of " exploiting " AIDS  --  a response @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ retrospective. ( 4 ) Whatever Kimmelman may believe , Bleckner has hardly " exploited " AIDS : to my knowledge he has made just one painting referring specifically to the epidemic , 8,122+ as of January 1986 ( 1986 ) , not included in the Guggenheim exhibition . If his paintings touch our emotional vulnerability to this distressing topic , it is through indirection and understatement rather than through breast-beating . Sentimentality is also an issue . We all know that artistic modernism was dead set against it . After all , sentimentality was part of the fatal dichotomy , set out in 1939 by Clement Greenberg , between " avant-garde " and " kitsch . " It took another quarter-century for an intellectually respectable apologia for the role of kitsch to be mounted . But even then , in Susan Sontag 's ground-breaking " Notes on " Camp , ' ' " sentimentality was kept at bay , since the Camp subsumption of kitsch still called for the triumph of " pure artifice "  --  the " wholly aesthetic "  --  over meaning. ( 6 ) It might be tempting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gay artist , work which purposely courts sentimentality through histrionic , shopworn imagery and stylistic mannerisms . Yet this interpretation would be wrong for Bleckner . The paradox in Bleckner 's painting may lie in its attempt to reconcile the irreconcilable , what Sontag called " the two pioneering forces of modern sensibility ... Jewish moral seriousness and homosexual aestheticism and irony . " ( 6 ) In the age of AIDS , those two forces may have become more confusingly intertwined than anyone could ever have imagined in the ' ' 60s . Light , space , image , verbally articulated meaning  --  these are the elements of painting claimed by Ross Bleckner 's work . Bleckner explores these fundamentals forthrightly but always remains willing to put each of them into question . He achieves this by his continual shifting between methods of negation and methods of excess . Some paintings are flooded with an obscuring darkness , while in others the clash of colors produces the sensation of their being too bright to look at direct some paintings readmit the kind of deep space that was supposed to have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ relentless frontality surges forward to claim the space before them ; some paintings are absolutely abstract while others ( including some of Bleckner 's newest and most loosely handled paintings , such as Family Plot ) are crowded with imagery ; some paintings are deliberately elusive in content , while in others the content may be literally spelled out . No longer just a glimpse , as Willem de Kooning once called it , meaning materializes as a word , a text , an inscription across or within the surface of the painting , although this may amplify rather than resolve the work 's underlying opacity . Today , it seems , artists are increasingly being asked to stake out an easily identifiable position , to be either an activist or an abstractionist , poet or pedagogue . Bleckner does n't work that way . Too modernist or not modernist enough , too earnest and too ironic , too middlebrow but too refined , Bleckner goes against the grain of the moment . That 's not an uninteresting place to be . 1 . Stephen Melville , " Dark Rooms : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Arts Magazine , April 1987 , p. 58. 2 . While it is true , as Thomas Crow says in his contribution to the Guggenheim catalogue ( " Surface Tension : Ross Bleckner and the Conditions of Painting 's Reincarnation " ) , that Bleckner 's work has been notable for its revaluation of the possibilities of the glossy surface , the use of that surface has by no means been a constant with him , and to overrate its significance can lead to misunderstandings . In order to verify the " disturbance " caused by Bleckner 's supposed break with the canonical modernist sense of surface , for instance , Crow rebukes Brooks Adams for misrepresenting the physical appearance of the work in a review from the early ' ' 80s see A.i.A. , Mar. ' ' 84 , pp. 159-60 . In fact , Adams was correct in noticing the dry , tacky paint texture of Bleckner 's dark landscapes of 1983 , such as Delaware and God Wo n't Come  --  paintings that partake precisely of the " matte , woven , porous " surface that Crow @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Bleckner 's approaches to a critical engagement with modernism , exaggerating them into the kind of out-and-out break that would " save " Bleckner for postmodernist ideology . 3 . The literature on Poussin 's two versions of The Arcadian Shepherds and the inscription , Et in Arcadia ego , is voluminous . The locus classicus is a 1936 essay by Erwin Panofsky , subsequently revised for inclusion in his Meaning in the Visual Arts , Garden City , Doubleday , 1955 , pp. 295-320 . Two recent contributions are Louis Marin , To Destroy Painting , tr. by Mette Hjort , University of Chicago Press , 1885 , and David Carrier , Poussin 's Painting : A Study in Art-Historical Methodology , University Park , Pennsylvania State University Press , 1993. 4 . Michael Kimmelman , " Bleckner 's Melodrama ; A Minimalist 's Quietude , " The New York Times , Mar. 10 , 1995 , p . C23 . For more on Bleckner 's " sentimentality , " see Grace Glueck , " Bleckner 's Turn at the Guggenheim : Kitsch as Kitsch Can ? " The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 5 . Susan Sontag , " Notes on " Camp ' ' " ( 1964 ) , in Against Interpretation , New York , Farrar , Straus &; Giroux , 1966 , pp. 275-292. 6 . Sontag , p.290 " Ross Bleckner , " organized by Lisa Dennison , was on view at the Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum Mar. 3-May 14 ; it then traveled to the Astrup Fearnley Museum of Modern Art , Oslo , Norway June 10-Sept. 17 . The exhibition will next be seen at IVAM , Valencia , Spain Dec. 21 , ' ' 95-Mar. 31 , ' ' 96 . It is accompanied by a 217-page catalogue with essays by Lisa Dennison , Thomas Crow and Simon Watney . Author : Barry Schwabsky is co-author of Jessica Stockholder ( Phaidon ) . His book The Widening Circle : Consequences of Modernism in Contemporary Art is forthcoming from Cambridge University Press . <p>                     