@@410501

NOT SINCE JONESTOWN has the public been so gripped by the conjunction of religion , violence and communal living as they have by the events at the Branch Davidians ' compound . All that actually took place near Waco remains unknown or contested . Nonetheless , the information is sufficient to allow at least a preliminary examination of three questions : Why did it happen ? Why did n't it happen earlier ? Will it happen again ? As a New York Times editorialist put it , " The Koresh affair has been mishandled from beginning to end . " The government 's lapses , errors and misjudgments can be grouped into two main categories : issues of law-enforcement procedure and technique , with which I do not propose to deal ; and larger issues of strategy and approach , which I will address . The single most damaging mistake on the part of federal officials was their failure to take the Branch Davidians ' religious beliefs seriously . Instead , David Koresh and his followers were viewed as being in the grip of delusions that prevented them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ beliefs might have seemed , it was necessary to grasp the role these beliefs played in their lives ; these beliefs were the basis of their reality . The Branch Davidians clearly possessed an encompassing worldview to which they attached ultimate significance . That they did so carried three implications . First , they could entertain no other set of beliefs . Indeed , all other views of the world , including those held by government negotiators , could only be regarded as erroneous . The lengthy and fruitless conversations between the two sides were , in effect , an interchange between different cultures  --  they talked past one another . Second , since these beliefs were the basis of the Branch Davidians ' sense of personal identity and meaning , they were nonnegotiable . The conventional conception of negotiation as agreement about some exchange or compromise between the parties was meaningless in this context . How could anything of ultimate significance be surrendered to an adversary steeped in evil and error ? Finally , such a belief system implies a link between ideas and actions . It requires that we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the fact that actions might be based on something other than obvious self-interest . Conventional negotiation assumes that the parties think in terms of costs and benefits and will calculate an outcome that minimizes the former and maximizes the latter . In Waco , however , the government faced a group seemingly impervious to appeals based upon interests , even where the interests involved were their own life and liberty . Instead , they showed a willingness to take ideas to their logical end-points , with whatever sacrifice that might entail . The Branch Davidians did indeed operate with a structure of belief whose authoritative interpreter was David Koresh . However absurd the system might seem to us , it does no good to dismiss it . Ideas that may appear absurd , erroneous or morally repugnant in the eyes of outsiders continue to drive believers ' actions . Indeed , outsiders ' rejection may lead some believers to hold their views all the more tenaciously as the group defines itself as an island of enlightenment in a sea of error . Rejection validates their sense of mission and their belief @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's will . THESE DYNAMICS assumed particular force in the case of the Branch Davidians because their belief system was so clearly millenarian . They anticipated , as historian Norman Cohn would put it , total , immediate , collective , imminent , terrestrial salvation . Such commitments are even less subject than others to compromise , since the logic of the system insists that transcendent forces are moving inexorably toward the fulfillment of history . Federal authorities were clearly unfamiliar and uncomfortable with religion 's ability to drive human behavior to the point of sacrificing all other loyalties . Consequently , officials reacted by trying to assimilate the Waco situation to more familiar and less threatening stereotypes , treating the Branch Davidians as they would hijackers and hostage-takers . This tactic accorded with the very human inclination to screen out disturbing new events by pretending they are simply variations of what we already know . Further , to pretend that the novel is really familiar is itself reassuring , especially when the familiar has already provided opportunities for law-enforcement officials to demonstrate their control and mastery . The FBI has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; therefore , acting as if Waco were such a case encouraged the belief that here too traditional techniques would work . THE PERPETUATION of such stereotypes at Waco , as well as the failure to fully appreciate the religious dimension of the situation , resulted in large measure from the " cult " concept . Both the authorities and the media referred endlessly to the Branch Davidians as a " cult " and Koresh as a " cult leader . " The term " cult " is virtually meaningless . It tells us far more about those who use it than about those to whom it is applied . It has become little more than a label slapped on religious groups regarded as too exotic , marginal or dangerous . As soon as a group achieves respectability by numbers or longevity , the label drops away . Thus books on " cults " published in the 1940s routinely applied the term to Christian Scientists , Jehovah 's Witnesses , Mormons and Seventh-day Adventists , none of whom are referred to in comparable terms today . " Cult " has become @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cult " is to associate it with irrationality and authoritarianism . Its leaders practice " mind control , " its members have been " brainwashed " and its beliefs are " delusions . " To be called a " cult " is to be linked not to religion but to psychopathology . In the Waco case , the " cult " concept had two dangerous effects . First , because the word supplies a label , not an explanation , it hindered efforts to understand the movement from the participants ' perspectives . The very act of classification itself seems to make further investigation unnecessary . To compound the problem , in this instance the classification imposed upon the group resulted from a negative evaluation by what appear to have been basically hostile observers . Second , since the proliferation of new religious groups in the 1960s , a network of so-called " cult experts " has arisen , drawn from the ranks of the academy , apostates from such religious groups , and members ' relatives who have become estranged from their kin because of the " cult " affiliations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ relied heavily on this questionable and highly partisan expertise  --  with tragic consequences . It was tempting to do so since the hostility of those in the " anti-cult " movement mirrored the authorities ' own anger and frustration . These cascading misunderstandings resulted in violence because they produced erroneous views of the role force plays in dealing with armed millenarians . In such confrontations , dramatic demonstrations of force by the authorities provoke instead of intimidate . It is important to understand that millenarians possess a " script "  --  a conception of the sequence of events that must play out at the end of history . The vast majority of contemporary millenarians are satisfied to leave the details of this script in God 's hands . Confrontation can occur , however , because groups often conceive of the script in terms of a climactic struggle between forces of good and evil . How religious prophecy is interpreted is inseparable from how a person or a group connects events with the millenarian narrative . Because these believers ' script emphasizes battle and resistance , it requires two players : the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ failed but still resisting temporal order . By using massive force the Bureau of Alcohol , Tobacco and Firearms on February 28 , and the FBI on April 19 , unwittingly conformed to Koresh 's millenarian script . He wanted and needed their opposition , which they obligingly provided in the form of the initial assault , the nationally publicized siege , and the final tank and gas attack . When viewed from a millenarian perspective , these actions , intended as pressure , were the fulfillment of prophecy . The government 's actions almost certainly increased the resolve of those in the compound , subdued the doubters and raised Koresh 's stature by in effect validating his predictions . Attempts after the February 28 assault to " increase the pressure " through such tactics as floodlights and sound bombardment now seem as pathetic as they were counterproductive . They reflect the flawed premise that the Branch Davidians were more interested in calculating costs and benefits than in taking deeply held beliefs to their logical conclusions . Since the government 's own actions seemed to support Koresh 's teachings , followers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is even now the subject of dispute between the FBI , which insists that the blazes were set , and survivors who maintain that a tank overturned a lantern . In any case , even if the FBI 's account proves correct , " suicide " seems an inadequate label for the group 's fiery demise . Unlike Jonestown , where community members took their own lives in an isolated setting , the Waco deaths occurred in the midst of a violent confrontation . If the fires were indeed set , they may have been seen as a further working through of the script 's implications . It would not have been the first time that vastly outnumbered millenarians engaged in self-destructive behavior in the conviction that God 's will required it . In 1525 , during the German Peasants ' Revolt , Thomas Munzer led his forces into a battle so hopeless that 5,000 of his troops perished , compared to six fatalities among their opponents . Just as the authorities in Waco failed to understand the connections between religion and violence , so they failed to grasp the nature @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sense , transcends law and custom . When a Dallas reporter asked Koresh whether he thought he was above the law , he responded : " I am the law . " Given such self-perception , charismatic figures can be maddeningly erratic ; they feel no obligation to remain consistent with pre-existing rules . Koresh 's swings of mood and attitude seemed to have been a major factor in the FBI 's growing frustration , yet they were wholly consistent with a charismatic style . Nevertheless , charismatic leaders do confront limits . One is the body of doctrine to which he or she is committed . This limit is often overcome by the charismatic interpreter 's ingenuity combined with the texts ' ambiguity ( Koresh , like so many millennialists , was drawn to the vivid yet famously obscure language of the Book of Revelation ) . The other and more significant limit is imposed by the charismatic leader 's need to validate his claim to leadership by his performance . Charismatic leadership is less a matter of inherent talents than it is a complex relational and situational matter between @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ granting that a leader possesses extraordinary gifts , the leader 's claim is usually subject to repeated testing . A leader acknowledged at one time may be rejected at another . Here too the Waco incident provided an opportunity for the authorities inadvertently to meet millennialist needs . The protracted discussions with Koresh and his ability to tie down government resources gave the impression of a single individual toying with a powerful state . While to the outer world Koresh may have seemed besieged , to those in the community he may well have provided ample evidence of his power by immobilizing a veritable army of law-enforcement personnel and dominating the media . GIVEN THE government 's flawed approach , what ought to have been done ? Clearly , we will never know what might have resulted from another strategy . Nonetheless , taking note of two principles might have led to a very different and less violent outcome . First , the government benefited more than Koresh from the passage of time . However ample the Branch Davidians ' material stockpiles , these supplies were finite and diminishing . While @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it might have been tested by privation , boredom and the eventual movement of public and official attention to other matters . Further , the longer the time that elapsed , the greater the possibility that Koresh in his doctrinal maneuvering might have constructed a theological rationalization that would have permitted surrender . Messianic figures , even those cut from seemingly fanatic cloth , have occasionally exhibited unpredictable moments of prudential calculation and submission ( one thinks , for example , of the sudden conversion to Islam of the 17th-century Jewish false messiah Sabbatai Zevi ) . Time was a commodity the government could afford , more so than Koresh , particularly since a significant proportion of the community 's members were almost certainly innocent of directly violating the law . As important as patience , however , would have been the government 's willingness to use restraint in both the application and the appearance of force . The ATF raid , with its miscalculations and loss of life , immediately converted a difficult situation into one fraught with danger . Yet further bloodshed might have been averted had authorities been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of force . Federal forces should have been rapidly drawn down to the lowest level necessary to prevent individuals from leaving the compound undetected . Those forces that remained should have been as inconspicuous as possible . The combination of a barely visible federal presence , together with a willingness to wait , would have accomplished two things : it would have avoided government actions that confirmed apocalyptic prophecies , and it would have deprived Koresh of his opportunity to validate his charismatic authority through the marathon negotiations that played as well-rehearsed millenarian theater . While there is no guarantee that these measures would have succeeded ( events within the compound might still have forced the issue ) , they held a far better chance of succeeding than the confrontational tactics that were employed . The events in Waco were not the first time in recent years that a confrontation between a communal group and government forces has ended in violence . Several years ago the Philadelphia police accidentally burned down an entire city block in their attempt to evict the MOVE sect from an urban commune . In 1985 surrender @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ armed Christian Identity community in Missouri organized by the Covenant , Sword and Arm of the Lord . In August 1992 a federal raid on the Idaho mountaintop cabin of a Christian Identity family resulted in an 11-day armed standoff and the deaths of a U.S. marshal and two family members . In this case , too , the aim was the arrest of an alleged violator of firearms law , Randy Weaver , whose eventual trial , ironically , took place even as the FBI prepared its final assault on the Branch Davidians . In retrospect , the Weaver affair was Waco in microcosm  --  one from which , apparently , the ATF learned little . These cases , which should have been seen to signal new forms of religion-state conflict , were untypical of the relationships with government enjoyed by earlier communal societies . While a few such groups , notably the Mormons , were objects of intense violence , most were able to arrive at some way of living with the established order . Many , like the Shakers , were pacifists who had a principled opposition to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were primarily interested in preserving their cultural and religious distinctiveness ; they only wanted to be left alone . Still others , such as the Oneida perfectionists , saw themselves as models of an ideal social order  --  exemplars who might tempt the larger society to reform . In all cases , an implied social contract operated in which toleration was granted in exchange for the community 's restraint in testing the limits of societal acceptance . When external pressure mounted ( as it did in response to the Oneida Community 's practice of " complex marriage " ) , communitarians almost always backed down . They did so not because they lacked religious commitment , but because these communities placed such a high value on maintaining their separate identities and on convincing fellow citizens that their novel social arrangements had merit . The Branch Davidians clearly were not similarly motivated , and it is no defense of the government 's policy to acknowledge that Koresh and his followers would have sorely tested the patience of any state . Now that the events of Waco are over , can we say @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in American likely to be again drawn or provoked into violent conflict with the established order ? The answer , unfortunately , is probably yes . For this reason Waco 's lessons are more than merely historically interesting . The universe of American communal groups is densely populated  --  they certainly number in the thousands  --  and it includes an enormous variety of ideological and religious persuasions . Some religious communities are millenarian , and of these some grow out of a " posttribulationist " theology . They believe , that is , that Armageddon and the Second Coming will be preceded by seven years of turmoil ( the tribulation ) , but they part company with the dominant strain of contemporary Protestant millennialism in the position they assign to the saved . The dominant millenarian current ( dispensational premillennialism ) assumes that a Rapture will lift the saved off the earth to join Christ before the tribulation begins , a position widely promulgated by such televangelists as Jerry Falwell . Posttribulationists , on the other hand , do not foresee such a rescue and insist that Christians must endure the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Antichrist . Their emphasis upon chaos and persecution sometimes leads them toward a " survivalist " lifestyle  --  retreat into defendable , self-sufficient rural settlements where they can , they believe , wait out the coming upheavals . Of all the posttribulationists , those most likely to ignite future Wacos are affiliated with the Christian Identity movement . These groups , on the outermost fringes of American religion , believe that white " Aryans " are the direct descendants of the tribes of Israel , while Jews are children of Satan . Not surprisingly , Identity has become highly influential in the white supremacist right . While its numbers are small ( probably between 20,000 and 50,000 ) , its penchant for survivalism and its hostility toward Jews and nonwhites renders the Christian Identity movement a likely candidate for future violent conflict with the state . WHEN MILLENARIANS retreat into communal settlements they create a complex tension between withdrawal and engagement . Many communal societies in the 19th century saw themselves as showcases for social experimentation  --  what historian Arthur Bestor has called " patent office models of society . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ keep at bay a world they despise and fear . They often deny the legitimacy of government and other institutions . For some , the reign of Antichrist has already begun . To white supremacists , the state is ZOG  --  the Zionist Occupation Government . For them , no social contract can exist between themselves and the enemy  --  the state . Their sense of besiegement and their links to paramilitary subcultures virtually guarantee that , no matter how committed they may be to lives of isolation , they will inevitably run afoul of the law . The flash-point could involve firearms regulations , the tax system , or the treatment of children . These and similar groups will receive a subtle but powerful cultural boast as we move toward the year 2000 . Even secularists seem drawn , however irrationally , toward the symbolism of the millennial number . The decimal system invests such dates with a presumptive importance . We unthinkingly assume they are watersheds in time , points that divide historical epochs . If even irreligious persons pause in expectation before such a date , is it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the year 2000 , therefore , millenarian date-setting and expectations of transformation will increase . If this prognosis is valid , what should government policy be toward millennial groups ? As I have suggested , government must take religious beliefs seriously . It must seek to understand the groups that hold these beliefs , rather than lumping the more marginal among them in a residual category of " cults . " As Waco has shown , violence is a product of interaction and therefore may be partially controlled by the state . The state may not be able to change a group 's doctrinal propensities , but it can control its own reactions , and in doing so may exert significant leverage over the outcome . The overt behavior of some millenarian groups will undoubtedly force state action , but the potential for violence can be mitigated if law-enforcement personnel avoid dramatic presentations of force . If , on the other hand , they naively become co-participants in millenarians ' end-time scripts , future Wacos will be not merely probable ; they will be inevitable . The government 's inability @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Idaho provides little cause for short-term optimism . The lesson the ATF apparently took from that event was that if substantial force produced loss of life , then in the next case even more force must be used . Waco was the result . Admittedly , to ask the government to be more sensitive to religious beliefs in such cases is to raise problems as well as to solve them . It raises the possibility of significant new constitutional questions connected with the First Amendment 's guarantee of the free exercise of religion . If the state is not to consign all new and unusual religious groups to the realm of outcast " cults , " how is it to differentiate among them ? Should the state monitor doctrine to distinguish those religious organizations that require particularly close observation ? News reports suggest that Islamic groups may already be the subjects of such surveillance  --  a chilling and disturbing prospect . Who decides that a group is dangerous ? By what criteria ? If beliefs can lead to actions , and if those actions violate the law , how should order @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be taken into account without fatally compromising free exercise ? These are difficult questions for which American political practice and constitutional adjudication provide little guidance . They need to be addressed , and soon . In an era of religious ferment and millennial excitation , the problems posed by the Branch Davidians can only multiply . Michael Barkun is professor of political science in the Maxwell School of Syracuse University . He is the author of , among other books , Disaster and the Millennium and Crucible of the Millennium . <p>                     