@@385196

The foundation of my successful nutritional practice has been built upon the quotation below . Many of the greatest healers of our time firmly believe that internal detoxification of the body is the key to youth , vitality , energy and vibrant health . Dr. Bernard Jensen , my teacher , mentor and respected friend , has devoted his entire nutritional career of 60 years and counting , to educating clients , students and the general public on the benefits of internal cleansing . After treating over 350,000 patients and publishing over 30 books on natural health , Dr. Jensen is consistent in his belief that no effective healing can take place in the body without cleansing the intestinal and eliminative systems . What Is Internal Detoxification ? Internal detoxification is an ongoing process that our bodies perform on a daily basis . In much the same way that our hearts beat non-stop and our lungs breathe consistently , our bodies continuously encounter and dispose of a variety of toxins and poisons . Some are cellular waste materials of our own making , toxic by-products of metabolism . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into our systems through the air we breathe , the foods we eat and the water we drink . Under ideal circumstances the body is equipped to neutralize and dispose of these toxins through the liver , spleen and eliminative channels ( bowel , kidneys , lungs , skin and lymphatic system ) . But in modern day society there are NO ideal circumstances . The Causes of Toxicity Accumulated toxins in the body account for a myriad of health complaints ranging from something as simple as fatigue or weight gain to serious health disorders such as arthritis , cancer and other degenerative conditions . Ninety-nine percent of the time the amount of toxicity in the body correlates directly with the seriousness of the condition . I spend a great deal of time educating my clients on the most common causes of toxicity and how the eliminative systems , under a continuous toxic onslaught , eventually begin to break down . Proper digestive and eliminative function involves having two to three bowel movements per day . Most people are not aware of this and go through their lives eliminating once a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I ask my clients this question on a daily basis : " If you eat three meals a day and only eliminate once a day , where are the other two meals ? " Faulty digestion and elimination develop in an individual through years of improper lifestyle and dietary habits . When we are not eliminating properly , wastes may not be expelled for days , months or years . Toxins back up in the colon , causing auto-intoxification , or self-poisoning . This occurs when the bowel walls become encrusted with uneliminated fecal matter . Not only does this toxic material hamper the absorption of vital nutrients through the intestinal wall , but it also causes the blood capillaries lining the intestinal wall to begin absorbing these toxins into the bloodstream , consequently polluting all our organs and cells . This auto-intoxification lowers our overall feeling of health and vitality . We start to blame other factors , such as aging , when we experience a lack of energy , do n't have that " zip " in our walk or that " sparkle " in our eyes . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ depletion of energy and degenerating health . These complaints can almost always be alleviated through internal cleansing techniques . Are You a Candidate for Internal Cleansing ? What would happen if we did n't empty our kitchen garbage cans for months and we kept on throwing more and more food on top of the old ? Would n't our homes start smelling like a garbage dump ? The same thing happens with a constipated , clogged up intestinal system . When toxins are not properly eliminated , life begins to smell ! Many of my seminars focus on internal cleansing and bowel management , and I am repeatedly asked the same question : " How do I know if I need to cleanse ? " After consulting with over 7,000 clients , my answer is simple . I have never worked with an individual who did not benefit from internal cleansing . It can be compared to asking your auto mechanic if your car ever needs to be serviced . Some of the more obvious symptoms of a toxic body can include : * Constipation * Stomach bloat * Poor digestion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ * Arthritis * Poor skin * Poor memory * Depression * Body odor * Bad breath I have seen these problems alleviated over and over again through internal detoxification techniques . The Basis of Internal Cleansing 1 ) Education I encourage everyone to educate themselves on the importance and function of the eliminative organs , with special emphasis on the bowel , before embarking on any type of internal cleansing program . Recognize the necessity and importance of having two to three bowel movements per day . Understand the problems associated with constipation and take proper steps to avoid toxic build-up in the bowel. 2 ) Proper Diet and Nutrition No detoxification program is complete without proper nutrition . Stay away from low vitality foods that contain sugar , salt , saturated fats , caffeine , nicotine and alcohol . Excessive intake of animal protein places a tremendous burden on the digestive system . Our bodies need live foods for optimum vitality . These are fresh , organic fits , vegetables and whole grains . that contain the necessary enzymes to assure proper digestion and assimilation of nutrients . Wholesome natural @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to build a strong and healthy body . The old saying " you are what you eat " is a fundamental truth . 3 ) Water Water is instrumental in the body 's cleansing process . It flushes toxins , wastes and cellular debris from our systems while transporting nutrients for assimilation . Water cleanses the body inside and out . It is important that we drink eight to 10 glasses of water per day . 4 ) Exercise Exercise strengthens the entire body and mind , stimulates the circulatory and lymphatic system , increases metabolic efficiency and enhances the body 's natural cleansing systems . Studies show that a moderate exercise program involving heart rate elevation for a period of 20 to 30 minutes per day is beneficial . 5 ) Stress Management Stress affects every cell and tissue in the body . It breaks down the immune system as well as all of the major organs , robs the body of important vitamins and minerals and , over time , can cause severe acid build up . Stress hinders proper digestion , absorption and elimination of nutrients by throwing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the body 's cleansing processes , and actually contributes to toxic buildup . Reduction of stress is an important factor in achieving optimum health . 6 ) Herbs and Fiber A multi-herb and fiber cleansing program will facilitate the elimination of accumulated toxins . Herbs are nature 's cleansers . They are rich in food-source vitamins , minerals , amino acids and enzymes . Herbs work with the body 's own functions , accelerating and stimulating internal cleansing processes . Fiber provides the roughage and bulk needed to sweep , clean and tone the entire gastrointestinal tract . Fiber quickens the transit time of waste elimination , absorbing toxins alone , the way . 7 ) Fasting Techniques Fasting is one of the world 's oldest cleansing therapies . By abstaining from food , stress is removed from digestive processes so that detoxification can take place . A " true " fast consists of ingesting only water . Although there is a time and place for this extreme type of fasting , I recommend a liquid fast that consists of fresh , organic fruit and vegetable juices . With this type @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a daily basis but is giving the digestive system a much needed rest . I encourage all interested individuals to educate themselves on fasting methods and techniques . There are dozens of informative books available at your local health food store . Before you fast , know what to expect . The body can go through dramatic and sometimes alarming changes as accumulated wastes are expelled . 8 ) Enemas and Colonic Irrigation Enemas and colonics both involve the use of purified water to irrigate and flush out toxins from the bowel . Enemas are usually self-administered , while colonics are always given by a trained professional . Colonics , properly administered , are more thorough than enemas . Both enemas and colonics increase the release of old , encrusted colon waste , encourage discharge of toxins , and make the whole cleansing process easier and more thorough . Many ingredients can be added to enema or colonic water to increase its therapeutic effect . Coffee enemas help to detoxify the liver . Flaxseed tea enemas relieve bowel inflammation . Friendly intestinal flora can be re-established in the colon through retention @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ therapeutic techniques , I firmly believe that they can be important tools in a detoxification program . Education is the Key Perfect dietary and lifestyle habits , stress management , proper exercise and internal cleansing measures can not be incorporated into a person 's daily regimen overnight , but an increased awareness of these health tools and their benefits will positively influence many individuals . I encourage my clients and friends to read and educate themselves about natural health , proper nutrition and internal detoxification . Our motto at Home Nutrition Clinic is " Health Thru Education . " I believe in these words passionately . Through education , all things are possible . REFERENCES : 1 Rector-Page , Linda , N.D. , Ph.D . Healthy Healing . Healthy Healing Publications , 1992. 2 Jensen , Bernard , D.C. , Ph.D . Tissue Cleansing Through Bowel Management . Bernard Jensen Enterprises , 1981 . <p>                     