@@398734

Southerners can easily escape to this Central American wonderland to walk in a cloud forest , feel a volcano rumble , sleep in a jungle lodge , and spy toizcans in the wild . Photograph // Long-beaked toucans clatter and black howler monkeys scream the jungle canopy . Native orchids bloom among giant ferns , and parading armiesm of leaf-cutter ants wave their verdant quarry like giant fins on the forest floor . Such natural wonders should be enough to rivet our attention . The promise of a fantasyland of bright songbirds , lush bromeliads , and rushing streams is precisely what drew us to tropical Costa Rica for a winter escape . But as we walk a glistening rain forest trail in this Central American nation 's northwestern highlands , we ca n't keep our minds off the explosive boomls that rumble steadily through the greenery . We are , after all , hiking on a cauldron of pressurized steam and molten lava known as Arenal Volcano . It 's difficult not to dwell on the possibility of being pelted by hot boulders . Reaching a clearing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lava flow ( in 1968 ) , we snack on slices of mango and plantain , and we wait . With luck , at break in the low-flying clouds will reveal the volcano 's hidden top half . That break comes sooner than expected , and we 're treated to a grab-the-cameras marvel . Arenal resembles what a first grader draws to depict a volcano : a steep , synnetrical cone puckered skyward , an orange tongue of lava licking the tim , clouds gathered in a throat-hugging necklace , a rippling skirt of forest below . As if on cue , the mountain belches a thousandfoot-high column of steam , smoke , and flying rocks , heralded by an earthshaking roar . A moment and a whole roll of film later , we still spy dislodged rocks chattering down the slopes . Some rocks chattering down the slop . Some reach the damp forest and smolder . The eruption 's steam column drifts away . Ashes sprinkle our clothes and hair , nature 's volcanic confetti anointing us . This happens as often as once an hour , our guide @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as if we had n't just seen the most amazing thing in our suburban lives . Perhaps Costa Ricans get used to such drama . Straddling the isthmus between the Caribbean Sea and the Pacific Ocean , bordered on land by Panama to the east and Nicaragua to the north , theirs is a nation of natural wonders . The size of Maryland doubled or Kentucky halved , Costa Rica harbors amazing ecological diversity : cloud-shrouded highlands , rain-drenched lowlands , sandy beaches , vast coffee plantations and cattle ranches , and patches of near desert . Alert birders can find more than 850 species , including the resplendent quetzal , scarlet macaw , emerald toucanet , and hummingbirds ( at left ) . Monkeys , shy sloths , raccoonlike coatimundis , grunting peccaries , and a host of lizards and frogs populate the country . A dedication to environmental preservation , plus a peaceful history , stable economy , democratic rule , enviable weather , and the wide use of English among its mostly Spanish-speaking people , combine to make Costa Rica a popular showcase for nature-based tourism . We @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to come and be amazed . After hiking on Arenal , we soak in the rock-lined pools of Tabacon Hot Springs . Steamy water rushing from deep within the mountain forms a relaxing outdoor spa . We enter La Fortuna de San Carlos , a village in the volcano 's shadow , for a typical Costa Rican meal of rice , beans , and vegetables served with meat and lots of fruit . Then we settle into a jungle lodge called Las Cabanitas Resort , one of several clusters of cottages in town . We sit on the porch sipping eagle-branded bottles of Imperial , the national beer , and watch through waving ferns as Arenal 's lava beret bubbles and glows all through the dark night . Photograph Nearly aerial views line the road climbing to the Monteverde Cloud Forest . Once afoot , delve into tropical edens. // Another day finds us on a road trip long not so much in miles but in hours . Costa Rica may appear tiny on maps , but getting around in it takes time . Many roads trickle off into transmissionbusting gravel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It 's best to hire a local driver and van , available just about anywhere , for about what you 'd pay each day to rent a car . We make our way around the 20-mile spike of Lake Arenal , stopping to watch daredevil windsurfers battle winds whipping off the Pacific and up the mountains . We eat lunch in Tilaran in the steep heart of a Swiss-like cattle country . We gain elevation among slopes sheathed in coffee bushes and banana trees and weave through tiny villages and roaming livestock . Finally we reach Monteverde , one of the most popular destinations in Costa Rica . Here stands the famous Monteverde Cloud Forest Preserve , a cool highland jungle . Moist trade winds crossing the Continental Divide as clouds and light-but-frequent rains account for the abundance of mosses , ferns , lichens , orchids ; and bromeliads . Hiring a guide named Adrian to pick us up at the European-style Monteverde Lodge and lead the way , we plunge into the thick forest , binoculars ready . Soon we 're treated to blue-crowned motmots , azure-hooded jays , chestnut-capped @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more . Adrian tells us he started a " life list " just three years ago and already has more than 500 species sighted , a level envied by many long time birders . We dunk our feet into the cold pool of a cascading mountain stream while Adrian explains complex connections among plants , animals , and weather . He takes us to Hummingbird Gallery , an arts-andcrafts shop whose surrounding feeders attract a variety of hummingbirds easily photographed from mere inches away . He even finds us a suitable vine to swing from , Tarzan style , just for fun . Surprises fill our week . Like coming into the little town of Zarcero and finding its central square a masterpiece of elaborate topiaries groomed by an old master still tediously at work . Or meeting an international set of surfers on Playa de Jaco , the short beach closest to the capital , linked by good roads , and thus popular among quick-trip vacationers . In planning our first Costa Rica visit , and in moving about the country , we learn of many other adventures . Sea @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ coast . Whitewater rafters ride the eastward-flowing Pacuare River and the Reventazon River Near San Jose an aerial tram lifts tours into a rain forest canopy . Hikes and horseback rides lead to more flora , fauna , and pristine waterfalls in a host of forest preserves . Cliffs pounded by ocean waves isolate short strips of palmfringed beaches . Reef snorkeling , deepsea fishing , hikes near several other active volcanoes , and jungle lodges suited to every comfort level from roughingit to luxurious , convince us to plan another tropical winter getaway here . Maybe next time well get used to the earth rumbling , volcanic ashes sprinkling our hair , and natural surprises hiding around every bend . For tips on planning your own Costa Rican adventure , turn to page 31 . Photograph Costa Rica 's wealth of nature preserves teem with wildlife . In the small town of Zarcero , meticulously trained topiaries grace the central square . // <p>                     