@@394704

We 'd be nowhere without oxygen and iron . Oxygen is in the air we breathe , the water we drink , and the rocks we stand on . Iron flows through our veins , supports our tallest buildings , and makes up our planet 's hot core , which generates the magnetic field that protects us from high-energy particles emanating from the Sun . Yet before the Galaxy formed , there was no oxygen or iron at all . At that time , stars like the Sun , planets like Earth , and living beings like us could not exist . The very first stars that did arise in our Galaxy likewise had no oxygen and iron . The most ancient stars that survive today formed shortly after this initial generation of stars and so consist almost entirely of hydrogen and helium , the two lightest elements . Since then , the Galaxy 's supply of oxygen , iron , and other heavy elements has grown . These metals  --  astronomers call all elements heavier than helium " metals "  --  were forged in stars and ejected @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of stars and planets , including the Sun and Earth , acquired these heavy elements for themselves . Every oxygen atom and every iron atom in your blood came from a star . The Galaxy 's abundance of metals , or metallicity , has increased over the years . The oldest stars in the Galaxy , which formed when the Galaxy had few metals , have few metals themselves , whereas younger stars , like our Sun , have enough metals to give rise to Earth-like planets and life . The Sun , which is 4.6 billion years old , is 2 percent metals by weight , but a typical 10-billion-year-old star is just 0.02 percent metals , making its metallicity only one-hundredth the Sun 's . Astronomers have known about this progressive metal enrichment of our Galaxy for decades . More recently , though , they have discovered that different metals behave in different ways . The most interesting variation involves two of the most important metals : oxygen and iron . Oxygen is the most abundant metal of all . But it is difficult to measure in stars because @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lines . In contrast , iron is easy to measure because it is a complex atom that produces lots of spectral lines at optical wavelengths . So astronomers usually determine a star 's metallicity by measuring its iron abundance . After determining a star 's iron abundance , astronomers traditionally assume that other metals behave exactly the same way  --  that is , if the star has one-half the Sun 's iron abundance , it also has one-half the Sun 's oxygen abundance , one-half the Sun 's carbon abundance , and so on . For metal-rich stars like the Sun , this assumption is usually correct : the oxygen-to-iron ratio of metal-rich stars is the same as the Sun 's . For metal-poor stars , however , recent studies show this assumption is wrong , especially for oxygen . These old stars have oxygen-to-iron ratios that are higher than the Sun 's . ( In the Sun , oxygen nuclei outnumber iron nuclei by a factor of 20 . ) For example , a star with 1 percent the Sun 's abundance of iron does not have 1 percent the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have 3 percent the Sun 's abundance of oxygen , giving it an oxygen-to-iron ratio three times greater than the Sun 's . The star still has less oxygen than the Sun , but it has several times more than one would expect based on its iron abundance . HUNTING FOR OXYGEN Because metal-poor stars formed shortly after the Galaxy itself did , their abundance patterns preserve a record of our Galaxy 's distant past and hold key clues to what our Galaxy was like in its earliest years . The high oxygen-to-iron ratios in old stars can therefore tell us what was going on as the Galaxy was forming . The first hint that the oxygen-to-iron ratio in metal-poor stars is higher than the Sun 's came in the late 1960s . A few astronomers noted high oxygen-to-iron ratios in moderately metal-poor giant stars such as Arcturus and Gamma Leonis and even higher oxygen-to-iron ratios in more metal-deficient giants . But giant stars are tricky : some giants fuse elements in shells around their cores , and mixing of the shells ' gases with those of the outer layers may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ giant may no longer be the same as the material from which the star formed . Main-sequence stars are better . These stars generate energy by fusing hydrogen into helium at their cores , leaving their surface abundances of heavy elements untouched . Thus , the present surface composition of a main-sequence star should be the same as the composition of the Galaxy itself when the star formed , billions of years ago . In the late 1970s , Christopher Sneden , David Lambert , and Rodney Whitaker investigated 13 main-sequence stars of various metallicities . They found that the oxygen-to-iron ratios of the metal-rich stars were the same as the Sun 's but that the oxygen-to-iron ratios of the metal-poor stars were higher than the Sun 's . Since then , astronomers have confirmed this work , finding that old , metal-poor stars have oxygen-to-iron ratios three or four times higher than the Sun 's . The oxygen-to-iron ratio of the Milky Way has therefore decreased dramatically during the Galaxy 's life . This huge decrease in the oxygen-to-iron ratio means the relative production of oxygen and iron was radically @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is today . In the early years , when the metal-poor stars formed , the Galaxy was producing far more oxygen relative to iron than it is today . Or , to put it the other way , the Galaxy in the old days had not yet started to create much iron . The reason for the dramatic difference probably lies in the mechanism that ejects stellar matter into the interstellar medium from which later generations of stars form  --  supernova explosions . Of the two main varieties of supernovae , one produces lots of oxygen , while the other produces lots of iron . EXPLOSIVE CLUES Supernovae are crucial to the Galaxy 's chemical evolution , for supernovae have created many of the heavy elements now in the interstellar medium . To them we owe our existence , and to them we must look to discover why the Galaxy 's oxygen-to-iron ratio was once higher than it is today . Astronomers recognize four types of supernovae and designate them Type Ia , Type Ib , Type Ic , and Type II . The spectra of the various Type I supernovae @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ universe , whereas the Type II supernovae have plenty of hydrogen in their spectra . Despite this distinction , Type Ib and Ic supernovae arise from the same kind of star as Type II supernovae . Stars that explode as Type II supernovae have hydrogen envelopes , as the Sun does , whereas stars that explode as Type Ib and Ic supernovae have lost their hydrogen envelopes . This is why Type II supernovae show hydrogen in their spectra and Type Ib and Ic supernovae do not . But these three types of supernovae  --  Ib , Ic , and II  --  all come from short-lived , high-mass stars , stars more massive than eight solar masses . High-mass stars are bright but rare : only one star in twenty thousand has a mass as great as eight solar masses . Yet because they are so luminous , many of these stars are quite famous . In fact , some of your best friends in the night sky are high-mass stars : Spica , Rigel , Deneb , Antares , and Betelgeuse probably all exceed eight solar masses and will someday @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Fortunately for us , these stars do not lie nearby . A nearby supernova would probably destroy all life on Earth . Because a high-mass star is so bright , it must burn its fuel thousands of times faster than the Sun . The star begins its life by fusing hydrogen into helium the way our Sun does , but it soon graduates to heavier fuels , creating carbon , oxygen , neon , magnesium , silicon , and finally iron . Despite the many sources of energy , however , the star quickly runs out of fuel . The star 's core collapses into a neutron star or black hole , generating a shock wave that initiates the supernova explosion . The total lifetime of a high-mass star is short , so almost as soon as the Galaxy formed , Type Ib , Ic , and II supernovae started exploding . Although the nuclear reactions inside a high-mass star create both oxygen and iron , most of the iron stays behind when the star explodes . The reason : before the star explodes , the oxygen and iron are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Oxygen is the product of nuclear reactions that occur earlier in the life cycle of the star , so it resides in a shell outside the star 's core . Iron , on the other hand , is the final product of the nuclear reactions and thus remains at the star 's center . When the star explodes , the oxygen gets ejected into the Galaxy , while most of the iron gets sucked into the newly created neutron star or black hole . Type Ib , Ic , and II supernovae therefore give off much oxygen but little iron . For example , the Type II supernova SN 1987A in the Large Magellanic Cloud ejected about 1.6 solar masses of oxygen but a mere 0.07 solar mass of iron . In contrast , Type Ia supernovae give the Galaxy more iron than oxygen . But Type Ia supernovae take a while to get going . These supernovae arise from exploding white dwarfs . White dwarfs are small , dense stars ; most have little hydrogen , so when they explode no hydrogen appears in their spectra . White dwarfs form @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's  --  in other words , from exactly those stars that do n't become Type Ib , Ic , or II supernovae . White dwarfs are very common , because most stars are less massive than eight solar masses . Ten percent of all stars in the Galaxy are white dwarfs . But hardly any of these white dwarfs ever blow up . Only if a white dwarf reaches a mass of 1.4 Suns will it explode . This mass  --  the so-called Chandrasekhar limit  --  is the most a white dwarf can have . Anything more , and the star explodes . Before becoming a white dwarf , even a star as massive as eight Suns loses so much mass that the white dwarf it creates does not exceed the Chandrasekhar limit . In fact , the average white dwarf has only 0.6 solar mass , so most white dwarfs are safely below the limit and have nothing to fear . If , however , a white dwarf is in a binary star system , and if its companion star gives mass to the white dwarf , the white dwarf @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ white dwarf 's mass grows from its starting value of 0.6 solar mass . If enough mass pours onto it , the white dwarf will reach 1.4 Suns  --  and the star will explode as a Type Ia supernova . What makes the white dwarf explode ? Most white dwarfs consist primarily of carbon and oxygen . When the mass reaches 1.4 Suns , the star 's central pressure and temperature get so great that carbon nuclei fuse together , creating heavier elements and lots of energy . This energy raises the temperature further , which causes more fusion , which creates still more energy , which raises the temperature still more , which causes still more fusion , and so on . A nuclear runaway occurs and the star explodes like a nuclear bomb , completely annihilating itself . Nothing remains . Instead , all the material returns to the Galaxy . The most important element created during this deadly chain reaction is nickel-56 . Nickel-56 is radioactive with a half-life of 6 days . It soon decays to cobalt-56 , which is radioactive itself with a half-life of 78 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stable . The light of a Type Ia supernova comes not from the exploding star itself but from the energy of the radioactive decay of nickel to cobalt to iron . The final result : a Type Ia supernova gives the Galaxy about 0.5 solar mass of iron  --  an impressive achievement for a star of only 1.4 solar masses . The nearest possible Type Ia supernova precursor is uncomfortably close . A mere 8.6 light-years away , the white dwarf Sirius B has a mass of 1.05 Suns , far above the average for white dwarfs . Sirius A , the white dwarf 's more famous companion , is presently an A-type main-sequence star and is not losing much mass . But when Sirius A becomes a red giant , it will start to lose material , some of which will fall onto Sirius B. Little by little , Sirius B 's mass may increase . Right now Sirius A has over two solar masses . If Sirius A loses half its mass and if Sirius B grabs most of that mass , Sirius B will exceed the Chandrasekhar limit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Sirius will probably perish . Fortunately , this will take time , and by then Sirius will have drifted far enough away to spare us its wrath . This is the fundamental point about Type Ia supernovae : they take a long time before they explode . It takes time for a star to become a white dwarf , and it takes time for the white dwarf to receive enough mass to explode . To put it another way : Type Ia supernovae have long fuses , whereas Type Ib , Ic , and II supernovae have short fuses . And Type Ia supernovae give the Galaxy iron , while Type Ib , Ic , and II supernovae give the Galaxy oxygen . THE GALAXY 'S EVOLUTION Now we can put the pieces together to study our Galaxy 's evolution and , specifically , to explain why the oxygen-to-iron ratio in old , metal-poor stars is so much higher than it is in young , metal-rich stars . Our Galaxy formed from hydrogen and helium gas that had essentially no metals . The first stars that arose in our Galaxy formed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as Type Ib , Ic , or II supernovae , blowing themselves up before the lower mass stars forming with them even reached the main sequence . These supernovae gave the Galaxy oxygen and other heavy elements , but little iron . The Galaxy 's metallicity increased slightly , and the Galaxy 's oxygen-to-iron ratio was high . Stars forming with material from these exploding stars acquired a low metallicity and a high oxygen-to-iron ratio . Stars continued to form , and Type Ib , Ic , and II supernovae continued to explode . The stars now had somewhat higher metal abundances , though their metallicities were still far lower than the Sun 's . The stars ' oxygen-to-iron ratios remained high . As time went on , however , white dwarfs began to form from dying stars with masses below eight solar masses ; though these white dwarfs started with masses below the Chandrasekhar limit , some were in binary systems , and some of these were slowly receiving mass from their partners . Meanwhile , Type Ib , Ic , and II supernovae kept increasing the Galaxy 's metallicity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the white dwarfs in binary systems acquired so much mass that they exceeded the Chandrasekhar limit and exploded as Type Ia supernovae . Like the other supernovae , the Type Ia supernovae raised the Galaxy 's metallicity . But the Type Ia supernovae produced a lot more iron than oxygen and lowered the Galaxy 's oxygen-to-iron ratio . Thus , with both types of supernovae exploding , the Galaxy 's overall abundance of heavy elements continued to increase but the oxygen-to-iron ratio started to fall . Stars continued to form from this material , with higher metallicities and lower oxygen-to-iron ratios . The process continues to this day . The Galaxy 's metallicity is now so high that life can exist , and the oxygen-to-iron ratio is low , similar to the Sun 's . Of course , this model oversimplifies the Galaxy 's actual evolution . Other events besides supernovae eject material into the Galaxy . Planetary nebulae , novae , and stellar winds all affect the Galaxy 's evolution , as does any infall of material from outside the Galaxy . In addition , astronomers calculating what supernovae do @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they want to model what currently observed supernovae should look like . However , the stars that exploded in the earliest years of our Galaxy were metal-poor . Nonetheless , because they are the primary drivers of the Galaxy 's chemical evolution , the two principal varieties of supernovae explain well the oxygen and iron in the Galaxy 's stars . Through clever detective work and a knowledge of stellar evolution , we have deduced how the Galaxy acquired the heavy elements that have made our life possible , some ten billion years after the Galaxy 's first stars set the whole process into motion . Ken Croswell received his Ph.D . in astronomy from Harvard University for his study of distant , metal-poor stars in the Milky Way Galaxy . He writes frequently for ASTRONOMY , New Scientist , and other magazines . His last article for ASTRONOMY WAS " To the Edge : Missions to Pluto and Neptune " in the May issue . <p>                     