@@410745

Attempts to help homeless people with severe mental illnesses rebuild their lives have to address and improve all aspects of their situations . There is growing consensus that an array of basic life supports ( e.g. , food , clothing , and shelter ) and specialized services is required to respond adequately to the needs of this extremely disadvantaged population . The ideal service system is a comprehensive and integrated system of care with designated responsibility , accountability , and adequate fiscal resources . No matter how many agencies or individual providers are involved , one must be identified as the lead authority at each level of government , accountable for ensuring access , appropriateness , and continuity of services . Moreover , people who are homeless and severely mentally ill require a system of care that they can maneuver , one that is capable of a coherent response to their many needs . Integrating administrative , fiscal , and clinical authority is one of the most problematic service system issues related to this population . While there is a growing knowledge base of research and experience that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for systems integration , the ultimate form will have to reflect local needs , resources , and priorities . Most severely mentally ill people who are homeless find it difficult , if not impossible , to improve their lives appreciably on their own . Disorientation , mistrust , fear of rehospitalization , ignorance , lack of motivation , language problems , and poverty keep them from enlisting the aid of others and maintaining contact with many of the resources that significantly might enhance their well-being . Moreover , many are unwilling and/or unable to accommodate to the conventions of traditional service systems , such as keeping appointments for office visits ( which also requires accessible transportation ) . Service providers , therefore , must meet homeless individuals on their own terms and their own turf . These workers should address immediate survival needs ( such as food , clothing , and shelter ) and provide sustained treatment and support , based on ongoing assessment of clinical conditions and needs . The process of engaging homeless people is time-consuming , protracted , and staff-intensive . Nevertheless , by offering patient , persistent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , outreach workers can establish the trusting relationships that are essential to engage and help mentally ill people living on the streets . Outreach strategies also can be used to help those in shelters move into more stable housing situations that are linked with supportive services . Street outreach must include the capacity for an emergency response as well as engagement . Homeless mentally ill individuals often are found living in life-threatening circumstances and/or precarious locations . For example , the New York City Transit Police estimate that 5,000 people lived in the bowels of the city 's subway system in 1989 , many of them persons with severe mental illnesses . That year alone , 79 individuals either were electrocuted or hit by trains . Similarly , some homeless mentally ill individuals living on the streets are unable or unwilling to go indoors in below-freezing temperatures . For reasons such as these , crisis outreach teams should be available to evaluate individuals and transport them , if necessary , to emergency or inpatient services . Backup medical and psychiatric support is essential to ensure access to involuntary treatment when necessary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , store-front locations , often are effective in engaging those who typically are not reached by other service interventions . Distinguished from more formal programs by their casual accessibility , these centers can offer a place to sit during the day , sleep at night , or both . They particularly are inviting to many homeless mentally ill individuals because they ask few questions and make no demands . Like other outreach efforts , they often become a bridge to the more formal service delivery and/or shelter network . Another essential service system component is case or integrated care management . The goals include enhancing continuity of care , access to services , and efficiency and accountability of service provision and integration . Essentially , there must be a sustained relationship with someone who knows each client as an individual and understands his or her needs and how to address them . An integrated care manager also can help the client to negotiate the maze of disparate Federal , state , and local services to obtain benefits and entitlements ; assist with and arrange access to health and dental care , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with mental health and substance abuse treatments ; and see that the client receives timely , appropriate services . Care management may include assessing the need for a representative payee  --  a responsible person selected to manage disability and welfare incomes for clients deemed incapable of doing so . Effective integrated care management can improve the over-all functioning of homeless people with severe mental illnesses , reduce their contact with police and crisis and inpatient services , and stimulate closer involvement with families and housing providers . By establishing a continuing relationship , and encouraging and facilitating more appropriate use of community-based services , this form of integrated care management also may lessen the revolving door of rehospitalization and homelessness . PROVIDING SHELTER For many mentally ill people who have been living on the streets , the transition to stable housing best is made in stages , starting with a small , highly supportive environment where they can feel at ease and out of danger and are subject to relatively few demands . Most communities offer shelters as a first point of refuge for all homeless people , but these often @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and vice versa . Some shelters will not admit people who are psychotic and unwilling to accept treatment immediately ; others exclude persons who use alcohol or other drugs . From the perspective of severely mentally ill people who are accepted in large public shelters , these facilities often are frightening places  --  crowded sites that offer no safety , peace , or privacy , where assault and theft are common , and these vulnerable individuals are all too often the victims . It is essential to address their most basic necessities in a humane and comprehensive way , not merely to place homeless people out of sight . A respite from street life is necessary to achieve relative stability and permit professional staff to assess clients ' long-term needs and prospects adequately . The skills required for survival on the streets ( such as mistrusting strangers and using hostility as a defense ) differ greatly from those necessary for accommodation indoors . Before they are ready and able to adhere to rules and program requirements , many people with severe mental illnesses require not only shelter from the harshness of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ trust helpers . Hence , it is important to expand the array of appropriately staffed , low-demand environments that will provide a safe , sanitary residence for homeless people with severe mental illnesses , support and assist them in overcoming specific problems that impede access to permanent housing , and develop the integrated supports needed for successful residential tenure . One type of facility that has been proposed , known as a safe haven , could provide an attractive portal of entry to the service system for such individuals . It is small ( fewer than 25 people ) and offers semiprivate accommodations and basic services ( such as food , showers , clothing , and shelter ) as well as other necessities ( such as telephones , a mailing address , and a place to lock up and store belongings ) . Safe havens can accommodate homeless mentally ill persons coming from shelters or emergency rooms ( when hospitalization is not required ) as well as those coming directly from the street . They offer a relatively stable and secure environment for people not yet ready to participate in more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ some shelters , safe havens offer consistency of the same bed each night , and belongings are secure . Residents are not required to vacate the premises during the day , and they may stay as long as they wish . Such arrangements can facilitate the treatment of physical illnesses , which often require bed rest and complex medication regimens . Staff/client ratios in these facilities have to be sufficiently high to ensure safety and security and to assess needs , plan treatment , and link individuals to entitlements and services . Staff of safe havens should reflect the ethnic , cultural , and language background of clients being served . In addition , staff members should be familiar with community resources for treatment of physical and mental illnesses and for housing and social supports . To build a sense of empowerment and a supportive sense of community , safe haven staff should encourage ( but not require ) residents to participate in the operation of the facility . As the Chicago Coalition for the Homeless stated in 1991 , no combination of mental health , social services , case management @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ meeting the needs of homeless mentally ill persons in the absence of the availability of affordable housing . Given the extreme poverty of the population , this will require housing subsidies , greater access to entitlements and benefits , and increased employment opportunities . The long-term goal should be to obtain permanent housing , linked and readily accessible to community-based services , for each homeless severely mentally ill person . Given the heterogeneity of the homeless mentally ill population , an array of housing options should be available to meet individual preferences , rehabilitative requirements , and abilities . Although the physical structure need be no different than housing for any other population , such housing might include , when necessary , supervision to assist individuals in their transition back to the community . The concentration , characteristics , and needs of homeless mentally ill people vary from location to location , thus requiring policies and programs that are flexible . For instance , the nature of housing resources probably will differ in urban and rural settings . Additionally , the needs of various segments of the homeless mentally ill population @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ elderly , women vs. men ) can be expected to have a bearing on the design and operation of housing programs . Where possible , housing should be integrated and include a mix of populations ( e.g. , people with and without severe mental illnesses ) . Finally , it should be located to provide easy access to public transportation . The spectrum of housing provided to homeless mentally ill individuals should include low-demand , transitional , long-term , crisis , and respite settings , with an appropriate variety of support services available . These residential settings might be provided through a variety of housing models including safe havens , emergency shelters , group homes , half-way houses , foster homes , board-and-care arrangements , nursing facilities , clustered and scattered-site apartments , and houses . For homeless people with severe mental illness and substance abuse histories , special housing considerations include the need to develop wet houses ( where on-site alcohol is permitted ) , damp ones ( where off-site substance use is tolerated ) , and dry locations ( where abstinence is a prerequisite for tenancy ) . Abstinence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with substance abuse problems will require some form of housing or shelter until it is achieved . Coordinating shelter and services generally requires an active collaboration or partnership between housing and mental health providers . The role of the mental health service provider is to assess the tenant 's readiness to assume more independent living , arrange for and ensure implementation of any necessary treatment or supports , be available in case of an emergency or special needs , and , more broadly , identify and become an advocate for the housing needs of mentally ill individuals . Private landlords are far more likely to rent to homeless persons with severe mental illnesses if they have met the care manager , have the program 's assurance that rent will be paid , and know there is someone they can call in a crisis . When people with a severe mental illness are given appropriate supportive services , they usually make excellent tenants . TREATMENT Most homeless people with severe mental illnesses can be treated effectively in the community on an outpatient basis . However , because severe mental disorders tend to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ongoing treatment to lessen the symptoms , impairments , and disruptions they produce . For a variety of reasons  --  including active avoidance of traditional treatments by some individuals as well as resistance by some caregivers to dealing with certain difficult clients  --  the treatment needs of the homeless mentally ill population are largely unmet . In addition , unlike shelter , food , and other fundamental necessities , treatment of mental illness often is not high on their list of priorities . Thus , it has been suggested that treatment of mental illnesses be " bundled " with ( but not a prerequisite for ) other basic services that address immediate needs for daily living . Some younger homeless individuals never have had mental health or substance abuse treatment of any type and are unaware that it might help them function better . In many rural areas , there is a paucity of trained mental health professionals available to provide services to severely mentally ill persons . Given their varied experiences , expectations , illnesses , treatment histories , and needs , it is essential that they be assessed carefully @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the specific therapeutic approaches  --  whether biological , psychosocial , or both  --  most appropriate to treat it . Planning appropriate treatment and support services requires a careful diagnostic work-up and an ongoing assessment of the individual 's mastery of basic life skills , i.e. , those that are necessary to meet personal and social needs . Treatment planning  --  including , for some , the need for sophisticated psycho-pharmacologic treatment  --  should be developed with the person 's participation . Complications or medication side effects should be anticipated , and problem-solving should occur ahead of time rather than during crises . Compliance with treatment plans must be monitored and supported , an important function of the designated care manager . Given the complex life situations of people who have experienced or are suffering the trauma of homelessness , assessment and planning require time and regular reevaluation . Ideally , hospitals should be used only when treatment goals can not be achieved elsewhere . At times , brief periods ( usually two-three weeks ) of hospitalization may be useful to assess illnesses and provide treatment to help gain control of symptoms @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ill individuals is limited in some communities , however . This is a serious concern because , in the case of extreme disorders of thinking or mood , hospital treatment may be required either on a voluntary or an involuntary basis , when individuals are found to be dangerous to themselves or others . In general , commitment  --  be it inpatient or outpatient  --  should be to a system of care , rather than to any single institution or provider . Discharge planning should begin at the time a person is admitted to a hospital . The period immediately preceding the discharge of a person with a severe mental illness from a hospital represents one opportunity to prevent homelessness and encourage continuing treatment and rehabilitation . Each person requires a treatment and rehabilitation plan in order to minimize the amount of time spent in such settings and maximize his or her long-term housing stability . The lives of at least half of the homeless severely mentally ill population are complicated further by alcohol and other drug abuse . Such dually diagnosed individuals required skilled assessment and a combination of mental @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ access to detoxification , treatment , and recovery services ( e.g. , referral and self-help services ) . Residential services also are required that include wet , damp , and dry housing geared specifically to people at various stages in the recovery process . It is important to remember that , for people with severe mental illnesses , the abuse of alcohol or other drugs places them at increased risk for homelessness . Thus , developing accessible treatment programs for dually diagnosed individuals may be an important means of preventing homelessness in the severely mentally ill population . Homeless people with severe mental disorders more often than not have many other unattended health conditions , ranging from life-threatening infectious diseases , such as AIDS or tuberculosis , to less serious disorders . Thus , it is essential that these individuals have access to the full range of medical assessment , diagnosis , and treatment . The acute need to educate homeless people about preventing human immunodeficiency virus infection and AIDS , minimizing HIV transmission , and obtaining appropriate health care if infected and/or ill only now is gaining attention . Data @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as 20% of the homeless population in certain sites are infected with the AIDS virus  --  a finding that , in the absence of more specific data , presumably holds for the homeless severely mentally ill population as well . MEETING HEALTH CARE NEEDS To meet the health care needs of this population , it is necessary to have providers serve homeless people in shelters , drop-in centers , and on the streets . Health care can be encouraged by using clinical nurse specialists and psychiatric nurse practitioners as members of outreach and integrated care management teams to plan , implement , and evaluate care . These providers should assist with and arrange access to all aspects of health care , including assessment , diagnosis , and treatment planning ; emergency care ; inpatient care ( if needed ) ; primary and preventive health care ; and linkage to specialty services . Because treatment of some infectious and communicable diseases  --  particularly tuberculosis and its drug-resistant varieties  --  is protracted , direct supervision of medication therapies may be required . Homeless people who have severe mental disorders can not maneuver a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the rest of their care . Many poor people , including some who are homeless and severely mentally ill , use emergency rooms as a source of primary health care , a practice that is costly for the health care system and inefficient for the clientele . Alternate modes of financing and providing health care delivery for indigent populations  --  both urban and rural  --  should be developed . An immediate and urgent goal of service provision must be to obtain all entitlements and benefits homeless mentally ill people are eligible for . Many of these people live well below the poverty line or have no income at all , despite their eligibility for a variety of income-support programs . The vast majority need assistance in obtaining and retaining the benefits for which they are eligible , especially food stamps and other nutritional programs , Supplemental Security Income , Supplemental Security Disability Insurance , Aid to Families with Dependent Children , state general and local welfare assistance , and veterans ' benefits . Better coordination is needed of outreach efforts related to Federal entitlements , benefits , and programs . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mentally ill people who are homeless or at risk of homelessness is inefficient and confusing to clients . Coordinated outreach , such as the joint outreach effort between the Department of Veterans Affairs and the Social Security Administration , can save considerable time and expense . To help people with severe mental illnesses  --  whether homeless or not  --  become and remain contributing members of society , rehabilitation , vocational training , and assistance in work settings are essential . These services must encompass the development or relearning of skills and competencies required for successful interpersonal and social functioning as well as , for specific vocational pursuits . Key services include assessment of goals , skills , and supports ; linkage with vocational training , jobs , and other meaningful daytime activities ; and opportunities to participate in supported employment , clubhouse programs , and recreational activities . These services are important to the process of recovery and can contribute both to self-esteem and self-support . Major obstacles to employment stem from their lack of currently marketable skills . Other problems arise from negative interactions with co-workers and supervisors , who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the individual worker 's strengths and limitations . Vocational training can increase employability and improve long-term prospects for avoiding homelessness . Employment assistance  --  including transitional , supportive , and other employment programs  --  must be designed to respond to the many difficulties faced by homeless people with a severe mental illness as they seek to enter or return to the workforce . The discovery of the self-help movement among mental health consumers , former patients , and survivors can play a major role in the recovery process . The philosophy of choice , self-determination , and involvement in one 's rehabilitation has continued to be a crucial force in this burgeoning civil rights movement . Within the last several years , **31;313;TOOLONG have become actively vocal in the development , operation , and evaluation of mental health services , many of them user-run . Current and former consumers of mental health services constitute an invaluable , but often overlooked resource in advocating and providing services . This underuse needs to be corrected immediately  --  through education to minimize stigma , employment opportunities for these valuable allies in the provision of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of consumer-run programs for the target population . Several innovative programs across the country , many funded through National Institute of Mental Health and Department of Labor demonstration grants , have shown the wisdom of utilizing consumers in engaging street people and encouraging their transition indoors . Families of people with a severe mental illness constitute a potentially important but extremely underused , resource in helping to prevent and overcome homelessness . Efforts to address the needs of the target population should include attention to enabling families to provide needed housing and care , when such an arrangement is mutually desirable . Giving families of severely mentally ill individuals access to crisis/emergency systems to help them cope with periodic episodes of acute illness and offering respite services ( the provision of adequate supervision of a mentally ill person to allow his or her family to attend to business matters or take vacations ) might improve the ability of relatives to house and support their ill family member . People with a severe mental illness who live with their families thus may gain time to prepare for independent living and avoid the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ also may benefit from the provision of funding that could assist their families in financing living arrangements for them . Not involving families or community providers in aftercare planning from hospital or shelter settings can increase the chances that a formerly homeless mentally ill person will return to the streets . LEGAL PROTECTIONS People who are severely mentally ill and homeless comprise a particularly vulnerable population in need of legal protection from many types of discrimination , mistreatment , and abuse . Services must be available to protect client and patient rights advocate ( both at the individual and systems levels ) for improved access to appropriate care , and promote consumer empowerment and choice . However , the role of the law in addressing the needs of these individuals is a matter of some controversy . Questions regarding the legal aspects of clinical care , the interface with the criminal justice system , and discriminatory zoning or housing access practices arise from the complex challenges of serving this population . Systems of care for treating mentally ill people have been based on the premise that in extreme circumstances , coercive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that mentally ill people are at times incapable of making competent decisions about their need for care or present serious threats to their own wellbeing or that of others . There is no empirical evidence to support the belief that changes in civil commitment laws would provide a solution to the problems of homeless mentally ill persons . In fact , current laws are much less restrictive than commonly is believed . Moreover , factors other than the law  --  such as the availability of alternative resources within the community-may influence commitment decisions . Certainly , if involuntary commitment laws are liberalized , no long-term benefits can be derived without an accompanying increase in resources to care for the newly designated population . In some communities , the paucity of voluntary inpatient beds forces practitioners to commit an individual who otherwise might accept a period of hospital treatment voluntarily . For some homeless mentally ill people , their capacity for judgment can be affected by their disease , rendering them unable to make decisions about specific aspects of their lives , such as treatment or financial matters . In these instances @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , such as a representative payee , is a useful approach . However , the availability of and access to such guardians often are limited , and , once a guardian is identified , protections are critical to this and other guardianship processes to ensure that the homeless mentally ill person is not victimized . Stigmatization , fear , and mistrust regarding people with severe mental illnesses  --  especially those who also are homeless  --  are commonplace in the U.S. Such reactions influence both the direct responses of community members to these individuals and the development of local , state , and Federal policies affecting them . Educational activities of many types are essential to increase public understanding of the capabilities and needs of homeless and severely mentally ill persons , improve community acceptance and reduce stigma , and curb any community resistance and discrimination in access to housing and jobs . Neither passing new " anti-vagrancy " ordinances nor intensifying enforcement of existing laws is an appropriate response to people living on the streets or one that contributes to a more enlightened public understanding . Local communities , when adequately @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that support the rehabilitation and reintegration of severely mentally ill members who are homeless . Extensive community education should make it clear that : * The most visible people on the streets represent the worst-case scenario of what happens when very ill people are ignored and their mental illnesses untreated . * Even these worst-case examples can be improved dramatically if given the proper care and resources . * A properly functioning service system can bring about that improvement by reaching out to people on the streets , helping them obtain the care and services they need to function at their best , and placing and supporting them in appropriate residential settings . * While many of the system 's greatest failures are highly visible on the streets , its successes are easy to miss , because people who are successfully rehabilitated simply become co-workers , neighbors , and friends . Providing the kind of integrated service system needed by homeless people with severe mental illnesses requires the development of innovative philosophies , new types of service workers , and the retraining of individuals currently working in the system . Properly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ front lines where homeless people are served . Several approaches to this problem must be explored . First , academic programs as well as on-the-job training curricula should be developed to enhance essential knowledge and skills among professional and paraprofessional workers in health , mental health , social service , and housing-related agencies and organizations that serve this population . Those with health and mental health training need to understand the special characteristics and service needs of ' the homeless population , and those oriented toward work with them or housing require a greater understanding of the symptoms and implications of severe mental illness . Second , to expand the pool of front-line workers , special programs must be developed to train consumers and indigenous workers to join outreach teams , where their background and skills are particularly useful . Third , to aid recruitment and retention of personnel who are effective in interacting with the target population , attractive salaries and career ladders must be made available , and program planners and leaders must recognize and avert the strong potential for burnout among front-line workers . In addition , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , mental health , and social work should offer incentives for the acquisition of cultural competence by non-minority service providers . Just as recent advances in clinical and basic research have contributed to significant progress in the assessment and treatment of mental disorders , so too must the development of systems of care be guided by the results of rigorous scientific inquiry . It is necessary to know more about what works , for whom , and under what circumstances . With the broad range of treatment and housing services required to address homelessness and severe mental illness , research initiatives will benefit from collaboration between academic researchers and public-sector agencies in the planning and conduct of research . Federal efforts such as the Interagency Council on the Homeless Work Group on Data Collection , can complement state , local , and private initiatives . A special report by the Task Force on Homelessness and Severe Mental Illness . The Federal Task Force on Homelessness and Severe Mental illness was chaired by Alan I. Leshner , deputy director of the National Institute of Mental Health , Rockville , Md . <p> @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @           