@@410552

Officials at the headquarters of both the Presbyterian Church ( U.S.A. ) and the United Methodist Church are standing by their decisions to lend physical and economic support to a controversial feminist theological conference . But critics within both denominations are calling for at least an apology from their church leaders and , in some instances , disciplinary action . The November 1993 gathering , called " RE-Imagining : A Global Theological Conference by Women , " was held in Minneapolis in conjunction with a worldwide observance of the role of women in the churches ; part of an on-going World Council of Churches program , it was sponsored locally by four Minneapolis-St . Paul churches . Top Presbyterian officials say there were no violations of church policy when national staff members attended the November conference , which included a milk-and-honey ritual and invocations of Sophia . ( Whether this Sophia is a feminine personification of God 's wisdom or a separate deity , a Gnostic goddess , is a matter of dispute . ) Nor will the General Assembly Council , the denomination 's highest decision-making body @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ performance of Mary Ann Lundy , the council 's associate for planning and chief target of critics of the RE-Imagining gathering , which was intended to " re-image " how women perceive and relate to " God , Community and the Church . " The council 's actions were taken when it met February 11-15 in Dallas and discussed the controversial meeting , which involved more than 2,000 participants from several denominations . The ruling comes in the wake of a " theological appraisal " of the conference drawn up by members of the PCUSA 's Office of Theology that took strong exception to a number of the conference 's activities , including the milk-and-honey celebration and the invocations of Sophia . Lundy had served as director of the denomination 's Women 's Ministry Unit during the time the ecumenical conference was being planned and served as liaison to the conference planning committee . The Presbyterian Church contributed $66,000 of the conference 's $400,000 cost  --  the largest donation from any denomination  --  and some 400 Presbyterians , including 20 national staff members , attended the conference . In December conservatives @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conference , charging that it had been dominated by heresy and paganism and accusing participants of worshiping the ancient Greek goddess Sophia and of endorsing lesbianism . Within the PCUSA the attack was led by the Presbyterian Layman , an independent journal , and Presbyterians for Renewal , a separate conservative organization . By the time the General Assembly Council met in Dallas , more than 1,000 letters about the conference had been received , two judicial complaints had been lodged , and more than 100 local church councils had sent resolutions demanding investigation of the conference or the disciplining of staff members involved . In its appraisal of the conference , the PCUSA 's Theology Office had called the " pervasive invocation " of Sophia " a particularly problematic aspect " that amounted to " an alternative employed in distinction from the triune God . " Also , according to the office , the milk-and-honey ritual , though not explicitly cast as a communion service , " functioned clearly as an alternative to the Lord 's Supper . " The Dallas meeting was dominated by the RE-Imagining conference issue , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ six-page statement , adopted on the last day of the meeting in a 36-20 vote made public February 24 . Grounded in a reaffirmation of the beliefs of the Presbyterian heritage , the statement also recognizes " that faithful Christian women and men will have varying understandings " of that heritage . It criticizes the debate over the Minneapolis conference : " People have argued their cases using prejudice based on gender , race and theological stereotypes . Issues were oversimplified and judgments were drawn before the facts could be adequately investigated . Funds have been withheld from the church 's mission , or diverted to other causes , before the Council has an opportunity to respond . " In response to questions raised about funding the feminist conference , the council said use of funds " was in accord with then-current operating procedures " but also recommended that those procedures be reviewed . Regarding staff participation at the Minneapolis gathering , the council said it found " no reason to reprimand or discharge any employee for attending this conference . " But it also questioned whether staff had exercised " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ review of current personnel policies to examine whether constraints should be in place for activities that could diminish " work effectiveness " or an employee 's ability to carry out the church 's " actions and policy statements . " The vote against reviewing Lundy 's job performance was 32-31 . Council members said people voted as they did for a variety of reasons  --  some voting against the review because they preferred a statement of support for Lundy , others voting against it because they wanted her fired outright . A key United Methodist agency has announced its support for embattled church leaders who attended the Minneapolis conference , but a conservative group in the denomination is calling for disciplinary action against those attending . " It saddens those of us who rejoice in the diverse expressions of faith , culture and God when other voices misunderstand and misrepresent such a unifying gathering , " asserts a statement from the 48-member Commission on the Status and Role of Women ( COSROW ) , based in Evanston , Illinois . " We affirm the right and gift of women to gather @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and to share with each other , the church and world the fullness of our Christian faith . " In a February 18 " open letter " the newly formed United Methodists for Faith and Freedom , linked to the conservative Washington-based Institute on Religion and Democracy , called for " decisive and appropriate disciplinary action " against church leaders endorsing or supporting the November conference . The COSROW statement , drafted by agency members who attended the conference , voices support for participation by the Women 's Division of the denomination 's Board of Global Ministries . The Women 's Division has taken most of the heat in the controversy . Several COSROW members suggested that the criticism of the Women 's Division is part of a deliberate strategy to cripple that agency , whose primary mission is to women and children . " We need to monitor and name the kind of strategy being used , " said Diana Loomis of Glencoe , Missouri , while Los Angeles pastor Lydia Salazar Martinez warned against letting conservative critics set the church 's agenda . " Are we being taken off @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and abuse toward women ? " she asked . <p>                     