@@425105

" My river is dying , " says Rick Dove , a retired Marine Corps colonel and attorney , who is the river keeper for the Neuse River Foundation in New Bern , North Carolina . Algae blooms have long been known to science , but in the past decade , phytoylankton ecologists have characterized the increase in toxic algal blooms , from Iceland to the Tasman Sea , as a " global epidemic . " More than fifty-five species of dinoflagellates once thought to be innocuous are now known to be poisonous , but the recently discovered dinoflagellate that has been ravaging the Neuse , where it killed more than ten million fish in the summer and fall of 1995 , is something else again . This unusual one-celled dinoflagellate , Pfiesteria piscicida , is not just a new species in a new genus but represents an entirely new family in the order Dinamoebales . Actually an animal and not an alga at all , it is an " ambush-predator " that can paralyze and kill fish and cause a host of human ailments  --  from grotesque @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It can kill in fresh water or ocean water but is deadliest in " nutrient-enriched , " that is polluted , brackish water with a salinity of fifteen parts per thousand , a little less than half the salinity of sea water . After encysting in bottom sediments , P. piscida can undergo at least nineteen stages when it chemically senses fish or other prey . Ranging in size from 10 to 400 micrometers ( thousands can fit on the period at the end of this sentence ) , it looks like an amoeba in one-third of its stages and a blob in several others . But in its killing stage it is a two-tailed dinoflagellate that releases a neurotoxin that stuns fish before it eats into them . " It uses something called a peduncle , a little organelle that comes out from the front of the cell , " says JoAnn M. Burkholder , an aquatic ecologist and associate professor at North Carolina State University in Raleigh . " First the peduncle looks tongue-like , but after a while it becomes very large and develops cytoplasm extensions . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it and sucks out the contents . " The end result is that the fish usually die with quarter-size sores and/or a ravaged anus , a prime target . The dying fish also cause the dinoflagellates , which live only from twenty-four to thirty-six hours , to produce gametes , initiating sexual reproduction . They then go swiftly into hiding or camouflage themselves as colorless amoebas while continuing to feed on the carcasses . The hit-and-run tactics of this rapidly transforming organism , plus its ability to masquerade as a plant by feeding on algae and their chloroplasts , prompted Burkholder to dub it the " phantom " dinoflagellate . Thus far , scientists have found the phantom only on the East Coast : in the Albemarle-Pamlico Sound region ; in the Atlantic Ocean off Wrightsville Beach , North Carolina ; in the Cape Fear and the New Rivers in North Carolina ; in Delaware Bay ; and in the estuary of the Saint Johns River in Florida . At least one other Pfiesteria-like species has been found in the Saint Johns estuary and the Indian River in Florida , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But these discoveries may be just the beginning . Burkholder says that " toxic ambush-predator dinoflagellates likely are widespread in warm temperate/subtropical regions , acting as significant but often undetected sources of fish mortality and disease . " Although the phantom has probably been around for eons  --  dinoflagellates originated 450 to 600 million years ago  --  knowledge of its existence came about only recently . In the summer of 1988 , Edward J. Noga , a fish pathologist at the College of Veterinary Medicine at North Carolina State , and Stephen Smith . a graduate student , collected brackish water and some fish ( juvenile menhaden and flounder ) from the Pamlico estuary for pathology experiments . Several days later , to their astonishment , Noga and Smith found all the fish in the lab dead or dying . Something was killing them , but tests for bacteria , fungi , heavy metals , and pesticides all proved negative . Smith scrubbed the aquariums with soap and water , but instead of refilling them with Pamlico water he added Instant Ocean salts to deionized water . He put in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ similar to the first batch . The dying fish appeared to be neurologically impaired ; they were disoriented and unable to hold position . They darkened in color , a sign of stress , and they often died near the aerators , as though they needed oxygen . Many developed open , bleeding sores , but some died so quickly they did n't develop the sores . Despite repeated emptying , scrubbing , and refilling of the aquariums , the fish kept dying . Whatever the cause , " it " was still lurking . In fact , the phantoms were hiding in the glass walls . As the scientists were to learn , it takes a lot to kill them , especially in the cyst stage . Twenty percent of the phantom cysts can survive a both in concentrated sulfuric acid or ammonium hydroxide , thirty-five days of desiccation , or almost two years of dormancy . In frustration , Noga and Smith began hourly sampling of the water . Through a microscope , they observed a small dinoflagellate with two tails that appeared to be abundant when fish were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ began to suspect that this was the culprit . In the winter of 1989 , after a number of algal specialists had rejected their request for help in identifying the dinoflagellate , Noga and Smith approached Burkholder . " They told me this strange story about how it seemed to be attacking fish , " she recalls . " I had never heard of a dinoflagellate doing this . I turned them down . My background was in fresh water , I had done a lot with algae , and I knew about dinoflagellates , but I had never worked with them . " Identification requires a lot of extremely fine tuning with a scanning electron microscope and a transmission electron microscope . If it 's what we call an armored dinoflagellate which it turned out to be , it has little plates of cellulose that are deposited just below three or four membrane layers on the outside of the cell , and those membranes obscure the plates of cellulose to some extent . " It 's hard to see the plates , and you have to slip the membranes off @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ continued , " but you then have to squash the cell just right . One little canal , the canal that 's in the center of the cell , can contain up to seventy of those plates , and you have to obtain the number , the exact shape , configuration , and arrangement of the plates to say what species it is . I am an ecologist , not a taxonomist . There was no way " After Noga called back several times , Burkholder agreed that she would study the ecology of the dinoflagellate and send cultures and preserved specimens for identification to an acknowledged authority in the field , Karen A. Steidinger , of the Florida Marine Research Institute in Saint Petersburg . At first institute scientists were skeptical that such a strange fish-killing dinoflagellate existed ; then they said they found it impossible to culture the organism . Almost two years went by . In October of 1991 , Burkholder , only days away from giving a report on the phantom at the Fifth International Conference on Toxic Marine Phytoplankton , managed to get to Steidinger good @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Steidinger became very interested and eventually identified the dinoflagellate as a new species in a new genus representing a new family . After discussions with Burkholder , she agreed to name it Pfiesteria piscicida . The specific name means " fish killer , " while the generic name honors the late Lois Pfiester , a phycologist at the University of Oklahoma . One year later , Burkholder and colleagues at North Carolina State reported in Nature that a " new phantom dinoflagellate is the causative agent of major estuarine fish kills . " Between October of 1991 and 1993 , Burkholder linked the phantom to eighteen fish kills that occurred in the Neuse and Pamlico Rivers , which empty into Albemarle-Pamlico Sound , the second largest estuary on the United States mainland . Seventy-five percent of the kills occurred in nutrient-enriched waters , some badly polluted . Killed were Atlantic menhaden , southern flounder , spot , hogchoker , white perch , catfish , striped mullet , striped bass , blue crab , American eel , sheepshead , and Atlantic croaker . The biggest kill occurred in the Neuse in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ died and had to be bulldozed off the beach . Burkholder started her lab work in a small room provided by Noga , but after other researchers using the same room complained of stomach cramps , she moved out . Finally , in April of 1993 she and her assistant , Howard B. Glasgow , Jr. , moved into a new lab provided by the university . There , neurotoxic aerosols from the phantom escaped from the " hot zone " of the lab through a faulty ventilating system into the " cold zone , " causing Burkholder and Glasgow to suffer a multitude of afflictions , including respiratory distress with asthmalike symptoms , severe stomach cramping , nausea , eye irritation with uniform reddening and blurred vision ( lasting hours to days ) , localized perspiring and erratic heart beat ( weeks ) , reversible short-term memory loss ( weeks ) , and reversible cognitive impairment ( weeks ) . Glasgow , who was hit worse , also suffered from sudden rages . " The worst for me was cognitive impairment , " says Burkholder . " I could n't @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could n't converse because I could n't remember what people had said at the beginning of a sentence . For about eight days I could n't even form a sentence . Even now I know I 'm not what I used to be . I have to write things down . I used to jog religiously . Now every time I try , I wind up sick with bronchitis or pneumonia . " A paper by her and colleagues on the adverse human health effects is in press at the Journal of Toxicology and Environmental Health . The lab was closed for almost a year and a half and only reopened in July 1995 after inspection by biological warfare experts from Fort Detrick , in Frederick , Maryland . This past summer and fall , twenty million fish , from menhaden to striped bass , went belly up in the Neuse . At first , low levels of dissolved oxygen and the phantom combined to cause the kills ; then , on its own , the phantom killed ten million fish in September and October . At the same time , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ developed sores similar to those on the fish . Although the dinoflagellate 's effects on humans outside of a laboratory have not yet been established , state health authorities issued a warning telling people not to swim in , fish in , or come in contact with a thirty-five-square-mile section of the Neuse , just before it empties into the sound . It was the first warning of its kind ever issued in the state . Is the dinoflagellate thriving in increasingly polluted waters ? Since 1970 , the population in the Neuse subbasin area , twenty-one miles from New Bern to Pamlico Sound , has grown an estimated 74 percent . Now the tenth most populous state in the nation , North Carolina has been the envy of others in its ability to attract retirees , many of whom live in the coastal plain . Since 1950 there has been a 650 percent increase in the amount of waste water being discharged into the Neuse River watershed , the most significant sources being runoff from agriculture and human waste-water treatment plants . In addition , in the last decade North @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the production of hogs , seen as the replacement for tobacco . Huge , stinking industrial farms sprawling across the coastal plain contain seven million pigs that excrete as much urine and feces in one day as a city of twenty million people . Last year the Jacksonville Daily News in Onslow County reported that Duplin County alone , which has a human population of 40,000 , produced 1.04 million hogs in 1993 , a 265 percent jump in just four years . The hogs , in turn , produced 1.7 million tons of excrement . Add that to the excrement produced by the county 's 26.7 million chickens and 22.5 million turkeys , and as the paper said , " Well , go ahead and roll up your trousers . " Burkholder and her assistants followed a spill of hog waste down the New River ( thirty-five miles south of the Neuse ) in June 1995 . Testing bottom sediments seventeen miles downstream from the spill site in September , they found unsafe fecal coliform levels as high as 160,000 colony-forming units per 100 milliliters of water in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Pfiesteria . In response to the spill , state and Onslow County officials held a public meeting in Jacksonville in October . Michael Moser , director of the state 's Division of Epidemiology dismissed the idea that there was a known link between sediment bacteria levels and human health hazards , while Preston Howard , director of the state 's Division of Environmental Management , said his department will not sample the sediment . Onslow County Commissioner Sam Hewitt then asked the state officials to silence Burkholder and other scientists because " it affects the economic and tourism trade . " Hewitt then added , " I 'd like to take a rubber hose to some of them . " " My data have been rigorously reviewed , " says Burkholder . " They show Pfiesteria 's roles in fish kills and disease as well as human effects . They also describe the role of nutrient over-enrichment in stimulating this dinoflagellate . Instead of attempting to discredit the science , and shoot the messengers , officials should recognize the real culprit  --  water quality degradation . " Neuse River keeper Rick @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : " While this season has been bad , next summer will likely be worse . The time has come for us to demand that these trustees acknowledge the serious nature of the Neuse 's illness and take actions that will lead to her complete restoration . " <p>                     