@@341058

In a rusting old van in a public campground 2,000 miles away from her home , Janet Adkins faced death last week . It took the form of an odd-looking contraption made mostly of three dripping bottles , the invention of a Detroit doctor named Jack Kevorkian . As Adkins settled down on a small cot , she was attended by Kevorkian . He hooked her up to a heart monitor , slid an intravenous needle into her arm and started a harmless saline solution flowing through the tube . Then he sat back and watched the monitor as she pushed a big red button at the base of the machine . Immediately , the saline was replaced by a pain killer ; one minute later came the poison potassium chloride . Within five minutes Janet Adkins , an Alzheimer 's disease sufferer who feared an excruciating future , was dead of heart stoppage . <P> The premiere performance of Kevorkian 's suicide machine , which he invented for the terminally ill , blew open the debate over the boundaries of mercy killing . As the details of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of all those patients who confront a horrible disease and vow to maintain some dignity in death . And as Kevorkian carried his crusade for legal mercy killing to networks and newspapers around the country , he became a standard-bearer for all those who fail to see a moral difference between unplugging a respirator and plugging in a poison machine . He was quickly dubbed Dr. Death . <P> It was ironic that a retired doctor was promoting a homemade , low-tech device as a solution to the right-to-die dilemma . In recent years the agonizing debate over the issue has revolved around new technologies that can keep dying or comatose patients alive long after the quality of their lives is nil . Though most physicians will respect a patient 's right to refuse treatment , they will not actively help bring about death . " This case seems to take the responsibility away from human beings and to put it in the hands of a machine , " says George Annas , professor of health law at the Boston University School of Medicine . " If this doctor had given @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in jail today , rather than on the nightly news . " <P> Yet in this case neither doctor nor patient works very well as a symbol for the euthanasia debate . Adkins , a 54-year-old Portland schoolteacher , was suffering from the early stages of Alzheimer 's . A strong , lively woman who loved hang gliding and mountain climbing and playing her flute , she was not yet very sick ; the week before her suicide she beat her 32-year-old son in a tennis match . It was more her dread than her disease that drove her to seek Kevorkian 's help . Even before her illness she had joined the Hemlock Society , a group that supports terminally ill patients ' right to die by means including assisted suicide . But in her home state of Oregon , such means are illegal , and doctors at her hospital say they never advise suicide as an option .                     