@@410425

I take my text from George Bush , who , in an address to the United Nations on September 23 , 1991 , said this of the UN resolution equating Zionism with racism : " Zionism ... is the idea that led to the creation of a home for the Jewish people .... And to equate Zionism with the intolerable sin of racism is to twist history and forget the terrible plight of Jews in World War II and indeed throughout history . " What happened in the Second World War was that six million Jews were exterminated by people who regarded them as racially inferior and a danger to Aryan purity . What happened after the Second World War was that the survivors of that Holocaust established a Jewish state  --  that is , a state centered on Jewish history , Jewish values , and Jewish traditions : in short , a Jewocentric state . What President Bush objected to was the logical sleight of hand by which these two actions were declared equivalent because they were both expressions of racial exclusiveness . Ignored , as Bush @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ difference between a program of genocide and the determination of those who escaped it to establish a community in which they would be the makers , not the victims , of the laws . Only if racism is thought of as something that occurs principally in the mind , a falling-away from proper notions of universal equality , can the desire of a victimized and terrorized people to band together be declared morally identical to the actions of their would-be executioners . Only when the actions of the two groups are detached from the historical conditions of their emergence and given a purely abstract description can they be made interchangeable . Bush was saying to the United Nations , " Look , the Nazis " conviction of racial superiority generated a policy of systematic genocide ; the Jews ' experience of centuries of persecution in almost every country on earth generated a desire for a homeland of their own . If you manage somehow to convince yourself that these are the same , it is you , not the Zionists , who are morally confused , and the reason you are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ A KEY DISTINCTION What I want to say , following Bush 's reasoning , is that a similar forgetting of history has in recent years allowed some people to argue , and argue persuasively , that affirmative action is reverse racism . The very phrase " reverse racism " contains the argument in exactly the form to which Bush objected : In this country whites once set themselves apart from blacks and claimed privileges for themselves while denying them to others . Now , on the basis of race , blacks are claiming special status and reserving for themselves privileges they deny to others . Is n't one as bad as the other ? The answer is no . One can see why by imagining that it is not 1993 but 1955 , and that we are in a town in the South with two more or less distinct communities , one white and one black . No doubt each community would have a ready store of dismissive epithets , ridiculing stories , self-serving folk myths , and expressions of plain hatred , all directed at the other community , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ respective racisms  --  if that is the word  --  as equivalent would be bizarre , for the hostility of one group stems not from any wrong done to it but from its wish to protect its ability to deprive citizens of their voting rights , to limit access to educational institutions , to prevent entry into the economy except at the lowest and most menial levels , and to force members of the stigmatized group to ride in the back of the bus . The hostility of the other group is the result of these actions , and whereas hostility and racial anger are unhappy facts wherever they are found , a distinction must surely be made between the ideological hostility of the oppressors and the experience-based hostility of those who have been oppressed . Not to make that distinction is , adapting George Bush 's words , to twist history and forget the terrible plight of African-Americans in the more than 200 years of this country 's existence . Moreover , to equate the efforts to remedy that plight with the actions that produced it is to twist history even @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ caused by long-standing discrimination , are called affirmative action ; to argue that affirmative action , which gives preferential treatment to disadvantaged minorities as part of a plan to achieve social equality , is no different from the policies that created the disadvantages in the first place is a travesty of reasoning . " Reverse racism " is a cogent description of affirmative action only if one considers the cancer of racism to be morally and medically indistinguishable from . the therapy we apply to it . A cancer is an invasion of the body 's equilibrium , and so is chemotherapy ; but we do not decline to fight the disease because the medicine we employ is also disruptive of normal functioning . Strong illness , strong remedy : the formula is as appropriate to the health of the body politic as it is to that of the body proper . At this point someone will always say , " But two wrongs do n't make a right ; if it was wrong to treat blacks unfairly , it is wrong to give blacks preference and thereby treat whites unfairly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ forgetting and rewriting of history . The work is done by the adverb " unfairly , " which suggests two more or less equal parties , one of whom has been unjustly penalized by an incompetent umpire . But blacks have not simply been treated unfairly ; they have been subjected first to decades of slavery , and then to decades of second-class citizenship , widespread legalized discrimination , economic persecution , educational deprivation , and cultural stigmatization . They have been bought , sold , killed , beaten , raped , excluded , exploited , shamed , and scorned for a very long time . The word " unfair " is hardly an adequate description of their experience , and the belated gift of " fairness " in the form of a resolution no longer to discriminate against them legally is hardly an adequate remedy for the deep disadvantages that the prior discrimination has produced . When the deck is stacked against you in more ways than you can even count , it is small consolation to hear that you are now free to enter the game and take your @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of promise infect another formula that is popular with the anti-affirmative-action crowd : the formula of the level playing field . Here the argument usually takes the form of saying " It is undemocratic to give one class of citizens advantages at the expense of other citizens ; the truly democratic way is to have a level playing field to which everyone has access and where everyone has a fair and equal chance to succeed on the basis of his or her merit . " Fine words  --  but they conceal the facts of the situation as it has been given to us by history : the playing field is already tilted in favor of those by whom and for whom it was constructed in the first place . If mastery of the requirements for entry depends upon immersion in the cultural experiences of the mainstream majority , if the skills that make for success are nurtured by institutions and cultural practices from which the disadvantaged minority has been systematically excluded , if the language and ways of comporting oneself that identify a player as " one of us " are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ then words like " fair " and " equal " are cruel jokes , for what they promote and celebrate is an institutionalized unfairness and a perpetuated inequality . The playing field is already tilted , and the resistance to altering it by the mechanisms of affirmative action is in fact a determination to make sure that the present imbalances persist as long as possible . One way of tilting the field is the Scholastic Aptitude Test . This test figures prominently in Dinesh D'Souza 's book Illiberal Education ( 1991 ) , in which one finds many examples of white or Asian students denied admission to colleges and universities even though their SAT scores were higher than the scores of some others  --  often African-Americans  --  who were admitted to the same institution . This , D'Souza says , is evidence that as a result of affirmative-action policies colleges and universities tend " to depreciate the importance of merit criteria in admissions . " D'Souza 's assumption  --  and it is one that many would share  --  is that the test does in fact measure merit , with merit understood @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ body temperature can be objectively determined . In fact , however , the test is nothing of the kind . Statistical studies have suggested that test scores reflect income and socioeconomic status . It has been demonstrated again and again that scores vary in relation to cultural background ; the test 's questions assume a certain uniformity in educational experience and lifestyle and penalize those who , for whatever reason , have had a different experience and lived different kinds of lives . In short , what is being measured by the SAT is not absolutes like native ability and merit but accidents like birth , social position , access to libraries , and the opportunity to take vacations or to take SAT prep courses . Furthermore , as David Owen notes in None of the Above : Behind the Myth of Scholastic Aptitude ( 1985 ) , the " correlation between SAT scores and college grades ... is lower than the correlation between weight and height ; in other words you would have a better chance of predicting a person 's height by looking at his weight than you would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ SAT scores . " Everywhere you look in the SAT story , the claims of fairness , objectivity , and neutrality fall away , to be replaced by suspicions of specialized measures and unfair advantages . Against this background a point that in isolation might have a questionable force takes on a special and even explanatory resonance : the principal deviser of the test was an out-and-out racist . In 1923 Carl Campbell Brigham published a book called A Study of American Intelligence , in which , as Owen notes , he declared , among other things , that we faced in America " a possibility of racial admixture ... infinitely worse than that faced by any European country today , for we are incorporating the Negro into our racial stock , while all of Europe is comparatively free of this taint . " Brigham had earlier analyzed the Army Mental Tests using classifications drawn from another racist text , Madison Grant 's The Passing of the Great Race , which divided American society into four distinct racial strains , with Nordic , blue-eyed , blond people at the pinnacle and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1925 Brigham became a director of testing for the College Board , and developed the SAT . So here is the great SAT test , devised by a racist in order to confirm racist assumptions , measuring not native ability but cultural advantage , an uncertain indicator of performance , an indicator of very little except what money and social privilege can buy . And it is in the name of this mechanism that we are asked to reject affirmative action and reaffirm " the importance of merit criteria in admissions . " THE REALITY OF DISCRIMINATION Nevertheless , there is at least one more card to play against affirmative action , and it is a strong one . Granted that the playing field is not level and that access to it is reserved for an already advantaged elite , the disadvantages suffered by others are less racial  --  at least in 1993  --  than socioeconomic . Therefore should n't , as D'Souza urges , " universities ... retain their policies of preferential treatment , but alter their criteria of application from race to socioeconomic disadvantage , " and thus avoid @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ blacks at the expense of poor whites ? One answer to this question is given by D'Souza himself when he acknowledges that the overlap between minority groups and the poor is very large  --  a point underscored by the former Secretary of Education Lamar Alexander , who said , in response to a question about funds targeted for black students , " Ninety-eight percent of race-specific scholarships do not involve constitutional problems . " He meant , I take it , that 98 percent of race-specific scholarships were also scholarships to the economically disadvantaged . Still , the other two percent  --  nonpoor , middle-class , economically favored blacks  --  are receiving special attention on the basis of disadvantages they do not experience . What about them ? The force of the question depends on the assumption that in this day and age race could not possibly be a serious disadvantage to those who are otherwise well positioned in the society . But the lie was given dramatically to this assumption in a 1991 broadcast of the ABC program PrimeTime Live . In a stunning fifteen-minute segment reporters and a camera @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sophistication , level of apparent affluence , and so forth around St. Louis , a city where neither was known . The two differed in only a single respect : one was white , the other black . But that small difference turned out to mean everything . In a series of encounters with shoe salesmen , record-store employees , rental agents , landlords , employment agencies , taxicab drivers , and ordinary citizens , the black member of the pair was either ignored or given a special and suspicious attention . He was asked to pay more for the same goods or come up with a larger down payment for the same car , was turned away as a prospective tenant , was rejected as a prospective taxicab fare , was treated with contempt and irritation by clerks and bureaucrats , and in every way possible was made to feel inferior and unwanted . The inescapable conclusion was that alike though they may have been in almost all respects , one of these young men , because he was black , would lead a significantly lesser life than his white @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ greater expense ; he would pay more for services and products when and if he was given the opportunity to buy them : he would have difficulty establishing credit ; the first emotions he would inspire on the part of many people he met would be distrust and fear : his abilities would be discounted even before he had a chance to display them ; and , above all , the treatment he received from minute to minute would chip away at his self-esteem and self-confidence with consequences that most of us could not even imagine . As the young man in question said at the conclusion of the broadcast , " You walk down the street with a suit and tie and it does n't matter . Someone will make determinations about you , determinations that affect the quality of your life . " Of course , the same determinations are being made quite early on by kindergarten teachers , grade school principals , high school guidance counselors , and the like , with results that cut across socioeconomic lines and place young black men and women in the ranks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their parents happen to show . Racism is a cultural fact , and although its effects may to some extent be diminished by socioeconomic variables , those effects will still be sufficiently great to warrant the nation 's attention and thus the continuation of affirmative-action policies . This is true even of the field thought to be dominated by blacks and often cited as evidence of the equal opportunities society now affords them . I refer , of course , to professional athletics . But national self-congratulation on this score might pause in the face of a few facts : A minuscule number of African-Americans ever receive a paycheck from a professional team . Even though nearly 1,600 daily newspapers report on the exploits of black athletes , they employ only seven full-time black sports columnists . Despite repeated pledges and resolutions , major-league teams have managed to put only a handful of blacks and Hispanics in executive positions . WHY ME ? When all is said and done , however , one objection to affirmative action is unanswerable on its own terms , and that is the objection of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ discrimination has persisted for many years , and I acknowledge that the damage done has not been removed by changes in the law . But why me ? I did n't own slaves ; I did n't vote to keep people on the back of the bus ; I did n't turn water hoses on civil-rights marchers . Why , then , should I be the one who does n't get the job or who does n't get the scholarship or who gets bumped back to the waiting list ? " I sympathize with this feeling , if only because in a small way I have had the experience that produces it . I was recently nominated for an administrative post at a large university . Early signs were encouraging , but after an interval I received official notice that I would not be included at the next level of consideration , and subsequently I was told unofficially that at some point a decision had been made to look only in the direction of women and minorities . Although I was disappointed , I did not conclude that the situation was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ directed at me  --  at no point in the proceedings did someone say , " Let 's find a way to rule out Stanley Fish . " Nor was it directed even at persons of my race and sex  --  the policy was not intended to disenfranchise white males . Rather , the policy was driven by other considerations , and it was only as a by-product of those considerations  --  not as the main goal  --  that white males like me were rejected . Given that the institution in question has a high percentage of minority students , a very low percentage of minority faculty , and an even lower percentage of minority administrators , it made perfect sense to focus on women and minority candidates , and within that sense , not as the result of prejudice , my whiteness and maleness came disqualifications . I can hear the objection in advance : " What 's the difference ? Unfair is unfair : you did n't get the job ; you did n't even get on the short list . " The difference is not in the outcome but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ outcome . It is the difference between an unfairness that befalls one as the unintended effect of a policy rationally conceived and an unfairness that is pursued as an end in itself . It is the difference between the awful unfairness of Nazi extermination camps and the unfairness to Palestinian Arabs that arose from , but was not the chief purpose of , the founding of a Jewish state . THE NEW BIGOTRY The point is not a difficult one , but it is difficult to see when the unfairness scenarios are presented as simple contrasts between two decontextualized persons who emerge from nowhere to contend for a job or a place in a freshman class . Here is student A ; he has a board score of 1,300 . And here is student B ; her board score is only 1,200 , yet she is admitted and A is rejected . Is that fair ? Given the minimal information provided , the answer is of course no . But if we expand our horizons and consider fairness in relation to the cultural and institutional histories that have brought the two @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ even if they are not the histories ' authors , then both the question and the answer suddenly grow more complicated . The sleight-of-hand logic that first abstracts events from history and then assesses them from behind a veil of willed ignorance gains some of its plausibility from another key word in the anti-affirmative-action lexicon . That word is " individual , " as in " The American way is to focus on the rights of individuals rather than groups . " Now , " individual " and " individualism " have been honorable words in the American political vocabulary , and they have often been well employed in the fight against various tyrannies . But like any other word or concept , individualism can be perverted to serve ends the opposite of those it originally served , and this is what has happened when in the name of individual rights , millions of individuals are enjoined from redressing historically documented wrongs . How is this managed ? Largely in the same way that the invocation of fairness is used to legitimize an institutionalized inequality . First one says , in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ individual rights is the chief obligation of society . Then one defines individuals as souls sent into the world with equal entitlements as guaranteed either by their Creator or by the Constitution . Then one pretends that nothing has happened to them since they stepped onto the world 's stage . And then one says of these carefully denatured souls that they will all be treated in the same way , irrespective of any of the differences that history has produced . Bizarre as it may seem , individualism in this argument turns out to mean that everyone is or should be the same . This dismissal of individual difference in the name of the individual would be funny were its consequences not so serious : it is the mechanism by which imbalances and inequities suffered by millions of people through no fault of their own can be sanitized and even celebrated as the natural workings of unfettered democracy . " Individualism , " " fairness , " " merit "  --  these three words are continually misappropriated by bigots who have learned that they need not put on a white @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to secure their ends . Rather , they need only clothe themselves in a vocabulary plucked from its historical context and made into the justification for attitudes and policies they would not acknowledge if frankly named . <p>                     