@@408029

Reading , " riting and respiratory disorders  --  those are unfortunately the three R 's for many kids . As your child heads back to school , it may seem like he 's fighting off round after round of sore throats and sniffles . It 's not surprising . Put 30 children together in a classroom and chances are at least one of them will be just coming down with  --  or recovering from  --  a cold or other minor illness . All it takes is a sneeze or cough for germs to spread to the child 's hands , and through the air to others . These germs are then passed on to doorknobs , desks , toys  --  every surface the child touches . And when he touches these surfaces , he too can pick up the virus or bacteria . According to Dr. Lee Ford - Jones of the division of infectious disease at Toronto 's Hospital for Sick Children , colds and other respiratory disorders  --  including strep throat and , occasionally , pneumonia  --  make up the bulk of illnesses children catch at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 're mostly just a nuisance . " And there 's no reason to keep your young student out of school . If your child is obviously unwell , you may want to keep him home for the first 24 hours where you can observe him , according to Dr. Ford - Jones ; " after that , there 's no good reason to keep him out of school unless he 's vomiting , has incapacitating diarrhea , " or is running a substantial fever ( higher than 39DigreeC or 103DigreeF ) . Dr. Ford - Jones adds that feverish children who have lower temperatures but are also lethargic should be taken seriously and be seen by a physician , since these symptoms could indicate a more serious infection . The most common include : Strep throat . A dry sore throat , fever , enlarged lymph nodes in the neck and general malaise could indicate strep throat . A lab test is necessary for confirmation . Strep throat is generally treated with a ten day course of antibiotics . Untreated , it can lead to serious complications . Pneumonia . A @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pains and has a cough , could be suffering from pneumonia . Treatment depends on whether the pneumonia is viral or bacterial . Sinus infection . A thick nasal discharge , bad breath , and a daytime cough could indicate a sinus infection . These infections are caused by the same germs that cause ear infections . And because a viral disease predisposes children to getting sinus and ear infections , those infections are fairly common after a cold . Meningitis and meningococcal disease . Some 300 cases of meningitis are reported each year in Canada , mostly in young children , and usually in winter . Viral meningitis is relatively benign , but bacterial meningitis  --  of which meningococcal disease is the most common form  --  is life - threatening and requires immediate treatment . The symptoms of both are the same : fever , headache , nausea and vomiting , followed by a sensitivity to light and a stiff neck . In viral meningitis , the symptoms are mild and may resemble influenza . In bacterial meningitis , the symptoms develop rapidly  --  sometimes over a few hours  --  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Often , there 's also a blotchy red rash . Dr. Ford - Jones describes it as " a bruising rash " with " pinpoint red dots that do n't go away when you press on them . " Because bacterial meningitis is a medical emergency , Dr. Ford - Jones recommends that you have any child with a fever who is blatantly unwell seen by a physician . Consult your doctor if your feverish child is : excessively cranky , fussy or irritable ; sleepy , lethargic or unresponsive ; persistently wheezing or coughing ; under six months old ; has a rash or has any other obvious signs of illness that worry you . <p>                     