@@480999

United States , but during the forty-five years following the utter defeat of their enemies in 1945 , their victory and their gains have dissipated . By now they can be described as declining powers ? in just about every sense of the word . The accepted wisdom relates the decline to economics . In fact , the decline has little or nothing to do with economics : It is the result of waning national cohesion , discipline , and will . Again there is an obvious historical precedent . France was a victor of World War 1 . After the war her army remained the largest in Europe . Her alliance system was the greatest on the continent , extending to both sides of Germany . Even during the worldwide Depression of 1929-1933 France was less affected by the economic crisis than Germany or Britain or the United States . Yet , by 1933 , when Hitler became the untrammeled dictator of Germany , the decline of France was evident . Her government , her politicians , her people were deeply divided , unwilling to accept those @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ swift rise of the Third Reich whose leader benefited mightily from his disdain for economics . Hitler knew that what mattered was force and not money ; that the power and the wealth of his nation would result from the rise of its national confidence and not the reverse . When someone asked him whether he would nationalize the industries , he said , " Why should I nationalize the industries ? I shalt nationalize the people . " When , a few years later , Hitler began to change the political map of Europe by force , it became evident that France 's alliance system was a frayed paper structure . Its effectiveness had dwindled to nothing ? a condition not entirely dissimilar to the present condition of the Warsaw Pact and NATO . After the victory in 1945 the British Empire was the first to dissolve . During the war Winston Churchill said that he did not become prime minister to preside over the liquidation of the British Empire . The phrase continues to tarnish his reputation ? unfairly so . Long before the war the British people had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tasks , The hard Victorian carapace ( and discipline ) of their imperialist convictions had already cracked after World War I. Again , this had little to do with economics . The architects of that devolution were not British bankers or even Churchill ( when for a time he was chancellor of the exchequer in the 1920s ) . The failure of will had many causes , ranging from the domestic politics of David Lloyd George and the Lib-Labs through the business mentality of the Chamberlain conservatives to liberal intellectuals such as E. M. Forster ( to wit , his Passage to India ) . The Second World War for Britain had not much to do with the empire . It had everything to do with the survival of Britain , and of Europe . Churchill understood the awful options as early as 1940 , well before Pearl Harbor and before Hitler 's invasion of Russia . If the alternative to surrendering to Hitler was the transfer of large portions of the empire to the tutelage of the United States , so be it . Surrendering to Hitler would not ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the British Isles ; but it would mean an acceptance of German domination over Europe and the reduction of Britain to a junior , vassal partner in such an arrangement . As early as 1940 Churchill recognized that , as far as Europe went , there might be only two alternatives : either all of Europe dominated by Germany , or the eastern ? faraway ? portion of Europe dominated by Russia . Half of Europe was better than none . As far as the empire went , it gave way to the " Commonwealth " : But that Commonwealth was ( and is ) a fiction even greater than that of a " united " Europe . There was ( and is ) no national cohesion between Pakistanis , Canadians , Tanzanians , Englishmen . With regard to Europe the situation was different . It was true that Britain was exhausted economically in 1945 . But at that moment , and for some years Thereafter , her prestige in Europe was tremendous . She could have had the leadership of Western Europe for a song . Nothing was further @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ power in 1945 . Its abdication of European responsibilities had consequences worse even than its abandonment of much of the empire ( which was about to happen anyhow ) . When in 1947 Britain turned to the United States to sustain its traditional Mediterranean ally , Greece , the Labour government said that Britain could not afford that task . In the lives of nations , as in the lives of individuals , when people say they can not afford something they usually mean that they really do n't want to afford it . The Conservative governments that have ruled Britain for nearly thirty of the last forty years have not behaved very differently . At the same time it is not only Britain 's economic but her political influence throughout Europe that has been eroding . Whether Britain will join " Europe . ' in 1992 or not no longer matters much . In nearly every sense the power and the influence of Germany are already stronger than Britain 's . This is especially applicable to Eastern Europe , which is close to Germany and ? politically ? very far @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and not only for Russians ? is the dissolution of the Russian Empire . It is now obvious that the Russians have lost not only the Cold War but also the fruits of their victory in the Second World War . Their victory in the Second World War forty-five years ago had nothing to do with communism . They defeated the Germans in what they ? not improperly ? have called the Great Patriotic War . Because they had to carry the fight all the way to the middle of Germany and Berlin , their army took control of much of Eastern Europe and of eastern Germany . In 1945 the Americans ( and to a lesser extent the British ) were not willing either to contest that Russian predominance or to question Stalin seriously about its conditions . Stalin could have done what he and his successors eventually consented to do with Finland : to allow the states bordering the Soviet Union on the west to be ruled by more or less free and democratic governments , whose foreign and military policies would remain coordinated with Russian national and security @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for three reasons . The Americans did not really press him on the point . The formula was not applicable to Germany , the largest and most valuable portion of which was occupied by the Western Powers . Thirdly , and most important : Stalin preferred communists in the Eastern European states because they were the only functionaries he could count on . The prospect of these nations following a pro-Russian foreign policy while they maintained all kinds of other connections with the West did not appeal to him . Under such conditions Russian influence would , naturally and inevitably , decrease . His was the ancient conservative preference for the bird in one 's hand ? in his case , rather , in his fist . Stalin was not a revolutionary ; he had no intention to spread communism into Western Europe . The communist governments in Eastern Europe did not come into power because of communist revolutions . They were imposed by the presence of Russian troops . When Gorbachev came to power in Russia five years ago , he was deeply troubled by what he , an insider @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Communist Party machine within the Soviet Union proper . We do not know whether this honest recognition was accompanied by a recognition of the explosive force of nationalism . Certainly he recognized that the Soviet Union 's relation with its democratic neighbor , FinIllustrations by Mans Bishops ESSAY 43 land , was much preferable to the messy and troublesome relations with the other , still largely communist-ruled , Eastern European nations . What he may not have recognized , at first , was that the Moldavian or Armenians or Lithuanians are not like the Finns ; and that once nationalism in Eastern Europe was approved by Moscow , there was nothing to stop it from bubbling up and flooding component parts of the Soviet Empire itself . The extent of the Russian conquest of Eastern Europe forty-five years ago was so unnatural that it could not last . The Russian retreat from Eastern and Central Europe began soon after 1945 . As early as 1948 Yugoslavia broke away from the Russian orbit . In 1955 Khrushchev gave up the Russian naval base in Finland . In the same year @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ That was thirty-five years ago , when the winding down of the Cold War through a mutual withdrawal of Russian and American forces and alliances from the middle of Europe was a realistic possibility . That possibility was denied and sabotaged by Dwight Eisenhower and John Foster Dulles ; and it is both melancholy and ironic to consider that these Russian retreats occurred at the same time that the hysteria of American anticommunism reached its peak . But that is another story . What is important to remember is that for the past thirty-five or forty years the Russian and communist influence in Eastern Europe has been slackening ? in some places more rapidly , in others more slowly , but generally tending toward weakness . Today the Russians can not and will not restore anything even remotely resembling their political control over the region that they established in 1945 . Their traditional empire ? perhaps the last of the great multinational empires ? is dissolving under the pressures of democratic and populist nationalism . The same pressures exist within the frontiers of the Soviet Union , and the Russians will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their inner empire . Only God knows what will be left when the process of disintegration is finally halted . There is an ironic paradox here . The great revolutionary of the early twentieth century was not Lenin , who ignored the force of nationalism and insisted upon his narrow-minded dogma of class struggle . It was the no less narrow-minded Woodrow Wilson , with his insistence on the ? potentially disastrous ? principle of self-determination . Lenin lost the western portion of the Russian Empire and was obliged to accept the independence of Finland , the Baltic States , Poland : the price for maintaining his power in the rest of the Russias . Lenin believed that from Russia communism would soon spread westward . He was wrong . For more than twenty-five years the Soviet Union remained the only communist state in the world ? until , after World War II , the Russian army imposed communist regimes in Russia 's neighbor states . The occupation lasted for forty-five years . Wilson 's achievements were more enduring . In 1918 he insisted not only on a German surrender but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was the principal advocate of the dissolution of the Austro-Hungarian Empire too ? the only great state between Germany and Russia . From these achievements Adolf Hitler ( and a slew of minor Hitlers in the future ) would profit mightily . More than seventy years later the end is not yet at hand ? for the principle of self-determination remains the most explosive force at large in the world , to the detriment not only of the Soviet Union but , eventually , of the United States too . Together with the British and the Russians , the third power that has 44 HARPER 'S MAGAZINE AUGUST 1990 often misread the intentions of their Russian adversaries . The Cold War burdened the American economy with enormous military expenditures , but those expenditures ( although often excessive and irresponsible ) did not ? alone , or even mostly , and contrary to the conventional liberal wisdom ? cause the decline of the United States . The principal cause of the American decline is the changed character of the nation that has in turn deeply affected its institutions ? educational , legal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have become less and less capable of functioning as instruments of proper regulation and reform . These institutions ? foremost among them the American presidency ? have become grossly inflated . A principal element in this malignant growth , very much contrary to the accepted , conservative wisdom , was the degeneration of American patriotism into an ideological nationalism , equating global anticommunism with the American credo . As early as 1956 the platform of the ? so-called isolationist and conservative ? Republican Party called for nothing less than the extension of American air and naval bases " strategically dispersed ... around the world . " There followed the quarter-century rise of the ' ' conservatives " in the Republican Party , until in the 1980s their hero Ronald Reagan extended this American aspiration of ruling the globe into space : the Cosmocrat of the Universe . ( This " conservative " and " traditionalist " president of the United States was a Hollywood actor who admitted that his interest in Star Wars had been inspired by the movie of that name ? a movie made expressly for a juvenile audience @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Britain , have not been economic . More precisely , the economic problems of the United States follow from the confusion of a people in whose mind image has become not merely a component of reality but its substitute . The loss of self-knowledge and self-discipline expresses a devolution in the character of a nation whose youthful leaders at its birth were ( at times precociously , at times priggishly ) exceptionally serious and mature . Two hundred years later , the expressions , the gestures , the acts , and the preferences of the recent presidents display the traits not of maturity but of puerility . What matters now is that in 1990 ? unlike in 1945 and for some time afterward ? other people in the world have become aware of the American predicament . The power of a nation , like that of a person , is inseparable from the unquantifiable asset of its prestige . A nation whose prestige is considerable will withstand a temporary , or even lengthy , erosion of its power better than a nation whose prestige is weak . American ? unlike @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has already begun . After 1945 the greatest contribution of the United States to the benefit of the world ( and especially to that of Western Europe ) was not the Marshall Plan . It was the American example of a mass democracy capable of maintaining a high level of prosperity and of freedom ; of functioning traditional institutions of law and order ; of giving credit to the masses . This has led to the adoption of many American practices and institutions in the democracies abroad , ranging from social security and income tax withholding through extended opportunities for higher education to the emulation of American forms of art and advertising . Four decades later most nations have subtly reshaped these matters for themselves . Economic statistics tell us that in the 1980s the material possessions of French or German or Japanese workers had become very similar , if not identical , to those of an American worker , including cars , color televisions , etc. ; they also tell us that , for the first time in this century , the per capita income of Americans is less than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Real experience ( which is not the same thing as economic statistics ) also tells us that while twenty years ago the American dollar was worth something like four German marks or Swiss francs , it is now worth less than half of that . But all of these matters are consequences of the deteriorating confidence of other peoples in the quality of American leadership ? and , ESSAY 45 for the first time , in the quality of American products too . In 1945 the quality of American everyday life ? those shining towers of Manhattan ? was the wonder of the world . By 1990 that example is less than inspiring , to say the least . Of course , nothing is irreversible , including decline ; and one of the engaging , and positive , marks of the American national character is the American ability to reform and change . Nor is there much reason to worry about America becoming something other than " Number One " ( a vulgar phrase whose assertion by a recent American president ? Richard Nixon ? in itself suggests a want of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ instruments of power at its disposal , the United States ? as the last of the great victorious powers of the two world wars ? can no longer control events in Europe , even at this time of the dissolution of its once great adversary , the Second Superpower , and at a time when its presidents have felt compelled to arouse national cohesion and enthusiasm by military victories in . Grenada or Libya or Panama . And without really recognizing something that the American people have begun to feel in their hones that both America and Russia are threatened not by each other but by the increasing pressures from the so-called Third World . f , then , Great Britain , Russia , and the United States have lost the advantage of their victories in World War II , does that also mean that the erstwhile losers , Germany and Japan , have become the winners ? Yes and no . Yes , because their prosperity already has defied all materialistic logic , including that of the population experts . For some time now Japan and West Germany have enjoyed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prosperous nations on earth , they are also among the most densely inhabited . After 1945 West Germany , conquered and occupied by many millions of foreign soldiers , its cities bombed into ruins , had to accommodate 12 million German refugees : an accretion amounting to one fourth of an impoverished population . The forced crowding had the making of an unprecedented catastrophe . The very opposite happened . The newly arrived citizenry became an asset , not a liability . A similar revival rook place in Japan , which , in 1945 , found itself under foreign occupation , powerless , its cities destroyed , reduced to its small islands , crowded with refugees . What mattered was not overpopulation , not the quantity of people . What mattered was their quality : their ability and willingness to work . These matters are not quantifiable . They are national characteristics . The Germans were able to absorb , and benefit from , the presence of millions of incoming Germans . They have not been able to absorb a million Turkish immigrants . Nor have the Japanese assimilated immigrants from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Germany . That a reunited Germany , with 80 million people , will become the greatest economic and financial power in Europe need not be argued . The question remains as to whether the character of the German people has changed so much that they will be satisfied with the possession and consumption of material goods . The recent disinclination of West German Chancellor Helmut Kohl to ratify the German-Polish frontier ( for the purpose of gaining political support from the not altogether suppressed currents of German nationalism ) is but one disquieting example of an old trait . It may be true that the great majority of the German people stand willing to accept the present frontiers of Germany ; the majority may also believe in the " European " future of Germany . But history and human nature abhor a vacuum , as does physical nature . In the aftermath of the great Russian retreat in Eastern Europe a great vacuum is opening up again . That vacuum will be filled , not by the United States , not by " Europe , " but by Germany . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it . The cultural and political ( and perhaps 46 HARPER 'S MAGAZINE I AUGUST 1990 even military ) consequences will follow . I do not mean that sooner or later panzer divisions will assemble along the Oder , or that the reputation of Hitler will be wholly rehabilitated . What I mean is that the collapse of Russian power , and of communism in Eastern Europe , makes the Germans ( and also some other people ) think and feel that the accepted idea of their unique responsibility for some of the crimes of World War II is invalid or , at best , relative and now definitely a thing of the past . The assumption that World War II is , finally , ended will correspond to the inclinations of other peoples in Eastern Europe , and it will persuade some of their nationalist and populist parties to seek , eventually , the active support of Germany ( and not of the United States ) . It is true that the Germans of today are not the Germans of 1938 . No German is , or will ever be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Europe . But one half of Europe ? its eastern half ? is better than none . The famous French proverb Plus ga change , plus c ' est la mente chose that things and people never really change ? is only a half-truth . But that other French proverb L'appe-tit agent en mangeant ? that appetite rises with the meal ? is more than a half-truth , alas . Something similar is already occurring in a Japan that sees its great World War II enemies , the United States and the Soviet Union , in decline . Hence the natural Japanese tendency will be to seek a close association with China , eventually at the expense of America and of Russia . We ought to know that before 1945 Japan 's aim was not the conquest of all China but the establishment of a pro-Japanese regime in China : anti-Russian as well as anti-Western . China as a great power was an illusion cherished by Franklin Roosevelt ; that China could be a superpower , an American ally balancing the Russian superpower , was an illusion dear to Richard @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Bush . Even one billion Chinese do not a superpower make . But if and when a Japanese-Chinese alliance ? and not merely an economic one comes about , then , for the third time , America and Russia must be allied again : a not necessarily remote contingency for which the present American government as well as our international experts are leaving the American people entirely unprepared . But history remains unpredictable , after all . That , after fifty years , which is a fairly long time , the British and the Russian and the American empires have lost most of the fruits of their victory in World War 11 is not arguable . At the same time Germany and Japan , the losers of World War Il , are not the superpowers of the world . They have not yet been willing to translate their economic prestige into political and military power ? more precisely , into that willingness to use force that is as much a component of power as is prestige . That willingness , in this democratic age , depends on the inclinations of their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of material well-being , satisfied with their present reputations , without feeling constrained by the political and military desiderata still imposed on their states by the declining superpowers . Or they may not . et , in the summer of 1990 , the most fatuous of the illusions confusing the public discussion is the one about the return , or the rebirth , of liberal parliamentary democracy and of capitalism , which , given world enough and time , will become everywhere triumphant . Parliamentary democracy belonged to the nineteenth century . Its existence in Western Europe was restored with the help of the Anglo-American victory in World War II , and its survival depended on a social structure in which the bourgeois and upper classes furnished the majority of political representatives . In Eastern Europe such a social structure does not now exist . What are rising there are not liberal parliamentary democracies but nationalist and populist ones : quite another kettle of fish ? or can of worms , depending on how you call it . ESSAY 47 To believe that what we are witnessing in Eastern Europe is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ illusion . That , too , belonged to the nineteenth century . Traditional capitalism is gone in the West too , even from the United States . The universal attribute of every country in the world is the welfare state , administered by large bureaucracies . We are all socialist now , whether we call ourselves that or not . It is only that international socialism is a mirage . The dominant reality is that of a variety of nationalist socialisms . What the Eastern European peoples are reacting against is the deadening , and ineffective , rule of their nominally communist ruling classes . But anticommunism does neither capitalism nor liberal democracy make . The communist bureaucracies will be succeeded by another kind of national bureaucracy ; and the rise of modern bureaucracy is a worldwide phenomenon , something quite different from the Roman or czarist or Prussian bureaucracies of the past . What we have learned ( or should have learned ) during the last few decades is that Adam Smith was as wrong as Marx not only because of his utopian notions about free trade but also because @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ market economy " as well as " supply and demand " are myths . When Ralph Waldo Emerson said that all men have to do is to invent a better mousetrap , he was mouthing nonsense . The inventor of the best mousetrap in the world will profit nothing until the availability of the aforesaid mousetrap is broadly publicized and advertised , that is , widely known . Just as in the history of American politics the devolution of elections to popularity contests in the nineteenth century was followed in the twentieth century by a further , and more insidious , degeneration from popularity contests to publicity contests , so also in the history of commerce the same process has involved devolution not only of goods but also of intellectual achievement , the so-called marketplace of ideas , and of art itself . It is absurd to speak of a free and independent " market , " of a true " supply and demand , " independent of the massive interventions of promotion and publicity , of self-fulfilling prophecies , hypes , and fixes . Economic Man is a myth . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it is absurd to assume that the economic and administrative arrangements in 1992 will amount to a real political union of Europe . The best we can hope for ? especially in the Western world ? is that the wars of the past will not occur again , at least not in their prior incarnations . But war is only one form of communal violence ; and certainly there are no signs in the world ? certainly not within our supposedly civilized cities ? that violence , indeed savagery , has disappeared . Where and when the exercise of law and order has been corrupted or weakened , the prestige of brutal power rises . Those who think ( Or who make themselves think ) that such abstractions as the gross national product amount to real wealth , or that credit structures provide the principal guarantees of freedom against violence or savagery , are fools . Wealth may be an instrument of power , but it is no more than one of its instruments ? and sometimes not even that . And the more wealth is computerized , the more abstract @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only of those who believe that the human mind is a computer and that history may he computed . Near the end of the twentieth century ? indeed , near the end of the so-called Modern Age ? two dangerous circumstances threaten the world . One is the institutionalized pressure for material and economic " growth " ? contrary to stability and threatening nature itself . The other is the existence of the populist inclinations of nationalism ? contrary to a greater and better understanding among peoples . One is the thrust for increasing wealth ; the other , for tribal power . One issues from the presumption that the principal human motive is greed ; the other , that it is power . To imagine that the former is morally superior to the latter is at least questionable ; but to think that the progress of history amounts to the triumph of money over force is stupid beyond belief .                     