@@394830

That NASA is in trouble these days is an understatement . Our nation 's space agency has gotten into a terrible cycle of lowballing the costs of its space missions to get them approved , overselling those missions to keep them funded ( often despite large cost overruns ) and , with few exceptions , failing to deliver on its promises . In a desperate attempt to keep its programs of interest to congressmen and third-graders alike , NASA tends to exaggerate everything . The exaggerations have n't helped because American taxpayers do not know what NASA is accomplishing . Nor do they seem to care anymore . Survey after survey in recent years has made it clear that the majority of people no longer get excited about what NASA does in space . This malaise regarding the final frontier is NASA 's own doing because , first , it has made space-flight seem boring and , second , it has no vision , no grand goal or understandable plan around which average citizens can rally . Crewed spaceflight is risky and complex and it always has been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not a NASA manager ) and they will tell you about the Apollo 1 , Apollo 13 , and Challenger accidents . Every space shuttle launch exposes the crew to danger . " When the shuttle 's solid rockets light up and begin to vibrate , you really know you 're going someplace , " says astronaut Col. Charles Bolden , now deputy head of the U. S. Naval Academy . Even for robotic spacecraft , risk and complexity are present . Take the vehicle I know the best , the Hubble Space Telescope . No one had ever before attempted to assemble such an intricate and complex apparatus , put it in orbit , and then operate it remotely . The four million lines of computer code needed to command and control it daily  --  one of the largest codes in the civilian world  --  is testimony to Hubble 's high degree of complexity . And with complexity comes risk . Which in Hubble 's case was exacerbated when no backup Space Telescope waited to be wheeled to the launch pad when the first one ran into trouble . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ often heard around my of office when I was at the Space Telescope Science Institute . The troubles with Hubble beg the question : What is an acceptable , informed risk ? Reducing the risk of failure until it approaches zero would make the testing required for such a complex mission impossibly expensive . Shunning risk altogether would be tantamount to avoiding tasks never before done . Risk-taking is a hallmark of all civilizations that become great  --  they become great partly because they occupy new ground , achieve victory , and accomplish notably new things . The willingness to risk failure is an essential ingredient of most grand initiatives , the kind of ventures that leave legacies for our descendants . The fact that risk is an inherent element of space operations is something the current NASA , the " new NASA , " does not seem to understand . Since Apollo , the space agency has tried hard to make both crewed and robotic spaceflight seem routine  --  an attempt that unfortunately has largely succeeded . It has sought to generate a perception that spaceflight is risk free , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and teachers , too . In the Mercury , Gemini , and Apollo days , the public recognized fully that risk was an integral part of those missions and responded to them with enthusiasm . Now , with NASA 's hype and bravado reinforcing the perception that space missions are easy to accomplish and routine to undertake , the twin elements of adventure and exploration have been diminished , and the public has responded accordingly  --  by becoming bored with the space program . NASA , once more , has shot itself in the foot , for Americans would rather know the truth about the risks of space science and engineering and , thus , partake in the spirit of adventure . The U. S. space agency is in desperate need of leadership : technically competent people who can set ambitious and productive goals for NASA and articulate those goals clearly and accurately before the American public . The taxpaying citizen has always welcomed the exploration of space , the adventure into the unknown . It may well be our manifest destiny to negotiate the next frontier . And the " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ steps to move our species  --  intellectually and physically  --  in that direction . If the management of the " new NASA " were to explain effectively , using technical truth and withholding hype , a vision and rationale for the agency 's many varied programs , it would not likely experience its annual budget crisis , its periodic congressional micromanagement , the ongoing lack of public confidence , and the deep and bitter frustrations within the agency itself . Lacking such ability  --  and the sense of trust that derives from it  --  the space agency instead has solidified into a bureaucratic morass that rewards mediocrity and self-preservation while damping creativity and innovation . What might NASA 's vision be ? It could be a crewed mission to Mars or the establishment of a permanent lunar colony . I might be a thorough robotic exploration of virtually every nook and cranny in our solar system . Or it might be a vision capable of exciting people by systematically addressing some of the time-honored philosophical questions about the nature of the cosmos . To my mind , that vision should be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a space program dedicated to understanding better who we are , where we 've come from , and how we fit into the cosmic scheme of things . Such a vision that is articulated well , honestly , and understandably to the taxpayer  --  thus inviting our fellow citizens to share in this great journey , to feel like a participant and not just a spectator could indeed leave a legacy . But this vision does not include , in my view , the construction of a largely empty , hundred-billion-dollar garage in the sky called a space station . Nor will it be a potpourri of scattered space-science objectives run by people who feel that NASA owes them something , like an entitlement program for scientists who want to play in their favorite sandbox or engineers who simply want a job . And most definitely , it will not be a vision created by some Beltway-bandit advertising firm like those that currently try to mold the image of the " new NASA . " It 's time for us to become a genuine spacefaring nation that goes boldly toward new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ needs the support and understanding of its populace . And right now that support is not there because NASA has not provided the understanding . Eric Chaisson authored The Hubble Wars : Astrophysics Meets Astropolitics in the Two-Billion-Dollar Struggle Over the Hubble Space Telescope ( Harper-Collins , 1994 ) . He recently left the Space Telescope Science Institute to join the faculty at Tufts University . <p>                     