@@410747

The arguments against aid to Russia that would strengthen the old order hold today just as they did when Western policymakers were anxious to save Mikhail Gorbachev and when they wished to support democratically elected Boris Yeltsin . In 1991 , Yeltsin and Moscow Mayor Gavriil Popov opposed financial aid to the U.S.S.R. because they believed that it would be used by the Kremlin to prop up decrepit Soviet institutions . With real money at its disposal , the Soviet government would have been able to repurchase loyalties and subvert or slow the transition to democracy . Once the Soviet institutions began to decay , hard currency would frustrate real economic reform for the simple reason that there would be nowhere for the financial aid to flow except into reviving the very institutions that had caused the U.S.S.R. 's economic problems in the first place . The West , in its desire to help , should resist the urge to pour in aid indiscriminately , especially in light of the Russian elections and the rebirth of militancy . Government-to-government transfers of more than one trillion dollars to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nations to develop . On the contrary , cutting-edge scholars in recipient countries have concluded that the aid has institutionalized corruption , entrenched atavistic institutions , and sidelined the private sector to the black market . In Russia , the danger is that reformers could be distracted by the opportunities for graft presented by large-scale financial transfers , and then there would be no one to undertake the transition . No aid at all is better than using Western taxpayers ' resources to undermine reformers by strengthening institutions that they have to overcome . Policy changes that would stimulate the private sector  --  deregulation , privatization , lowering the tax burden , and eliminating barriers to trade  --  can be accomplished without aid . The Russians themselves have to construct a viable market economy . If the West is determined to help , there appear to be several constructive ways it might assist the transition . The Western nations could encourage the Russians to introduce reforms to stimulate entrepreneurship , enter into free-trade agreements with Russian and other struggling ex-Soviet republics , promote private investment by eliminating disincentives to it in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Russian economy , forgive or restructure the foreign debt incurred by the former Soviet Union , and finance the dismantling of nuclear weapons . With most of the Group of Seven countries strapped by budget deficits , those suggestions have the advantage that none of them involve new large-scale financial transfers to the Russian government . The West should advocate policies that will stimulate the productive area of the Russian economy  --  the emergent private sector . The focus should be on rapid privatization , deregulation , and the establishment of a favorable business climate based on a sound currency . The government should be advised to establish a regime of low taxation and minimal regulation , uphold and expand private property rights under a rule of law , and establish investment laws and trade policies that would attract foreign capital and stimulate rapid growth of the private sector . Another way the industrialized nations could help Russia and the other countries of the former Soviet Union is by removing trade barriers . Nations that have received the most Western aid since World War II report that lowering barriers to trade @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ amounts of government-to-government aid . For example , in Latin America , a region that has received more than $400,000,000,000 in development assistance since 1945 , the catch phrase today is " trade not aid . " Some progress already has been made . The Bilateral Trade Agreement , signed by the U.S. and Russian governments in June , 1992 , granted Most Favored Nation status to exports of both countries . The Bilateral Investment Treaty , which is awaiting ratification by the Russian government , would guarantee nondiscriminatory treatment of U.S. investments and operations in Russia , hard currency repatriation rights , expropriation compensation , and third-party international arbitration in the event of a dispute between an American company and the Russian government . The industrialized countries further could help the former Soviet republics by eliminating subsidies to export industries to foster a " level playing field " in international trade . Particularly prevalent in agriculture , subsidies result in higher prices for domestic consumers and give an unfair advantage to privileged companies . For their part , the former Soviet republics unilaterally should lower protectionist trade barriers and endeavor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be joined with that created by the North American Free Trade Agreement . Also , Russia should eliminate subsidies to industries and implement its Law on Bankruptcy to allow inefficient industries to expire so that capital can be freed to be reallocated for more productive uses  --  such as the production of exports for hard currency . While Russian reformers need to create a good domestic business climate that attracts foreign companies , the West could help the process by dismantling disincentives for businesses to invest overseas . One disincentive is the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act , which prohibits American companies from participating in deals using bribes to speed transactions . Not only is the law naive about the way business is routinely conducted in many areas of the world , it does not take into account the special circumstances in Russia and the U.S. interest in promoting free enterprise in former communist countries . At present , it is expensive to transact business in Russia , because there are insufficient law and order and few legal protections for private property . The former communist establishment is conducting its own privatization @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , muddling the distinction between government and personal interests . In the absence of secure private property rights , payments to government officials in return or their relinquishing de facto control over state property help free capital to accumulate in more efficient hands . In light of the special circumstances in Russia , a little flexibility in interpreting the act , or perhaps its temporary suspension , seems warranted , at least until the situation becomes more stable . Western governments should help eliminate barriers to private investment in the former Soviet Union . In the end , however , there is little that government can do . When former senior Russian official Gennadii Burbulis was asked to whom he thought property would belong in one year and then in three years , he replied : " To the quick and the smart . " In Russia , private property rights are being defined , through fair means and foul , and American companies ' share in the benefits of secure private property in Russia will depend on the extent to which they hustle to operate in today 's uncertain environment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a market economy have evolved for the most part independent , and in advance , of government action . Governments tend to codify existing arrangements and de facto property rights . The U.S. government already is spending $13,000,000 to finance  --  through the voucher system the Russian government initiated on Oct. 1 , 1992  --  an ambitious plan to privatize hundreds of state-owned companies . Reformers aim to rapidly privatize 5,000 large state enterprises . Previously , Russia had privatized more than 30,000 shops , but virtually no big factories . The U.S. government is paying the International Finance Corporation of the World Bank and the accounting firm of Price Waterhouse to organize auctions of state-owned businesses in 10 regions of Russia . According to the plan agreed to by each firm , the government will give workers a 51% ownership stake or a 30% ownership stake and auction off a portion of the remaining shares for privatization vouchers . The voucher plan enables Russians to buy shares in state factories . Each of the 148,000,000 Russians is entitled to one voucher nominally valued at 10,000 rubles ( $17.50 ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be privatized , and many Russians sold their vouchers for far less than face value . However , the Yeltsin government issued a decree that the vouchers could be used to buy apartments , municipal property , and some small businesses . As a result , the city of Nizhny Novgorod , with input from the International Finance Corporation , auctioned off state-owned buses and trucks , in part for vouchers . Next , the Yeltsin government declared that shares in major enterprises could be sold for vouchers . As a result , a thriving secondary voucher market has developed . Another way the West could ease Russia 's transition would be to forgive or restructure the foreign debt incurred by the former Soviet Union . As of Feb. 1 , 1993 , the U.S. Treasury reported that debt totaled $81,000,000,000 , of which $39,000,000,000 is owed to official creditors and $22,000,000,000 to commercial banks . Suppliers ' credits of $14,200,000,000 made up the bulk of the remainder . Lending to the Soviet Union was not commercially wise , and Western banks and governments should have to bear the consequences . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 11% of the official debt , or approximately $4,000,000,000 , is owed to the U.S. government , compared with 39% owed to Germany alone . Unofficial U.S. Treasury estimates place the nongovernment-guaranteed debt owed American commercial banks at a maximum of $250-300,000,000 . At a meeting of the Group of Seven in Tokyo on April 14 and 15 , 1993 , the major creditor governments agreed to ease the terms of repayment of Russia 's debt . At present , it seems that a combination of debt forgiveness and rescheduling would enable reformers to focus on the immediate task of establishing incentive for production . The transition might occur faster if reformers did not have to worry , at least for now , about sending a large portion of their country 's scarce resources to repay a foreign debt that was assumed without the consent of the population . Finally , there are some 30,000 nuclear weapons in potentially unstable regions . The first Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty ( START I ) , negotiated between the U.S. and the Soviet Union , was signed in July , 1991 . Since the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recast by a series of negotiated appendices to bind the four former Soviet republics that control parts of the nuclear force . START II , confirmed by Pres. George Bush on Dec. 30 , 1992 , would cut the combined number of warheads in the former Soviet Union and the U.S. to a total of 6,500 . The former Soviet Union would be allowed to retain a total of 3,000 . Instability and disputes within the Commonwealth of Independent States have placed compliance with the provisions of START II in doubt . The $800,000,000 U.S. program to help fund the dismantling of nuclear weapons in Russia has bogged down , according to Joseph Kelly of the General Accounting Office , because of chaos within Russia , Moscow 's lingering obsession with secrecy , and its determination to make as much money as it can on the deal . The U.S. should push for further cuts in the nuclear arsenals , in part to persuade the former Soviet countries to comply with START II . Washington could offer to purchase perhaps 29,500 missiles , send experts to oversee their dismantling , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ create a ruble-stabilization fund . A relatively low offer of perhaps $200,000,000 could be tied to policy changes in Western countries , such as the elimination of subsidies to export industries , to sweeten the deal . It is understandable that the Russian government and possible that of Ukraine might wish to retain a nuclear capacity , but 500 nuclear missiles still would be a formidable arsenal . SUPPORTING YELTSIN AND THE REFORMERS It seems worthwhile at this time for the West to help Yeltsin and his team , who have made seemingly serious commitments to reform and the creation of a market economy in Russia , especially considering the more radical alternatives . At the same time , the West should not pin all its hopes for Russian democracy on one man , a strategy that could backfire it that leader ends up a casualty of International Monetary Fund-sponsored austerity . The reduction or elimination of industrialized countries ' trade barriers , debt forgiveness , and the other measures outlined above are perhaps the most effective means by which the West can support Russian reform . If the West is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not be large . Furthermore , any government assistance should be designed to minimize its negative effects on reform . Yeltsin 's policies will not he strengthened by providing large-scale economic assistance . A massive aid program will strengthen state institutions and postpone badly needed reforms , but not help Yeltsin or the Russian people . Western officials should recognize that reformers an hard-liners are engaged in a fierce struggle over property . It is not over privatization per se , but about who benefits from privatization . Reformers are battling the old power structure over how privatization will proceed and who will end up in charge . The stakes are enormous . The assets up for grabs include 46,000 large enterprises and Russia 's vast natural resources , including potentially profitable oil fields . Irina Chernova , director of privatization for an industrial city 60 miles outside Moscow , contends that the old guard wishes to preserve the current state of instability and delay privatization as long as possible because there is so much to steal during the interim . " Once everything belongs to somebody there will be nothing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in March , 1993 . Nomenklatura privatization , whereby functionaries take over state enterprises and convert them to private businesses , is far advanced . In January , 1993 , Russian Deputy Prime Minister in charge of privatization Anatoly Chubais asserted that the fiercest struggle would be unleashed by attempts of the " communist opposition " to grant preferential rights and benefits to the employees of the privatized enterprises . The Russian people are becoming increasingly disaffected as they witness the old guard throughout the country benefiting from its de facto control over state property at the expense of the population . For reformers , fostering widespread property ownership is crucial to giving the people a stake in the new economy . The large number of inefficient enterprises that remains in state hands is the cause of many of the problems faced by the Yeltsin government . The hard-liners-dominated Congress of People 's Deputies authorizes the Central Bank to create money to subsidize the bankrupt state enterprises , the main cause of the 25% per month inflation that hurts the poor the most . Further , the ruble has no basis @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ used freely to purchase the land , labor , and capital that , to a large degree , still are controlled by the government . Private property is the basis of a market economy , and granting the population property rights is the key to jump-starting a market economy . Western advice and limited aid should be targeted to help Russian reformers to stimulate the growth of a successful private sector and rapidly privatize the entire economy . Stripped of their control over state enterprises , hard-liners would find themselves forced to respond to the incentives of a thriving market economy and would cease to be a threat . Agricultural reform is critical to creating a viable economy . In Russia , collective farms still dominate the sector , and official production is falling . According to newspaper reports , collective farmers face problems such as insufficient government credit at preferential interest rates ; a disproportionate rise in prices for agricultural inputs , compared with prices for agricultural products ; and bad weather , the perennial scapegoat of the old Soviet regime . The real issue is the paucity of private @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ well-known , but privatization is proceeding slowly because of resistance from the Russian parliament and local agricultural bureaucrats . A legal framework to protect private property rights in agriculture largely is absent . In December 1992 , Yeltsin signed a law that permits citizens to buy and sell private plots , albeit with a feudalistic restriction that prohibits the plots being used for other than originally specified purposes . That is a step in the right direction , but in today 's chaotic Russia , law exist mainly on paper . The number of private peasant farms is growing , which bodes well . However , the new private farmers are hobbled by their position on the bottom rung of the primarily state-run distribution system for key agricultural supplies as well as the lack of adequate legal protection for private property . Rapid privatization of the entire agricultural sector and replacement of government credits by capital from the country 's budding financial markets would bring swift positive results . Private loans would find their way tot he private farmers with the best prospects for success , while bankrupt collective farms would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ efficient firms . Consumers would benefit from increased supplies at lower prices . HARMFUL WESTERN ADVICE At present , Russian reformers are receiving conflicting advice from the West , and much of it is counterproductive . The West , with its emphasis on social welfare and redistribution , discourages Russians from establishing the incentives they need . Western governments have given the IMF and the World Bank a leading role in providing advice and aid to governments trying to make the transition to a market economy . Both the IMF and the World Bank view privatization as merely one of a list of reforms that have to be undertaken . To those institutions , privatization is less important than macroeconomic stabilization , price reforms , and introduction of a convertible currency . Many of the fiscal reforms those institutions advocate  --  such as tight control over the money supply to combat inflation and the introduction of a convertible currency  --  will be necessary in due course . The trouble is that both the World Bank and the IMF place the cart before the horse . Rather than press for privatization of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ eliminate the need for subsidies to bankrupt enterprises and thus help cut inflation , the World bank recommends that the government subsidize loss-making enterprises during the transition period . Such advice distracts Russian reformers ' attention from privatization , the one reform on which the success of everything else depends . Moreover , the IMF 's usual demand-management policies applied to Russia 's monopolistic state-dominated economy are wreaking havoc by contributing to the near-hyperinflation that impoverishes the population . The opponents of reform benefit from the economic hardship caused by misguided policies . During 1992 and early 1993 , the Russian government was trying to meet IMF targets in order to satisfy IMF condition for a formal stabilization plan that large-scale financial transfers depend upon . Although agreements between member governments and the IMF never are made public , they typically entail fiscal restraint ( while keeping in place deficit-ridden state enterprises ) , currency devaluations , and tax increases to cut domestic demand . In December , 1993 , the World Bank began exploring options to step up aid for privatization and support for the poor , even if Russia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Western advisers , in 1992 , the Russian government freed many prices in advance of far-reaching reform and levied a series of taxes , including a 28% value-added tax , that , in combination with pre-existing regulations and prohibitions , hobble the nascent private sector or at least keep it in the unofficial economy . In February , 1993 , the government heeded the repeated calls of its Western advisers to free prices in the petroleum sector ; as a result , natural gas prices nearly trebled for domestic users of heating and nearly doubled for industrial users . Without privatization , the response of a largely monopolistic economy to those policies has been hoarding , falling production in the official sector , and soaring prices . Producers reap profits selling high-priced goods to a limited market of the newly rich , without the competition that would bring down prices . Falling production leads to drops in tax revenues and prompts the Russian Central Bank to print more rubles to maintain the bankrupt state enterprises . The resulting near-hyperinflation has wiped out people 's savings and undermined trust in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the bottom up . While politicians bicker over market reforms , ordinary people are forced to participate in the market economy or perish . Muscovites trade , barter , or sell whatever they can get their hands on to supplement meager salaries that often do not cover even a week 's food . The result is thriving commerce on Moscow 's streets . The days of waiting in block-long queues are over for those who can afford high prices . Everything , including imported luxuries that most people never saw during the years of communist rule , is available to those with high incomes  --  about 20% of the population . The problem is that Yeltsin in following the advice of Russia 's official Western advisers , is making the transition more painful than it needs to be . Russians believe most people are becoming worse off than better off at this juncture . This is a critical moment in Russia 's transition , one that could prove dangerous unless it rapidly establishes a market economy to begin to deal with its vast social and political problems . The long-suffering @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ less painful transition to a market economy . That can be achieved if they set entrepreneurs free to use capital and new ideas to create wealth . With the establishment of economic and political liberty in Russia and the other former Soviet republics , the region can ring in the 21st century with prosperity and hope . Once and for all , the West should end its outdated reliance on large-scale government-to-government aid . The world can ill afford the consequences of turning Russia into an international welfare dependency . Massive aid to Russia only would entrench unproductive institutions and prolong the crisis . A better solution is to base development on the proven success of free markets and free enterprise . Ms. Karen LaFollette is a research associate , Institute for Political Economy , Washington , D.C. This article is based on a Cato Institute Foreign Policy Briefing . <p>                     