@@408005

For the past two years my family has n't watched television . We came to the situation almost inadvertently , but it 's working out well . I 'd never had any particular concerns about TV . I certainly watched my share of it , and it came gradually to be a central feature of our after - supper activities , and a useful attention - keeper for our three children ( now aged eight , four and three ) on Saturday mornings . When we moved into a new house two years ago , we had little time for viewing in the first few weeks because we were so busy getting moved in . One day we turned on the TV and it answered with fuzz and static . The cable service had been disconnected . Within a few days I got hold of the company and learned that in addition to whatever their regular monthly charge was , there was a non - trivial " re - connect " fee . I was annoyed enough to do without for a while , and then when I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ service . The poverty was just temporary , but before we knew it , quite a few weeks had gone by without our watching TV . It was then that my wife and I decided to do without channels  --  permanently . While we do n't have channels , we have kept the TV connected to the VCR . In fact we watch quite a few movies  --  three a week or so  --  as do the children . This combination of selected movies but no channels has had some interesting results . Firstly , it allows us complete control over the children 's viewing . All the public hand - wringing over violence on television concerns us only passingly : We do n't let our kids watch gratuitous or graphic violence . People who complain about it , but still allow their kids to choose their own viewing material , do n't elicit a lot of sympathy from us . Even on a preschool level I can see a difference . My son is three . He 's the only one of his play school peers who does n't do @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . He 's also the only one who 's never seen Ninja Turtles . The children have a number of Disney cartoon movies , musicals , nature programs , and various other " family " videos . An interesting feature of young children is that they quite enjoy seeing the same story over and over again  --  as anybody in the bedtime story business can attest . Having seen Mary Poppins , Singin ' in the Rain , and an assortment of others about 128 times , all three kids can now sing all the parts . I often hear the kids at play , exchanging dialogue . With only movies  --  uninterrupted by commercial breaks  --  to watch at home the children have been developing the habit of a much longer attention span . This was quite unforeseen by us , but it seems to have benefitted their reading , too . Having grown used to watching videos and staying on a single train of thought for an hour or two at a time , it seemed no great trouble for them to listen for a similar span when we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ My eight - year - old daughter is not " gifted " at all , but her reading habits are mature in the sense that she is pleased to sit with a book for two or three hours every day , if we let her . Not surprisingly , her reading ability is now years ahead of her classmates ' ' . I say this with some objectivity  --  I teach students who are several years in advance of her grade , and so I have a basis for comparison . Our younger children , although not reading yet , have picked up their sister 's example and like to carry their various picture books about the yard , and to sit and tell each other stories aloud , using the pictures as prompts . Figure not transcribed We briefly considered dispensing with the TV and VCR entirely , but quickly discarded that thought . We do like viewing , after all . It turned out to be a good decision in another sense . Although the kids do n't get regular programs , they do get enough viewing time that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ like gravitational pull on them when we 're visiting . I have seen this happen to some others who have completely stopped viewing . There is a downside to all of this . Many television programs are now part of the common body of informational currency . We 've missed out on them , although we 're probably not missing much . On the other hand , snippets of plot , music and dialogue from Beverly Hillbillies , Gilligan 's Island and I Love Lucy are part of the culture of North Americans of my age . It is possible that we are keeping something worthwhile from the children . We acknowledge the possibility , but on balance , we like the increase in family interaction , the longer attention spans , and the literacy benefits we 're seeing now . We plan to keep the channels off for at least a few more years . <p>                     