@@394708

URANUS AT OPPOSITION Sir William Herschel was toiling away at mapping the stars from his backyard in 1781 with his modest ( and homemade ) 6-inch reflector when he came across an unusual blue-green star . Like any good observer , he increased magnification . When he did so , the object 's size also increased , and sharp-eyed Herschel had the strong impression that he was seeing an extended object , while the stars remained points of light . At first he thought it was a comet , but it later proved to be a world , Uranus , and Herschel became famous . Subsequent orbital calculations showed that the planet had been mistaken for a star on no less than 22 occasions during the century preceding its discovery ; it was even recorded as the star 34 Tauri on one of Flamsteed 's old charts . As the late 19th-century astronomy popularizer Henry White Warren said of these nearly two dozen failures : " Eyes were made not only to be kept open , but to have minds behind them to interpret their visions . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this month as Uranus comes to opposition on July 7 . On that night , it rises in the southeast at sunset and rides high in the south by midnight . Look 5deg northeast of the teacup handle in Sagittarius or , more specifically , 2deg south of Omicron Sagittarii . This is quite a busy little area of sky this month , for just about 2deg farther east lies Neptune , which not only comes to opposition two days after Uranus but is also occulted by the Moon for some observers in the United States . Uranus ' magnitude at opposition is 5.6 , making it just visible to the naked eye in a dark , rural sky . Considering the star-crowded region Uranus is in , however , there is little hope of distinguishing it from other stars of similar brightness . Binoculars make this task easier , but you can see the planet so much better with a small telescope . At the very least , it wo n't look like a star : with a diameter of about 32,000 miles , Uranus appears as a 3.8 " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . A 3-inch refractor is powerful enough to reveal Uranus ' more-or-less greenish disk , a color attributable to the planet 's methane-rich atmosphere , which absorbs red light . This color becomes even more apparent in an 8-or 10-inch telescope at high magnification . Though no atmospheric features are visible , Uranus is nevertheless an uncanny sight in the eyepiece , especially on nights of steady seeing when the disk is clearly resolved . After you grow accustomed to seeing the likes of Mars , Jupiter , and Saturn in the eyepiece , this blue-green specter seems somehow unnatural floating among the stars . OCCULTATIONS OF NEPTUNE AND THETA OPHIUCHI The same might be said of 8th-magnitude Neptune , which comes to opposition on July 9 . Neptune , however , appears more starlike than Uranus , and magnifications of at least 200x are needed to resolve its blue disk in an 8-inch reflector . Although Neptune is fun to locate , that 's about the extent of it , unless you want to count the fact that it 's more turquoise than Uranus ! Something else interesting happens to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hours of July 14 , the Full Moon occults Neptune for observers in Hawaii and in the western and central United States . Despite the glare , Neptune should be visible just northeast of the Moon 's disk around 8h30m UT ( 1:30 p.m . PDT ) . The planet disappears behind the Moon around 9h UT . Once you 've located the planet , use moderate to high magnifications and track it as it slips behind the lunar disk . The planet reappears in certain locales an hour or so later ( the timing depends on your location ) . Speaking of occultations , the Moon also occults Theta Ophiuchi just after midnight on the night of July 11/12 for observers in the central United States , and just before midnight July 11 in the western part of the country . Theta lies above Scorpius ' stinger in the southern half of the sky . This means the event will occur at a rather low altitude  --  as low as 10deg in Denver to as high as 22deg in San Diego  --  so be sure you have a clear southern @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Moon , Theta is bright enough ( magnitude 3.4 ) to withstand the glare . The occultation begins around 5h40m UT . TELESCOPIC PLANETS The ringed planet Saturn just keeps getting better as the year progresses . Though opposition occurs next month ( August 7 ) , Saturn is now high in the southeast around 10:00 p.m. and is slowly growing brighter . At the beginning of July , it shines at magnitude 0.5 but increases to 0.3 by the end of the month . Additionally , Saturn , which has been at a low declination since 1987 ( around - 19deg ) , is now edging ever northward , making it better placed for observers at northern latitudes . In July it is around - 16.5deg ; by opposition it will be about - 17deg . Right now , Saturn 's disk has an apparent diameter of about 18 " . This grows to nearly 19 " by opposition . The rings span 42 " , which is almost as wide as Jupiter 's apparent equatorial diameter at opposition ! During July , the north face of the rings are inclined about 15deg @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the Cassini division , which divides the outer A ring from the brighter B ring . This narrow , dark gap is fairly obvious against the brilliant rings , even under average seeing conditions . More elusive is the Encke division , which divides the A ring almost in half . Unlike Cassini 's division , this feature is difficult to discern even in large telescopes under good seeing conditions , and the declining inclination of the rings does n't help matters . Use the most magnification that seeing will allow and be patient ; wait for windows of steady air to pass between you and the planet . Keep an eye on the ansae , the extreme outer curve of the rings as seen from Earth . It is there that you 'll be more likely to see the gray , hairline Encke division running through the A ring . Jupiter and Mercury dominate the western sky after sunset this month . Though they approach each other , they never get closer than 23deg . On the 2nd , though , the three-day-old Moon slides past them . A @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been for the past year , bumping along beneath the belly of the Lion . Next month , though , Jupiter will be harder to see as it sinks nearer the Sun 's glare and solar conjunction in mid-September . This may be your last opportunity to get a good view of Jupiter in the evening sky this year . Aim your telescope at Jupiter as soon as possible after sunset while it 's still fairly high above the horizon . Use moderate to high magnification . In a still-bright twilight sky , Jupiter 's reflective glare is noticeably suppressed , allowing a flat view of subtle cloud features on the disk . Look for blue festoons extending from the North Equatorial Belt toward the equator and mottling in the clouds of the North and South Temperate Zones . Also note the color of the Red Spot . Judging from the observer reports I 've heard recently as well as the descriptions on various computer bulletin boards , activity in both the North and South Equatorial Belts is still quite high , so these also bear watching . It will be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ planet 's appearance after it reappears again in the morning sky in October . Mercury , meanwhile , reaches greatest elongation on July 6 when it will be at its greatest angular extent from the Sun . For those at southerly latitudes 35deg and less Mercury will be visible some 22deg above the horizon around 9 p.m. local daylight time . Those at more northerly latitudes will need to look at an altitude of about 15deg . Although this is not as favorable an elongation as the one last March , you will still want to try to observe Mercury . Use binoculars and look for an orange-hued " star " embedded in the twilight sky . July , the planet exhibits a quarter phase , like a tiny half-moon . By July 20 , Mercury slims down to a crescent and appears slightly larger in apparent diameter . ASTEROIDS IN THE EYEPIECE With our largest minor planet Ceres now reaching aphelion , the opposition July 25 is not a favorable one as oppositions go . To make matters worse , Ceres is at a declination of - 27deg to - 30deg throughout @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at northerly latitudes . Still , at magnitude 7.5 , Ceres outshines all the other asteroids save Vesta , which , incidentally , put on a fine show at opposition last March . If you look for Ceres , you 'll find it among the stars of Microscopium , which lies southeast of Sagittarius . Observers with setting circles can easily find this area by centering 3rd-magnitude Zeta Sagittarii  --  a star in the handle of the teacup  --  in the field of view and slewing eastward about one and a half hours in right ascension alone declination - 30deg . If you do n't have setting circles , grab your binoculars and look for a tiny cross of stars in eastern Sagittarius made up of Omega , 59 , 60 , and 62 Sagittarii . Your target region is about 5deg southeast of this cross . Unfortunately , several 7th-magnitude stars in the area masquerade as asteroids . To pinpoint Ceres , sketch the field of stars and come back a night or two later to see which one moved . The moon occults Neptune in the early morning sky on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ States will see the Moon 's disk cover the distant planet for an interval of about one hour . King of the Asteroids , Ceres comes to opposition on July 25 . It is visible as a faint " star " in binoculars and telescopes . Track it by sketching the field and identifying the speck that moves relative to the background stars . The one that moves is Ceres . Mercury and Jupiter team up in the evening sky during the first days of July . Spot orange-hued Mercury with binoculars and then see if its crescent-shaped disk is visible in telescopes . A former associate editor of ASTRONOMY , Jeff Kanipe is the editor of Star Date magazine , which is published by McDonald Observatory at the University of Texas at Austin . <p>                     