@@394008

On July 19 , 1993 , some 2,000 Catholics were prevented by a group of demonstrators from celebrating the Divine Liturgy of St. John Chrysostom at St. Cyril 's Church in Kiev , Ukraine . The demonstrators , members of the Orthodox Church , harassed the Catholics who had permission from the Government to celebrate Mass in a church that normally functions as a state museum . Details were sketchy . The report from the Washington , D.C.-based Catholic News Service did not say whether or not demonstrators had been present in the church , or what the nature of the harassment was . Though they had police protection , the Catholics decided not to provoke a confrontation . Cardinal Myroslav Ivan Lubachivsky , the principal celebrant and archeparch , or major archbishop , of L'viv , " left the church without asking police to disperse the crowd . " Accompanied by the Most Rev. Antonio Franco , Ukraine 's apostolic nuncio , the Cardinal then moved to the construction site of the future Greek Catholic cathedral , where the liturgy was celebrated next to trash bins . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to harass Catholics . The incident illustrated the tensions that exist between a resurrected church that less than five years ago was illegal in what was then one of the republics of the Soviet Union and a church that , in effect , had become the state religion . From June 30 to July 7 of this year , Cardinal Joseph Bernardin and a group of priests from Chicago made a pastoral visit to Ukraine to observe the conditions under which the Catholic Church there is recovering from its life in the underground . The Archdiocese of Chicago is assisting the Archeparchy of L'viv , the seat of Catholicism in western Ukraine , to rebuild its diocesan structure . Archbishop Theodore E. McCarrick of Newark , N.J. , head of the U.S. bishops ' Committee on Aid to Central and Eastern Europe , accompanied Cardinal Bernardin and so did Msgr . George Sarauskas , a priest of the Chicago Archdiocese who is the committee 's executive director . Cardinal Bernardin described the trip to be " like going back to another time , " because the church in Ukraine , during @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the change and development the rest of the church has experienced in the last 40 to 50 years . " But the Cardinal noted the Ukrainian Catholics ' determination to rebuild . " They are people of great faith and seem strengthened by this determination . " According to the Rev. Kenneth Nowatowski , a Canadian priest who is vice-chancellor of the Archeparchy of L'viv , freedom for the Ukrainian Greek Catholic Church , after nearly 50 years of suppression , began Oct. 29 , 1989 . On that day , during the Sunday liturgy , the pastor of the Church of the Transfiguration in L'viv acknowledged the primacy of Pope John Paul II as head of the church rather than the Russian Orthodox patriarch in Moscow . He invited the congregation to do so as well . For two weeks thereafter , women of the parish surrounded the church 24 hours a day to prevent the Government from restoring it to use by the Orthodox . That the Government was unable to retake the church indicates both the internal weakness of the Soviet Union by that time as well @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . From 1946 until the autumn of 1989 , Ukrainian Greek Catholics were forbidden to practice their faith . They made up the largest clandestine church in history . How did this happen ? Hostilities between Ukrainian Greek Catholics and the Orthodox go back several centuries . After more than 500 years of mutual estrangement between Rome , Constantinople and Moscow , the Ukrainian Greek Catholics were reunited with Rome in 1596 by what is known as the Union of Brest-Litovsk . At different times in its history , western Ukraine was ruled by Poland and by Austria-Hungary . When the Austrians took control of the territory in 1772 , they called the Catholics of the region " Greek Catholics " because , although they were ethnically Ukrainian , they followed the Byzantine rite . The Russian Conquest of Ukraine began under Peter the Great and was completed with the Red Army occupation in 1944 . A year later , Archbishop ( later Cardinal ) Josyf Slipyj ( 1892-1984 ) of L'viv , along with his auxiliary bishops , was arrested , tried and deported to Siberia . A group of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ March 8 to 10 with the intention of severing all ties with Rome and uniting the Ukrainian-rite church with the Russian Orthodox Church . The effect of this non-canonical synod was to force all Greek Ukrainian Catholics to join the Russian Orthodox Church , under the jurisdiction of Metropolitan Alexis , the Moscow Patriarch . All churches , monasteries , schools and other property were confiscated . The Eastern-rite Greek Catholic Church no longer existed inside Ukraine , although it still had many members who had migrated to other parts of the world . Denis Dirscherl , S.J. , an authority on this history , points out that the Orthodox clerics who replaced the Greek Catholic clergy in rural areas after 1946 " often had only three weeks of training , while those in cities had six weeks . " One report said that the two new Orthodox bishops in L'viv were actually members of the Communist Party . Today most of the 52 million Ukrainians are members of the Orthodox Church . The five million who belong to the Catholic Eastern rite are generally found in western Ukraine around L'viv @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about 300,000 Latin-rite Catholics , mostly ethnic Poles , in Ukraine . Their situation was somewhat different under Communism . The Latin-rite church was never suppressed , but its priests had to register with the Government and could celebrate Mass only in the church for which they were registered . Events leading to greater freedom of religion for both Catholics and Orthodox believers in Ukraine moved rapidly during the late 1980 's . On Nov. 29 , 1989 , the Council for Religious Affairs of Moscow recognized the right of Greek Catholic communities to register officially with the civil authorities . This declaration was directed to the Council of Ministers of the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic and was announced Dec. 1 , 1989 , the same day Mikhail Gorbachev visited Pope John Paul II at the Vatican . But the churches in Ukraine had begun flexing their muscles somewhat earlier as glasnost proceeded in earnest . In August 1987 Greek Catholics in Ukraine published their first declaration demanding the legalization of their church . From Rome , on Nov. 6 , 1987 , Cardinal Lubachivsky , who had succeeded Cardinal Slipyj @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ our hand of forgiveness , reconciliation and love to the Russian people and to the Patriarchate of Moscow . We are all brothers in Christ , let us respect one another , let us learn to live together , aware that what unites us is the same faith in our Saviour . " During the 1988 celebration of the millennium of the Christianization of Ukraine , some 20,000 to 30,000 Greek Catholics , although officially still in the underground , gathered near the monument to St. Vladimir in Kiev to proclaim their existence . On Sept. 17 , 1989 , exactly 50 years after the Soviets first occupied western Ukraine , a demonstration of 100,000 Catholics in L'viv demanded the legalization of the Ukrainian Greek Catholic Church . Within the Orthodox Church changes were taking place as well . In January 1990 , the Ukrainian Exarchate of the Russian Orthodox Church was renamed the Ukrainian Orthodox Church . A quadripartite commission , consisting of representatives of the Russian Orthodox Church , the Ukrainian Orthodox Church , the Holy See and the Ukrainian Greek Catholic Church was established to redistribute churches among @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ commission 's work yielded poor results . They expected the commission to deal with the rehabilitation of the Greek Catholic Church , the annulment of the L'viv synod of 1946 , the return of the Cathedral of St. George in L'viv to Greek Catholics and with all questions pertaining to the recognition of the church 's proper juridical status . What the commission did was distribute churches between Ukrainian Greek Catholics and the Ukrainian Orthodox Church in western Ukraine . What the commission did not do was take into account the resurgence of the autocephalous ( self-governing ) Ukrainian Orthodox Church . This revival in western Ukraine began in 1988 when Ivan Bodnarchuk , Bishop of Zhytomyr and Ovruch of the Ukrainian Orthodox Church , declared himself autocephalous and ordained other bishops for that jurisdiction . The Autocephalous Church seeks autonomy from the Moscow Patriarch . Bishop Bodnarchuk has , however , since returned to the Ukrainian Orthodox Church . On Aug. 19 , 1988 , the Orthodox pastor of the Church of Saints Peter and Paul in L'viv announced that his parish was breaking away from the Russian Orthodox Church @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the leadership of Metropolitan Mstyslav Skrypnyk , Metropolitan of the Autocephalous Orthodox Church in the United States . In June 1992 , Andrii Horak , until then Bishop of L'viv and Drohobych of the Ukrainian Orthodox Church , switched his allegiance from the Russian Orthodox Church to the Autocephalous Church , recognizing the authority of Patriarch Skrypnyk . On June 6-7 , 1990 , a synod of the Autocephalous Church in Kiev also recognized Patriarch Skrypnyk . Meanwhile , the Patriarch of Moscow , Aleksei II , recognized the independence of the Ukrainian Orthodox Church under the leadership of Metropolitan Filaret of Kiev on Oct. 27 , 1990 . At the same time , reports surfaced charging Metropolitan Filaret with corruption , moral turpitude and collaboration with the K.G.B . The Metropolitan appealed for canonical autocephaly in March 1992 , but the Moscow Patriarchate rejected it . An assembly of bishops demanded Metropolitan Filaret 's dismissal in April 1992 . At the same assembly , Bishop Filaret resigned after it was confirmed that he had been a secret agent , under the code name Antonov . He was also living out @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ three children . Although Orthodox clergy may marry , their hierarchy are required to be celibate . Metropolitan Filaret was defrocked by a synod of the Russian Orthodox Church , ratifying mandates of the Ukrainian Orthodox Church . In late June 1992 , Metropolitan Filat and a few bishops of the Ukrainian Orthodox Church who had remained faithful to him joined together to form the Ukrainian Orthodox Church of the Kievan Patriarchate . They recognized Metropolitan Skrypnyk as patriarch of Kiev and all Ukraine . Metropolitan Skrypnyk , however , stated publicly on Oct. 31 , 1992 , that he does not recognize the synod that created the Ukrainian Orthodox Church , Kievan Patriarchate . According to Msgr . Iwan Dacko , vicar general of the L'viv archeparchy ( archdiocese ) , it now appears there are three Orthodox churches in Ukraine : the Ukrainian Orthodox Church , the Ukrainian Autocephalous Orthodox Church and the Ukrainian Orthodox Church , Kievan Patriarchate . In addition , some Orthodox communities in Ukraine have expressed a desire to remain directly under the Patriarchate of Moscow . While Cardinal Bernardin was in Kiev , he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on Metropolitan Volodymyr Sabodan , head of the Ukrainian Orthodox Church , Moscow Patriarchate . The day before the scheduled meeting , the Metropolitan called it off without explanation . The Ukrainian Greek Catholic Church meanwhile struggles to achieve normalization . In August 1990 , the Cathedral of St. George was returned to the jurisdiction of Greek Catholics . On March 30 , 1991 , Cardinal Lubachivsky returned to L'viv from exile in Rome . By that time , 1,700 churches in Ukraine had professed loyalty to the Ukrainian Greek Catholic Church . Today in Western Ukraine there are about 1,100 Greek Catholic communities , 800 autocephalous ( Ukrainian Orthodox Church , Kievan Patriarchate ) communities and only 18 priests of the Ukrainian Orthodox Church functioning under Metropolitan Sabodan . About 550 priests emerged from the underground to serve the Ukrainian Greek Catholic Church . Another 400 came over from the Orthodox Church  --  in some instances , because their congregations wanted to return to the Greek Catholic Church . In addition , 40 new priests have been ordained since 1990 . The problems the church has to face are many @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ American and was educated before the suppression , not one Ukrainian Greek Catholic bishop has had any formal theological training . All were ordained in the underground . The leaders of the church recognize this weakness . Nevertheless , enthusiasm is high , as measured by vocations . Cardinal Bernardin compared it to the United States following World War II , " when vocations increased dramatically . That 's there now . Young men and women in unprecedented numbers are opting to be priests and religious . " Holy Spirit Seminary , a former Soviet summer youth camp outside L'viv , has 300 applicants for 90 spaces in the 1994 academic year . The Rev. John Terlecky , an American priest from the Ukrainian diocese of Stamford , Conn. , explained that candidates for the incoming class will be required to be celibate . Eastern-rite clergy are permitted to marry . But many young men who entered the seminary during the past three years were already married , and that made devotion to full-time study of theology difficult . From now on , seminarians will be required to finish their theological @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ married priests ( who make up 84 percent of the clergy ) are not as easily assigned as celibate clergy . " We need to send priests to other areas of Ukraine to do missionary work , " he said , " but most of them do n't want to uproot their families . " Other challenges are being met . An ecumenical dialogue was begun with the Orthodox . A synod of bishops was held in May 1992 . The remains of Cardinal Slipyj were returned to L'viv in August 1992 . The Cardinal spent 18 years in exile in Siberia and was then released to attend the Second Vatican Council . He lived in Rome the rest of his life , however , because he was never permitted to return to Ukraine . The most optimistic sign for Ukrainian Greek Catholics is found in its youth . During Cardinal Bernardin 's visit , a weekend rally commemorated the 60th anniversary of Youth for Christ in Ukraine . It was the third year in a row that this rally was held publicly . More than 30,000 young people camped out @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ What eludes the Ukrainian Greek Catholic Church at the structural level , however , is a patriarchate . At the end of their 1992 synod , the bishops of Ukraine petitioned Pope John Paul II to recognize their major archbishop as an Eastern-rite patriarch . According to Cardinal Bernardin , the Vatican agrees in principle that the patriarchate should exist . But the ecumenical dialogue with the Orthodox could be endangered by such a move . As it is , the Orthodox regard the rebirth of the Catholic Church as Rome proselytizing the East . It will be some time before both sides are able to coexist without threatening each other . Thomas C. Widner , S.J. , is editor in chief of The New World , the weekly newspaper of the Archdiocese of Chicago . He visited Ukraine this summer . <p>                     