@@356803

Bill Clinton could hardly wait to summon reporters , and who could blame him ? Russia 's grudging agreement last week to a new European security pact will allow the North Atlantic Treaty Organization to expand eastward , right up to the borders of the old Soviet Union . " An historic step , " said the ebullient President , with no hyperbole for a change . The accord between NATO and Russia , which clears the way for Moscow 's former satellites to join the Western alliance , is the most significant foreign policy development since the collapse of the U.S.S.R. and has strategic consequences that will be with us for decades . Called the Founding Act on Mutual Relations , Cooperation and Security , the agreement will take the sting out of Russian anger that NATO expansion was going to happen whether Moscow liked it or not . Implemented properly , the pact will soothe , but diplomatic denials not withstanding , it still represents a crushing capitulation for Russia and a diplomatic triumph for Clinton and the Western nations . <P> The President , representatives @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Yeltsin will meet in Paris on May 27 to sign the accord , which will establish a NATO-Russia Permanent Joint Council to discuss security issues , without , according to U.S. officials , limiting NATO 's authority to station troops or weapons wherever it wishes . Then NATO ministers will gather in Madrid in July and offer membership on NATO 's 50th anniversary in 1999 to the former captive nations of Poland , Hungary and the Czech Republic . <P> The hard-liner 's justification for enlargement is harsh : What better time to kick an opponent than when he 's down ? Russia is weak ; the new Eastern and Central European democracies are fragile ; Russia has the resources and , historically , the inclination to rise and threaten again . So now is the time to shelter those nervous fledglings of the former Soviet bloc so they can thrive under NATO 's protective wing . As an added benefit , supervised membership may even ease regional hostilities that have destabilized Central Europe for generations . Then , if Russia keeps democratizing and ultimately proves to be no menace , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ That 's the political rationale , but whether expansion is really a good idea is more complicated . For example , will extending the West 's nuclear shield eastward mean more stability in Europe , where war this century has cost 50 million lives , including those of 500,000 Americans ? Or will expansion just redivide Europe along a more eastward line , angering Russian nationalists who consider the plan an offensive danger and who may respond by ousting the new democrats , stopping the reduction of nuclear and chemical stockpiles and resuming nuclear threats ? Is it sensible to extend a military alliance and in the process antagonize Russia when it is not threatening the democracies of its former clients , especially when they are already protected by other agreements signed since the end of the cold war ?                     