@@408277

HEEDING THE OLD ADAGE " we are what we eat " , many parents today are keeping close tabs on what enters their child 's stomach . Not only are we counting calories , adding up vitamins and steering away from too much fat , but we 're wondering what 's safe to eat . According to Professor Linda Harris , of the University of Guelph 's food science department , " It is widely held by food scientists that the number one food safety concern in Canada is food poisoning from microbial contamination . " Prevention lies all in your hands  --  literally . One of the most basic , yet neglected precautions in the household kitchen is handwashing ( including the nails ) . Moreover , many parents do n't realize the care required when handling raw meats , poultry , fish and eggs , thus setting the scene for potential cross - contamination . And finally , food temperatures  --  both hot and cold  --  must be watched carefully . All of these simple precautions are easy to apply . But for some parents , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ myths . The most common and perhaps best known bacterial cause of food poisoning in Canada is salmonella . It , along with more than 20 other bacterial causes such as staphylococcus aureus , campylobacter jejuni and clostridium perfringens , can potentially appear in food , causing an outbreak of food poisoning . While most cases of food poisoning resemble a bout of stomach flu , each case varies . Symptoms typically include vomiting , diarrhea , nausea , stomach cramps , fever , dizziness and headaches . Most people experience at least a day of illness , then recover fully . Yet according to the Ontario Institute of Professional Agrologists , " For the very young , the elderly and those already weakened by disease , food poisoning can lead to serious medical complications . " Figure not transcribed Dr. Ewen Todd , director of the contaminated food section of Health and Welfare Canada estimates that " 2.2 million cases of food poisoning occur in Canada each year . " However , about three - quarters of all reported cases are the result of improperly handled foods served in food @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  even hospitals . While the risk of food poisoning in the family kitchen is less likely , we all need to heed certain precautions when handling , storing , preparing , cooking and serving food  --  especially when we 're feeding very small childrenwho are at higher risk . One of the most common mistakes people make in their kitchens , " says Harris , " is keeping food in the " danger zone . ' ' " Cold foods must stay cold and hot foods , hot . The danger zone for bacterial food contamination ranges from 5 - 60C ( 40 - 140F ) . For this reason , foods should never be kept at normal room temperature longer than two hours . Big offenders of this two - hour guideline are picnics , buffet meals and barbecues . Moreover , outdoor summertime meals are potentially more hazardous since higher seasonal temperatures offer an even more inviting environment for bacterial invaders . Strike these types of meals from your social calendar ? Not necessary  --  as long as proper food safety precautions are taken into account . When @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Serve and eat the food immediately , returning leftovers directly to the cooler . At buffets , hot foods must be kept heated and cold foods served on ice . If food is served otherwise  --  at a restaurant or party  --  the best advice is stay hungry ! One of the most welcoming environments for food contamination is the barbecue . Not only is the food that is brought outdoors for barbecuing more likely to enter the danger zone , either prior to cooking or afterwards , but the likelihood of cross - contamination is extremely high . It 's a classic mistake , " says Harris . " The same plate used to carry raw meat out to the barbecue is used again ( without washing ) to bring back barbecued food . The result is cross - contamination . " Treat all raw meat , poultry , fish and eggs as " potentially contaminated " and handle with care . Unfortunately , microorganisms in these types of foods are avid travellers . They can jump with ease on to your hands , your cooking utensils and into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . After washing or cutting raw meat , poultry or fish , wash the sink , knives , counter top and cutting board with hot soapy water , then disinfect with a rinse of borax , which is more environmentally friendly than bleach . It 's also a good idea to keep a separate cutting board for raw meat , poultry and fish . Very recent studies have shown that wooden cutting boards are not only safe , but better to use than plastic boards . Much to the surprise of many food scientists , it 's been revealed that plastic boards actually harbour more bacteria than natural wood boards . To increase egg safety , buy only government - inspected , grade A eggs ( which have been washed before marketing ) . Throw out any cracked eggs , for they may be contaminated . Adopting a position of maximum caution , Health and Welfare Canada advises consumers to cook eggs well and not to eat raw or lightly cooked eggs . However , the Canadian Egg Marketing Agency claims that " when properly handled , raw and lightly cooked @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " The agency recommends serving lightly cooked eggs immediately and in small portions . Just as with meat , fish or poultry , eggs are potential cross - contaminators . Hands and all utensils which come into contact with raw eggs must be washed carefully . Another common cross - contamination delinquent is the can opener . Wash after every use and consider buying a separate can opener for pet foods . Even if your family barbecue chef conscientiously avoids cross - contamination , he or she may be guilty of another food contamination hazard , undercooked hamburger or poultry , that is pinkish in the middle . To avoid this problem , try microwaving or parboiling poultry and large cuts of meat before barbecuing . Even the traditional festive turkey can turn a celebration into a gastro - intestinal disaster unless safe thawing , stuffing and storing procedures are followed carefully . To thaw your turkey ( or any frozen item ) safely , use your refrigerator , microwave or a sinkful of cold water , changing the water every half hour . Never thaw directly on the counter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bag , to ensure that the outside does n't thaw before the interior does . But before you start thawing poultry , check the cavity , remove giblets and handle these separately . Stuffing offers an all too - inviting atmosphere for lurking microbial contaminators . Insert stuffing immediately before roasting and remove once the bird is thoroughly roasted ( at least 74C or 165F ) . And when storing turkey leftovers , divide and place in small containers . This rule applies to all large quantities of food , which are difficult to chill properly unless divided up . To avoid the rare but potentially fatal botulism , take great care when preserving and bottling at home . Do n't buy cracked jars , swollen or dented cans and do n't eat canned goods that have a milky instead of a clear liquid around them . Abide by the saying " when in doubt , throw it out " and never risk sampling a suspect food item . Instead , wrap it up and discard it safely , keeping it away from children or pets . By keeping statistics and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reporting systems in the world for tracking and preventing food poisoning outbreaks . But the vast majority of cases still remain unreported . If you or someone in your family has a case of food poisoning , help research efforts by reporting it with a call to your local health unit . I think a great many of the unreported cases happen in the home , " says Harris . " But there are a lot of little changes people can make in their kitchen routines  --  quite simply  --  without inconveniencing themselves . " To keep the stomachs in your household healthy and happy , practise an ounce of prevention to keep food poisoning out from under your roof . RESOURCES Food , Sex and Salmonella , by David Waltner - Toews , DVM , NC Press , 1992 . This book takes a different but interesting look at the way food is produced , processed and prepared , interspersed with memorable anecdotes and poems . <p>                     