@@414325

On every coast , reading the combination of tides , bottom structure , and man-made and natural cover is the key to forage and gamefish locations around jetties and in the surf . All inshore saltwater gamefish will ambush forage when possible , but they do so as two distinct types of fish  --  opportunistic , long-range roamers or homebody types that utilize cover in a particular shoreline stretch . The difference determines how to fish these rich and varied coastal edges . 1 . MAN-MADE STRUCTURE Rocks , wrecks , and pilings  --  especially when they support vegetation  --  are havens for myriad crustacea on which tautog ( blackfish ) , porgies , and sheepshead feed . Irregularities in such structure , such as a finger or cleft in a jetty , create current breaks where fish rest or wait in ambush . Large fish also use these constructions after dark and during short stops along migratory runs . 2 . SURF BREAKS Tips of jetties , especially where rocks and ledges extend into the ocean proper , are prime striped bass locations , but depending on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ trout , bluefish , and other roamers . Currents sweeping around these points confuse small fish , which flee to adjacent bottom depressions  --  and sometimes into the mouths of predators . 3 . OCEAN-SIDE BACKWATER Protected areas that receive little wave disturbance are typically patrolled by roaming barracudas . Flatfish rest on bottom here , where , along with searobins , puffers , and other bottom feeders , they feast On easy pickings ; Sea trout and weakfish sometimes explore these sanctuaries as well , as do any of the predator species when baitfish draw them into the shallows . 4 . WEED BEDS Floating kelp paddies are forage fish condominiums that also house calico , sand , and other " rock bass " along the West Coast . Migratory species , like cobia , cruise the perimeters of these mats , and Pacific barracudas work their inshore edges . Floating islands of vegetation that have been broken loose by storms move fish with them as they drift along . 5 . INLET MOUTHS Major inlets gush forage on the falling tides , prompting roaming schools of mackerel , bonito @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " chow lines " at the ends of these funnels . If great quantities of bait are present here , many game species will follow them up the inlet on the flooding tide . If the inlet opens into a large bay or harbor , even nomadic mackerel , bonito , and bluefish will travel up-channel . Striped bass , tarpon , snook  --  any of the predatory inshore species  --  are regular visitors to inlets . 6 . DEPRESSIONS Underwater holes act as current buffers and are therefore good resting places for gamefish . They 're natural food traps , too , both inside inlets and along beaches . Springs that form some of these holes create enticing pockets of cool water during hot weather . Small depressions are regularly used by sea trout , flounder , and fluke , while the deepest can hold tarpon , big snook , and other large species . Forage fish sometimes hover well off bottom over these deeper holes , and predators rise from the depressions to meet them . 7 . BARS , LEDGES , AND TROUGHS Rock ledges and ever-changing sandbars @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ open sea . Redfish , sea trout , and pompano regularly hunt such corridors , while striped bass favor breaks in bars where forage concentrates . However , stripers will move into the surf if bait is pinned there , as do bluefish on an open bite , ignoring breaks and moving over into even the shallowest bars to gorge . Surfcracked clams on bars are another favorite food of scavenging stripers. 8 . CREEK MOUTHS AND GUZZLES On ebbing tides forage fish from small salt ponds behind dunes spill in creek-like flows across beaches into the waiting maws of inshore gamefish . Even small guzzles-runoffs from tidal pools on the beach-act as micro-rivers , sluicing crabs , sandbugs ( sand fleas ) , and tiny forage fish into troughs between bars and beaches and out to sea through cuts in these barriers . 9 . WASHOUTS Big bowl-shaped washouts on beaches can stretch 100 yards or more across . When they form without breaks or cuts they become sanctuaries for forage fish on the falling tide . Gamefish of all species  --  from jacks to stripers to weakfish  --  turn @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ forced to move over the lip . Occasionally they even become stranded inshore until higher water arrives again . Cuts in these washouts make natural bait funnels that work like other similar necked-down areas . 10 . TIDE RIPS Rips , or lines , as they 're sometimes called , form at the junction of two or more currents , or where moving water collides with bottom structure . Current lines are also caused by wind and by moving water breaking around pilings , jetties , wrecks , and other man-made structure . Rips can appear as obvious riffled water or as subtly moving " nervous " water . Like other favored feeding areas they compress and confuse forage and convey it to predators . Rips also form along beaches where washout creeks and inlet spills hit currents paralleling the beach . Drum and jacks , tarpon and stripers  --  virtually any gamefish worth its name  --  will come to a riptide 's progressive feast . <p>                     