@@394713

Our planet travels among a swarm of small rocky bodies only a few yards to a few miles across . Most of these asteroids pass Earth at high speed millions of miles away . But on occasion , a few come much closer . These encounters pose both a danger and an opportunity . They may produce a catastrophic collision someday , but in the meantime they have given astronomers the best look yet at objects that are highly important to the understanding of the solar system 's past . The Sun and planets formed from a great swirling cloud of gas and dust 4-1/2 billion years ago , leaving behind debris consisting of gas , dust , and small bodies . The newly formed planets quickly swept up the debris near their orbits . But in between the planets  --  and beyond Neptune  --  there were great swarms of small bodies that never became incorporated into planets or satellites . The small bodies in the inner solar system contained mostly rock and metal . Those in the outer solar system contained mostly ices and dark , carbon-based @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the debris between the orbits of Mercury , Venus , Earth , and Mars either smashed into one of those planets or escaped from the inner solar system after encountering the gravitational field of one of the planets . One great reservoir  --  the asteroid belt  --  remains in the wide gap between Mars and Jupiter . In the outer solar system , small , icy bodies were stranded in stable reservoirs beyond the orbit of Neptune . The most famous reservoir is the Oort cloud , from which long-period comets visit the solar system . Closer to Neptune is the Kuiper comet belt , a source of numerous short-period comets . Although many of the small objects between the outer planets have collided with a planet or escaped , some of these icy bodies still orbit slowly around the Sun . The small-body reservoirs ( asteroid belt and comet clouds ) have lasted the age of the solar system . Some of the bodies in these vast reservoirs leak out and come whizzing by Earth . The most spectacular , of course , are the new comets that appear every @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ losing their frozen gases in the heat of the Sun . The loss of dust and ice reduces comets to inactive lumps of rocky residue after only a few thousand years in the inner solar system . The biggest and most numerous of the bodies that pass close by our planet are dead cometary remnants and fragments from the asteroid belt that strayed into Earth 's territory . Neither dead comets nor asteroids give off long , glowing tails as new comets do , which makes them difficult to see . But every couple of years , a small object  --  such as the 300-meter-diameter asteroid 4581 Asclepius seen in March 1989  --  passes within twice the distance to the Moon . About every 100,000 years , a 1-kilometer-wide object collides with Earth , with devastating results . And every 50 million years or so , a 10-km-wide asteroid hits with such catastrophic force that it endangers life on the surface of our planet . Such an impact may have caused the demise of the dinosaurs and many other species 65 million years ago . Astronomers estimate that between 1,500 and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ km and 40 km are in Earth-approaching orbits . Only a small fraction of them will strike Earth someday . Others will collide with Venus , the Moon , or Mars . But the majority will move into larger orbits or will leave the solar system altogether . While some Earth-approachers break away from the population and never threaten us again , others come in . The distant Oort cloud and the Kuiper belt provide fresh comets that visit the inner solar system . There the Sun 's gravity traps some of them and they lose their ices during a few millennia of glory . The comet remnant then joins the ranks of cometary corpses , which account for up to a third of all near-Earth objects ( NEOs ) . Comets are n't the only fugitives that visit the inner solar system . Objects in the asteroid belt collide and break into fragments . Erratic orbital changes drive some of those fragments into elongated orbits that stretch inward , across the orbit of Mars and perhaps the orbits of Earth and Venus . A typical member of the NEO population @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ million years . Though individual members of this population may come and go , Earth always has resided in an asteroid swarm and will continue to do so for billions of years to come . Earth-approachers are small by planetary standards , and most of the time they are far away  --  tens of millions of kilometers . Their small sizes and large distances from Earth make it difficult for astronomers to see them . In fact , of the estimated 1,500 to 2,000 objects larger than 1 km across , astronomers have found fewer than 200 of them and some of these can no longer be located . Little is known about most of them : For over 100 of them , astronomers know only the shapes of their orbits and their approximate brightnesses . Information about their sizes , shapes , rotation periods , colors , and compositions is known for fewer than 50 NEOs . NEOs are important because their composition tells about the material from which our solar system formed . The difference in composition between various types of NEOs indicates how material was spread through the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ objects hint at how debris escaped from the solar system after the planets formed . But to learn more about these objects and where they came from , astronomers need to observe more of them . SEARCH AND DISCOVERY Every month for two weeks during the dark of the Moon , teams of scientists scan the skies for unknown asteroids that cross or approach Earth 's orbit . Two teams take turns observing at the 46-centimeter-diameter Schmidt telescope atop Palomar Mountain , 50 miles northeast of San Diego , California . One team , led by Eleanor " Glo " Helin , drives down to Palomar from the Jet Propulsion Lab in Pasadena . The other team , consisting of Gene and Carolyn Shoemaker , drives from Flagstaff , Arizona , where they work at the U.S. Geological Survey . Both groups systematically search the sky for faint , fast-moving objects . Before leaving Pasadena , Helin checks the list of known NEOs for those with poorly determined orbits to see if they are observable on her observing nights . She maps out the sky fields her team will photograph , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . At the telescope , the team photographs each patch , using a 10-minute exposure . After about eight exposures , one team member develops the photographic plates while another loads more plates into the holder and decides where to point the telescope next . After two plates are developed and dried , the NEO search begins at the stereomicroscope . Helin views pairs of plates taken of the same region . Slightly displacing the film pairs relative to each other enhances the apparent motion of a fast-moving object . After the team grabs a few hours of post-dawn sleep , the plate scanning continues at the stereomicroscope . Helin notes any moving objects and compares this list with the asteroid ephemeris , a book of the positions of all known asteroids . Previously known asteroids receive no more attention . The objects Helin ca n't find in the ephemeris are possible discoveries . She determines their positions relative to nearby stars and sends a message to the Central Bureau for Astronomical Telegrams , operated by the International Astronomical Union ( IAU ) . Astronomers at the bureau in Cambridge , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ new asteroid . A new object is given a temporary designation that contains the year , the half-month , and the order of discovery in that period . For example , 1992 PD would be the fourth object ( D ) discovered in the first half of August ( P ; I is not used ) of 1992 . Observation of the asteroid at two oppositions and the determination of an accurate orbit entitles the asteroid to a permanent number . The discoverer may name the object , subject to the approval of the IAU . So 1978 SB became 2212 Hephaistos but 1983 SN was not named because it was lost to view . The friendly competition between the Helin and Shoemaker teams , augmented by recent searches by the Spacewatch telescope in Arizona and teams in Australia and elsewhere , has pushed the discovery rate higher each year . For example , during the 1970s only a few NEOs were discovered each year , but several dozen were found in 1991 . New technology helps increase the number of discoveries . For example , CCD ( charge-coupled device ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ program . The fainter magnitudes reached by this program enable it on average to find two new NEOs each month . Upon discovery of a new asteroid , an informal network alerts all observers who might be able to follow the object 's motion . These follow-up observations during the next few nights are necessary to obtain enough positions to accurately determine an orbit . From these observations , astronomers at the Central Bureau office compute a preliminary orbit of the asteroid , which is announced on an IAU Circular . This orbit tells other astronomers where they can find the object so they can try to determine the asteroid 's size , shape , color , and composition . PHYSICAL PROPERTIES OF NEOS Most NEOs appear slightly reddish in color and reflect about 15 to 20 percent of the sunlight that shines on them . They are like the asteroids in the inner edge of the asteroid belt . This leads astronomers to suspect that many NEOs came from this inner region . But there are a few NEOs with colors that are not commonly found among the objects in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ asteroid that has the color and spectral properties of ordinary chondrites , the most frequently found meteorites on Earth . Rare among the discovered NEOs are dark bodies , but there is a bias against finding them because they are so black . Even rarer are bright , reflective objects and objects composed mostly of metal . From the ratio of an object 's reflected visible light to its heat radiation , astronomers can determine an asteroid 's size and reflectivity , even though they ca n't see its surface directly because of its starlike appearance . The less light it reflects , the hotter it becomes and the more heat it radiates , compared with a more reflective and cooler body . From its total brightness , astronomers can then calculate the object 's diameter . The largest NEO ( 1036 Ganymed ) is about 40 km in diameter . The smallest one discovered with a telescope so far is just 5 m by 10 m in size . More typical sizes of discovered NEOs are between 0.5 km and 10 km in diameter , but that probably says more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : sampling statistics suggest that there are large numbers of smaller objects . Periodic changes in the brightness of the object establish the NEO 's rotation period . Astronomers wonder about a few NEOs that spin very slowly . While most rotate once every 3 to 10 hours , the asteroid designated 3102. 1981 QA ( the discoverer has not yet given this asteroid a proper name ) , takes more than six Earth-days to rotate once . 1566 Icarus , which has an orbit that takes it inside that of Mercury , is among the fastest rotating NEOs . Rotating once every 2.2 hours , it is on the verge of breaking apart because it spins so fast . Possibly their asteroidal or cometary origins explain the difference between the fast-spinning NEOs and the lazy ones that hardly spin at all . In order to assess an NEO 's mineral composition , observers measure how much sunlight it absorbs at different wavelengths . Certain rocks have a characteristic spectral fingerprint . We know that the composition of these cosmic interlopers is similar to the basic mine building blocks that make @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Some NEOs are almost entirely metallic . Others contain mostly organic-rich clays that would probably fall apart if you picked them up with your bare hand . Still others are igneous rocks , fragments from a once-molten small planet . Astronomers can study the closest NEOs by bouncing radar beams off their surfaces . From a radar echo , they can determine the position of the object with exceptional precision . A rotating object smears the finely tuned radar pulse into a number of echo frequencies , with a broad radar echo indicating a fast rotator . And the shape of the returning radar pulse indicates whether the object has a smooth surface or craters , hills , and valleys . As astronomers piece together information about the sizes , shapes , and compositions of NEOs , they learn about the history and origin of the solar system . The orbits and physical properties or NEOs tell researchers where these objects came from . The orbits also suggest relationships among different types of objects . RELATIONSHIPS TO METEORS , METEORITES , AND COMETS The known NEOs are just the largest members @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can be microscopic in size . The smallest particles that fall into Earth 's atmosphere often survive their flight through the atmosphere . These tiny meteorites , called Brownlee particles , add tons of dust every year to the stratosphere , polar ice caps , and ocean sediments . Larger particles about the size of sand grains or apple seeds flame to their death in a brief burst of light as meteors . You can see them any night in a clear dark sky . Typical meteors disintegrate tens of kilometers up in the atmosphere and never reach the ground . But the most brilliant fireballs may make it to the ground as fist-sized meteorites , especially if they contain hard rock or metal . But between the small particles that become meteors and the size of the smallest known NEOs , the interplanetary debris is presently unobservable . Astronomers believe that nearly all interplanetary debris comes from disintegrating comets or chips broken off asteroids by collision , or from material ejected from craters formed when small asteroids or comets impact larger ones . Some comets have spawned specific meteor showers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ left behind by Comet Halley , while Comet Giacobini-Zinner gave birth to October 's Draconids . Many meteor showers have no known comet associated with them and most comets have no known meteor shower association . But this may change as astronomers discover more NEOs. 2101 Adonis may be the parent body of the Chi Sagittariid , Scorpiid-Sagittariid , and Capricornid-Sagittariid meteor showers , since they all travel in the same orbit . Likewise , 2201 Oljato and the southern Chi Orionids are related . In 1983 , the Infrared Astronomical Satellite discovered 3200 Phaethon . The asteroid follows the same orbit as the Geminid meteor shower , indicating that asteroids as well as comets can be the parent body of debris in a meteor stream . ( Phaethon has the most elliptical orbit and approaches the Sun more closely than any other asteroid . ) However , the identity of this debris as ejecta from a now-inactive comet or as the product of an asteroid-asteroid collision is still in question . Recently , Jack Drummond , a New Mexico astronomer , looked at how closely the orbital elements of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with such similar orbits that they would qualify as a meteor stream if the orbits were of meteors instead of asteroids . Then he read the results of Ian Halliday , a Canadian astronomer who calculated the orbits of fireballs photographed by a Canadian camera network . To his surprise , three of the groups that Halliday discovered coincide with Drummond 's three groups of NEO orbits . The existence of asteroid streams seems to support the theory that at least some meteor streams are the product of asteroid-asteroid collisions . These collisions must have occurred within the last few thousand years , otherwise the debris would have dispersed beyond our ability to recognize any orbital association . DEAD COMETS VERSUS ASTEROIDS Some of the NEOs hurtling through space are really dead comets . But one problem is recognizing which ones are comets and which ones are the presumably more common fragments of asteroids . One clue is the object 's orbit . A highly elliptical or highly inclined orbit is more likely a comet . Hephaistos has an orbit similar to that of Comet Encke , so it is probably @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Oljato 's highly elliptical orbit traces it back to a more cometlike orbit having chaotic swings in orbital radius due to multiple tugs by Venus and Earth . Astronomers have studied the physical properties of some of these inactive comets masquerading as asteroids . Radar echoes from Adonis , for example , are different than those from normal , rocky asteroids . Oljato showed an excess of ultraviolet radiation , which might have been the signature of outgassing water . Confusing Oljato 's identification is its high reflectivity , or albedo . It reflects 30 to 40 percent of the sunlight hitting it . Its reflectivity is much higher than that of most comets and is high even for the bright objects of the asteroid belt . 3552 Don Quixote and 1984 BC are very red and dark and have cometlike orbits . These objects appear similar to bodies found in the outer edge of the asteroid belt . These outer belt asteroids may have cometlike compositions , thus making the distinction between comets and asteroids somewhat blurry . Fragments and crater ejecta from kilometer-wide NEOs may become meteorites that occasionally @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ chemistry of meteorites compared with NEO spectra may indicate which NEOs produce which types of meteorites . Almost all of the meteorite types match objects observed in the near-Earth population . In addition , one of the best candidates for the last parent body of some ordinary chondrites is Apollo . This was the first Earth-crossing asteroid found , thereby giving its name to the whole group of objects with Earth-crossing orbits . However , Apollo 's true nature remains a mystery . No object yet observed in the asteroid belt has the color or spectrum of Apollo . But the thermally changed minerals in ordinary chondrites make it unlikely that the parent , Apollo , is a dead comet . Spectrally , 1915 Quetzalcoatl resembles particularly rare meteorites called diogenites , which have been heated to their melting point and slowly cooled . The third largest asteroid in the main belt , 4 Vesta , apparently has a similar composition , with lava basalts on its surface , but it is difficult for fragments from this body to stray into an Earth-crossing orbit  --  a large change in energy would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all , because Quetzalcoatl is in a gravitational resonance with Jupiter . Recently , researchers found what appears to be a metallic asteroid , 1986 DA . We know its composition from its color and the almost total reflection of radar signals . There are also a few objects containing carbon compounds flying around in space , but they are hard to see because they are very dark . As we discover and study more of our rocky neighbors , we find additional counterparts to the meteorites that we have in our Earth-bound collections . Astronomers used to think that nearly all of the smallest particles in the inner solar system were cometary dust . Now they know that asteroids also contribute a large share . The distinction between comet and asteroid has become more uncertain , perhaps one of nomenclature rather than physical reality . Many an asteroid might have once had a cometary tail . And studies may underplay the significance of comets ' rocky compounds simply because they are inherently less visible . Together , the comets , asteroids , and smaller pieces that stray into the orbital @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . And as remnants from the earliest epoch of solar system history , they will teach us about our origins . Lucy-Ann McFadden is a planetary scientist at the California Space Institute of the University of California , San Diego . Clark R. Chapman is a planetary scientist at the Planetary Science Institute in Tucson , Arizona . <p>                     