@@395999

Were I to believe what I read on the editorial pages of the nation 's more respectable newspapers , I could be forgiven for thinking that the American public this year has been transformed into a pack of rabid dogs . The columnists take note of the early election returns  --  the poor attendance at the polls , the votes cast for Patrick Buchanan and Jerry Brown , the palpable disgust for Governor Bill Clinton and President George Bush  --  and they inflate the proofs of disenchantment with the status quo into the fear of mass revolt . Anthony Lewis in the New York Times sees signs of a reckless " nihilism . " David Broder in the Washington Post decries " the limited benefits of direct democracy " and wishes that the business of nominating a presidential candidate could be conducted by the people who know better  --  i.e. , by the professional politicians , by the important providers of campaign funds , by the eminent journalists who keep watch over the nation 's pulse and conscience . During the week that Jerry Brown was campaigning in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ New York Times were at some pains to portray him as a wicked radical . Various columnists defending the moral beauty of the established order ( among them William Safire , Sidney Blumenthal , and A. M. Rosenthal , as well as Mr. Lewis ) condemned Brown as " a demagogue , " an irresponsible hypocrite , " a spoiler , " an enemy of meaningful political reform , " a false messiah , " an opportunist blighted with " a paranoia like Oliver Stone 's . " Brown , of course , was saying that the government in Washington has become so self-serving and corrupt that it no longer deserves the name of a democracy . H. Ross Perot , the Texas billionaire turned country populist , was also offering himself as a presidential candidate bringing more or less the same bad news , and the storm of words blowing from opposite points on the American political compass apparently was being received throughout the country with loud cheering and long applause . Neither Brown nor Perot was recommending armed rebellion , and much of what they said was both fair-minded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ response was so shrill and condescending that I was reminded of the Tory pamphleteers in Boston in the 1760s despising the rebellious American colonists ( among them James Otis , Samuel Adams , and anybody else who objected to the writs of assistance or the Stamp Act ) as a multitude of " foreign seamen , servants , Negroes and other persons of mean and vile condition . " I think it probably fair to say that the American colonies in 1765 were more justly ruled by the British crown than is the American democracy of 1992 by its own elected government , but as yet I have n't seen much sign of a patriotic anger in the streets . No mob has smashed the glass in the windows of the State Department ; nobody has clubbed a tax collector or hung the effigy of Chief Justice Rehnquist from a tree in front of Faneuil Hall . Like President Reagan and King George III , President Bush makes war at his royal pleasure and cancels , by edict , the environmental laws enacted by Congress . But nobody has destroyed a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pole on the green at Salem , Massachusetts . The ritual denunciation of Washington is as traditional to the presidential campaign season as the band music and the airport press conference , but this year the winds of popular resentment seem to be gusting more strongly than usual , and the senior statesmen of the media speak on behalf of a ruling and possessing class that has good reason to be nervous . The columnists worry that the American people might learn to hold their political overlords in contempt . What they do n't say is that the contempt in which the electorate holds the politicians does n't yet match  --  not by a factor of one in ten  --  the contempt in which the politicians hold the electorate . The proof of this latter disdain presents itself in every city street  --  in the lists of the unemployed and the legion of dead fish in the nation 's rivers , in the prisons crowded to capacity and the number of children who do n't know how to read . The debasement of the American citizenry , like the despoilation of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The labor of plundering a subject people is n't a freak of nature , or the work of trolls , or the fault of the Japanese . Specific individuals with specific purposes in mind break open the doors and steal the silver . For fifteen years the government in Washington  --  together with those of its patrons , clients , and friends who could afford the price of a regulatory agency or a congressional committee  --  has complacently looted the public treasury and made a smiling mockery of the rule of law . Other governments at other moments in the nation 's history conducted similar raids against the commonwealth , but mostly they had both the intelligence and the good luck not to wreck the economy that provided them with their comforts . The recent generation of thieves  --  both Democrat and Republican , in the White House as well as in the Congress  --  made the mistake of confusing fraud with ideological doctrine , and it now appears that they have laid waste not only to the public interest but also to their own . Jefferson defined the dialectic of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the many and the interests of the few , and if between 1977 and 1990 the government promulgated seven major revisions of the tax code that in their cumulative effect shifted the balance of the nation 's wealth to the people who paid for the writing of the laws , the result was not much of a surprise to the collectors of the spoils . Between 1978 and 1987 American families belonging to the poorest 20 percent of the population became 8 percent poorer ; during the same period of time American families within the richest 20 percent of the population became 13 percent richer . The disparity between rich and poor was most glaringly apparent at the extreme points of measurement . The income received by the upper 1 percent of American families improved by 49.8 percent in the years between 1977 and 1988 ; simultaneously , and not as a matter of chance , the income received by families in the lowliest 1 percent of the population declined by 14.8 percent . The average pay of the average corporate chairman now exceeds the average pay of the average worker @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ twelve years of Republican rule is by no means easy to explain , much less admire or defend , and when I read the tortuous sophisms in the established press , I remember that in 1774 most of the delegates to the First Continental Congress in Philadelphia feared what they called " the turbulent passions " of the common man . Appalled by the sight of the beggars on the streets of that city , the young Gouverneur Morris was moved to remark , " The mob begin to think and reason . Poor reptiles ! ... They bask in the sun , and " ere noon they will bite , depend upon it . The gentry begin to fear this . " The editorial in the Wall Street Journal on the morning of the New York primary election expressed much the same sentiment and blithely attributed the misfortunes of the contemporary rabble to the rates of technological change , the mysterious workings of geo-economics , the complexity of big government , and the enigma of the environment . Writing some days later in The New York Times Magazine , Kevin @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the practice of conservative government , reminded his readers that twice before in its history  --  in the 1890s and the 1930s  --  the United States had managed to diffuse what he called " the politics of frustration . " But his tone was a good deal more urgent than usual , and he thought that his friends in Washington would be well advised to hurry up with their fabrication of " a coherent set of policies capable of attracting angry voters and welding them into a new centrist governing coalition "  --  i.e. , for God 's sake , give the dog a decent bone . Neither Phillips nor the Wall Street Journal nor any of the columnists in the Times said a word about the likelihood of the government 's rescue of the commercial banks after the November election . The almost audible and therefore ominous silence on this subject ( not only on the part of the media but also on the part of candidates Bush , Clinton , and Brown ) suggests that the cost of the forthcoming salvage conceivably could match or exceed the cost of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Perhaps it is a measure of my own disenchantment with the established order that I 've learned to listen more closely to its disquieting silences than to its confident announcements . My inclinations in this regard were confirmed and sustained by my reading , in early April , of William Greider 's new book , Who Will Tell the People . The national editor of Rolling Stone and the author , in 1987 , of The Secrets of the Temple ( a well-informed but unflattering portrait of the Federal Reserve system ) , Greider is one of the very few Washington journalists who can be relied upon to tell what he knows of the truth . His new book presents several cautionary tales about the workings of a federal government that no longer feels bound to honor its own principles or obey its own laws . Greider tells the stories in sufficiently persuasive detail to sustain his observations about a governing class that defines freedom as the license to exploit , and he presents the story of the savings and loan swindle as the story of a silence successfully maintained by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ long ago as 1985 the prospect of substantial loss was apparent to the banking committees in the Senate and the House , to the Treasury Department , the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation , the Government Accounting Office , the Federal Reserve , and the Office of Management and Budget . If one or more of these agencies of government acted on behalf of the public interest , the loss might have been limited , in 1985 , to $10 billion . None of the interested parties found it convenient to open their well-fed mouths . James Baker , then the secretary of the treasury , discovered no reason for " undue concern , " and numerous politicians continued to receive campaign money from the owners and operators of the corrupted banks . By 1986 the prospective loss had expanded to $50 billion . Once again all the relevant government agencies remained silent . The Democrats were as closely acquainted with the fraud as were the Republicans , and nobody wanted to mention the swindle to the American people until after the election of 1988 . The delay offered the further advantage @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would prove to be a catastrophe . Had the crimes and misdemeanors been addressed at a cost of only $10 billion , somebody might have thought to suggest that the savings and loan industry pay its own debts . But if the loss amounted to $500 billion , then it could be defined as a patriotic obligation entailed upon the whole of the American democracy . The government understood the magnitude of the swindle as early as May 1988 , six months before the election , but still nobody said a word . On instructions from his own party , the Democratic candidate , Michael Dukakis , refrained from discussing so tawdry a topic in the presidential campaign . At the White House and the Treasury Department a battery of nice young men in seersucker suits ( many of them recruited from Wall Street banks ) worked throughout the summer on the measures and explanations that would be needed in late November . As needs hardly be said , almost all of the fine gentlemen in Washington escaped the wreckage without censure or personal loss . Elsewhere in the country several @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ companies went bankrupt , but in the stately hearing rooms on the banks of the Potomac the news of any distant unpleasantness was a tale told by the lying , liberal press . The Senate Ethics Committee staged a tableau vivant signifying its rebuke of five senators who had been a trifle too careless with the sale of their favors , but Alan Greenspan , who had appeared as a character witness for operators of fourteen of the failed banks , was named chairman of the Federal Reserve , and James Baker became the secretary of state . I read Greider 's book during the same week that Jerry Brown was campaigning in New York for the Democratic presidential nomination , and as I listened to Governor Brown exhort his audiences to " take the country back " from the Washington oligarchy , I remember thinking his remarks far too quiet and polite . Given my own acquaintance with a number of the individuals and incidents mentioned in Greider 's text , I tend to think that most of what he says is true . But if that is so , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . An oligarchy was precisely what a fair number of the nation 's more prominent founders had in mind when they wrote the Constitution in the summer of 1787  --  " The people who own the country , " said John Jay , " ought to govern it "  --  but its modern form and structure coincided with the advent of the national security state and the bureaucratic imperatives of the Cold War . In the name of making the world safe for democracy , the United States revised its own democratic interests and constitutional principles . The grim pageant of the Soviet menace justified the proliferation of an always larger ruling class and the demand for always larger sums of money . For forty years the patriotic cry in Washington has always been scored for trumpets and drums  --  more weapons , more power , more secrecy , more marble , more wiretaps , more grandeur . Troubled officials sometimes referred to what they called " the paradox " implicit in the waging of a secret war under the jurisdiction of a free , open , and democratic society . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ intrigue for candid debate and the preference , at least in official circles , for the virtue of loyalty as opposed to the spirit of liberty . In seasons past the anti-Washington rhetoric has been made mostly for show  --  for a therapeutic rather than a political purpose . The voters listen and maybe pound their fists on a saloon bar or a table at the yacht club ; editorial writers issue many thousands of column inches of indignation or alarm ; the television anchorpersons shake their worried , well-dressed heads ; Ralph Nader summons another press conference ; professors of political science propose the entire syllabus of earnest reform . As if by prior agreement or common consent , the sound and fury traditionally depict nothing . The campaigning season comes and goes and brings with it little more than the gestures of random protest  --  the question of congressional term limits on the ballot in Seattle , an environmental referendum in California , street demonstrations for and against the practice of abortion in Wichita or Buffalo , a few months of political jokes on Saturday Night Live . But @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of something more substantial than the red , white , and blue balloons floating over the heads of the delegates at the nominating conventions . Without the grim shields of the Cold War , the ruling and possessing classes might be forced to confront the democratic spirit of objection and dissent on terms more nearly equal . The hysteria of the statesmen-columnists testifies not only to their nervousness but also to their own complicity in what they know to be a lie . Even so pallid a creature of the oligarchy as President Bush finds it expedient to pretend that he knows what is meant by the terrible word " change . " <p>                     