@@410504

The North American Free Trade Agreement is being praised by some as a solution to our economic problems and criticized by others as a plot by employers to replace American workers with cheap Mexican labor . The specific effects of NAFTA lie in the details of the agreement , and since these are still being debated and analyzed no final judgment about the agreement can be made now . Later in this article I will offer some preliminary estimates of the accord , but my primary intention is to establish the context for understanding it . NAFTA is best seen as a first step toward creating a bilateral free-trade bloc in the Western Hemisphere as a complement to ( or substitute for ) the multilateral negotiations that we have relied on in the past . To view NAFTA in this context requires some understanding of both the nature of capitalist development and the evolution of the world economy . Many things have contributed to the economic troubles of the U.S. Changes in the international economy and the failure of U.S. economic policy to respond to those shifts have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from one in which the U.S. had by far the most productive and therefore the most competitive industrial economy to a world in which the U.S. economy is but one among many . Industrial capitalism 's normal processes have proliferated such that more and more economies can compete with ours . The spread of capitalism has brought mixed consequences , as one of the great economists of the 20th century , Joseph Schumpeter , indicated in his concept of " creative destruction " : The fundamental impulse that sets and keeps the capitalist engine in motion comes from the new consumers ' goods , the new methods of production or transportation , the new markets , the new forms of industrial organization that capitalist enterprise creates .... These developments incessantly revolutionize the economic structure from within , incessantly destroying the old one , incessantly creating a new one . The price of creating new products , new jobs , new technologies , new industries is the destruction of old products , jobs , technologies and industries . The closing or relocation of plants and the loss of jobs hurts families and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ jobs frequently are located elsewhere and use a new generation of workers . The gains for consumers are in new and less-expensive products . This process of creation and destruction has always affected the U.S. economy : the textile industry moved from New England to the South , the growth of supermarkets wiped out Mom and Pop grocery stores , petroleum replaced coal , and so forth . In the past 20 years the challenges increasingly have come from abroad  --  the textile industry has moved from the South to various places overseas , Japanese auto and steel makers have captured a large part of the market from U.S. firms . The result has been better products at lower prices  --  and lost jobs , devastated communities , and trade deficits . During the past 60 years citizens have turned to government with the expectation that it is the institution responsible for softening the destructive side of these economic forces . Earlier in this century this expectation resulted in the New Deal-Keynesian consensus that reigned from the end of World War II to the mid-1970s . However , as U.S. dominance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to exert control over the destructive side of capitalism 's developmental process in the context of an expanding world economy . We must look closer at the history of the world economy to understand the changes that have buffeted the U.S. At the end of World War II , U.S. dominance of the world economy was unchallenged . The dollar became the international currency and the U.S. set the rules for international trade . These rules were based on 19th-century liberal principles of free flows of capital and goods . While these rules were often violated in practice , they represented the spirit that animated multilateral trade negotiations : the emphasis was on procedures , not on results . The General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade ( GATT ) of 1948 became the vehicle by which the international economy moved toward multilateral free trade . The seven subsequent rounds of GATT discussions over 45 years have been successful in lowering tariff levels to below a 5 percent average in the U.S. , the European Economic Community ( EEC ) and Japan . However , the talks were much less successful in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , subsidies , and health , safety and environmental standards . GATT 's emphasis on free trade was combined with the controls placed on international finance that emerged out of the United Nations Monetary and Financial Conference in 1944  --  also known as the Bretton Woods Conference . At Bretton Woods , exchange rates were fixed , resources were provided to countries with significant investment needs , and procedures were put into place to ensure that countries that ran into international payment difficulties could obtain temporary adjustment loans . The Bretton Woods system operated relatively well . Expansion of world trade , the recovery of Europe , and the acceleration of Third World growth were all welcome outcomes . Naturally , as other countries began to rebuild from the devastation of war , the U.S. 's dominant position could not continue . When Japan , Germany and others were able to rebuild with the latest technologies , they ended up with more up-to-date industrial structures than the U.S. Their lower wage levels combined with their new plants and equipment made them high-productivity , low-cost manufacturers . The process sped up as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; they too combined the latest technologies with exceptionally low wage levels . The outcome of these developments ? Ever-growing competition in the international economy , which in the U.S. has meant downsized industries , lost jobs , devastated communities , and growing trade deficits . Regulating the world economy is much more difficult than regulating a domestic economy . Every domestic economy contains a sovereign power , the central government , that establishes the framework and rules for exchange . In the U.S. the Constitution empowers the federal government to regulate interstate commerce . No state can impose import tariffs on goods produced in other states . The federal government sets minimum wages , environmental regulations , payroll taxes and safety requirements which are binding on all states . This is not the case in the world economy . No central government sets the rules . Prior to World War I the hegemonic power of Great Britain set the rules . During the interwar years Great Britain was too weak to continue this role , and the result was chaos in the international economy . After World War II the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the world economy . As the Bretton Woods system was abandoned and the power of the U.S. waned in the 1970s , coordination in the international economy was haphazard  --  unregulated markets were allowed to flourish . This unstructured activity was supplemented by occasional economic summits to reestablish some measure of international coordination . Efforts to organize the world economy on pure free-market principles  --  mainly by preachment  --  have not been successful . World economic growth has slowed ; many areas of Africa and Latin America actually experienced economic decline , not growth , during the 1980s . Trade imbalances have become extreme . Instability of exchange rates has become endemic in many areas . And the foreign debt borne by many countries , including the U.S. , has had a constricting effect on the renewal of economic growth . As long as the U.S. and the Bretton Woods system set the rules , GATT was a workable vehicle for promoting a world economy of free multilateral trade . Yet international financial and commercial order is difficult to achieve among equals , and since the erosion of the U.S. economic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ powerful to impose order . The interdependent nature of international markets and various national economies means that national policies regarding exchange rates , trade , capital flows and debt will be more effective if set within supranational programs that encourage and coordinate them . Nations do not easily reach agreement on a supranational level , however . One complicating factor is the role of values that are not strictly economic . Different countries have different policies toward social issues  --  such as minimum wages , the environment , and antitrust law  --  that affect international prices . For example , if the U.S. has child labor laws , a minimum wage , environmental regulations , and social programs such as Social Security and unemployment benefits , its production costs will be higher and thus less competitive than a country that does not have them . Simple multilateral free-trade policies such as those pursued in the 1970s and ' ' 80s place enormous pressure on the U.S. to undermine such social regulations . As multilateral negotiations became bogged down over the reduction of nontariff barriers such as environmental regulations , the U.S. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In 1982 the government began negotiating bilateral trade liberalization with Israel , which was concluded in 1985 . In 1986 talks began with Canada , resulting in a free-trade accord commencing January 1989 . In 1992 negotiations were completed to expand the Canadian agreement to include Mexico in a North American free-trade area . NAFTA is the key blueprint for creating this trade zone . The treaty with Israel was clearly concluded for geopolitical purposes . NAFTA , however , may be the first step toward creating a trading bloc , encompassing the whole Western Hemisphere , that will counter potential trading blocs coalescing in the EEC and the Pacific Rim . If these three trading blocs take definitive shape , they may be able to stabilize the international economy by negotiating new rules and regulations . In short , a free-trade bloc can be given some of the powers of a sovereign country to control the destructive processes of capitalist development . It could establish a social charter that harmonizes labor and environmental policies across countries . Having a few blocs negotiating with each other may also make negotiations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sets the pace in trade talks . We can not stop the changes that are spreading through the world economy . We can not build a Fortress America , and we should n't want to . Other people 's welfare must figure into our decisions . NAFTA has its deficiencies , but it may be the first step in restoring order to a world economy that is by nature both creative and destructive . What about NAFTA 'S economic and social effects ? Americans should recognize first of all that the process of integrating Mexican and U.S. economies is well under way . Mexico is our third-largest trading partner , and we are its largest . Our tariffs on its goods average only 4 percent and its tariffs on our goods only 9 percent . Also , nontariff barriers affect only a few products . Thus gains in trade are not going to be large as a result of NAFTA . Rather , gains will be realized in increased capital flow brought about by the reduced uncertainty that results from locking in current policies via formal agreement . Various studies estimate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sectors will benefit . The flow of new investment will stimulate new jobs and higher wages . Mexican owners of capital will gain from the stimulative effects of increased economic growth generated by U.S. investment . Observers expect that U.S. investment will flow into sectors of the Mexican economy  --  such as the automobile and chemical industries  --  that complement rather than compete with Mexican capital . In two sectors these conclusions do not hold . In agriculture , particularly in basic food production , rapid implementation of NAFTA could worsen rural unemployment in Mexico . In addition , Mexican financial services could be hurt by direct competition from U.S. capital . Consequently , the parts of the trade agreement that address these matters are among those hotly debated . The gains from NAFTA in the U.S. probably will be more unequally distributed . Most of the gains will result from the flow of capital to Mexico , not from trade increases . Consequently , owners of capital will benefit far more than labor . In fact , workers will lose in the short run because some unskilled jobs will be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  that is , without NAFTA they will move to some other even lower-wage country such as Thailand . However , in the long run labor will gain through creation of high-skilled jobs to meet the increased demand for high-tech goods and services from an expanding Mexican economy . The key problem for the U.S. , then , is to negotiate transitional adjustments that will help soften human suffering . In cases of massive dislocation , trade readjustment aid will need to be increased . Retraining programs for displaced workers , relocation allowances , and subsidies will help hard-hit communities attract new businesses ; in addition , these measures will serve to increase economic efficiency by providing workers with access to new skills and encouraging labor mobility . Worker retraining and relocation , community investment , and other policies are necessary if we want to manage the transition from an industrial to a postindustrial economy . These are central concerns in any discussion of NAFTA . Similar transitions in the past were , by default , paid for by the people and communities left behind by the creative-destructive processes of capitalist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that should count in its favor . Our concern for the common good should not stop at the border . In the future , other Latin American countries that seek membership in an expanded free-trade area could also gain substantial benefits for their citizens . A wealthy nation such as ours can better adjust to economic dislocations than can poor countries such as Mexico . Nationalism must be tempered by the needs of others , particularly those of the poor . The welfare of Mexicans and that of Americans are equally important in the eyes of God , if not of politicians . As we develop an expanded free-trade bloc in the Western Hemisphere we still must deal with our trade problems with the rest of the world , particularly Europe and Japan . President Clinton says his administration will urge our trading partners to abandon unfair trade practices and will " act swiftly if they fail to respond , " and " if other nations refuse to play by our trade rules , we 'll play by theirs . " Clinton 's approach may be necessary to discourage countries from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as subsidies , dumping and discounting . For example , if the Europeans want to subsidize the Airbus , then the U.S. needs to offset the negative effects on our aircraft industry . It would be best to handle these matters through negotiations , so that exceptions can be established where warranted . In addition , the U.S. must think hard about creating a strategic trade policy . With such a policy someone , presumably the government , picks " winners "  --  that is , industries of the future that will make us more competitive with other countries . Japan , Korea and many European countries that do not have our simple faith in free trade have national policies that attempt to create comparative advantages in key industries , such as the Airbus in Europe or supercomputers , optical fibers and biotechnology in Japan . Clinton has proposed a number of programs that add up to a strategic trade policy . He proposes creating a " civilian research and development agency " that will bring together businesses and universities to develop " cutting-edge products and technologies " and focus on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ high-speed computing and environmental technology . " He also proposes creating an " Economic Security Council , similar to the National Security Council , with responsibility for coordinating America 's international economic policy . " Important decisions about a strategic trade policy need to be communicated to and negotiated with our trading partners , both inside and outside of NAFTA . Otherwise , tit-for-tat policy responses could reduce everyone 's welfare . Room should be made for this type of negotiation because every country has industries it wants to maintain , legitimately so . Very likely the ideal of free multilateral trade will have to be replaced with more reciprocal arrangements . Ideally these would be negotiated as part of the new international agreements that are leading to the formation of trading blocs such as NAFTA , the EEC , and Japan and the Pacific Rim . In the end , however , the transition to freer trade within NAFTA and the development of a strategic trade policy can not be managed successfully without reviving the domestic economy . The decline in productivity growth during the 1970s , partly due to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ policies of the ' ' 70s and ' ' 80s . Tax cuts , increased military spending , and unrestrained entitlement expenditures led to dramatic increases in the federal budget deficit , which , coupled with the failure to maintain public investment in human capital and infrastructure , led to slow economic growth and a further decline in international competitiveness . Moreover , increased economic growth must be accompanied by full employment if the social dislocations caused by NAFTA specifically , and by the transition to a postindustrial economy generally , are to be overcome . Since the private sector is seldom able to provide full employment , the responsibility rests with social policy . A combination of expansionary macro-policies to stimulate private investment , public investment in infrastructure , and , most of all , major changes in education and worker training are necessary if we are going to rebuild our economy to compete in the new economic world order that is in the making . The question is not whether we make the transition , but how . NAFTA , accompanied by appropriate labor and environmental safeguards , can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ FROM THE BORDER The Proposed North American Free Trade Agreement may work if it can offer a " window of opportunity " to press U.S. and Canadian corporations operating along the U.S.-Mexico border to improve their treatment of workers and the environment . So concluded a trinational team of church leaders following a visit this spring to industrial parks and colonias ( workers ' communities ) in the lower Rio Grande Valley . " It was a shock to see that we 're dealing essentially with a " Third World " situation within our own country , " said Joan B. Campbell , general secretary of the National Council of Churches . " There is profound human suffering in and around U.S. corporations operating on the border . The churches need to be involved in the policy debate on free trade , and to call both government and business to account on exploitation of workers and environmental abuse , " she said . Campbell led the 11-member team , which included representatives of the Canadian Council of Churches , the Mexican Protestant Federation , the United Church of Christ , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in America . The visit was called for by participants in the October 1992 " La Frontera Consultation on the U.S.-Mexico Border , " which initiated an ecumenical , trinational collaboration among national , regional and local bodies concerned about border issues . More than 2,000 maquiladora factories have been established just south of the border by U.S. corporations since a free-trade zone was opened there in 1965 . These factories employ more than 500,000 workers , primarily in assembling parts manufactured elsewhere ; thus the name maquiladoras , which , loosely translated , means " mills for processing other people 's grain . " Since corporations pay as little as $4 to $7 a day , workers can afford little more than scrapwood shacks in colonias that lack proper water and sewage treatment , paved roads and electricity , according to the advocacy group Coalition for Justice in the Maquiladoras . The factories pay few or no local taxes , " so the companies bring nothing into the community for development of an infrastructure , " noted Kathleen Hurty , NCC director for ecumenical networks . They also have an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , she said . The church leaders heard stories about persons who work with toxic chemicals without proper ventilation , and they stood by canals into which factories dump raw sewage . One such series of canals , near Matamoros , Mexico , borders Colonia Juarez , home to 135,000 workers . The gurgle of waste water and the chemical stench punctuated Sister Susan Mika 's description of the harsh living and working conditions along the border . " Free trade ? We know what free trade looks like , " said Mika , who heads CJM . " We 've had free trade along the Texas-Mexico border for 27 years . We fear NAFTA will mean even more maquiladoras . We need standards of corporate conduct to be written into NAFTA . " The church leaders drove past factories bearing such names as Zenith , Hallmark , Fisher Price , General Electric , AT &T; and Autotrim ( a Canadian company ) , then turned into an adjoining colonia where they met Dolores , 19 , who said she had worked for five different companies since age 15 . Her @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the factories  --  between 48 and 150 percent in some areas . Mika said workers keep moving in search of better wages . Companies also " do everything to frustrate the workers , " assigning irregular shifts and difficult tasks especially to older workers who tend to understand their rights better , she said . Companies also drive out older workers so that when illnesses related to toxins develop a decade or so later , they ca n't easily be associated with a particular place of employment , according to Mika . Young women between the ages of 16 and 25 constitute about 70 percent of the workforce , she said ; factory managers prefer them because they are " more submissive " than men . In Matamoros the church leaders met with Maria Guadalupe Torres , who coordinates the Border Committee of Working Women . In one of her first factory jobs , at Chemet ( then Union Carbide ) , she was washing parts in methylene chloride . " I only knew it smelled bad , " she said . Only later did she learn this chemical is " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is breathed . " She organized co-workers and together they obtained safety equipment , fumes extractors , fire and other emergency drills and monthly screenings of health and safety videos . Some plant managers were fired for giving false information to Union Carbide 's New York headquarters about plant safety . Conditions are n't very different north of the border . Air , soil and water pollution from the maquiladoras blows or seeps to the Texas side . Leukemia , tuberculosis , cervical cancer and anencephalic birthrates are higher than normal on both sides of the border . Hidalgo and Cameron counties in the lower Rio Grande Valley are two of the poorest counties in the U.S. In summarizing her organization 's interest in the region , Campbell said : " The National Council of Churches is being asked not to take over border ministries but to give national visibility to border issues .... Our advocacy for NAFTA standards that protect people and the environment and our partnership with border ministries grow out of this commitment . " Charles K. Wilber , a coauthor of Beyond Reaganomics : A Further Inquiry @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Notre Dame 's economics department . <p>                     