@@357008

When Mir Aimal Kansi heard a soft knock on his hotel-room door at 4 a.m. last Sunday , he thought it was a call to prayer . Like most observant Muslims , Kansi prays five times a day , beginning at around 4:30 a.m . And certainly Kansi had a lot weighing on his soul . An accused killer , he was on the FBI 's 10 Most Wanted list , and had been on the run for four years . Now he was holed up in the Shalimar Hotel , a seedy establishment in Dera Ghazi Khan , a city in central Pakistan . He groggily opened his door . <P> Five Americans , dressed in the flowing cotton shirts and pants of the region , burst through the door : Jimmie Carter , second-in-command at the FBI 's Washington metropolitan field office , agent Brad Garrett , and three members of the bureau 's hostage rescue team . They shoved the slight , bearded , Pakistani-born Kansi , 33 , to the floor , cuffed his hands behind his back and identified themselves as FBI agents @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ demanded . " F you , " Kansi snapped in his lightly accented English , and began screaming for help in his native Pashto language . Garrett knelt beside Kansi and took a thumbprint . A Midwesterner with a Ph.D . in criminology and a powerful memory , Garrett recognized the ridges and whorls . " We got him , " he said . The G-men hustled their captive out of the hotel and into a waiting four-wheel-drive vehicle . By that night , Carter was able to send out a brief report to Tom Pickard , head of the FBI 's Washington field office and the man who had ordered the team in . The message : " The package has been delivered . " <P> Thus ended the search for one of the most notorious accused terrorists in the world . On Jan. 25 , 1993 , during the morning rush hour , a lone gunman pulled out an AK-47 and opened fire on commuters outside CIA headquarters in Langley , Va. , killing two CIA employees and wounding three other people . Kansi , whose prints were allegedly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the prime suspect . However , the day after the shooting , he left the U.S. on a one-way ticket to Karachi . Soon he made his way to Quetta , Pakistan , capital of the province of Baluchistan , an area in which Kansi 's Pashtun tribal clan has long exercised great political influence . Allegedly aided by family , friends and sympathizers , Kansi was initially hard to trace , and opportunities to apprehend him were nearly impossible to arrange . Locating and capturing Kansi became a high-priority project for FBI and CIA personnel in Pakistan , a rare joint venture by the rival agencies . Several times , when agents thought they were close to nabbing Kansi , President Clinton became directly involved , contacting leaders in southwestern Asia to obtain clearance to send in U.S. agents  --  only to have them fail to get their man .                     