@@427911

Our planet has been graced by life for at least three and a half billion years . Today , most places have a long and convoluted history of interactions with living things . Even the frozen interior of Antarctica hides a medley of fossils . But the earth is not entirely without newborn places . One is in Iceland , where the Mid-Atlantic Ridge rises above the surface of the sea and traverses the country from south to north , splitting the land asunder . Here , where two tectonic plates pull away from each another , magma is extruded through the earth 's crust , pushed up through an uneasy suture between the plates . Iceland 's rifting activity produce some of the youngest rocks on earth , a few millennia  --  in some places , just a few years  --  old . ( Millions of years from now , these flows will be swallowed by subsidence , as one tectonic plate slides beneath another , in a world that will have oceans and continents diferent in shape from those of today and that , undoubtedly , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this youthful land is Thingvallavatn in southwestern Iceland . This clear and deep lake was born ten thousand years ago in a valley gouged from volcanic rock and ash by Langjoekull Glacier , which today has retreated twenty-four miles to the north . Thingvallavatn  --  Iceland 's largest lake  --  is one of the most thoroughly studied bodies of water on earth , thanks to a monumental effort by a team of more than a dozen scientists of various disciplines , led by Petur Jonasson , of the Freshwater Biology Laboratory , University of Copenhagen . These researchers have found that as a result of its youth , its isolation on an island away from the continents , and its high latitude , Thingvallavatn is impoverished in animal species . It supports only three species of fish : three-spined stickleback , brown trout , and arctic char . Cut off from the ocean , it was never colonized by Atlantic salmon or by European and American eels ( whose ranges overlap elsewhere in Iceland ) . Other vertebrates that in varying degrees depend on the lake include the common loon , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ introduced species , the mink . Young ecosystems like Thingvallavatn are the delight of ecologists because their simplicity helps elucidate fundamental principles of ecology and evolution . The chars of Thingvallavatn have been of special interest to evolutionary biologists because in only a few millennia , they have diversified from a common ancestor into a splendid array of four varieties , or morphs ; all , however , are still members of the same species . ( Icelanders have long recognized at least two morphs . Fish-eating chars were sought by the Vikings , who used baited hooks on hand lines dropped through holes cut in the ice . By the eighteenth century , Icelanders were using woolen nets to capture the murta , a plankton-eating variety of char whose pink , firm flesh tastes to me of fresh-ground walnuts . ) Arctic char ( Salvelinus alpinus ) is a notoriously plastic species . Northern lakes in Canada and Europe commonly have two or three varieties of this relative of trout and salmon , but Thingvallavatn is the only lake to support four . To understand why the chars of Thingvallavatn @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ understand this rift lake 's short , but dynamic , history , which distinguishes it from most ofits counterparts in the Arctic . Thingvallavatn is a flooded graben , a piece of the earth 's crust stuck in the middle of a fault zone . As the rift widens , the graben sinks . Today the bottom of the lake subsides an average of four or five millimeters a year . Since its formation , four separate volcanic eruptions have flowed into its basin , resulting in a variety of terrains : a shallow , tapering shoreline , tiered shelves of lava on its flanks , and a relatively flat bottom strewn with boulders . Much of the lake 's shoreline consists of lava , with stones and boulders strewn on top , although there are a few sandy beaches and pockets of wetlands . Turbid from waterborne sediments , subarctic lakes of glacial origin are often robin's-egg blue or chalky white  --  strangely beautiful , but nearly devoid of life . Thingvallavatn , by contrast , is extraordinarily transparent . Soon after Langjoekull Glacier retreated , fresh lava flows blocked @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it to soak into the earth . Today up to 90 percent of Thingvallavatn 's source is spring water , percolated through basaltic dunes and lava fields and therefore filtered of its sediment . The water takes fifty to sixty years to make the journey , and by the time it enters the striated rifts at the north end of the lake , it is air-clear . The lake is more than 370 feet deep at its deepest point . Light may penetrate 230 to 260 feet into the lake , depending on the time of year , and overall primary productivity  --  the biomass produced by photosynthetic phytoplankton and the beds of algae that coat the shallow rocks  --  is generally high . The bounty of the lake is especially apparent during the ever-bright arctic summer , when the air erupts in clouds of uncountable midges and stoneflies and the water dances with small crustaceans , such as cladocerans and copepods . Their sides flecked with gold or shot through with silver , Thingvallavatn 's four variously colored morphs of arctic char move through the clear waters of the lake @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : from three inches ( the smallest mature males of the small bottom-feeding char ) to twenty inches ( the largest piscivorous char caught in the lake ) . Two of the morphs , one large and one small , are benthic , keeping to the bottom most of the time . These benthic morphs have subterminal mouths ( positioned slightly beneath the tip of the fish 's blunt " snout " ) adapted to extract food from the lake floor . Both are dark , camouflaged for living in the somewhat dusky depths , and feed principally on snails along the stony lake bottom near shore . The benthic morphs are partly separated by habitat : the small one stays mainly among the stones , plucking snails from crevices between and under the rocks ; the large one seeks out snails on the rocks ' upper surfaces . Two other morphs are largely limnetic ( living and feeding in open water ) . These two have pointed " snouts " and terminal mouths ideal for snatching prey from the open water . Both are silvery for most of the year @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . One is a fish eater that inhabits both open water and shallow areas near shore , where it hunts among the algae for sticklebacks and , for that matter , any other fish smaller than it is ; the second is the murta , a pelagic char that feeds on small crustaceans and aquatic insects , especially the pupae of the abundant midges . If each morph of char had originated in isolation from the others , and each had in turn independently colonized Thingvallavatn from a neighboring river or lake , their coexistence in the lake would be unremarkable . This process is known as allopatric differentiation , the divergence of sibling groups that have been geographically isolated from one another and have come to share a habitat only after differentiation has occurred . It was long assumed that speciation almost always took place in this manner . The origins of this dogma are no surprise : some of the most evocative early clues to species evolution came from archipelagos  --  Charles Darwin 's insight in the Galapagos , for example , or Alfred Russel Wallace 's in Malaysia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of domestic animals and plants that have been fostered by selective breeding . Yet all the evidence so far indicates that the four char morphs in Thingvallavatn evolved within the lake 's watershed , perhaps within the lake itself . Even more intriguing , their genesis must have been rapid , within the 10,000 years since the lake was formed . The most likely explanation for Thingvallavatn 's char morphs is that they are an example of resource polymorphism . As morphs radiate from an ancestral form to exploit different components of a diverse and open environment , such as Thingvallavatn , each becomes proficient at exploiting the resources of a particular habitat . Eventually , the morphs evolve their own pattern of development , growth , morphology , and behavior . Together , these characteristics determine a distinct ecological niche for each of the morphs and minimize competition between them . Resource polymorphisms occur in a variety of vertebrate species . The African seed-eating finch ( Pyrenestes ostrinus ) , for example , has diverged into two morphs , one with a broad bill for crushing hard seeds and one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ two morphs of the oystercatcher ( Haematopus ostralegus ) , a mud-waddling denizen of many of the world 's shorelines , are distinguished by behavior : those that use their bill as a wedge to open mussel shells and those that bash shells open . The spadefoot toad ( Scaphiosus multiplieatus ) of the American Southwest produces two kinds of tadpoles : cannibals , adapted to living in rain puddles where rapid growth is an advantage , and omnivores , adapted to more permanent ponds where there is less pressure to mature quickly . Morphs that develop this way may or may not become reproductively isolated , that is , they may or may not diverge enough to stop interbreeding and then , perhaps , evolve into separate species . Sometimes differences may be the result of nonheritable variations in development that are induced by the local environment . If this were the case in Thingvallavatn , one would expect to find intermediate forms among the char morphs . Jonasson , Odd Terje Sandlund , Sigurdur Snorrason , and their colleagues examined such variables as larval and adult morphology , spawning @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the four chars . Their analysis , however , turned up no such intermediate forms . In the case of the Thingvallavatn chars , the morphs , while genetically very similar , do indeed appear to be reproductively isolated . But what is it that prevents the morphs from interbreeding and ultimately disappearing ? One possible explanation is that hybrids are less likely to survive and produce offspring than are the more efficient , specialized morphs . Selection , therefore , favors the specialists . Unfortunately , this idea is hard to demonstrate in the wild : the mere existence of distinct morphs does not prove that hybrids have been selected against . Another possibility is that characteristics that differentiate resource use  --  for example , habitat or diet  --  contribute to reproductive isolation . With their subterminal mouths , benthic chars are well equipped to feed on the lake bottom but not to snatch animal plankton and fish from the bright lake surface , where their limnetic relatives dwell . Natural selection favors benthic chars that linger on the lake bottom and tend to breed with other bottom-dwellers . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ However , their diet of sticklebacks may keep them among the algae and thus limit their opportunities to interact and interbreed with the snail-eating benthic chars . Whatever the mechanism of differentiation , fish in new , relatively empty lakes such as Thingvallavatn appear to evolve in a predictable sequence : first into limnetic and benthic morphs  --  a pattern observed , for example , in whitefish and sticklebacks  --  and then , as we see in Thingvallavatn chars , into more specialized forms . This pattern has been observed in pumpkinseed sunfish , whitefish , and several other populations of arctic chars . Over time , ecosystems change in complexity and structure . But do they evolve according to rules ? The resource polymorphisms in freshwater fish suggest that ecosystem evolution is , to a degree , deterministic  --  a controversial and , to some , disturbing idea in evolutionary biology , in which so much is attributed to contingency and chance . Thingvallavatn teaches us that there may be certain limited ways in which pieces of an aquatic community may bejoined . But the lesson may go unfinished . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seasons , the plants , animals , even the rocks themselves , will change . Thingvallavatn exists momentarily by the measure of geological time , during this respite between ice ages . The char morphs may never have the opportunity to develop into full species . The glaciers will return ; the lake is doomed by the same forces that created it . In the near future , Thingvallavatn may lose its clarity and become opaque with sediment . It will become a lake like all the others nourished by silty glacial meltwater , beautiful to behold but denied life 's bouquet . <p>                     