@@394003

In this second of my two articles on " The Faith We Have Lost , " I propose to examine the relationship between magic and religious faith in the ages of faith and to try to draw a portrait of peasant religious life in the years between the Fall of Rome and the Fall of Constantinople . THE PERSISTENCE OF MAGIC . Irene Flint , writing about the beginning of the Middle Ages ( The Rise of Magic in Early Medieval Europe 1992 ) and David Gentilcore , writing about the end ( Bishop to Witch 1992 ) agree that animistic magic was pervasive . They also agree that Catholicism " negotiated " with animism , condemning some of it , trying to convert some of it to Christian usage and finding that some of it could be tolerated  --  a policy laid down in St. Gregory the Great 's advice to St. Augustine of Canterbury to Christianize the pagan Anglo-Saxon shrines and festivals . Whether the churchman be Gregory the Great or Hincmar of Rheims in the early years or the tolerant officials of the Roman Inquisition @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the role of magic in responding to the anxieties of human life . So casting lots could be replaced by random opening of the Bible , astrology could be used to predict events in the heavens if not on earth ; stories were told of Christian wonderworkers who were more powerful than the animistic wonderworkers ; Christian angels would counteract the efforts of demons ; Christian prayers could undo demonic curses and spells ; Christian " amulets " such as the rosary or religious medals , or especially the powerful relics of saints , could protect those that wore them against bad luck . Even the Eucharist , as Miri Rubin has pointed out ( Corpus Christi 1992 ) , would become less a banquet than an adoration of a sacred object produced by the repetition of certain precise words , a theology far removed from that of the early church . Was there superstition in some or even most of this " Christianized " magic ? To what extent , for example , was the rosary a reminder of the mysteries of the life of Jesus and to what extent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ most likely a mixture of both ? Might it not be that mixture even today ( including the rosaries that are supposed to turn gold at certain Marian shrines ) ? Or the St. Christopher medal  --  is it a reminder today of God 's presence with us so that we may be courteous or careful on the road or is it a protection in and of itself from accidents ? Or a mixture of both ? Once a church decides in favor of sacramentality , the principle that God lurks everywhere and is revealed in the objects and events and persons of life is both essential and difficult . It may be , as Professors Flint and Gentilcore both suggest , that the nature of the human condition is such that some sort of tangible reassurance is needed against anxiety and random dangers , especially when life is very short and many illnesses seem incurable and love is hard to find because one loses so many lovers to death . Consider with John Bossy ( Christianity in the West : 1400-1700 1985 ) three nature festivals : Christmas , a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ depaganized Celtic spring festival , and Carnival , a mostly pagan beginning to Christian Lent . How does one sort out the components of the three celebrations , either in a culture or in an individual person ? The Reformations tried to stamp out the paganism of such celebrations , with limited success at best . Nor has animism disappeared . The 1991 International Social Survey Program study found that half of the British believed in faith healers , two out of five in fortune tellers , one out of three in both good luck charms and astrology . In Britain the more likely one is to believe in God , the more likely one is also to believe in these animistic practices  --  while in Ireland ( with a statistically significant lower score on a magic factor ) the reverse is true . The Reformations , the Enlightenment , the Industrial and Scientific Revolutions have not banished magic from the " civilized " world . Plus ca change .... Whatever role magic may play today , it was , all authors agree , enormously important during the so-called ages of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it as something distinct from Christianity . Religion was a " blooming , buzzing " pluralism . You took grace  --  the ability to survive in a dangerous world  --  wherever you could find it ? WHAT WAS PEASANT RELIGION LIKE ? If one wants to get a picture of peasant religiousness during the Middle Ages one should combine images from such films as " The Return of Martin Guerre , " " The Seventh Seal " and the dirt , the mud , the stench and the ugliness of the Monty Python recreations of that era . Or study the literature on pre-famine Ireland , a country where medieval religion persisted into the last century and where it is better documented than earlier manifestations in other countries . The Irish church in the first half of the 19th century wrestled with three kinds of " pagan " practices : the holy wells , the wakes and the " patterns . " The last named were patronal feasts , which were in fact excuses for commerce , marriage negotiations , drinking bouts and fierce fights ( with clubs ) among rival @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Irene Flint describes as happening in other parts of Europe more than 900 years previously . Or one could look at Christianity as it is practiced today in rural Mexico , Corsica and Sardinia or urban Brazil  --  keeping in mind that life expectancy is much longer in all of them than it was in the Middle Ages and that there is much more physical comfort for the middle class in Brazilian cities than there was even for kings and emperors in the medieval centuries . How " Christian " were the pre-famine Irish ? Religious certainly , oh yes , terribly religious , but hardly Christian enough to satisfy that Tridentine reformer par excellence , Cardinal Paul Cullen ( 1803-78 ) after the famine . How Christian are the peasants of Mexico or of the Mediterranean islands or the Maccumbe-practicing urban Brazilians ? What was religious life like in the medieval peasant villages ? The village ( in Western Europe , excluding perhaps Ireland , which may not have had villages ) was a handful of homes with a small population ( no more than 200 ) clustered around a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were in many respects not much different from the peasants ) . The fields in which they worked surrounded the village . During the planting , cultivating and harvesting season , men and women worked from dawn to dusk . During winter there was time perhaps for singing and story telling and brew drinking  --  and worry about whether the food supply would last . Perhaps half of the produce of the fields would be confiscated by whatever local lord , major or petty , had the immemorial rights to such a tax . For the first half of the Middle Ages , forest , swamp , sea and wilderness reclaimed much of Roman Europe , whose population in the year 1000 is estimated to have been half of the 10 million at the height of Roman power . There were almost always two social classes in the villages . In earlier years there were the coloni , who were at the bottom of the social heap , and the servi , who were a bit above them so much so , from the point of view of the times , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In later years ( France in the 16th century , Ireland in the 19th ) the peasants were divided into the tenant farmers , who , if they did n't exactly own their land , had some rights to it , and the day laborers ( called plowmen in England ) , who had only their work to rely on for their precarious living . Life was short , very short indeed . Even those who survived childbirth and infancy would be lucky to live till their 35th birthday . Marriages took place in the early and middle 20 's and were broken by death within a decade , with remarriage occurring frequently between the survivors . Old age was rare and death a constant threat  --  from accident or disease or hunger or raids by enemies , native or foreign ( though the peasants were relatively undisturbed by conflicts between lords and kings save in the impact these conflicts may have had on planting and harvesting the fields ) . In some places at some times a pregnancy meant one chance in six of death for either the woman @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ often cost a child or a wife or a husband , it does not follow ( as some writers , most notably French , have suggested ) that humans did not love their spouses or their children , that young people did not fall in love , that they did not begin their marriages with hope . ( We have to turn to the writings of higher levels of society for proof of this , but there death rates were not much lower than those of the peasants ) . The life of these farmers was local in a sense beyond our imagination . Few of them ever went beyond the boundaries of their commune or manor . Their religion was tied to a specific place , its families , its landscape , its customs . The world beyond the boundaries of their lives existed for them only when it assaulted them with disease , famine or the occasional invading army . The church as an institution beyond the local village , whose priest was appointed either by the manor lord or some higher noble , interjected itself only rarely in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of village religion in Spain in the early modern era was surely true a fortiori before then : " There were two levels of Catholicism  --  that of the church universal based on the sacraments , the Roman liturgy and the Roman calendar , and a local one based on particular sacred places , images and relics , locally chosen patron saints , idiosyncratic ceremonies and a unique calendar built up from the settlement 's own sacred history " ( Apparitions in Late Medieval and Renaissance Spain 1981 ) . Eamon Duffy , in his monumental The Stripping of the Altars ( 1993 ) , offers a different perspective on similar phenomena in England at roughly the same time . He argues that there was little or no difference between the piety of the elites and the masses . " Religion was a single but multifaceted and resonant symbolic house , within which rich and poor , simple and sophisticate could kneel side by side , using the same prayers and sharing the same hopes .... Late medieval Catholicism was a broad church . " Duffy does not deny that late @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he asserts that the magic existed in the context of devotion to the Eucharist and to Mary . He also asserts with very persuasive evidence that the synthesis was extraordinarily rich and vital and that those scholars like Keith Thomas who believe there was no religion miss the point completely  --  because , though Duffy is too much of a gentleman to say so , for them any religion in which there were traces of animism was no religion at all  --  that is to say , not Reformation religion at all . For our purposes it is enough to say that even among those about whom Duffy writes ( and he has little feel , it seems to me , for the behavior in which I am most interested  --  that of the peasants ) , the standards of both orthodoxy and devotion to which we hold were not much honored in the broad church of medieval Catholicism . It is clear from his work also that the English church of that time was engaged , however slowly , in an attempted reform of its own , which was aborted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The oldest layer of devotion , he suggests , was composed of devotion to local saints in local shrines and their relics , only a step removed from pre-Christian rituals . The next layer was devotion to the mother of Jesus ( which perhaps began no earlier than the 12th century ) . The subsequent overlay was devotion to more universal saints who were specialists in certain needs ( such as young women looking for a husband ) . The final layer in the Spain of Philip II consisted of devotions to Jesus , particularly the sufferings of Jesus ( and of Mary which were often joined with flagellant cults of the sort that have survived in New Mexico into this century . Such devotions , of course , admitted of orthodox interpretations , but in practice they often appear to be little more than barely Christianized magic . Babies were brought to the church to be baptized . The dead were buried from church . Marriages were another matter . Young men and women in many places moved in with one another and only after the woman became pregnant would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by any means . Perhaps most peasant marriages during the early Middle Ages were " common law , " which may be the reason why the church for many centuries before the Council of Trent required only the intention to consent for the validity of the marriage ( no church service being required ) . Birth control measures were not normally required because people did not fear having too many children but not having enough to take care of them in old age , should they live that long . When population pressures increased for one reason or another , the most frequent form of control was abandoning the newborn in the fields ( with what one must assume was great regret if not guilt ) , though the secrets of contraception and abortion were not unknown . Some men and women attended church services regularly . Others attended rarely and still others not at all ( save in places in England and France in the early modern era , where civil authority required such attendance ) . The homes did not contain religious images . Men and women prayed , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ especially to Mary and to patron saints . They carried charms and amulets and believed in curses and magical protections . If the demonic was present everywhere , so were the wonderful and the miraculous . Apparitions of the saints and of Mary challenged them to reform their lives lest the plague or the Moors ( or some other foreign invader ) destroy them . They feared witches and , in the latter Middle Ages , Jews . They celebrated the great festivals with eating and drinking and singing and perhaps fighting and also perhaps church-going . They knew the basic stories of Christianity and believed them ( with greater or lesser conviction ) . They also knew and believed in the magical and superstitious practices that they had inherited . They saw little difference between the two . Bernard Hamilton ( writing of towns and cities ) notes that there were complaints in the later Middle Ages that apprentices played football on Sunday instead of going to Mass . Presumably the same problem existed in the villages with their small " box " churches , their incomprehensible ceremonies and their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) clergy , especially since for the first 500 years after the fall of the Roman Empire much of peasant Europe seems to have lacked parish churches . The parish priest worked in the field with the other men or perhaps at some special trade like toolmaker . He may have been literate ( as the local lord might also have been literate ) , at least literate enough to struggle through the prayers in the ritual . At most times and places he also had a wife ( or a concubine ) and children of his own , if only because it would be very difficult for a single man to survive in such a world without someone to help him with his work . While the local bishop might disapprove of such women ( and might just as well have one or more concubines himself ) , rarely did he make a serious attempt to end the practice ( at least before the Council of Trent ) . In many dioceses the matter was rationalized by charging a cleric a tax for his concubine and an additional tax for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ church might want to consider . If the peasants in the Reformation countries so readily accepted a married clergy , the reason might well be that they already had one or could remember a time when their ancestors did . Eamon Duffy 's work on very late medieval England suggests that the Ignorantia Sacerdotum  --  one of the first primers for clergy to emerge from the new printing press  --  offers evidence of the ignorance of the parish clergy on the most elementary aspects of religion : the nature and number of the sacraments , the proper manner of their administration , the basic truths of the faith , the sins that had to be confessed and the proper way of hearing confession . He adds that the fact that the church quickly used the printing press in an attempt to correct these problems shows it was aware of the problems and trying to do something about them . The peasants feared demons and loved Jesus and Mary and the angels and saints . They also feared God and the saints and Mary . They believed that God did love them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ times it appeared that He did not care about them . They took sexual love between man and woman for granted and  --  if they had marriage ceremonies  --  learned from the ritual that sexual love was indeed good and holy . James Brundage ( Law , Sex and Christian Society in Medieval Europe 1987 ) tells the story of a wandering preacher who tried to persuade the people of Angers that married sex was sinful ( as the high tradition was teaching under the influence of Augustine ) . They were shocked at first and then dismissed him with laughter . It has been argued that the greatest need the peasants felt for the church was as intercessor for the dead . The laity could baptize in necessity , Mass and Communion were infrequent and unimportant , laity could ( even according to Aquinas ) hear confessions , marriage required only the consent of the two parties and their sexual intercourse  --  but only the church could formally intercede for the dead . Periodic religious enthusiasms , stirred up by wandering preachers , would sweep the peasantry . How many @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ listen to an itinerant visionary seems problematic . Neither skepticism nor agnosticism ( nor hypocrisy ) are unique to contemporary human kind . But bizarre religious movements  --  like the flagellants in " The Seventh Seal "  --  did enjoy interludes of popularity . The traveling religious enthusiast , in the later Middle Ages perhaps a Franciscan or Dominican friar , suggests that there was both a religious hunger among the peasants and a sense of an uncompleted task among churchmen . Catholicism was able to absorb the medieval attempts at reform . Later it was not strong enough to absorb the reforms begun by Martin Luther . However , if not always at the top of the agenda of reformers and Reformers , the Christianizing of the peasants was an important goal . In any case , the theological issues which agitated the Reformers in the 16th century meant very little to the peasants . HOW EFFECTIVE A REFORMATION ? Did the various reformations work , in particular those of the 16th century ? Were the peasants " converted " to deeper and richer Christianity ? A simple answer , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ some were n't . Martin Marty tells me that a third of the inhabitants of modern Iceland are descendants of the last Catholic archbishop . However , his successor , the first Lutheran archbishop , had in addition to his wife a harem of concubines , just as did his Catholic predecessor . Richard Tomasson , in his study of Iceland , notes that Lutherans were no more successful in imposing Christian sexual ethics on Icelanders than were Catholics . Periodic Protestant revivals , 19th-century Methodism in Britain and pietism on the continent and especially in Scandinavia , had considerable , if somewhat short-lived , impact . If the European peasants , Catholic or Protestant , were believers in folk religion and went to religious services rarely , they were virtually the same when they moved to the cities . They were not so much de-Christianized as inadequately Christianized ( especially for such a migration ) in the first place . The Counter-Reformation seems to have had some modest success in countries where the decrees of the Council of Trent were promulgated and enforced . In Ireland , as in Poland @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was also facilitated by the identification of religion with nationalist aspirations ( which did not happen in Bohemia or Hungary ) . Moreover , as a number of scholars have argued recently , in those countries where one church had not been " established , " religion was much more likely to prosper than in countries where the official church did not have to compete to protect its position and prerogatives . Thus pluralism , nationalism and successful implementation of CounterReformation decrees  --  in varying mixes and blends  --  account in part for the success of Catholicism in converting to a deeper , more orthodox and more devotionally active Christianity the peasant masses and their descendants . Only in the United States , Northern Ireland and parts of Romania ( and in its Latin American proselytizing ) has Protestantism had much durable success . Stephen Ozment , no foe of the Reformation , cites with approval a " majority " conclusion that the Reformation was a rather minor episode in European history of the 16th century , a " conservative campaign on the part of elite Christian clergy to subdue a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ remain semipagan . What distinguished Protestant from Catholic clergy in the undertaking was only greater discipline and zeal . " He adds with apparent approval the notion that the " Reformation was an attempt to impose on uneducated and reluctant men and women a Christian way of life utterly foreign to their own cultural experiences and very much against their own desires . " He also accepts the idea that the Reformation , having undermined for many people traditional Catholic ritual and practice , unloosed far worse superstitions , especially concerning witchcraft-unleashing the horrors of " oral European culture " ( Protestants 1992 ) . In his study of the impact of the Reformation in Devon and Cornwall , Robert Whiting argues that it owed its success to " obligation to authority , xenophobia , the urge for social or sexual self-determination , the hope of material gain , the fear of material loss , the pressure of secular financial demands , the dread of social isolation , of corporal punishment or death . " He adds : " These factors were in themselves insufficient to create an intelligent commitment to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as deterrents against it . Together they help to explain why , for the average man and woman , the Reformation was less a transition from one form of religious commitment to another than a descent from a relatively high level of devotion into conformism , inactivity , and even disinterest . " One would suspect , however , that the " high level of devotion " could not have had much depth to it or remnants would have survived . Be those judgments as they may , the critical point for this essay is that none of these historians consider the pre-Reformation era to be an age of faith nor the Reformation to have been a particular success in winning the European peasants from animism to elite and orthodox Christianity . C. John Sommerville ( The Secularization of Early Modern England 1992 ) summarizes the difference between the Middle Ages and our times by saying that before the Reformation England had a religious culture and after the Reformation religious faith . In the former era , religion , a mix of orthodoxy and animism , permeated all of life . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ support of a pervasive religious culture , intellectually grounded religious commitment and devotion became possible and necessary . Our standards for a religious program require faith and devotion . These were not the standards that were required or even possible for many in an all-encompassing religious culture . Which is better ? Since the eras are so different , it is hardly possible to respond to the question by comparing them . But , as Sommerville points out , a really determined and powerful modern monarch like Henry VIII could stamp out a religious culture within 30 years . One could add that the religious culture of France did not survive migration to the cities and the religious culture of the bog Irish did not survive migration to the southern part of the United States in the first half of the last century . In times of change , religious culture turns out to be relatively weak if not supported by conviction and devotion , as was that of the later Irish immigrants to the American North or the tenant farmers who remained in Ireland after Cardinal Cullen imposed Tridentine reforms @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ full Christianity despite efforts of greater or lesser power over a thousand years . Then , quite suddenly , time ran out . REFLECTIONS . Were the peasants of Europe finally converted to a Christianity that would be acceptable by modern standards and that could successfully resist the crises created when folk religion was no longer enough ? It seems to me a balanced answer is that this happened in some regions more than others ( Italy being an interesting case in which a " diffuse " folk Catholicism has made an apparently successful transition to the modern world ) , but generally the peasants were not so converted . If the church could not fully and effectively incorporate the peasant masses who became Catholics when their leaders did , neither could it ( and the other churches ) incorporate them for long when the age-old agricultural society finally underwent a transformation and the Enlightenment and modernity began to ask questions that folk religion could not answer . Were these people ever Christians in the first place ? Their imaginations were to a greater or lesser extent suffused with Christian imagery @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ story ) , but I conclude that the popular tradition , the narrative tradition that is at the center of any religious heritage , can not survive dramatic change for long unless it is effectively linked with the high tradition and its reflective philosophical foundations . It does not follow that the ordinary folk needed or need to become theologians  --  God forbid !  --  but they do need a grasp of the intellectual foundations and reinforcements of their heritage , no matter how rich and vivid it may be , that will withstand change and assault . As John Shea has put it , a metaphor ( the rosary , the scapular medal , the Corpus Christi procession , the pilgrimage to Medjugorie ) can be either a symbol or a talisman , a hint of what God is like and what life means or a magical instrument that attempts to force God to do what we want , to deal with us in a way that minimizes our anxiety . The issue is not so much when the metaphor is a symbol and when it is a talisman , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ symbol being radically ( in its roots ) violated . Mary the mother of Jesus is a metaphor for God 's life-giving tenderness . She is surely a symbol for the reassurance of troubled humans . But when she is presented as vindictive or as guaranteeing certain results ( even the conversion of Russia ) and offering absolute reassurance if certain devotional requirements are met ( wear the scapular and you will not die without a priest ) , then does not the talisman vitiate the symbol ? How much of folk Catholicism or folk Christianity survives today among the descendants of the peasants ( or among the peasantry that still exists ) ? Catholicism may be in better shape than other Christian heritages because it has an especially rich imaginative and narrative tradition and philosophical systems that permit greater flexibility and more room for change ( and also an ability to define boundaries as broadly as possible ) . Unfortunately for Catholicism , at the present time church leadership seems interested neither in philosophical flexibility nor imaginative and narrative richness , but is instead obsessed with sexual mechanics . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the countries where historical circumstances did not favor " Christianization " of the peasantry ( as occurred in the United States , Ireland and Poland , for example ) is an open one , subject to research investigation . My preliminary analysis of the International Social Survey Program 's 1991 study of religion persuades me that both the religion and the superstition survive and that indeed we may have a lot more in common with medieval peasants than we had thought . We live longer than they did and have far better medical care available , but they were probably no more religious than we are and we no less superstitious than they were . Perhaps the Age of Faith is yet to come . Or perhaps it is always present . If the research data force the conclusion that today in these countries there is not much devotion but perhaps much superstition , then the proper response is not to long for the good old days but to realize that the good old days never existed and that the work has just begun . You can not de-Christianize those @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ place . You need not lament the decline of orthodox religious devotion among population groups that were never all that devout according to the measures you are using . Michael Hout has propounded an interesting critique of the " secularization " theory of the sociology of religion . Where the advocates of that thesis went wrong , he suggests , was to think that religion would be routed in an age of " rationality . " In fact religion could respond with tightly woven and internally consistent and coherent belief systems that were utterly rational so long as these systems ' first premises were admitted . Magic is of necessity excluded from such systems . Professor Hout then is not surprised that there is less superstition in Catholic Ireland than in vaguely Anglican England . The starkly rational post-Tridentine Catholicism of Ireland ( innocent of most emotion , as its most perceptive reporter , James Joyce , realized ) can not tolerate animistic survivals . Thus , in support of Professor Hout 's theory , among those who are not Catholic in Britain and Ireland ( 26 counties ) , there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ belief on the one hand and belief in magic on the other . Among Catholics in both countries , there are no such correlations and indeed a negative correlation between belief in magic and belief in God . Protestants in the north of Ireland , who also have a tightly woven and rational belief system ( given their premises ) , are similar to Irish and English Catholics in this respect . The struggle of the two Reformations against animism was successful at least in Ireland . Barbara Tuchman , in her popular history of the 14th century , exulted in our difference from the people about whom she wrote  --  and our superiority over them . As I read about the people of the millennium between the Fall of Rome and the Fall of Constantinople , I am impressed rather by how much they are like us , particularly the men and women of Montaillou , who with dignity and courage told the story of their lives to the stern inquisitor Jacques Fournier , later Benedict XII ( see Emanuel LeRoy Ladurie , Montaillou , Village Occitan de 1294-1324 1975 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ people with the same kinds of needs and hopes , fears and aspirations as the men and women I know . What has changed religiously since then ? In the United States today , half the Catholic high-school students have done volunteer service . The only correlations with such service for university students are either religion ( Catholic ) or denominational affiliation , if any , of the college young people attend ( also Catholic ) . A small net improvement ? Perhaps . It is one made possible by literacy , longer life , better health , more material abundance and more free time . Again I must repeat that contemporary Christians are not better than their predecessors  --  only better educated and perhaps more deeply motivated . The relative amount of holiness can not be measured , but there is no reason to think that , given the different circumstances , there was any less holiness or sanctity among the European peasants than there is among well-educated , devout Christians today . Or any more . Nostalgia and lament for the good old days ( whether 50 or 500 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ opportunities of the present moment : Belief in life after death has increased sharply among young people in Germany ( both East and West ) and Slovenia because of an increase in the belief in a God who cares . In Britain the number of pure secularists , those who believe in nothing at all , shows some signs of decrease in the younger generation . A picture , lurking in our collective preconscious , of a golden age , which is any time but now , is bound to be counter-productive to making the most of the present moment . Perhaps , in comparison with the peasantry from which most of us are descendants , we are , as Georges Bernanos once remarked , still primitive Christians . And like our ancestors very imperfect Christians . The Rev. Andrew Greeley , professor of social science at the University of Chicago and a frequent contributor to America , has written more than a hundred books , including fiction , as well as studies in sociology and religion . The first of his reflections on faith in the Middle Ages appeared last @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @              