@@350896

Senate Majority Leader George Mitchell is that rare breed of politician who is both partisan and fair-minded . Last week he stunned colleagues on both sides of the aisle by announcing that , after 14 years of service , he will not seek another term . Steering clear of the rage for nasty partings Mitchell instead offered his colleagues warm words of praise : " I 'll leave the Senate with good feelings . It 's a great institution . " <P> But Mitchell 's decision promises only headaches for his fellow Democrats . At a time when President Clinton is trying to push through reform bills on health care , welfare and crime , the Democrats hold a slim six-seat majority in the Senate . Four other Democrats have already announced plans to retire , while another four are expected to face close elections . With Mitchell 's retirement , his Maine seat could fall to a Republican , particularly if Governor John McKernan decides to run . The Democrats , meanwhile , must find a worthy candidate by the April 1 filing deadline . <P> Because @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ leader , his departure set off an immediate scramble . Thomas Daschle of South Dakota discreetly worked the phones , gauging potential support . White House insiders would be happy with Daschle or West Virginia 's Jay Rockefeller . And some Senate staff members mentioned Louisiana 's John Breaux , a prominent opponent of the Clinton health-care package . <P> Following the announcement Friday , Mitchell was upbeat about his departure . " I 'm in good health and good spirits , " he said . " This is the right time for me to consider other challenges . " While the Supreme Court is a posssibility , the buzz in Maine is that the majority leader is going to enter the major leagues as the next commissioner of baseball . His biggest boosters are likely to be two longtime pals : Boston Red Sox owner John Harrington and former Red Sox general partner Haywood Sullivan . As yet , no official offer is on the table .                     