@@354011

FOR MINISTER LOUIS FARRAKHAN the days leading up to the Million Man March on Washington were strewn with good omens , festooned with portents of success  --  beginning , of course , with the nifty bit of alliteration embedded in the event 's name by Farrakhan himself . As the Oct. 16 march drew near , trains , planes and automobiles converged on the District , and officials planned for 11,000 buses  --  enough to hold half a million men  --  with 1,600 of them chartered in New York City alone . D.C. authorities ordered additional security for the Mall in front of the Capitol , where the speeches would take place , and scrambled to find enough water , parking spaces and portable toilets to accommodate the throng . People around the country were arguing about whether to attend the march , and organizers from Farrakhan 's Nation of Islam were tight-lipped about who would be speaking and what would be said . The atmosphere was tense , hopeful and confused  --  just the way Farrakhan likes it to be . <P> In the swirl , one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of African Americans at a time when many other black leaders have been conspicuously silent , Farrakhan has injected himself into the very heart of the ongoing racial debate  --  and shows no signs of going away . Nightline 's Ted Koppel  --  as close to an official augur as American culture has  --  captured the prevailing spirit when he acknowledged last week , a tad reluctantly , that Farrakhan " may have to be called one of the most influential leaders in black America . " <P> An impresario of powerful , conflicting emotions , Farrakhan orchestrates pride and rage , love and hate , raising his revival tent on the twin poles of black self-reliance and white race baiting . If anyone was tempted to forget that , amid all the hopeful talk of healing and atonement  --  and plenty of moderate blacks who saw in the march a desperately needed chance for spiritual renewal clearly were tempted  --  Farrakhan made it impossible . In an interview released late last week he repeated some of his favorite calumnies against the Jews  --  " bloodsuckers , " as he called @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the slave trade . " When asked if he himself would seek atonement for such remarks , Farrakhan escaped into double-talk . " I can not atone for what the press has said that I said that I did n't say , nor can I atone for your failure to accept my explanation of what the press said that I said , " he said . " But certainly I will lead atonement . " <P> This was Farrakhan in his moderate mode . ( " I want to say to the members of the Jewish community , " he added last week , " let 's sit down and talk . " ) Within the 25,000-member Nation of Islam , it is useful to remember , he is flanked by a cadre of militant black nationalists who get riled whenever he makes overtures to Jews . To placate those associates while courting the American mainstream , he lurches between hatred and near conciliation .                     