@@393651

The exhibition of work by Stanislav Libensky and Jaroslava Brychtova at the Corning Museum of Glass , New York ( April 23-October 16 ) , is the first retrospective of living artists ever presented by this prestigious institution . The stunning display of more than 200 objects and sculptures , together with the simultaneous publication of the monograph Stanislav Libensky/Jaroslava Brychtova : A 40-Year Collaboration in Glass , goes a long way toward establishing the husband and wife from the Czech Republic as perhaps the foremost artists working in glass today . Libensky and Brychtova 's involvement with glass precedes their meeting in 1954 and first collaborative effort , a bowl with a human face , in 1955-56 . The exhibition includes highly proficient works by each of them independently , dating from the 1940s . Examples of his elegant designs for mass-produced glassware , together with one-of-a-kind painted and etched vessels from the 40s and 50s , show the range of Libensky 's abilities . Brychtova 's cast reliefs and freestanding sculptures from the 40s establish her as a talented sculptor interested in probing the possibilities of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ States was just beginning in the 1960s , Libensky the painter and Brychtova the sculptor were making technically sophisticated castings of great beauty . In their collaborative sculpture Head I , 1957-58 , light passes through varying densities of glass to produce shifts in color value . This early use of what Brychtova calls " the inner cavity principle " to paint with light prefigures the way they will use the thickness of glass to control color and light in subsequent work . The inner cast cavity of Head 1 colors and shades the outer surface of the work . In Golden Heart , 1968 , the same principle is used : two rectangular pieces of cast glass are held together in a metal support , creating what Libensky calls a " color glass space " between them . The amber coloration is densest in the thickest areas of the castings . The artists paint with light on the exterior flat surfaces of the work by varying the depth of relief on the interior surfaces . The couple work together in a unique manner . The collaboration begins with a painting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , a number of which are on view at Corning , are studies of form and volume . Foremost , however , they are studies of light . Libensky is a master draftsman and his ability to mold form through the illusion of light ( without color ) is dazzling . Brychtova then makes clay renderings of the Libensky paintings . It is incumbent upon her to read light into clay  --  to sculpt forms that will bring color and space within themselves when cast in glass . She must grapple with issues of scale while investing each piece with three-dimensional life . After a plaster copy of her clay model is made , molds can be taken from which the glass is cast . In their understanding of glass chemistry and casting techniques , Libensky and Brychtova are technicians par excellence . When discussing their technical abilities , students and masters alike speak in reverent tones . The high regard in which they are held and the magnetism of their warm personalities were nowhere more apparent than at the opening of this retrospective . It is neither easy nor economical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Yet artists , teachers , students , gallery owners , museum directors and friends , not only from across the United States , but from Europe , Asia and other distant points , flocked to upstate New York in astounding numbers to pay tribute to this beloved couple . Libensky and Brychtova gratefully acknowledge the importance to them of visits to Czechoslovakia by numerous American artists from the 1960s on . Though from time to time they were allowed to leave their country separately , visits by foreigners helped keep them from feeling cut off from the rest of the world . When Americans first began working with molten glass , they worked largely in schools and in their own studios . Later on , many began looking to factories for help in executing their work . As Susanne K. Frantz , the Corning Museum 's curator of 20th-century glass , points out in her comprehensive essay in the monograph , Libensky and Brychtova became role models for glass artists wanting to work with industry . ( It is ironic that after spending a lifetime dependent upon government factories to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when Libensky left his teaching position at the Academy of Applied Arts in Prague , that the couple established their own fabricating studio at home in Zelezny Brod . ) While much 20th-century glass sculpture tends to emphasize the preciousness of the material , using its beauty as an end in itself , Libensky and Brychtova have developed a unique visual idiom that is spacious , provocative , passionate and sensual . Scale , proportion and form join with transparency , translucency , light and color , enhancing one another in the richness of their sculpture . Their work intermixes formal geometry with soft edges and curves . It blends the rational with the emotional , the masculine with the feminine , meticulous control with the serendipitous happening . Photographs in the Corning exhibit give us a glimpse of the architectural work that has played a major role in the couple 's glassmaking career . Cool restraint and elegant beauty typify their cast , colorless , clear relief walls and columns of the 1970s and 80s . Libensky speaks of certain small geometric sculptures , like Prism in a Sphere , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ideas for larger works in architecture . In such pieces , one geometric form is inserted into another , heightening the optical properties of glass to distort images and reverse perspective . We are irresistibly drawn into the mysterious , liquid inner world of bubbles in these crystalline sculptures . It is hard to look away Like a wizard 's crystal ball , the clear glass spheres engage our most primitive and childlike sense of wonder . In their cast windows for the Saint Wenceslas Chapel of Saint Vitus ' Cathedral in Prague , 1964-69 , and for the Gothic Chapel in Horsovsky , Tyn , 1990-91 , Libensky , and Brychtova suggest new ways of using colored glass in ecclesiastical architecture  --  perhaps the first time it has been done since the Middle Ages . Their restrained otherworldly windows breathe light and silence while echoing the sculptural relief and color of the surrounding stonework . It is hard to imagine a more perfect union of glass and architecture . In his contribution to the monograph , Jiri Setlik , vice director of Prague 's Academy of Applied Arts , discusses @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a turbulent epoch in Czech history : youth in democratic Czechoslovakia , early adulthood under Nazi occupation and , until the Velvet Revolution of 1989 , maturity under Soviet-dominated Communist dictatorship ( except for the brief , but significant , period surrounding the Prague Spring of 1968 ) . Wandering through the retrospective with an awareness of the political context in which their works have been produced , one is struck by the relative absence of pieces overtly addressing political issues . Sculptures such as those in the Silhouette of the Town series , with contorted mouthlike openings suggesting the fear people in Czechoslovakia felt just prior to 1989 , or a column with abstract V patterning in celebration of Vaclav Havel 's victory , are few , indeed . It would be wrong , however , to take this paucity of overt political references to suggest an apolitical stance . Brychtova 's partial Jewish ancestry was cause enough to politicize her during an adolescence under Nazi rule . Later in life both Libensky and Brychtova were expelled from the Communist Party soon after making their vast sculpture The River of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in which the footprints of dancers are trampled by boots . Primarily for political reasons , Libensky was forced to retire from the Academy of Applied Arts in 1987 . Anybody attending the Class Art Society 's 1990 conference in Seattle , the first after democracy was restored to Czechoslovakia , could not help but notice that Libensky and Brychtova were so deeply happy that neither of them seemed to stop smiling . The couple 's prolific output bears witness to the ability of the human creative spirit to assert itself even under extraordinarily repressive conditions . Their vocabulary of nonrepresentational forms , very much in the idiom of 20th-century art , provided them with an expressive means of transcending the troubled political atmosphere they experienced through most of their lives . It is worth noting that many of the strongest works in the exhibition , like those in the Space and Arcus series , or Green Eye of the Pyramid , were created after freedom was restored to Czechoslovakia . The past four years have clearly been fertile and highly productive . The power of many of the pieces made @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ way they express an underlying anxiety , an ominous threat of the unknown . We sense in them the fear which must have gripped virtually all Czech citizens . In addition to the contorted mouths in the Silhouette of the Town series , there are the pointed angles and jagged edges of emotively similar works done at about the same time . Empty Throne , 1989 , The Last Emperor , 1989 , and Table Laid under the Red Evening Sky , 1987-88 , all evoke disquieting feelings . There is tension in these pieces , a sense of compressed energy that disappears in later works like the Arcus and Space series . Libensky and Brychtova 's recent sculptures are formally simple in their use of cubes , arches or pyramids . Their glowing , mysterious fields of color , which are carefully modulated through the thickness of the glass , give them an expansive , open feeling . These pieces are frontal and direct . Their rough outer edges glow with light . As we examine the beautiful hand-ground surfaces , some polished to a smooth reflectiveness , others to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and reflected light alters what we see . The glass glows where it swallows light , giving it substance . It shines when it reflects light back to us . We wonder what these extraordinary objects mean and why they were made . One senses that the artists are exploring the nature of freedom  --  their newly found personal freedom , as well as that of their country . The pieces explore the ways one finds light and space within one 's self and in the world at large . Titles like Open Window , Free Through , Horizon and Space suggest expansiveness , openness and boundless freedom . In the Arcus and Space series each form is penetrated by an opening that illuminates the area around it . This opening to the light beyond creates an inner glow in the sculptural mass . The pieces act as metaphors for mankind 's complex search for freedom . When we contact the unbounded space where light dwells , it illuminates our inner being , feeds our creative souls and fill our lives with joy . The arched forms in the works of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ window or doorway , leading us beyond the visual or material world . Within these forms there are narrow slits which do not let our eyes move with ease directly through the works . Similarly , in the Space pieces , diagonal passages illuminate the inner section of each work but do not allow us to see through them to what lies beyond . Can Libensky and Brychtova be suggesting that the passage to freedom , and light , is not always direct or obvious ? That perhaps , at times , we may see or feel the force of life 's inner glow within ourselves , yet its source is veiled from our immediate vision by the material world ? Their most recent work , the monumental Green Eye of the Pyramid , 1993 , done for the new Corning Incorporated headquarters building ( a smaller version is on view in the exhibition ) , embodies spiritual transcendence . The intersecting planes of this moving and powerful sculpture create a provocative , mystical , glowing eye . Its green is the color of hope , regeneration , springtime . Though @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their work , Libensky 's comments on the eye suggest that it is not of this world . He speaks of it as " illusory space " that has no real presence since it is " defined through the moment of intersection " of two glass planes . The heavy base of the pyramid is rooted in the material world while its radiant upper portion reaches toward the heavens . During their 40 years of artistic collaboration , Stanislav Libensky and Jaroslava Brychtova have personally experienced some of the most brutal and the most exalted historical developments of the 20th century . Through it all they have remained committed to their art , producing a vast and multifaceted body of work that is at once passionate , beautiful and filled with meaning . Stanislav Libensky/Jaroslava Brychtova : A 40-Year Collaboration in Glass , edited by Susanne K. Frantz with contributions by Thomas S. Buechner , Frantz , Sylva Petrova and Jiri Setlik , published 194 by the Corning Museum of Glass and Prestel-Verlag , Munich , Germany , and New York , 224 pages , 99 color and 142 black-and-white photographs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , $45 paperback from the Corning Museum of Glass , One Museum Way , Corning , New York 14830-5371 . Robert Kehlmann , a glass artist and critic from Berkeley , California , is the author of 20th Century Stained Glass : A New Definition ( Kyoto Shoin , 1992 ) . <p>                     