@@397164

" The new gangs have not expanded beyond their racial and ethnic borders in any significant way , which may explain much of their fierceness and violence as they compete for limited criminal opportunities . " Organized crime in the U.S. has been the object of morbid fascination in the popular culture and of abiding concern among law enforcement agencies nationwide . Still , we are jaded by the spiraling number of films and books , punctuated by real-life gangland assassinations , that reinforce an image of the underworld as a natural manifestation of ethnic urban life . La Cosa Nostra seems like a romantic , updated version of the western movie , played out on the streets of the big cities where the good guys and the wiseguys who share many of the same instincts and values do battle before an enthralled public . Though organized crime was fertilized in the same urban environments as oppressive poverty , blind racism , and widespread alienation , it differs from these social ills . Because it has become so deeply embedded in our politics and economic life , most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Where ambivalence and some degree of tolerance start and end is not clear . Consequently , a variety of activities that officially are defined as organized crime  --  drug trafficking , extortion , prostitution , sports betting , loansharking , and the sale of stolen goods  --  are not seen by everyone as equally criminal and socially enervating . Some crimes are viewed as little more than harmless personal vices or victimless crimes . Thus , many who play illegal numbers self-righteously may condemn drug-dealing , considering their preference as entertainment and maybe providing some hope for a better life that hurts no one except the tax collectors . The specific crimes change over time , with crack replacing bootleg liquor and video pornography competing with street prostitution . Nevertheless , the organizations and mechanisms that deliver illicit goods and services , whatever their precise structure or name  --  Mafia or Cosa Nostra  --  persist and transcend changing tastes and definitions of what is illegal . Organized crime thrives in America 's cities and has roots implanted deeply in the early tumultuous history of the U.S. The outlaw gangs of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for pop consumption , these have passed into our romantic legendary social history . However , the modern concern with organized criminality is associated less with bandits raiding trains and stagecoaches and more with the cities filling up with immigrants . For European arrivals at the turn of the century and contemporary waves of immigrants from the Pacific and Caribbean rims , the quick illicit profits from crime represented rapid advancement up the first rungs of a ladder of social mobility , promising an escape from the ignominious squalor of slum life . The history of this ethnic succession has described a demonstrable relationship among minority status , politics , and crime . It first infected the Irish , who formed notorious street gangs in the large cities where they settled . By the end of World War I , the Irish virtually dominated both crime and big city machine politics . Eventually , the political influence they nursed into being enabled them to shift into legitimate occupations in construction , trucking , public utilities , and the burgeoning civil services , where Irish ethnicity became synonymous with police work . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ defining moment in the American crime scene . The Volstead Act , the crowning achievement of the Temperance Movement , forbade the sale and distribution of alcoholic beverages for personal consumption . The legislation morally was intended to rescue the masses from enslavement to liquor , but created unprecedented criminal opportunities for Jewish and Italian gangsters who cooperated and competed with the Irish underworld . The subsequent outbreak of murder and mayhem connected with the enormously lucrative bootleg business aroused fear of crime throughout the U.S. Anticipating Repeal , the shrewder gangsters invested their money in other businesses . By the late 1930s , the criminal syndicates that emerged during Prohibition attached themselves to other important sources of both legitimate and illicit income by leveraging themselves into growth industries such as gambling and labor unions . In the early 1940s , shocked by indiscriminate violence in the streets , prosecutors and citizen groups grew militant and responded to public outcries that crime be brought under control and contained . The exposure in New York City of secret organization of professional killers-for-hire , labeled Murder , Inc. , stunned the nation . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ set for the investigation of organized crime which continues to this day . The Kefauver Committee conducted public hearings across the nation seeking maximum press exposure and openly identified what it called an American Mafia . That criminal organization was said to control a vast network of vice activities stretching from coast to coast that had corrupted all levels of government . These sensational claims received wide publicity , but were not taken too seriously by law enforcement agencies until the accidental discovery of a major gangster summit in Appalachia , N.Y. , in 1957 . On top of this came the 1963 testimony of Joseph Valachi before a Congressional committee in which he announced the existence of La Cosa Nostra . Valachi was a " soldier " in the Genovese " crime family " who had soured on the mob and decided that the best way to get revenge was to expose it . Even after Valachi 's disclosures of an Italian-American crime network composed of 24 " families " whose tentacles reached across the country and whose activities were coordinated by a governing body of Mafia chiefs called the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ remarkably feeble . In 1967 , the President 's Task Force meticulously charted family lineages and analyzed the organizational structure of La Cosa Nostra . Its most important recommendations were RICO statutes and electronic surveillance legislation that took many years to implement . The lack of a vigorous response to organized crime may be explained by a confluence of events and factors that remain more or less chronic problems for law enforcement . First , many local law enforcement officials had been compromised , tempted by bribes into allowing " harmless " vices to operate , and therefore had become too enmeshed in the web of corruption spun by crime syndicates . Second , even those with the will and determination to resist easy money to look the other way often lacked the manpower and sophisticated skills to investigate complex illegal business enterprises . Third , the vaunted code of silence that is part of the subculture of organized criminal behavior prevailed in spite of efforts to lure informants . Omerta , the idea that one sees and says nothing , was enforced with a vengeance until fairly recently , when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ afford some assurance of safety for those who cooperate with prosecutions against mobsters . Finally , the FBI , which logically was the agency best equipped to confront organized crime nationally , had to be dragged into the battle . During J. Edgar Hoover 's long reign as director , it did virtually nothing for reasons that are not entirely clear . He chose to ignore organized crime and often contended  --  before Robert Kennedy forced him to acknowledge its existence  --  that it was a figment of the imagination . Perhaps , in his cunning calculations , he realized that organized crime was a more formidable foe , and corruption threat , to his agents than car thieves , communists , and bank robbers . So , in order to maintain an unblemished record as the nation 's premier crime fighter , the one who always gets his man , Hoover declined to join the war on the underworld . Since the late 1960s , when the government began to show some interest , public hearings , prosecutions , and the testimony of members of crime groups have focused attention @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ crime and Italian Mafia or La Cosa Nostra became essentially synonymous . This slanderous impression was and is more fiction than fact ; other ethnic groups also were deeply involved in vice and rackets . INTO THE FUTURE : THE NEW MAFIAS As the apotheosis of organized crime , La Cosa Nostra reflects not so much an obsession with the folklore of feudal bandits descending on Brooklyn and Little Italy as it betrays an ignorance of the facts . The fabrications have become glossed so creatively and ingeniously , they have created an intrinsic fascination that even the participants in the real thing , who ought to know better , are tempted to believe . Not unlike the debates about the existence of God , all there is to know about the Mafia seems to be known by now except whether it actually exists . Many scholars still find the evidence conflicting and unreliable  --  particularly the idea of a nationally coordinated conspiratorial brotherhood . Scholars demythologize the legend as quickly as popular writers and filmmakers re-mythologize the grandeur of the Godfather . The question , nonetheless , is not whether @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whether it has a future . Black and Hispanic street gangs seem to flourish quite well without the apparatus of a myth . Obviously there is Big Crime . Must this mean there are Big Players ? The current consensus  --  a fragile one to be sure  --  among law enforcement specialists is that Big Crime is organized more broadly than it used to be and that La Cosa Nostra families continue to play some part in it  --  decisive in some illegal enterprises , marginal in others . To count La Cosa Nostra out , to think that the Pizza Connection trials spell the end of the Mafia , is to write a premature obituary . The End of the Mafia school of thought maintains that sustained law enforcement pressures over the past decade , coupled with lethal competitive pressures from aspiring minority gangs , will drive the Mafia out or force it to go relatively straight , and that organized crime , like prizefighting , will be seized by the ambitious poor . This point of view overlooks the sheer size of modern criminal markets and enterprises . Common @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and hope to compete with international drug cartels , multi-state rackets , and a law enforcement community organized to stymie low-level hoods . Capitalization , contacts , and experience are entry requirements , and these resources and assets are what traditional La Cosa Nostra groups can provide . What seems likely through the last decade of the 20th century is that the Mafia will assume an entrepreneurial role  --  remote from the raucous street crime and vice activities , but bankrolling and protecting a new generation of gangsters . La Cosa Nostra may have the dubious honor of seeing its name generically applied descriptively to other ethnic criminal groups , with talk in the media about Chinese godfathers and Colombian capos . These young , aspiring Corleones in the UN of crime have been nurtured in the managerial revolution so that they may find themselves manning computers , rather than machine guns . Out of nostalgia or need , the Mafia will retain some small niche in the underworld since it has promulgated the best image and public relations gimmicks and because it simply got there first and set the tone @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thereafter . As La Cosa Nostra goes through a meltdown , what other organized crime groups will emerge and seek the top of the hill ? The acquisition of power may be more complicated than the question indicates . Some surely will fall in with the Mafia and collude to achieve influence and authority , but others may strike out brazenly against the Mafia establishment and carve out their own territories , daring others to challenge them . While the Mafia tends to its familiar illicit activities , the highly profitable and dangerous business of drug trafficking has attracted younger criminals whose greed and ambition scarcely are coarsened by experience . True to the traditions bequeathed by Prohibition , many of the new criminals are recent immigrants to the U.S. Many of the new arrivals  --  Chinese , Vietnamese , Jamaicans , Mexicans , Colombians , Dominicans , and even Sicilians  --  turn to crime not because the society is closed off to them , but because it is so wide open . In many cases , they come from societies noted for draconian police methods . Consequently , the freedom @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ law enforcement are inviting to those who wish to skirt legitimacy , make money as quickly as possible doing whatever it takes , and hide themselves in the protective cocoons of impenetrable ethnic enclaves . Black organized criminals are an anomaly in this inventory of lawbreakers . Involved since the 1920s in the policy ( numbers ) rackets and drug dealing , their ranks have expanded as Italian inner-city neighborhoods turned blacker in the social upheavals of the 1960s . Black gangsters moved up and commanded their own turfs . In Buffalo , Newark , Detroit , and Los Angeles , black criminal organizations took control of vice . With the possible exception of the Crips and Bloods  --  black gangs that have grown stronger and stabilized , displacing the dominant Italians  --  they have not developed a national structure like the Mafia . Criminals from Cuba and Latin America have been washing ashore for some time as economic and political conditions worsen . The political revolutions and drug epidemics two decades ago were accompanied by the establishment of small , tightly knit colonies of Cubans , Colombians , and Mexicans @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Angeles , where the smuggling and distribution of narcotics in massive quantities fueled the explosive American consumer demand . The Asian criminal figures in the U.S. at first came primarily through legal immigration agencies and social help organizations assisting people to settle in Chinatowns . Given the size of their migration ( second only to the Mexicans ) , declining employment opportunities for unskilled labor , and the difficulties lawmen have with Chinese dialects , the criminal spinoffs of the tongs and local street gangs they influence absorbed many FOBs ( Fresh Off the Boat ) . The gangs war incessantly over territory in the constricted neighborhoods of Chinatowns for control of gambling , extortion , prostitution , and drugs . Jamaican " posse " gangs also arrived in the U.S. , fleeing political turmoil at home . Members are drawn from the slums of East Kingston in Jamaica and drift into Miami , New York , and other cities where there are black-controlled drug centers . As with the Chinese and Latinos , these groups are very violent . Riven from within by informants , threatened from without by government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has retreated . Yet , none of the emerging criminal groups enjoy the entrenched linkages with labor unions and businesses that have been the distinctive signature of the Mafia . The new gangs have not expanded beyond their racial and ethnic borders in any significant way , which may explain much of their fierceness and violence as they compete for limited criminal opportunities . Few of the new gangsters have flexed their muscles with labor unions and fewer still flirt with corrupted politicians and police . The Mafia may not have been deposed , but it has been shaken . There is much disorganization in organized crime , and this condition is likely to remain so in the future . Dr. Kelly is professor of social sciences and criminal justice at Brooklyn College and the Graduate School of The City University of New York and president of the International Association for the Study of Organized Crime . <p>                     