@@409751

Does the U.S. Air Force  --  or perhaps one of America 's intelligence agencies  --  have a new secret spy plane in action ? A growing body of evidence suggests that the answer is yes . A startling disclosure came recently when Chris Gibson , a British oil engineer and highly trained aircraft-spotter , produced a sketch that captured the shape and size of an unusual aircraft he saw during daylight hours in August 1989 , flying over his drilling rig in the North Sea . The expert eyewitness 's drawing is the keystone that , with other evidence , provides an understanding of a secret hypersonic reconnaissance aircraft that is widely rumored to exist , but routinely denied by U.S. officials . Its nickname is Aurora . Gibson  --  a former member of the disbanded Royal Observer Corps , a group of volunteer aircraft-spotters  --  was able to estimate the strange airplane 's length and width by comparing it with the known dimensions of the K-135 refueling tanker and two F-111 bombers flying alongside . But it was n't until last year , when he came across @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 5 ) aircraft design , that Gibson suddenly made sense of the sharp triangular silhouette he saw . Analysts believe that Aurora is an operational spy plane that replaces the retired Lockheed SR-71 Blackbird . Like its predecessor , Aurora costs several million dollars per flight and is sent out only on missions where the plane 's sensors can gather vital information unobtainable by satellite reconnaissance or other means . It 's plausible that Aurora was used to photograph Iraq during Operation Desert Storm in an attempt to provide tactical intelligence to ground-based military commanders . Aurora 's unique capabilities also equip it for surveillance of nuclear proliferation . The list of nations of varying political complexions that covertly possess or are pursuing nuclear arms capabilities includes India , Iran , Iraq , Israel , North Korea , Pakistan , and South Africa . Surprise visits by a reconnaissance aircraft can give intelligence analysts clues  --  such as the presence of military trucks at an ostensibly civilian plant  --  which would n't be left out in the open when a spy satellite is scheduled to make its pass overhead . Aurora @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would violate an agreement in place since a Lockheed U-2 spy plane was shot down over the Soviet Union in 1960 . It is likely , however , that Aurora monitors the submarine-building programs of Russia , China , and other nations from well outside their airspace using side-looking sensors . Gibson 's North Sea sighting completes a puzzle that has obsessed military-aircraft analysts for several years . Consider the following pieces of evidence hinting at the existence of something unacknowledged that flies high and fast : * In February 1990 , the Air Force retired its SR-71 spy planes . The official reason was saving the $200 million to $300 million a year it cost to operate the fleet of Blackbirds . Reporters were told that the SR-71 's role had been taken over by advanced spy satellites . * The money saved was less than 7 percent of the approximately $4 billion the Air Force spends yearly on satellite reconnaissance  --  mere chicken feed by Pentagon standards . Keeping the SR-71s in reserve would have provided cheap insurance against an unlucky string of satellite and rocket failures , such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ * The Air Force actually discouraged congressional attempts to reverse this termination of its most glamorous aircraft mission . Never in its history had the flying service walked away from a manned mission without a fight . * The pace of activity at the Air Force 's top-secret Groom Lake test site in the Nevada desert has increased dramatically in recent years , suggesting the presence there of one or more secret aircraft programs . By comparing recent photos of the base with ones taken in the late 1970s , it 's apparent that several large new buildings were added during the 1980s . Always visible in the recent pictures are a number of chartered Boeing 737 airliners that ferry workers in from other defense-industry towns such as Palmdale , Burbank , or Edwards in Southern California , or from Nellis Air Force Base in Nevada . * Since mid-1991 , unexplained sonic booms have periodically rattled Southern California . Officials at the United States Geological Survey , the agency that monitors earthquake activity , no doubt irked the military with their public statements that a very fast , high-flying aircraft @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ page 64 ) registering on their array of seismographs. * The Federation of American Scientists , a private Washington , D.C.-based policy group , issued a report late last year on the likelihood that unacknowledged military aircraft might exist ( see Flying in the Government 's Black World ) . The cautious review of unclassified literature on the subject concluded that several new types of aircraft may indeed be covertly flying around . It is close to midnight , but all the clocks are set to 0730 Greenwich time . In a closed and guarded hangar , ground crews help two men in orange pressure suits clamber into a delta-shaped , dull black airplane . The pilot touches keys that tell computers to start the engines . At first , the aircraft emits a subdued whine , which builds up quickly and is joined by the sound of rushing air . Then there is a flash of light from the intake and exhaust ducts as a wave of noise explodes , rolling harshly across the dry lake bed . Within the roar are the scream of small rockets , the crackling @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pulsing  --  as low as one cycle per second  --  that shakes the entire desert base . Gibson 's sighting now makes it possible to reconstruct the Aurora program 's history . The spy plane was operational , or nearly so , by August 1989 , just before the Air Force parked its SR-71s for the last time . Aurora would have made its first flight by 1986 at the latest , following a development effort that was launched in 1981 . This analysis elicited denials by high officials involved in defense and intelligence matters . Ohio Democratic Sen. John Glenn asserted that his sources in the intelligence community told him there was no such aircraft . " I think they 're telling the truth , " he said . Pete Williams , chief spokesman for the Bush administration 's Secretary of Defense , Dick Cheney , gave a standard answer to a query about Aurora . " If there were such a program , we would n't discuss it . " Williams explained that Pentagon policy says the same answer " must always be given " to queries about secret @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ avoid revealing the truth . Donald B. Rice , Bush 's Secretary of the Air Force , stated : " There 's no program in the Air Force , none anywhere else that I know of . It simply does n't exist . " To some observers the stridency of Rice 's response was puzzling . Why did n't he simply utter the usual Pentagon disclaimer ? Black is the adjective most often applied to the hidden world in which such engineering activities unfold . In a 1985 Pentagon budget document requesting production funds for 1987 , a censor 's slip let the line item " Aurora " appear , grouped with the SR-71 and U-2 programs . Even if Aurora actually was the project 's name at the time , it almost certainly would have been changed after being thus compromised ; " Senior Citizen " is one new label that has been reported . Rated by the Pentagon as an " unacknowledged special-access program , " the plane 's existence and real name are secret , and therefore deniable . Unconfirmed reports of Aurora 's existence first surfaced in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ likely design in the November 1988 issue . Now , fresh reports from secret-airplane hunters like James Goodall , who heard and felt bone-shaking sounds coming from the Groom Lake facility late in December , continue to flesh out the picture of Aurora and the technology that makes it work . Armed with patience and braced for the occasional confrontation with no-nonsense security patrols , resolute observers like Goodall trek through the harsh Nevada desert to a mountainside overlooking desiccated Groom Lake . From several miles away  --  as close as they can get without entering off-limits government land  --  the watchers can see the large air base with its motley collection of hangars . Some of the buildings are vast . Yet , like a mirage , the isolated facility with its six-mile runway does n't exist  --  officially , that is . And its non-existence is longstanding . A 1992 Lockheed Corp . paper on the early days of the U-2 program refers to flight-testing at Groom Lake 35 years ago as having occurred merely at " a remote location . " For some , monitoring events on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Author and photographer Goodall , who has been chasing classified programs for almost 30 years , is motivated by enthusiasm for aircraft and a conviction that he 's entitled to know how his taxes are being spent . His earwitness account indicates that the airplane 's propulsion system is unconventional , to say the least . " We heard Aurora from 18 miles away . The sound is so intense that you feel it . It was quite something else  --  a pulsing noise that you 'll never forget . " The airplane begins rolling forward at half-past midnight , then accelerates and noses up into the sky like a hot fighter . Seconds later it is gone , trailing a shattering roar across the desert . In the cockpit , the pilot sees his course overlaid on a detailed map as the craft climbs through 60,000 feet at a steep 70-degree angle . Just minutes after takeoff , the plane is cruising northeast at six times the speed of sound , covering almost one mile per second . More than 20 miles above the ground , it passes unheard @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thousand miles away , a loaded KC-135 tanker lifts heavily into the early morning sky from a secure air base in western Scotland . At a second base farther south , four F-111 crewmen walk toward their pair of aircraft . Only the crew and their base commander know this will not be a routine training flight . Aurora was almost certainly built by Lockheed 's fabled Skunk Works , now called the Lockheed Advanced Development Co . Of all known design organizations , only the Skunk Works has the proven ability to manage large programs incorporating breakthrough technology in total secrecy . Analysis of Lockheed 's financial statements makes it possible to estimate Aurora 's price tag at about $1 billion per aircraft . At most , 10 to 20 of the new spy planes have been built . A hypersonic prototype paved the way for Aurora . In 1975 , Lockheed proposed a small hypersonic research aircraft that would be launched from the back of an early version of the SR-71 . And a definitive survey of Lockheed aircraft , published in 1982 , stated that the company had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ late 1970s the U.S. government probably had two main reasons for going ahead with Aurora . The first : improved Soviet surface-to-air missile ( SAM ) systems posed an increasing threat to the SR-71 , which flies at Mach 3.2 ( 2,100 mph ) and reaches altitudes above 80,000 feet . By 1980 , two potent new Soviet antiaircraft weapons , the SA-10 Grumble and the SA-12 Gladiator/Giant , were under development . Both have a maximum altitude of about 100,000 feet and feature advanced tracking and guidance systems . The second reason for building Aurora was that satellites alone are not the best solution to reconnaissance requirements . While they take superb pictures , satellites also have inherent limitations . They follow fixed , predictable orbits , which make their appearance no surprise to a shrewd adversary . Although earthbound controllers can command satellites to fire thrusters to adjust their orbits , this ability is strictly limited by a finite on-board fuel supply . In addition , because it is difficult to supply the amount of power needed to operate an all-weather radar , most satellites carry only daylight or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ apiece , spy satellites last , on average , only five years before they are dumped into the atmosphere and replaced . And it is difficult to increase surveillance quickly in a crisis unless a stockpile of reserve satellites and launchers is kept ready  --  as the former Soviet Union once did . Aircraft are much more flexible . They can be dispatched exactly where and when they are needed , and they can be fitted with day , night , or bad-weather sensors , depending on conditions in the target area . During the hour it takes to reach the initial point for descent , the pilot and reconnaissance systems officer ( RSO ) in the backseat are fully occupied with checking equipment to see how it operates in the 1,000degF friction heat soaking into their aircraft 's structure . On the way down , the flight profile is computer-controlled  --  a delicate balance between speed , altitude , and deceleration rate . Over the North Sea , the tanker and the F-111s gather into a loose formation and follow a racetrack pattern . Appearing suddenly , the black jet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ boom , wavering a little while matching the tanker 's low speed . During the next ten minutes , 40 tons of liquid methane flow into the spy plane before it turns away and hurtles skyward . Already , another loaded methane tanker and two more F-111s are preparing to depart their bases in Britain . An analysis of Aurora 's three-dimensional shape can be extrapolated from its 75-degree swept triangular outline . The aircraft corresponds almost exactly in form and size to hypersonic reconnaissance aircraft studied in the 1970s and 1980s by McDonnell Douglas , according to Paul Czysz , now a professor of aerospace engineering at St. Louis University . Czysz worked on hypersonics while at McDonnell Douglas , including the company 's proposal for the National Aerospace Plane program " X-30 : Out of This World in a Scramjet , " Nov. ' ' 91 , and is an acknowledged expert in the field . Efficient hypersonic planes " are basically air-breathing propulsion systems , " he says . Like the SR-71 , Aurora has a crew of two . Flying it is quite unlike piloting a conventional @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ because a normally angled windshield causes too much drag and gets too hot . For these reasons , Aurora may have a retractable windshield used only for takeoffs and landings ; at other times , the windshield would be covered by a heat shield . Aurora 's pilot is really a mission manager , monitoring the aircraft and its systems and following the course of the flight on large-format video displays . His or her most important function is to cope with the unexpected : shifts in upper-atmospheric temperature , weather developments over the target area or refueling zone , or problems with the plane 's mechanical or electronic systems . The RSO supervises a battery of sensors . The most important is a synthetic-aperture radar ( SAR ) , a side-looking instrument that takes a sequence of snapshots of the target as the aircraft moves and compiles them into a single radar image that is as sharp as if it had been acquired using an antenna hundreds of feet wide . The best SAR images are classified , but have been described as " near-photographic , " allowing different types @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 100 miles away , regardless of clouds or smoke . In clear weather , Aurora uses daylight and infrared cameras for ultra-detailed work . And unlike a satellite , the craft can be scheduled to make its reconnaissance passes at the golden hour for covert imaging : early morning , when the low sun provides even illumination and long shadows that highlight features on the ground , before heat-induced haze forms . A phased-array antenna built into Aurora 's upper surface  --  near the tail end , where aerodynamic heating is minimal  --  allows the airplane to transmit real-time or near-real-time imagery to the Pentagon 's satellite network . In a Middle Eastern country , a bored radar operator in an underground shelter fails to notice a faint blip on one edge of his screen . The system 's computer ca n't make sense of an echo that 's too high to be an airplane and stops displaying it . A few miles from a medium-size city lies a walled , heavily guarded compound containing equipment test stands and several small factory buildings . From time to time a siren sounds @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ All activity ceases for the few minutes it takes a known spy satellite 's imaging path to pass over the base . But no warning is given this morning . Technicians , including two blond Caucasians , are busily preparing a rocket motor for testing on an open stand , and a truck that left a Czech machine-tool factory several days earlier is being unloaded . All of this detail is faithfully stored on a battery of hard-disk memories by a camera with a 48-inch telephoto lens . Three hours and 15 minutes after its takeoff from Nevada , the spy plane makes a wide turn back toward Northern Europe . The RSO selects the clearest images on his high-resolution screen and transmits them to a satellite with a few keystrokes . In five minutes , hard copies as sharp as an original negative are rolling out of a processing machine 6,000 miles away . Aurora uses ramjet engines , because no other type can work as efficiently at the speeds the plane travels . In its simplest form , a ramjet is a pinched tube that slows , compresses , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it , producing enormous thrust from the hot gas expanding out the exhaust nozzle . However , the compression process also generates tremendous drag . The ramjet designer 's challenge is to keep the level of drag from canceling out the slim margin of thrust that propels the aircraft . One way to make a ramjet engine efficient is to stretch it along the entire length of the vehicle . In a hypersonic ramjet aircraft , the underside of the forward body is a ramp that initially compresses the air before it enters the inlet ducts , and the curved underside of the afterbody guides the expansion of the exhaust gas . IT 'S A LIFTING BODY The compressed air underneath the body serves a second purpose : It holds the airplane up . At Mach 6 , conventional wings would be superfluous appendages creating horrendous drag . Accordingly , the tips of Aurora 's delta planform are mainly there to provide stability and control . The basic problem with ramjets is that they do n't work at all unless the aircraft is moving quite fast , and they are not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Aurora needs some other system to reach this speed . There are two clues to the way Aurora 's designers solved the low-speed propulsion problem . The team for the X-30/National Aerospace Plane ( NASP ) , though tight-lipped about the " accelerator " portion of the NASP engine design , has indicated that it functions as a ducted rocket in parts of its operating cycle . The second clue is that Aurora has been associated with two unusual noises : very-low-frequency pulsing sounds and an extremely loud roar on takeoff . ROCKET-ASSISTED RAMJETS The surging or pulsing sound is associated with a class of standstill-to-hypersonic " combined-cycle " propulsion systems invented in the late 1950s and shrouded since then by obscurity rather than security ( see The Combined-Cycle Ramjet Engine ) . Czysz , who studied combined-cycle engines for hypersonic aircraft while at McDonnell Douglas , says that their performance is remarkable . " They go like scalded rabbits , " he says . According to Dr. Fred Billig at the Applied Physics Laboratory of Johns Hopkins University , who experimented with the combined-cycle engine in the 1960s , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it delivers high thrust per unit of frontal area , a drag-reducing characteristic helpful in pushing efficiently past the sound barrier . Most important , the combined-cycle engine can recover energy that most engines throw away . By using cold fuel to cool the airplane 's structure and engines , for example , the system converts heat into mechanical energy used to supercharge the ramjet and generate additional thrust . SUPER-COLD FUEL Even though Aurora is 80 to 90 feet long , which is about 20 feet shorter than the SR-71 , it could weigh more  --  as much as 170,000 pounds when fully loaded . A clear two-thirds of its total mass would be fuel . Choosing the right fuel was crucial to Aurora 's design . Because various sections of the craft will reach cruising-speed temperatures ranging from 1,000degF to more than 1,400degF , its fuel must both provide energy for the engines and extract destructive heat from the airplane 's structures . This is done on the SR-71 , but at hypersonic speeds even an exotic kerosene , such as the special high-flashpoint JP-7 fuel used by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for Aurora is a cryogenic fuel  --  a cold liquefied gas . The best candidates identified so far are methane and hydrogen . Liquid hydrogen provides more than twice as much energy and absorbs six times more heat per pound than any other fuel . The snag is its low density , which means bigger fuel tanks , a larger airframe , and more drag . While liquid hydrogen is the fuel of choice for a space-launch vehicle that accelerates quickly out of the atmosphere , studies have shown that liquid methane is better for an aircraft cruising at Mach 5 to Mach 7 . Methane ( natural gas ) is widely available , provides more energy than jet fuels , and can absorb five times as much heat as kerosene . Compared with liquid hydrogen , it is three times denser and easier to handle  --  inflight refueling has been studied and poses no problems . Aurora can fly at subsonic speeds because its entire body , which has a great deal of area , is a lifting surface . Also , its sharply swept leading edge  --  like the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ flight angles , which clings to the leading edge and boosts the body 's lift . Unencumbered by aerodynamic freeloaders such as a conventional fuselage , Aurora 's shape is structurally efficient . It packs a lot of fuel and useful equipment into a relatively small volume that saves weight and minimizes friction drag . The spy plane 's airframe may incorporate some stealth technology , but it hardly needs it . Hypersonic aircraft are actually much harder to shoot down than a ballistic missile . Although a hypersonic plane is n't very maneuverable in the traditional sense , its velocity is such that , within tens of seconds , even a gentle turn puts it miles away from a SAM 's projected interception point . So why bother with stealth ? Having refueled a second time from a tanker over the North Sea after its Mideast photo session , the black plane heads west at high altitude across the Atlantic Ocean , North America , and beyond the California coast . Decelerating and descending above the Pacific Ocean , the craft drags a sonic boom over the water behind it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ part of the inevitable shock wave bends through the upper atmosphere and rumbles across Southern California as Angelenos are getting ready for work . " There goes another one , " they say , wondering whether it 's a minor earthquake or " that plane we hear about . " Time elapsed from takeoff to landing : 6.5 hours . Distance traveled : 15,500 miles . THE COMBINED-CYCLE RAMJET ENGINE Unlike any single type of power plant , the combined-cycle engine can power an aircraft from a standstill to about Mach 6 ( 4,400 mph ) by using elements of a ramjet and a rocket . Stored as a liquid , the engine 's cryogenic methane fuel expands to a cold gas through a turbine-compressor that delivers high-pressure outside air and methane to rocket nozzles in the ramjet duct . At start-up , the mixture is ignited , causing a supercharging effect that draws more air through the duct . During idle , the low airflow rate in the large duct creates a cyclic buildup and release of pressure , producing the loud , low-pitched noises associated with Aurora . Adding @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their exhaust velocity and draws more air through the ramjet , boosting thrust for takeoff and acceleration . As ram-effect compression heating begins to occur in the tapered duct , a fuel injector adds more methane , which combusts downstream of the rocket nozzles . Liquid methane cools the plane 's airframe and engines as speed increases , densifying incoming air and adding energy to the turbopump , which augments rocket thrust . LOX flow is gradually reduced to zero at about Mach 2.5 , as airflow into the ramjet increases . At higher speeds , the rockets are shut off and the nozzle strut retracted to reduce drag . Now fuel is delivered only through the injector , and the engine runs as a pure ramjet up to about Mach 6 . FLYING IN THE GOVERNMENT 'S BLACK WORLD The Pentagon 's " black world " is n't a mirror-military running parallel to the familiar one . Rather , it is a submerged network of covert activities distributed throughout the armed services and other agencies . Its size can be gauged from unclassified Pentagon budget documents , which include accurate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with code names or burying them within other categories . This hidden ocean of funds for research , development , and production of secret equipment amounts to $16 billion of the Pentagon 's $254 billion 1993 budget . When operations costs are included , the black budget 's estimated annual total comes to a staggering $35 billion . New construction at the Air Force 's secret Groom Lake test facility in Nevada , and the number of workers being flown to and from there in recent years , suggest that a decent chunk of this invisible money is being directed toward several unacknowledged , large-scale aircraft or missile projects under way at the remote site . The Air Force has hidden major aircraft programs before on two occasions . A giant Lockheed airplane called the CL-400 was the U-2 spy plane 's intended replacement . Code-named Suntan , the Mach 2.5 aircraft was to be powered by radical hydrogen-fueled engines . Lockheed had virtually completed the first four aircraft before Suntan was canceled in 1958 due to technical snags . The project cost $250 million in fat 1950 's dollars . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ later , when Lockheed started talking about liquid hydrogen as a future aircraft fuel . Suntan was replaced by a CIA project for a Mach 3 spy plane called Oxcart . After Lockheed was selected to build the plane , it was renamed the A-12 . It first flew in April 1962 from Groom Lake , which was made into a fully equipped base supporting A-12 flight testing and the CIA 's dozen operational planes . The Air Force subsequently ordered 30 SR-71 reconnaissance-strike aircraft derived from the A-12 prototype . The existence of the SR-71 was disclosed in a 1964 statement by President Lyndon Johnson . But the CIA 's A-12s flew secretly until mid-1968 , and they were not revealed to the public until 1982 . Through a combination of tight security and disinformation , the A-12 program was concealed for 23 years . Now ask yourself : Would your government lie to you ? In " Mystery Aircraft , " a report released last year , the Washington , D.C.-based Federation of American Scientists ( FAS ) concluded that two or more types of secret airplanes are likely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Pentagon and corporate financial documents , technical papers , and a range of news reports , the study favors the view that some of the reported aircraft are prototypes , while at least one may be in regular service . " It is probable that at least one high-speed , high-altitude experimental air vehicle is currently undergoing flight tests , " or may possibly have achieved operational status , the report states . The craft could be manned or unmanned , it notes , fitting either the general description of a Mach-4 to Mach-6 Aurora or a faster Mach-8 " exotic propulsion aircraft " using pulse-detonation or external-combustion technology to reach hypersonic cruise speed . The " doughnuts on a rope " exhaust contrail " Science Newsfront , " Aug. ' ' 92 photographed last year in Texas might be the product of a pulse-detonation type of engine , which combusts its fuel in intermittent bursts . An aircraft using external combustion at high speeds would fit the description of a vehicle dubbed " The Pumpkin Seed " ( see drawing ) . According to the FAS study , " There @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in plain sight " within the National Aerospace Plane ( NASP  --  also known as the X-30 ) project , which is aimed at developing an air-breathing hypersonic craft that can climb into low-Earth orbit from a runway in a single stage . Knowledge about propulsion and high-temperature structures gained in the NASP program may have proven applicable to a Mach 6 to Mach 8 aircraft now flying . As many as a few dozen examples of a subsonic stealthy reconnaissance aircraft called the TR-3A or " Black Manta , " probably built by Lockheed , may currently be in production or operational , the FAS analysts say . Finally , it is highly probable that some one- or two-of-a-kind stealth aircraft prototypes exist , the study concludes . Such aircraft would be built to test concepts intended for the B-2 bomber , the TR-3A , the Navy 's canceled A-12 stealth attack plane ( no relation to the SR-71 's predecessor ) , or other aircraft . These planes could account for the number of different mysterious aircraft described in sighting reports . Putting aside the romance of sifting clues @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the FAS report raise a broader fundamental question : With the Cold War behind us , what 's the effect of continuing to support such vast and costly secret defense activities ? The hard-nosed answer is provocative : " Secrecy tends to obstruct technological development by inhibiting communication of useful information , increasing costs , generating public mistrust , and all too often promoting fraud and abuse , " the study says . " It is being used to protect controversial programs from public awareness , more than from hostile intelligence services . " Recent major examples of secrecy masking incompetence include the B-2 stealth bomber program , which has been shot through with cost overruns and performance shortcomings , and the disgraced Navy A-12 program , which was killed after billions of dollars of misguided expenditures . The sentiment expressed by FAS is gathering broad support in Congress and elsewhere . Its message to the Pentagon is this : Unjustified secrecy is anti-democratic . <p>                     