@@409451

Thanks to the 1990 passage of the Americans with Disabilities Act , today 's anglers and hunters with disabilities are finding a growing number of opportunities to pursue thier sport . Throughout the 12 Southern states , sportsmen with disabilities are seeing a burgeoning array of fishing and hunting opportunities open to them , many as a direct result of the 1990 Americans with Disabilities Act . Wheelchair-accessible piers and trout streams , and alternate hunts , regulations and organizations that cater to sportsmen with disabilities are just a few of the measures that have been established in most states . Here 's a rundown of what 's available andwhat 's being developed throughout Dixie. * ALABAMA In the Yellowhammer State , the past 10 years have seen a great deal of emphasis placed on improving fishing access , says chief of fisheries Fred Harter . At 23 public fishing lakes , wheelchair-accessible fishing piers are in place . These piers embody the concepts that Sloan Lessley introduced in his revolutionary pier designs in Arkansas ( see Arkansas information ) , and all are located near fish attractors @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fishing lakes in De Kalb , Escambia and Madison counties . As funds are available , the state is also renovating concession stands and restrooms to make them more accessible . Alabama 's hunters with disabilities also have plenty to cheer about , according to wildlife biologist Chester Billie . One-day hunts open to youth and disabled hunters take place annually before the regular gun deer season starts on a number of wildlife management areas . In the past , these have been held at Barbour , Blue Spring , Butler , Choccolocco , Covington , Freedom Hills , Kinterbish , Oakmulgee , Scotch and Skyline WMAs , and there is a possibility that more WMAs will be included on the list this fall . Billie notes that there is already at least one WMA in each of the state 's districts that offers an alternate hunt . Alabama is also striving to improve access to the WMAs and to state-owned shooting ranges . Hunters with disabilities can obtain a permit allowing them to use a crossbow during the regular bow season . Hunting from a vehicle , however , is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ residents with disabilities costs $1.25 , and anyone angling at a public fishing lake must purchase a $1.50 permit . No special hunting licenses are issued by the state . For more information , contact the Alabama Department of Conservation and Natural Resources , 64 N. Union St. , Montgomery , AL 36130 ( 205-242-3471 ) . * ARKANSAS Arkansas is a leader among Southern states in the creation of fishing opportunities for anglers with disabilities , says chief of fisheries Allen Carter . In fact , Arkansas aquatic resources biologist Sloan Lessley designed an adjustable railing for piers that allows wheelchair-bound anglers to easily maneuver anglers to fish from a comfortable position instead of having to lean well out over their chairs to make a cast . Lessley , who is himself disabled , also added a " bumper " to the pier platform as a safety stop for wheelchairs . Working with the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service , the state is currently developing additional pier improvements for anglers with disabilities and is producing videos aimed at raising public awareness of access issues . A number of popular waters @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are lakes Atkins , Bobb Kidd , Chicot , Columbia , Conway , Des Arc , Hamilton , Harris Brake , Hogue , Mallard , Overcup , Poinsett and White Oak . Rivers with special access include the Little Red River at Pangburn Bridge and the North Fork River at River Ridge Fisherman 's Park . In addition , the state conducts annual catfishing derbies for people with disabilities . And every year , the fish commission puts on some 125 youth fishing derbies in which youngsters with disabilities are encouraged to participate . In the hunting realm , assistant chief of programs Ken Vernon says that though no alternate hunts are in place , individuals with disabilities are encouraged to contact their local wildlife office or the nearest WMA manager . State employees will provide assistance whenever possible and as well as they can , emphasizes Vernon . For more information , including a free set of designs for the state 's innovative pier , contact the Arkansas Game and Fish Commission , 2 Natural Resources Drive , Little Rock , AR 72205 ( 501-223-6300 ) . * FLORIDA In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ commission has long worked to improve access to fishing facilities and for a very good reason , explains public information director Henry Cabbage . " Florida probably has a higher percentage of disabled individuals in its population than any other state . Routinely , as we construct new boat ramps , we make them handicapped accessible . " Well-known lakes such as Okeechobee and Talquin have accessible docks , and similar docks exist in every region of the state . A fishing tournament for people with disabilities is held each spring at Lake Monroe in Sanford . Interested people should contact Bruce Scott , Sports and Recreation Department , Paralyzed Veterans Of America , 801 18th St. N.W. , Washington , DC 20006 ( 800-424-8200 ) . Eddie White , administrative assistant for the wildlife division , notes that the 2,326-acre Holton Creek WMA has been reserved exclusively for hunters with disabilities . Furthermore , a portion of the Three Lakes WMA has been set aside for annual three-day deer hunts by mobility-impaired sportsmen . Similar hunts exist on the St. Mary 's Type II WMA , a national wildlife refuge @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ successful the past few years on these hunts , in some cases more so than non-disabled hunters . In many instances , hunters with disabilities can hunt from their cars or drive beyond gated roads . White also suggests contacting David Jones of the Florida Disabled Outdoorsmen Association ( 904-668-7323 ) for information on how to participate in various hunts . The state offers free fishing and hunting licenses for those who are certified as totally and permanently disabled . For more information , contact the Florida Game and Fresh Water Fish Commission , 620 S. Meridian St. , Tallahassee , FL 32399 ( 904-488-1960 ) . * GEORGIA Georgia has aggressively pursued greater fishing access during the past several years , says senior fisheries biologist Amy McCollum . Recent projects include the construction of accessible piers and boat ramps on the Dodge County and Big Lazer fishing areas . And the Peach State is currently renovating the pier on the Paradise Public Fishing Area so that it , too , will serve special access needs . All future construction projects will be built with such needs in mind . Joe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ scattered across the state offer alternate retiree and disabled sportsmen deer hunts , including the popular and game-rich Rum Creek and Clark Hill WMAs . Depending on the WMA , these hunts occur both before and after the regular gun deer season and typically run for two to four days . The 300-acre Albany Nursery WMA has been set aside strictly for sportsmen with disabilities , and various concessions regarding where and how to hunt are made on a case-by-case basis . Kurz recommends contacting the Georgia Handicapped Sportsman ( 912-430-4254 ) , a Norcross-based advocacy group that actively participates in these hunts . For sportsmen with total disability , Georgia offers free hunting and fishing licenses and the opportunity to hunt deer with a crossbow . Other special licenses are available as well . For more information , contact the Georgia Department of Natural Resources , 205 Butler St. S.E. , Floyd Tower E. , Atlanta , GA 30334 ( 404-656-3522 ) . * KENTUCKY Information supervisor Norm Minch says that Kentucky began improving fishing access several years ago . To date , accessible piers have been constructed at Lake @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and on the State Game Farm lake . Parking lots and walkways that are accessible to the disabled have also been built at these locales . Minch adds that additional piers will be constructed as funds permit . As for hunting access , the Henderson-Sloughs and Ballard WMAs offer goose blinds accessible to hunters with disabilities . There are no alternate deer hunts on WMAs , but with a permit , hunters with disabilities may shoot from a vehicle , and they may use crossbows during the regular bowhunting season . The state also offers several kinds of special hunting and fishing licenses . For more information , contact the Kentucky Department of Fish and Wildlife Resources , 1 Game Farm Rd. , Frankfort , KY 40601 ( 502-564-3400 ) . * LOUISIANA The Bayou State has long had a desire to improve access to its bodies of waters , says Don Lee , assistant administrator for the fish division . Currently , a major emphasis of the division is to inform the public of the access opportunities that exist . Lakes such as Buhlow , Caddo , Palourde , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ areas for people with disabilities . Similar access can be found on many of Louisiana 's municipal lakes and ponds . On the hunting front , Tommy Prickett , assistant administrator of the wildlife division , relates that before the regular gun deer season the state annually offers alternate two-day deer hunts open to people with disabilities . These outings take place on the Attackapas , Pearl River and Sherbourne WMAs . The Louisiana Deerhunter 's Association also sponsors hunts for sportsmen with disabilities . Contact Bob Price ( 318-442-6794 ) for more information . Throughout the season , sportsmen with disabilities may hunt from stationary vehicles , and they can utilize all-terrain vehicles to travel on roads closed to normal vehicles . Some hunters may also be able to use a crossbow during the bow season . Prickett adds that the state is also involved in making all field facilities , such as shooting ranges , parking areas and field offices , wheelchair-accessible . The state does not offer special hunting or fishing licenses for people with disabilities . For more information , contact the Louisiana Department of Wildlife and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 504-765-2350 ) . * MISSISSIPPI Close to 100 percent of Mississippi 's state-owned lakes boast wheelchair-accessible docks , says Ron Garavelli , chief of the state 's fisheries division . Popular impoundments such as Dockery , Lamar Bruce , Mike Connor and Okatibeeha have accessible docks as well as nearby fish attractors . Other fish enticements , such as brush tops and gravel for spawning , can also often be found near these docks . Interestingly , fisheries department personnel constructed their own piling-laying machine in 1992 to accelerate the creation of wheelchair-accessible docks . There are no special regulations for anglers with disabilities , but all state lake concession stands and restrooms are accessible . Wildlife coordinator Bill Lunceford explains that the Magnolia State is in the process of setting up alternate hunts for sportsmen with disabilities , probably in the form of antlerless hunts on WMAs to take place before the regular gun deer season . These outings will likely be buddy hunts , with a volunteer accompanying each hunter in the field . According to Lunceford , other plans in the works for sportsmen with disabilities include permitting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for their hunts , upgrading wildlife trails and creating sportsmen 's clubs . With a permit , hunters with disabilities can legally use a crossbow during the regular bowhunting season . For more information , contact the Mississippi Department of Wildlife , Fisheries and Parks , 2906 Bldg. , Box 451 , Jackson , MS 39205 ( 601-362-9212 ) . * NORTH CAROLINA Fred Harris , chief of fisheries for the state , credits the Wallop-Breaux program , which directs money from nationwide fishing equipment sales back into state recreational fishing improvement efforts , as being the major impetus in the Tarheel State for improving access to the state 's waters . In the past four years , many piers on the state 's lakes have upgraded accessibility . Such popular fisheries as lakes Badin , Balsam , Kerr , Powhatan and Rim , the Chowan River and Lake James tailrace fishery all feature access for anglers with disabilities . Older docks on other lakes are being modified as well , and in the future , Harris expects to see more angling opportunities in both urban settings and on rural trout @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ division , relates that there are currently no special provisions made for hunters with disabilities on the state 's public lands . In some cases , however , hunters may shoot from their vehicles , and the wildlife resources commission has discussed the possibility of allowing hunters with disabilities to drive beyond gated roads . Sportsmen with disabilities may purchase a combination hunting and fishing license for $7.50 , though they still must purchase big-game , waterfowl and other stamps . Individuals with total disability may purchase a lifetime fishing license for $7.50 . Legally blind anglers can obtain a complimentary license . For more information , contact the North Carolina Wildlife Resources Commission , 512 N. Salisbury St. , Raleigh , NC 27604 ( 919-733-7291 ) . * SOUTH CAROLINA In South Carolina , improving access to the state 's waters is a top priority , says chief of fisheries Val Nash . Popular impoundments , such as Ashwood , Brown , Cunningham , Dorgan Pond , Long , Marion , Moultrie , Oliphant , Robinson , Warren and Wylie , all have wheelchair-accessible piers in place . What 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ deep water and then add fish attractors to make for a quality fishing experience . The Palmetto State is also in the process of developing an impoundment , 12-acre Mountain Lake in Chester County , for the sole use of anglers with disabilities . Also , the state is involved in a cooperative project with Trout Unlimited , the U.S. Forest Service and other agencies to create an accessible fishing site on the East Fork of the Chatooga River . Nash notes that even though trout fishing opportunities are rare in this southern state , he feels that everyone deserves an opportunity to enjoy angling for this species . Deer project leader Derrel Shipes says that the state has not yet enacted alternate seasons or hunts for sportsmen with disabilities . However , the wildlife department does encourage all hunters to apply for public draw hunts for deer and waterfowl . The department has designed some wheelchair-accessible blinds and stands and is currently building more . License requirements are the same for all hunters , but provisions are made in some cases to allow hunting from a parked vehicle . Requests @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ handled on a case-by-case basis . For more information , contact the South Carolina Wildlife and Marine Resources Department , Box 167 , Columbia , SC 29202 ( 803-734-3888 ) . * TENNESSEE Wayne Pollock , chief of fish management for the state , emphasizes that a prime objective of the department is to construct as many wheelchair-accessible docks in as many different regions of the state as funds permit . The hope is that no one with disabilities will have to drive far to enjoy fishing . Already , such popular impoundments as Bedford , Boone , Chickamauga , Fort Loudoun , Graham , Old Hickory and Watts Bar are equipped with accessible docks . And a similar dock is under construction at Tims Ford . Currently , Green Cove Pond , a trout-stocked pond surrounded by the Cherokee National Forest , is being renovated so that it will be wheelchair-accessible as well . A unique fishing area has also been designed at Percy Priest Lake . Barriers have been put in place in the Stewarts Creek section of the impoundment , in effect " roping " the locale off @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and fish attractors have been sunk nearby . Plans to pave a trail around Stewarts Creek should add to the appeal of the fishing area , which is already frequented by groups of children with disabilities . Greg Wathen , assistant chief of the wildlife division , admits that few special options are now in place for hunters with disabilities , but he stresses that the state is in the early stages of discussions about the creation of alternate hunts , seasons and areas for hunters with disabilities . Currently , however , there are circumstances where hunting from a vehicle and using a crossbow during the regular bowhunting season are permitted . Such requests are handled on a case-by-case basis . Complimentary licenses for veterans with disabilities are available for both fishing and hunting . For more information , contact the Tennessee Wildlife Resources Agency , Box 40747 , Nashville , TN 37204 ( 615-781-6500 ) . * TEXAS The Lone Star State provides a variety of angling activities for people with disabilities , says Lyndal Waldrip , news editor for the department of parks and wildlife . Most state @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Texas waters as Bonham , Brazos Bend , Daingerfield , Eisenhower and Fairfield . The department also offers a variety of youth-oriented fishing activities in which children with disabilities are strongly encouraged to participate . Waldrip adds that the state 's new Urban Lakes Program , scheduled to begin this year , will be geared toward all young anglers . This program will make use of Texas ' many municipal ponds . The National Bass Championship for the Mobility Impaired is held each spring on Caddo Lake , and it includes a fishing contest for children with disabilities . This year 's event is scheduled for the weekend of May 8 to 9 . For information , contact Shorty Powers , Paraplegics On Independent Nature Trips ( POINT ) , 403 Pacific Ave. , Terrell , TX 75160 ( 214-524-4231 ) . On the hunting front , there are no alternate hunts or seasons in place . However , the use of a crossbow during the regular bowhunting season and hunting from an all-terrain vehicle on WMAs are permitted in many cases . There are a variety of inexpensive hunting and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ disabilities , those with mental disabilities and other groups . For more information , contact the Texas Parks and Wildlife Department , 4200 Smith School Rd. , Austin , TX 78744 ( 512-389-4800 ) . * VIRGINIA According to Phil Lownes , acting chief of lands and engineering for the state , Virginia boasts a very active program for sportsmen with disabilities . Statewide , 14 accessible fishing piers currently exist and are located at such lakes as Amelia , Anna , Buggs Island , Curtis and Germantown . Even more lakes will host these piers in the future . Of the Old Dominion 's 209 boating access points , 51 are wheelchair-accessible , and that number will increase as well . The state is also in the process of eliminating barriers at the state 's public lakes and improving access to trails and restrooms . On the hunting front , Lownes says that the Virginia Game Department 's goal is to eventually have an alternate hunting area for disabled sportsmen in each of the state 's five regions . Currently , Radford Arsenal  --  home to some of the state @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Providence Forge host alternate hunts , and the Phelps WMA is governed by provisions that allow some hunters to shoot from their vehicles . In addition , duck blinds for hunters with disabilities are available at the Hog Island WMA , one of the Commonwealth 's top public hunting grounds . Residents with a permanent disability may apply for a $5 lifetime hunting license . There are also a variety of other licenses and regulations designed to make it easier for some to hunt from a stationary vehicle . For more information , contact the Virginia Department of Game and Inland Fisheries , Box 1104 , Richmond , VA 23230 ( 804-367-1000 ) . <p>                     