@@354007

IF REPRESENTATIVE DON YOUNG OF Alaska ever decides to raise some extra income , he can always lease out his Capitol Hill office as a wildlife museum . A former trapper and riverboat captain , he works surrounded by his trophies : the heads of a ram and a wild boar , mounted moose horns and the prime exhibit , a towering Kodiak bear that he bagged on a hunting trip back home . You could say he was a man with a hands-on appreciation of nature . Or you could say he 's a guy who prefers his wildlife dead . <P> Which description better suits him is a hot issue in Washington these days . Young , who once angrily flourished an oosik  --  that 's the penis bone of a walrus  --  at Mollie Beattie , the director of the Fish and Wildlife Service , is among the most powerful of a group of environmentally unfriendly lawmakers from Western states . As chairman of the House Resources Committee , he has decisive say over a controversial rewrite  --  or gutting , as Interior Secretary Bruce @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Act . Last week Young and his allies rolled over Democrats and even a few moderate Republicans on the committee to move a step closer to a less expansive version of the law . In one of its most controversial provisions , it would eliminate a requirement that the entire habitats of endangered species , not just the individual creatures , must be protected . Young says the change will protect property owners ; environmentalists say it will doom animals . Even in his gentler moments , Young 's distaste for elitist environmentalists is clear : he once called them a ' ' waffle-stomping , Harvard-graduating , intellectual bunch of idiots . ' ' <P> In case you did n't recognize it , that 's the sound of the Western-state rebellion as it rumbles into the Beltway . With it comes the region 's ancient resentment of Washington 's rule , the same discontent that has gone national in recent years . It also brings to Capitol Hill the West 's most abiding issue , the land : who owns it , how to use it and who decides . Translated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the environment , as Western lawmakers tear through two decades of regulations . They are doing it with such success that many moderate Republicans  --  and even House Speaker Newt Gingrich  --  fear they are handing the Democrats a powerful issue . Democrats , including the President , could n't agree more . <P> The Endangered Species Act is only part of it . The Wild Westerners have set their sights on the clean air and water laws , wetlands protection and the further acquisition of federal lands . They want to increase logging in parts of Alaska 's Tongass National Forest , the nation 's largest temperate rain forest and home of grizzlies , eagles and 800-year-old Sitka spruce . The Republican lawmakers envision victory in a 15-year battle to open part of Alaska 's Arctic National Wildlife Refuge , the 19-million-acre wilderness area that is a breeding ground for the porcupine caribou , to gas and oil drilling .                     