@@394840

Once called Earth 's " sister planet , " Venus has thrown planetary geologists a curve . It was considered kin to Earth because of its similar size , mass , relatively close distance , and solid surface , but it 's considered kin no more . With the end of the Magellan spacecraft 's five-year mission , scientists now realize that in a geological sense Venus has less in common with Earth than they believed . The spacecraft , launched from the space shuttle Atlantis in May 1989 , produced one trillion bytes of data and has increased the number of named Venusian features from 300 to 1,000 . In October 1994 controllers terminated the mission and sent the spacecraft plummeting toward Venus . The cause ? Magellan had completed all significant mission goals and funding was running low . Magellan leaves a legacy of data that will keep Venusian geologists busy " for decades , " according to one scientist . The two major phases of the mission , radar mapping and gravity mapping , produced a more detailed global map of Venus than we have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of geological forms that often suggest processes quite different from those on Earth . " We realized we 're looking at a geologically young surface , " says Stephen Saunders , Magellan 's Project Scientist . " And that surprised us . " A dramatic event apparently resurfaced the planet some 300 to 500 million years ago , and since that time the planet has been relatively quiet in a geologic sense . The inactivity leads to an intriguing question : Just what caused a surge in volcanic activity on Venus half a billion years ago ? " Now , after Magellan , our view of Venus is completely different than it was before , " says Maria Zuber , a planetary geophysicist at Johns Hopkins University and NASA 's Goddard Space Flight Center . " It forces you to think of possible Venus histories that , before Magellan , geologists would have thought ridiculous , " she says . " You hear some scientists saying they are disappointed because Venus is so unlike Earth , " says James Head , a specialist in comparative planetology and Magellan coinvestigator at Brown @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Earthcentric view ; the differences are the things that will ultimately tell us a great deal , " he says . " If Venus had turned out to be exactly like Earth , that would 've been big news ? But because it has n't , we need to ask ourselves how it differs and what this tells us about how Venus works . " MAGELLAN AS PLANETARY MAPPER Understanding how Venus works began with the radar mapping phase of the mission on September 15 , 1990 , ( see " What Magellan 's Radar Sees , " p. 37 ) . Over the following two years Magellan mapped 99 percent of the planet 's surface by bouncing thousands of pulses of radio energy each second through the thick veil of clouds enshrouding the planet . The radar reflected off the planet 's surface and returned to the spacecraft , allowing a detailed picture of the surface to be constructed . When combined with altimetry data that measured the heights of various landforms , the radar data slowly gave us a detailed map of Venus . Additionally , the spacecraft collected @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ possible variations in Venusian surface chemistry . Combining and correlating the three sets of information produces a detailed picture of nearly the entire surface of Venus . Pumpkin-orange false-color and three-dimensional computer processing by the Jet Propulsion Laboratory combined with the images create dramatic " flyover " renderings of major geological features on Venus ( see pp. 32 and 33 and the cover of this issue ) . But the first phase , the radar mapping , was only one aspect of the mission . In August 1993 Magellan performed a complex aerobraking experiment designed to change its orbit from a highly elliptical one to a more circular one , giving it a range of 180 kilometers to 600 km above the surface of Venus . Aerobraking the spacecraft was a risky maneuver that relied on atmospheric drag to slow Magellan and keep it in orbit . But the process improved the quality of a second major phase of the mission : collecting gravity data ( see " Seeing " Below the Surface , " p. 36 ) . Using the spacecraft as a gravity probe allowed scientists to analyze variations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ passed over a landmass , its gravity field increased or decreased , tugging the spacecraft accordingly . The tug changed the frequency of the radio signal sent from Magellan to Earth , revealing a so-called gravity anomaly . If the anomaly matches the amount of rock visible in the landmass , it implies the feature sits on a strong surface layer . If not , other forces must be active below the surface . " These data will eventually help us sort out density variations in Venus ' mantle which hold information on the style of convection in the planet 's interior , " says Zuber . " It also tells us the thickness of the crust . " The gravity measurements showed Magellan scientists that Venus has geological structures created by movements in the planet 's interior . " The two types of density anomalies occur at shallow levels and deep levels , " says Robert Herrick , a geologist at Houston 's Lunar and Planetary Institute . " On Earth , mountains have roots . " Supporting mountains whether on Earth or on Venus is a zero-sum game , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ feature , it 's an excess of mass , and you need a deficit of mass somewhere else to make up for it . We transfer the same process to geological features on Venus , meaning a mountain on Venus has a low-density crustal root underlying it . Topography could also be supported with a plume of material welling up underneath it . " A NEW PLANET EMERGES The abundance of data returned by Magellan has not yet been analyzed thoroughly , but planetary geologists have worked with the data enough to see striking differences between Venus and Earth . There were the obvious differences known before Magellan , of course , like the fact that Venus ' surface temperature approaches 500deg Celsius , its surface pressure is 90 times that of Earth , the planet has no water , and the atmosphere is a greenhouse gone wild , with sulfuric acid clouds and an overabundance of carbon dioxide . It 's not an inviting place for life , but this parched , suffocated globe may be home to an unusual mineralogy . The first hint of this came when researchers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in radar images . On Earth , radar-brightness can result when radar bounces off moist soil . Venus lacks water , however , so planetary geologists sought another answer . Gordon Pettengill of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology , Principal Investigator for Magellan 's radar experiments , suggested some metallic minerals reflect radar as well as water . The leading candidate : pyrite , known best on Earth as " fool 's gold " for its superficial resemblance to gold and the legacy of shattered hopes in the California Gold Rush . After Pettengill suggested that a pyrite-rich material covered many of the Venusian mountains , John Wood of the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory checked to see if this was possible . Wood investigated which surface chemistries would be stable under Venusian conditions using information about surface chemistry and the constituents of Venus ' atmosphere . Wood agrees that pyrite would be stable in the weathered surface material high on the mountaintops , but not down on the plains , where temperatures and pressures are higher . The issue may be more complex , however , according to Peter Ford , a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , who believes that other minerals may be responsible . " For example , we may be looking at some ferroelectric materials , " says Ford . " Something quite exotic that does n't exist commonly on Earth and retains this oddly reflective property at very high temperatures like those on Venus . You need only about 1/100th the amount of exotic material to achieve the same result , making it far more plausible . " CRATERS AND VOLCANOS Some planetary geologists have used the arguments concerning Venusian mineralogy to recognize the sequence of major events in the evolution of Venus . They can tell which landforms are old because of the weathering ; younger landforms do not show the kinds of weathering the older ones do . For example , Maat Mons , the largest volcano on Venus , appears to have undergone a recent surge of volcanic activity ; radar-bright ( blocky , unweathered ) material coats the volcano 's flanks and summit . Ozza Mons and Theia Mons may also have undergone recent activity , whereas other volcanos such as Tepev Mons are clearly extinct . The gravity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be active are being supported by plumes of upwelling material through the planet 's crust . Weathering patterns alone do not reveal much about Venus ' past . Scientists also looked at the cratering record , usually one of the best gauges of the age of a planet 's surface . Impact craters cover the hard surfaces of planets and satellites throughout the solar system . Their frequency , size , and distribution allow geologists to approximate the date of the planet 's surface . Surfaces saturated with impact craters of all sizes are three to four billion years old , and those with only a few small impact craters are young . The surfaces of Mars and the Moon show a wide range of ages . Venus , however , does not . But , says Head , " One of the major findings by Magellan is that you ca n't distinguish differences in surface ages on Venus by the cratering record alone . " This is because the 900-odd craters on the planet lie scattered at random over the entire planet . Older or younger areas ca n't @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than you can see on the Moon with a small telescope . Few in number and fresh in appearance , the craters suggest Venus ' surface as a whole is youthful , in geological terms . The impact cratering record shows clearly that most of the geological activity on the planet has occurred in the last 300 to 500 million years . This means that either some major event must have wiped the planet 's surface clean 300 to 500 million years ago , a scenario suggested by Gerry Schaber of the U.S. Geological Survey , or a slower , more piecemeal resurfacing has occurred since that time . Which of the two mechanisms actually happened is hotly debated . Head and Zuber are astonished with the implications of the first mechanism . " It 's an incredible thing to ponder : Your close planetary neighbor turned itself completely inside-out just a few hundred million years ago , " says Head . " This is big news  --  the planet 's entire crust and lithosphere turning itself over . It certainly makes a strong case that catastrophic events are in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ think about the possibilities of such catastrophic events in Earth 's past , " he says . " Many of us are flabbergasted by this resurfacing event , " says Zuber . " When the idea first arose everyone sat back and said " yeah , we 'll wait for the data to come in and the idea will be laid to rest . " But the more everyone looked at the cratering record , the more clearly it appeared that a catastrophic resurfacing indeed may have taken place over most of the planet . " On the other hand , Roger Phillips of Washington University in St. Louis believes low-level volcanism operating over a longer period may have resurfaced the planet piecemeal . " The evidence for the global event is not terribly strong , " says Phillips . " The whole thing is suffering from the fact that there are so few craters on the planet . Statistical approaches are always lousy , and more and more people are coming up with evidence that geological features on the planet have different ages . The answer is still a long @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ medium-sized and large impacts because small impactors burn up in Venus ' thick atmosphere before they strike the surface . Hence , Venus lacks the numerous small craters that would help scientists choose between catastrophic or piecemeal resurfacing . THE VENUS OF TOMORROW Though they captured much of the immediate attention from Magellan scientists , volcanos and impact craters are small relative to the planet 's size . As the images piled up , planetary geologists began to assemble a clearer picture of how Venus works as a planet . The greatest difference between Venus and Earth is the dominant mechanism by which the planets construct surfaces , shift crusts , and finally stabilize . Earth 's primary method is plate tectonics , which moves the continents around in response to convective processes deep in Earth 's mantle . Convection is the most efficient way the inside of a planet can transport heat to the outside . Hot material rises to the surface , causes volcanism , and cools off . The cooler material sinks into the mantle by subduction . This process leads to great surface activity where the plates @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Earth 's Pacific Rim attests . But Venus appears to be different . Detailed images from Magellan suggest the planet is encased in a thick , one-plate shell . " We know the surface crust is basalt , " says Head , " but we do n't know how thick it is . " The planet 's crust may be 20 km or more thick and its lithosphere , the region of mantle and crust that acts as one giant plate , about 50 km thick . " Before Magellan we thought the lithosphere was extremely thin , " says Zuber . " Now we know it 's thick over most of the planet . " Gravity data support this view , indicating a strong , stiff outer rind of rock that supports most of the planet 's topography . But why does Venus lack plate tectonics ? The planet may have been too cool long ago to start the process of moving plates . Or if , as some researchers suggest , water is needed for the process of plate tectonics , perhaps the lack of water on Venus prevented @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ how plate tectonics starts , " says Head . " Once a slab of basalt sinks 100 to 200 km it undergoes a phase change and begins to pull downward . No one knows how a slab moves down to that depth , so it complicates the understanding of whether Venus might have once had plate tectonics , " he says . " But perhaps Venus built its crust vertically , bringing up rock and piling it on top of other rock , and the planet has never had plate tectonics . We do n't yet know . " Even if Venus now lacks plate tetonics , it offers telltale signs of upwelling and downwelling . The planet appears to work vertically rather than horizontally . The hot plumes of material rising up from the mantle are marked by volcanos , which are everywhere . They range in size from domes a few kilometers across , which appear all over the planet and often in dense swarms , to huge shield volcanos dozens of kilometers across that are usually found at the tops of broad rises . Another volcanic feature , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on Venus . Hundreds of kilometers across , coronae are heavily fractured and are I sometimes surrounded by a trench . They are thought to form when a volcanic plume rising from the planet 's mantle first lifts and then relaxes a circular region , causing cracking as the region falls back . Pancake domes are steep-sided hills that may form from thick lava that oozed onto the surface slowly through a central vent . Canali , or channels , are riverlike features where lava once flowed . One , called Hildr , is longer than the Nile River , extending nearly 7,000 km . They almost certainly were formed from surface erosion by hot , runny lava because water can not exist under current conditions on Venus . Upwelling and the resulting volcanism , then , permeate regions of Venus . The question for planetary geologists is , Where does Venus have downwelling ? A possible site is the planet 's tesserae : rugged , deformed highland mountains that extend for as much as thousands of kilometers and cover almost 10 percent of the planet . They may have formed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cold spot , which deformed the surface ( see diagram on p. 36 ) . However , other scientists dispute this , claiming that either the material piled up and was deformed by gravity over long time periods , or that the tesserae are remnants of an older surface of Venus left unburied by the global resurfacing event . " Tesserae could be the witnesses to the global resurfacing event , " says Head . " Judging by the cratering , they are not much older than the flooded plains . So this suggests you had tremendous deformation of the crust going on close to the same time as the large-scale volcanic resurfacing event . These may be the remnants predating the big event . " Herrick thinks the best evidence for the older age of tesserae comes from analyzing the craters on them . " There are about 10 percent more craters on the tesserae and they are somewhat more deformed than craters elsewhere on the planet , " he says . Other areas of downwelling may exist . For example , the edges of some coronae resemble subduction zones @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on Venus comes from the work of Donald Turcotte of Cornell University . He suggests that subduction may have caused the global resurfacing event itself . Turcote believes the shell of Venus had grown increasingly thick , trapping and building up heat within the planet 's interior . As the internal heat rose , molten lava accumulated until a critical point came , and the planet was flooded with lava that resurfaced it more or less all at once . Then with the heat released , the crust grew thick and stiff again . And this mechanism for global resurfacing may be cyclical : Venus may have experienced several such resurfacing episodes and may yet display another . Head suggests the vertical nature of building Venus ' crust may have aided such a catastrophic resurfacing . " If you bring up large amounts of basalt from the mantle and pile up a thick crust , " he says , " all hell breaks loose , geologically speaking . The surface buckles , lava oozes up and repaves it . You destroy the old craters , compressing and deforming them , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ age of the planet 's surface . " " We still do n't understand Venus very well right now , " says Zuber . " We need to be extremely open-minded about what we 're seeing and the possible explanations behind it . " For all the wonders it has revealed , Magellan has still opened only the first pages in the book of Venus . In the wake of the mission , scientists are analyzing the store of Magellan data that remains to be looked at . Discoveries will stack up , models will be proposed , papers will be published , and glimpses into our sister planet will become deeper understandings . We may see a joint U.S.-Russian mission to Venus ( see box above ) . " We 're left with some big questions , " says Saunders . " What went on in the 90 percent o Venusian history before the resurfacing ? Did Venus have plate tectonics ? Was Earth 's early history similar to that of Venus ? Did Earth experience periods of violent crustal overturn ? How did the highlands on Venus form ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ planet seismically active ? These are the kinds of things we would like to know . " WHAT MAGELLAN 'S RADAR SEES It 's tempting to slip into thinking of Magellan 's pumpkin-orange images as true-color photographs of Venus 's surface . They are color-coded radar images , however , that resolve details as small as 120 meters . Magellan 's synthetic aperture radar , which can penetrate the trick veil of clouds enshrouding Venus , imaged a swath between 17 km and 28 km wide . The high-gain antenna emitted thousands of pulses of radio energy each second across the swath of Venus lying from 294 km to 8,543 km below it . ( The spacecraft 's orbit was elliptical . ) The pulses bounced off the Venusian features and returned to Magellan , where they were received by the antenna and transmitted back to Earth . An altimetry antenna a sent signals to the planet to measure the height of various features . By combing the data producing a map ( and adding color ) , the Magellan science team provided the alluring images of these pages . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stored on CD-ROM , is available from NASA . Interested computer users can find out more ( and sample the images ) by accessing the World Wide Web , NASA home page at : http : //stardust.jpl.nasa.gov , or sending electronic mail to : **31;670;TOOLONG . FIRST COUSINS , AT BEST ? Is Venus Earth 's " sister planet " ? Hardly . Beyond the gross geological properties ( both planets are rocky , about the same size and density , and relatively close to each other in the solar system ) , the planets have very little in common . They are first cousins , at best . Earth has a thin layer of crust , a thick mantle , a molten outer core , and a solid inner core . Venus , it turns out , has a thicker crust than scientists thought , a thick mantle , and perhaps a core . The ways the planets work are quite different : Earth 's central mechanism , plate tectonics , does not operate on Venus . Instead of plate tectonics , which is a horizontal process , Venus ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ heat providing most of the surface change . This results in and abundance of volcanos on Venue , some of which resemble those on Earth ( for example , Hawaii 's volcanos ) , but take on more exotic forms unique to Venus . WHAT 'S NEXT FOR VENUS ? With Magellan dead , the prospects for studying Venus lie chiefly in the vast store of mission data that remains to be analyzed . But some planetary geologists are already proposing a new mission to return to Venus , perhaps a launch as soon as 1997 . Called Discovery-BEHEPA Venera Surface-Atmosphere Geochemistry Experiments , the joint U.S.-Russian mission would send a 4,175-kg spacecraft on to Venus and land a 650-kg scientific package on the planet 's surface . " We need to study the composition of key aspects of Venus ' geology , " says Brown University 's James Head , one of the projects ' originators . The mission would focus on tesserae , crater ejecta , and material from the plant 's highlands and low-lands , as well as examine constituents of the planet 's atmosphere and how they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ study Venusian weathering . The spacecraft would accomplish these goals with an optical atmospheric spectrometer , an imaging spectrometer , a neutron probe and gamma-ray spectrometer , and an alpha-proton X-ray element analyzer . " We want to know what the crust is made of , how much water the lower atmosphere contains and what the tesserae are made of , and examine the mineralogy and weathering of the surface material , " says Head . " And if this mission moves ahead , we expect to do it . " Cordula Robinson is a postdoctoral associate at the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory in Cambridge , Massachusetts . A geologist , she specializes in remote sensing . <p>                     