@@393636

Seattle , now the center of American glass art , boasts a number of artists of national and international reputation , yet often they lack adequate recognition and analysis of their achievements . Local critics play a catch-up game with artists who make their creations in Seattle and exhibit them as far afield as Europe , Japan , Australia , Latin America and , occasionally , New York . Dante Marioni is a good example . Honored probably more than any other glass artist his age , 29 , he never attended art school . Instead , he was blowing his first glass at the age of nine when , along with his father , Paul Marioni ( himself a prominent glass master ) , he visited Jay Musler 's studio in Greenbrae , California , where he was given a pipe and a small " gather " of glass . The rest , as they say , is history . Moving to Seattle from California in 1979 at the age of 15 , Marioni attended an " arts-magnet " public high school and , to the envy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Glass Eye in the Pike Place Market , one of the city 's first cooperative hot-glass shops and showrooms . Speaking with me in his studio in the Wallingford neighborhood , Marioni remembered the tasks any apprentice would undertake . " I charged the furnace , swept up broken glass and worked there evenings and on weekends . When I graduated from Garfield  --  a semester early  --  in 1982 , I decided to work full-time at the Glass Eye rather than go off to college immediately like my dad wanted me to . " Going against the grain , the 18-year-old was in luck . At the dawn of Seattle 's golden age of glass , a Venice-trained artist , Benjamin Moore , happened to be working at the Glass Eye . Moore , according to Marioni , " was the first person I 'd seen who could blow symmetrically articulate forms . Seeing him work confirmed my commitment to blow glass . " After a year at the Glass Eye , Marioni spent another fateful period working under another Italian-trained artist , Fritz Dreisbach , who led a two-month @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Encouraged by Dreisbach 's effortless reinterpretation of Venetian techniques , Marioni created his first individual body of work : tall tumblers in green , blue , orange and purple . They still sit on a shelf in his studio . Returning to Seattle , Marioni went to work again at the Glass Eye making many of the wineglasses that are now treasured by percipient local collectors . By 1984 , he had set up with his father the hot shop in the converted telephone company building where they both work today . Without ever setting foot in Venice , Marioni had met several of the foremost American practitioners of the Italian tradition : Dale Chihuly , Richard Marquis , Dreisbach and Moore . It could only have happened in Seattle . What 's more , once back from Penland , he met il piu maestro grande , Lino Tagliapietra , who was teaching at the Pilchuck Glass School in nearby Stanwood . Within a year , Tagliapietra urged the young American apprentice to come to Venice ; he did so for the one and , thus far , only time in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ critics and dealers were watching Marioni . He eased out of child-prodigy status by having his first sellout gallery show at William Traver in Seattle in 1987 , by the extraordinary good fortune of winning a $15,000 Louis Comfort Tiffany fellowship in 1987 and by being included in the Young Americans " exhibition at the American Craft Museum the following year . The Whoppers , begun in 1987 , inaugurated Marioni 's distinctive style . An extreme reaction against the elaborate surface decoration and iridescent fuming common to much of the production work at the Glass Eye and elsewhere , the Whoppers were tall , pristine and combined no more than two colors . At this point , the glass artist Sonja Blomdahl 's use of color along with Moore 's proved to be stronger influences than the West Coast Funk extravagances of Chihuly , Marquis and Berkeley 's Marvin Lipofsky , all second-generation leaders of the American revival of studio glass . More related to Pop art , with their Burger King titles , than Funk , the Whoppers proclaimed a blunt and beautiful cartoon attitude toward the vessel . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out . " I wanted to completely emphasize form and draw from images of Italian glass in Old Master paintings like Caravaggio and the Dutch still lifes . No fuming , no " jimmies ' ' ! " ( Jimmies are the tiny bits of colored and broken glass that are set on a steel-topped marver table and then attached to the heated surface of a vessel while it is being blown . ) By restricting his art , avoiding an experimental art-school attitude , and revering and emulating historical models , Marioni risked irrelevance and charges of retrogressive style . So spectacular were the results , however , that Marioni deserves part of the credit for Italianizing American glass art and for crowning the influence mentors like Tagliapietra brought to the Pacific Northwest . Decidedly third-generation , Marioni , like many members of his twentysomething age group , or Generation X , is more conservative , more focused , less concerned about art-versus-craft debates , just scrambling to find a place near the baby-boomer artists , who outnumber him . After acquiring the technical skills over a 1O-year period , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of his forefathers . ( His late grandfather , John D. Marioni , a painter , claimed family roots going back to the Etruscans . ) Besides assembling an impressive library of decorative arts and glass-history books , Marioni became obsessed with classical pottery forms like amphoras ( tall two-handled vases ) and kylikes ( shallow , footed wine vessels with jutting side handles ) . Bypassing seedy and bubbly medieval glass , his interests extended to the neoclassical revivals in Venice during the Fascist period  --  1922-1943 . ( By sharing an interest in Italian Deco glass , he parallels Chihuly , who brought the greatest living representative of that tradition , Tagliapietra , back to Seattle in 1987 to collaborate on what became Chihuly 's Venetians ) Carlo Scarpa , Napoleone Martinuzzi , Dino Martens , Barovier and Tosi , and other designers in Milan and Venice in those years rediscovered the 17th-and 18th-century glass of their heritage but , like Marioni a half century later , they updated it with different colors and slightly exaggerated appurtenances . The colder , machine-age side of Fascist glass was avoided by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ alluding to Greek civilization , also obliquely endorsed the humanistic values of gracefulness , tolerance and an idealized aspiration symbolized by the vessels ' height . Once the evolution of sleek but approachable forms was in tow , Marioni 's color sense lagged slightly behind . With his uncle , the New York Minimalist painter Joseph Marioni , encouraging examples of more austere contemporary art , it is not surprising that , at this point color is almost an afterthought . The primary-color palette accentuates a youthful sandbox-set or **25;0;TOOLONG mentality and is , as Marioni admits , " purely intuitive and instinctive . " Unlike Chihuly , who once said he 'd never met a color he did n't like , Marioni has been aggressively unadventurous about color . For him , black glass was a major breakthrough  --  all the better to emphasize form . At the same time , again in contrast to Chihuly , natural light plays a very important part in igniting Marioni 's colors . Pale aqua or yellow , chartreuse or royal blue  --  these are " solid " colors which bend to optical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out of the realm of any formidable baroque event and into the everyday , an imaginary setting of Mediterranean sun , or Homer 's " rosy-fingered dawn . " For someone who has made Seattle his personal Murano , but who admits " my formal education has been my travels , " Marioni has accumulated enough frequent-flier miles to earn a Ph.D . At first , invitations came from centers in this country for workshops " to teach my tricks . " Indeed , the artist has done numerous stints at the California College of Arts and Crafts ( where his father had hoped he would be accepted as a student ) , the Rhode Island School of Design and the University of Illinois at Normal . Farther afield , the autodidact has spread the Italian-American glass aesthetic to Japanese schools in Niijima , Toyama and Fujigawa ; to Australia and to New Zealand . After each trip he is more eager than ever to return to the hot shop in Wallingford and to set on the shelf in his Queen Anne Hill home some of the antique Italian glass he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his wife , Alison , whom he married in 1990 . With a brief residency at the New York Experimental Glass Workshop last year and his first New York solo show in October at Heller Gallery in SoHo , Marioni seems poised to move well beyond his childhood apprenticeship and the early-master phase . It will be interesting to see whether Marioni , making perhaps the purest examples of classical Mediterranean vessels in glass of anyone in America , will continue to pile perfection on perfection , producing more and more brilliant but risk-free art , or will face the possibly greater challenges of violating form , applying surface embellishment and confronting unrestrained color . The day Dante Marioni picks up a " jimmy " on the marver table , I want to be there . Until then , with the disarming modesty of someone who came up through the ranks of hard , grinding production work , Marioni now " wants to explore color more , blend it , try it less pure . And I need to work more on technical proficiency . You 're never there ; it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , ideas come slowly , developed hand in hand with skills . He ponders more complicated forms but warns , " there 's no supergrowth but no dormancy either . I 'll always be a student . " In the shadow of Seattle 's glass superstars , such humility matched with toweringly beautiful achievements is deeply moving . Matthew Kangas , Seattle critic and curator , also contributes to Art in America , Sculpture , American Ceramics , La revue de la ceramique et du verre and Neues Glas . <p>                     