@@393654

A young boy stands before a tall screen , his back to the viewer . He wears short pants , heavy-heeled shoes and a loose sweater whose neckline is defined by a precise overlap of collar . His arms are raised , hands hidden within the bodies of two hand puppets who peer over the screen into the landscape beyond . Or , there is an integrated black silhouette of a man with a flat-brimmed hat sitting in a canoe , caught in a moment of stasis with both oars in the air . A bright , continuous yellow outline sets the man , the boat and the paddles vibrantly apart from the other images within the picture plane . Or , there is the playful Little Nemo , the cartoon character who falls asleep at the beginning of his comic strip , dreams a fabulous , adventurous dream and awakens as ' the strip , and the adventure , ends . These three figures are Everyman characters who recur in the miniature needlepoint tapestries of D. R. Wagner . And they are his alter egos . Like @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that transform the nature of the everyday ; they are conjurers of a dreamworld . As spectators , they watch the adventure unfold , but it is also their " loaded consciousness " that activates the unfolding action of the intricate narratives they are watching . Like dream states , these narratives combine disparate elements that alternately jar , delight , and , ac times , seem ominously threatening , as in The Comet , 1333 , where the puppeteer is dwarfed by the magical immensity and glow of the night skies . But the bright , whimsically colored stars are countered by the partial silhouettes of paired palm trees , whose clawlike fronds hover menacingly above the boy , who stands behind a screen patterned with memento mori skulls , a reminder of life 's transient nature . Structurally , Wagner 's narratives are collagelike : they depend on a complex layering , juxtaposition and interconnection of visual images . Looking at one of his recent tapestries is rather like having all the scenes and characters of a play appear before one 's eyes concurrently . Linear narrative has been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Horseshoe Falls , the Deborah figure is in the lower left corner leaning against the railing overlooking the falls . There is a careful , precise background , replete with a building and tree-lined horizon upon which is superimposed the " dreaming " - Deborah 's dream figures moving from ghostlike outline , to silhouetted forms in frenetic motion , to the articulated figure performing on a nebulous ground directly above the falls . Small , puffy clouds are partially obscured by sharp jutting diagonals-hard-edged shapes against soft ; realistic space alongside a landscape of the mind . Thoroughly eclectic , Wagner freely appropriates imagery from the media and popular culture , literary and historical sources , mystical symbol systems , common domestic objects , personal experience and the rich poetic visions of his imagination . Rendered in brilliant colors , these tight , cropped compositions are part hallucination , part comic-book illustration and part lyrical poem . Born in Niagara Falls , New York , in 1943 , Wagner has enjoyed a number of careers . His love of language , specifically poetry , led to his establishment of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ American poets . Moving to Sacramento , California , in 1 3G7 , he continued to operate a press until 1972 , publishing such poets as Allen Ginsberg , Charles Bukowski , Peter Wild and d. a. levy . His own poetry and , later , his visual work were influenced by issues raised by the Beat and Concrete poets , whom he worked with and admired . Leaving publishing to resume an earlier interest in music , Wagner briefly toured with a band named Runcible Spoon ( after his press ) . Wanting to capture visually elements of the varied landscapes as the band toured the east coast of the United States , the Bahamas and England , Wagner picked up thread , because of its ready availability and portability , and began the series of " tapestries " which he has developed over the past two decades and for which he has steadily won recognition . ( This past spring he was a featured speaker in " The Craft Artist as Storyteller , " a symposium sponsored by the Smithsonian Institution 's Renwick Gallery . ) Wagner returned to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ studied embroideries in the collection of the Victoria and Albert Museum . In 1976 he formed Open Ring Galleries , a series of nonprofit exhibition spaces that emphasized multidisciplinary arts  --  an appropriate involvement for his literary , musical and visual talents ( which included painting ) , and one that would last seven and a half years . But the stitching of stories had become his major focus . The tiny grid-determined stitches  --  so unlike the fluidity of paint  --  afforded Wagner an amazing sense of control . He could create solid areas of intense color , or achieve remarkable gradations by mixing fine strands of different color threads together in his needle . As was done in the historical examples he had studied in London , he introduced metallic threads to create a lavishness , reflectiveness and a heightened focus on a particular image . Worked exclusively in petit point on unstretched canvas , with hundreds of stitches to the inch , Wagner 's tapestries merge technique and content . They are obsessive , dense and complex in structure and imagery . The incremental nature of the repetitive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ scene , with its multiple allusions and layered imagery . Each stitch , each image , is separate yet flows seamlessly into the whole . Wagner 's love of language  --  its sounds , meanings and visual appearance  --  is a major element in his work . Words often illuminate the content of the piece : sometimes the text is a design element , calligraphic marks to be recognized but not read ; sometimes the text is a fully realized poem of equal weight with the imagery . And even when words are not actually present in a work , there remains a strong sense of language  --  a language of recurring objects , a cryptic , codelike use of visual symbols and a semiotic recognition of how visual signs create their own network of individualized meaning . Wagner quotes another poet , B. P. Nichol , who used the phrase " border blur " to discuss the issue of " what happens when language ends , " the ways in which information is transmitted for which there are no visual or textual equivalents . And so Wagner attempts to create @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ veils of information " that do not have to be read . His juxtaposition of images exists in a context of heightened reality in which they are transformed into iconic representations that must be grasped emotionally , intuitively  --  the recognition emerging separately from its verbal equivalent . And , like most artists , Wagner hopes his pieces will not be grasped immediately , that they will leak out discoveries which the viewer can appreciate over time . They become puzzles with no correct solutions , only a network of possible interpretations . Wagner 's output has been extraordinarily consistent and prolific . As he became quickly proficient in his chosen technique , his works evolved toward a greater visual complexity and articulation . An early piece like The Tropics , 1982 , illustrates elements of both change and continuity . It is framed within a border of repetitive design . All the pictorial motifs are shown in flat color in silhouetted contours . It is apparently a straightforward depiction without ambiguities of context and content . In later works , on the other hand , the border becomes annotational , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ then partial ( Get Out of My House , 1987 ) , and finally it integrates itself into the overall composition as colored shapes that cut into the pictorial space ( No Mind , No Gain , 1992 , and My Sister Deborah ... , 1988 ) . Wagner still uses the undifferentiated silhouetted form , but usually in contrast to a detailed articulation of a landscape or scene with figures ( Niagara-Trouble in Paradise , 1387 ) . Wagner 's colors , never chosen for naturalistic reasons , are heightened by brilliant hues and high contrasts . He develops an outline color for its " eye-dazzling " quality of movement as well as for emphasis , and juxtaposes flat colors with the intricate color-mixing of threads described earlier . Elements retained from The Tropics are the graphic symbols  --  like the Chinese bats of happiness that float through the background  --  and the interest in visually capturing a sense of movement within a static , two-dimensional format . The tension in this piece arises from the quiet , flat depiction of the antelope contrasted with the wind-tossed dark palm trees @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ result of juxtaposed images , but the images themselves have become more ambiguous , with the relationship between figures less direct and their significance , therefore , more difficult to decipher . The silhouetted palm tree motif reappears frequently , its bright colors and tropical overtones often in jarring contrast to the scene being pictured . Technology has entered into Wagner 's process and presentation . In many recent pieces he has been working with a fiber-optic thread  --  luminous Balger  --  that reacts to ultraviolet light . As another " veil of information , " there are messages , textual and visual , worked into the tapestries that appear only when the lighting permits . His installation in the 1992-93 traveling exhibition " The New Narrative : Contemporary Fibert Art " included a series of tapestries , timed lighting and sound tracks . When asked how he thinks his work has changed , D. R. Wagner says that the problems have become more complex . He is now interested in working with the visual nature of the elements  --  earth , air , fire , water  --  and how to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when queried about his reasons for choosing such a time-intensive medium , he replies , " I work under the delusion that the work really goes quickly ! " That delusion enriches us all  --  the maker and his audience . Works by D. R. Wagner were on view in solo exhibitions at California 's Crocker Art Museum , Sacramento ( May 13-July 10 ) , and John Natsoulas Gallery , Davis ( June 4-July 31 ) . Jan Janeiro is an artist , writer and former professor at the California College of Arts and Crafts , Oakland . She now resides in New Mexico . <p>                     