@@350136

Ever since the threat of global warming seared its way into public consciousness during the record-breaking heat wave of 1988 , environmentalists have been pushing governments to take action . Auto engines , power plants and landfills spew out carbon dioxide , methane and other heat-trapping gases by the ton . Left unchecked , many scientists believe , the buildup in the atmosphere could create the greenhouse effect , boosting temperatures and changing weather patterns in unpredictable , probably destructive ways . At last year 's Rio Earth Summit , world leaders agreed that emissions of greenhouse gases should be curbed , but at the insistence of the U.S. , the resulting treaty contained no firm goals or mandatory steps . The White House did n't get serious about the issue until the election of eco-conscious Bill Clinton , who pledged in April to forge a concrete strategy against what he calls " perhaps the biggest environmental threat to this planet . " <P> Yet when Clinton 's " Climate Change Action Plan " finally debuted last week , environmentalists could muster only faint praise . Aimed at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 2000 , the document lists 50 initiatives , including incentives to spur use of public transit and expanded programs to promote energy efficiency . But there are two major omissions : the plan does nothing to raise auto-fuel-economy standards , and it contains no energy-tax hikes to boost conservation . <P> Most disturbing to the green brigade , the measures are mostly voluntary . Says William Roberts of the Environmental Defense Fund : " If voluntary programs do n't work , you better have a backup . " The backup here seems to be wait and see : if it is n't working in a few years , Clinton will propose tougher measures . <P> In fairness , the White House insists that its ideas on auto-fuel economy will appear in an upcoming proposal . And the President wants to fight global warming without weakening the economy , losing jobs or hurting American competitiveness . Since the Administration already faces a battle with Congress over health-care reform , it made sense to avoid calls for new legislation , especially energy taxes . Remember how quickly Congress extinguished the BTU tax during @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and regulations , the plan relies heavily on " partnerships for progress , " in which the government will help industry decide how to spend the $60 billion ( the White House 's suggested figure ) in private-sector money needed to reach the pollution-reduction target by the year 2000 . Government agencies , for example , will help businesses evaluate their heating systems and suggest ways to make them more energy efficient . <P> That 's fine  --  if companies are interested in investing money now to reap savings later . But many executives insist that scientists have not absolutely proved that significant global warming will occur . While that 's true , the evidence was enough to persuade dozens of nations to sign the Rio treaty . Clinton is counting on industry to accept that even if climate change is not a certainty , it 's smart to buy some insurance against disaster .                     