@@349737

Nigerians have never given up the idea that their tumultuous but potentially powerful nation will someday have the democratic government it deserves . They may have started down that road in earnest last week when the city of Lagos , a boisterous , sprawling metropolis of more than 6 million , stood empty and silent . Businesses were shuttered , railway and bus transport brought to a standstill , the normally congested streets deserted . Thousands of police and riot-control troops out on patrol had the silent city to themselves . Citizens were staying home to protest the ruling military 's refusal to hand over power to the man elected President on June 12 in the freest , fairest balloting in three decades . For a people accustomed to rule by force , the three-day strike was a brazen act of defiance . <P> Over and over , since Nigeria gained independence 33 years ago , the government has gyrated between short-lived civilian control and military regimes . From the day President Ibrahim Babangida , an army major general , seized power in a coup eight years ago @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ He created two political parties and wrote their platforms : the Social Democratic Party tilted a bit to the left , the National Republican Convention leaned the same degree to the right . He handpicked their presidential candidates . But when Moshood Abiola , the millionaire industrialist candidate of the Social Democrats , won the election and insisted that he be sworn in as President on Aug. 27 , Babangida voided the vote , claiming widespread fraud and vote tampering . <P> Since the June elections , Nigerians have been unwilling to let a few strongmen thwart the wishes of the many . Citizens took to the streets last month in violent demonstrations that left more than 100 dead . That stirred fears  --  crudely exploited by the government  --  of massive unrest or even a return to the tribal war that killed an estimated 1 million Nigerians two decades ago . But leaders of the Campaign for Democracy , a human-rights group spearheading the antigovernment demonstrations , insist that this is not an ethnic conflict . This fight is between those who want to bring democracy to Africa 's most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their will . <P> The situation is unlike the popular uprisings that forced Philippine President Ferdinand Marcos into exile and brought down the Berlin Wall . Rebellious Nigerians face a government willing to use force to keep itself alive . Anonymous circulars warning of tribal violence among the nation 's three largest ethnic groups  --  Yoruba , Ibo and Hausa  --  appeared in Lagos ' crowded slums , setting off a massive exodus . Those with means sent their families out of the country . The poor , the overwhelming majority , sent their children to home villages in the countryside . State security officers and riot police &; rounded up human-rights leaders and interrogated them . False reports in a government-controlled newspaper claimed that critics of Babangida were secretly being financed by the U.S. embassy . " They want to use the threat of a new civil war to bring out their tanks again , " said a human-rights activist .                     