@@410485

Are you better off now than you were four years ago ? " This always was a trick question , but a peculiarly effective one , as the Republicans proved by using it to ward off the Democratic challenge in 1984 . For the majority of voters the answer , then as now , is Yes , if being better off is measured solely by the current size of one 's personal income . During the present period of economic stagnation , more of us may feel a greater sense of vulnerability to financial catastrophe than during the " Roaring ' ' 80s . " Yet given the normal trajectory of the average working person 's lifetime earnings potential , a generally negative answer to this question could be prompted only by a national crisis of unprecedented proportions . So the incumbent team knew they had a winner  --  the kind of question that , if taken seriously , would always produce the right political outcome for any party in power . The economic debate now taking shape in the 1992 presidential campaign , however , seems to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ answer . For a pervasive sense of fear may be fueling this season 's heated political discussion  --  fear that , sooner or later , most of us will have to give a negative answer to this question , especially if it remains the only one we know how to ask . My personal income , I must admit , is higher than it was four years ago . I suspect that is also the case for a healthy majority of the CHRISTIAN CENTURY 's readers . But so what ? Since when do our immediate personal circumstances count as decisive evidence of the overall health of the U.S. economy ? Should n't the effectiveness of national economic policies be judged by some truer litmus test than their short-term impact on one 's personal income ? President Bush , understandably , is frustrated and puzzled by the current mood of the electorate . The recession is over , he and his surrogates insist . And so it is , according to selected government statistics  --  at least in a technical sense . His advisers tell him that most voters are still @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thus his reelection ought to be a cinch . So why is n't it ? Why have the candidates who have positioned themselves as Washington outsiders  --  Pat Buchanan , Jerry Brown and Ross Perot  --  shown such impressive strength ? Why has their message of " Change ! " provoked such a passionate response ? What sort of economic changes do voters attracted to them have in mind ? Are they , like the rest of us , worried that the trick question posed by the incumbents may not continue to yield its expected answer ? Or could we all be groping toward an entirely different question based on a radically different set of assumptions about society and politics ? " Are you better off now than you were four years ago ? " If this were the sole criterion of success in economic policy , then those critics would be right who argue that our nation is captive to the ideology of possessive individualism that elevates pursuit of individual satisfactions over a larger common good . Where such an ideology is in place , public policy argument tends to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Granted , those who hold to such an ideology insist that the common good is best served by economically self-interested behavior . For some time now , Republican strategists seem to have hitched their party 's vision of presidential politics precisely to this ideology , but the fear now fueling this year 's economic debate suggests that the ideology of possessive individualism has proven itself to be a cheat . Yet without the support of an electoral majority-which over a decade ago scorned Walter Mondale 's tough talk about tax increases in favor of the soothing assurances of the Great Communicator  --  the ascendancy of possessive individualism would never have occurred . That same majority is now awakening to the fact that their legitimate economic aspirations , as well as their reverence for patriotism , law and order , and family stability , seem to have been manipulated in favor of policies that ultimately subsidize what one economist has called the secession of the successful . Having been persuaded to accept personal income as the sole criterion of economic well-being , the electorate now seems appalled at the poverty of public @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ did profit enormously from their temporary ideological advantage , the Democrats bear their own share of responsibility for the low estate of political argument . We have all paid dearly , and will continue to pay , for the Democrats ' failure . They have been unable to curb the self-aggrandizing exhibitionism of their own partisans and to renew either the courage or the vision necessary to forge a political coalition that could actually govern this country . These , among other failings , have provided easily exploitable targets for partisan and general ridicule . Ross Perot 's popularity , after all , is a measure of both parties ' failure to provide effective political leadership . Now that Perot apparently has withdrawn from the presidential campaign , it is unlikely that the remaining candidates will level with the American people about the economy . Perot 's economic proposals had at least this much merit : they talked sense about the financial sacrifices that specific groups will have to make in the near term if the nation is to prosper again over the long run . Perot 's withdrawal from the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any particular public relations gaffe or organizational problem . He may have been dissuaded from running by the enormous challenge of convincing the electorate that genuine sacrifices must be made for the common good . How was Perot o convince the elderly to vote either for means-testing Social Security benefits or for taxing such benefits the way other forms of income are taxed ? Any change in Social Security payments is likely to be resisted by organized lobbies like the Gray Panthers as an unconscionable assault on economic rights . Never mind that the elderly experience proportionately less poverty than any other age cohort in our society . The biggest middle-class welfare benefit of them all , however , is the homeowners ' mortgage interest deduction . Perot , quite conservatively , advocated capping that deduction at $200,000 . He should have gone further . No deduction for mortgage interest on real estate loans for purchases other than one 's principal place of residence or business should be allowed . But can you imagine the screams of pain were that sacrifice advocated ? In a campaign universally dedicated to the rediscovery @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will be denounced as a fundamental threat to the American dream . In order to achieve a balanced budget in the next five years , Perot 's plan also included a 50-cent-a-gallon tax on gasoline  --  ten cents a year  --  to be phased in over that period of time . Surely , such a tax would have had an impact on nearly everybody 's wallet , not just on those of the middle class . But over a decade ago , another independent , John M. Anderson , had an even better idea : a gasoline tax of a dollar a gallon , the bulk of which would have been devoted to a long-deferred overhaul of our nation 's transportation systems . What may have been a farsighted proposal in 1980 is now , for many reasons , a national security imperative . And though such a tax would still keep American gasoline prices lower than those in virtually every other advanced industrial society , one can safely predict that any candidate who promotes it will be consigned to political oblivion . Perot must have known what he would have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such a plan . Given the demonstrated political lethargy , massive ignorance and sheer momentum of the average citizen 's habits of personal consumption , it would have required a martyr 's dedication for Perot not to have resigned from the contest . There just was n't enough time before the November election to turn people 's attitudes around . So the field has been left to the professional politicians . The economic policies advocated by Bill Clinton , however , merit more than cynical dismissal . Clinton 's approach , overall , does represent a positive change in the ideology of the Democratic Party . His economic analysis rightly points to the country 's need for long-term public investment in a variety of projects designed to empower American workers for successful competition in the global economy . He and his advisers clearly recognize that educational reform at all levels is the key to an effective industrial policy . And , significantly , he insists that resolving our nation 's crisis in health-care financing may be the single most important contribution the government can make to improving the productivity of American @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ offered by some of his Democratic opponents , Clinton 's plan at least recognizes that U.S. economic development is jeopardized by our continuing refusal to confront the health-care crisis . When the specifics of Clinton 's economic plan are compared with Perot 's , it becomes clear that Clinton 's first priority is riggering a new phase of economic growth through a coordinated program of public and private investment . Indeed , he is willing to risk further deficits in the federal budget in order to do so . Perot , by contrast , seemed to accept slow growth over the next five years as the price to be paid for resolving the deficit problem once and for all . While Clinton hopes to slash the deficit in half over the same period , his assumption that the remainder of the deficit will evaporate under conditions of long-term economic growth is all too reminiscent of optimistic 's attempt to have it both ways . Under the current circumstances , however , Clinton 's platform has a better chance of actually being adopted by the voters . In his book The Zero-Sum @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the prospects for restructuring the American economy for global competitiveness . Written more than a decade ago the book , alas , seems even more relevant today than it did in 1980 . In Thurow 's view , our problem is not a zero-sum economy , as if the market system itself were the cause of our failure , but a zero-sum society . Such a society is one whose political culture is in such disarray that it simply can not sustain the levels of civic cohesiveness needed to bear the sacrifices required for the common good . Thurow 's own diagnosis of this underlying moral deficit is not very illuminating , but Clinton and his advisers hint that they may have understood it better than they 've let on so far . I refer , of course , to the tantalizing rhetoric of a " new covenant " featured in Clinton 's acceptance speech at the Democratic convention . The programmatic objectives symbolized by this term , as sketchy as they are , were clearer than ( what I assume must be ) their religious and moral presuppositions . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ through the chords of American memory than the inclusive celebration of " community " expressed by Mario Cuomo or the " new American mandate " blandly promoted by Paul Tsongas . If the economic debate in this campaign is really about moving beyond the politics of " Are you better off now ? , " Clinton may have stumbled upon the one source in our national traditions capable of sustaining the search for an alternative . To speak of a " new covenant " implies a willingness to confess once more the inescapably religious basis of our public life . Such language should not be used as a biblical fig leaf to cover the sins of a failed secular liberalism , nor to prostitute our country 's religious heritage for partisan political purposes . Talk of a new national covenant instead should foster an economic policy that makes the common good rather than the pursuit of narrow self-interest the touchstone of success . Whatever Clinton 's own intentions , his covenantal rhetoric implies a structure of mutual obligation from which no group can either secede or be excluded . The really @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that rhetoric , are prepared to hold him or any other presidential candidate strictly accountable to it . If the electorate , even in its current state of disenchantment , seems incapable of understanding the vital relationship between self-sacrifice and the common good , the culpability for this loss of civic insight lies to a great extent in our churches ' gradual and nearly fatal abdication of public responsibility . If voters generally have been lulled into complacency by politicians offering only trick questions and easy answers , to the point where few see anything wrong with measuring economic policy by the sole criterion of our own narrow selfinterest , we must accept our share of the blame . By removing ourselves for too long from the mainstream of economic debate and political argument , we in the churches have become the unwitting accomplices of those who seek to marginalize the social gospel . Can Christians realistically expect politicians to envision a new covenant clearly when we have ceased to order our own thinking in those terms ? If change there 's to be , it must begin with ourselves . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @            