@@429152

Methodist action , reaction I MUST CORRECT the record about one point in William Willimon 's recent report on the United Methodist General Conference ( " Reformer and handwringer , " May 15 ) . He credits me with developing the statement signed by 15 United Methodist bishops who voice their dissent from current United Methodist policies on homosexuality . I concur in the bishops ' judgment and celebrate their courage , but they did this all by themselves ! J. Philip Wogaman Foundry United Methodist Church , Washington , D.C. I TOO SAT in the back row of the United Methodist Church General Conference , but I must have been in the opposite corner from William Willimon . Willimon reports with alarm that " there was not a hint of crisis " at General Conference . He cites loss of church members and decrease in benevolence giving as causes of his alarm . He summarizes Bishop Judith Craig 's episcopal address as a warning " not to rock the boat . " I experienced it differently . I felt that the conference was steadied by the deep @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reaches down below the choppy surface of a troubled time and keeps us to a true course . To anyone who is anxious to change the course of the church , the deep keel feels irresistible . Willimon is not the only disappointed reformer . Many of us who support opening doors of the church to gay men and lesbians have fought unsuccessfully against the deep keel . In preparation for General Conference , I acquainted myself with some of the recent alarmist literature . I heard two voices competing for the floor . One is the voice of panic , shrieking , " We 're going to sail off the edge of the earth ! " The other is the voice of assurance , chanting , " The world is round , there is no edge . " There are storms , and certainly we must listen for indications of trouble . But in the main , the church knows its heritage and is faithful to God 's leadings . Even a disappointed reformer like Willimon must recognize that the church changes its course dramatically over time . Perhaps it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ much as the nature of the changes . Perhaps the voice of panic among some reformers is inseparable from the passing of an age in the UMC . Melvin Finkbeiner , who represented the Pacific Northwest Annual Conference at General Conferences for 30 years , reminds me that only clergymen voted until the mid-1800s , when laymen were given the vote . The first laywoman was seated at a General Conference in 1892 , and women were not granted full clergy standing until 1956 . Willimon sees and hears as a white clergyman from the South , the traditional stronghold of Methodism . I see and hear as a clergywoman from the west , still a frontier in the denomination . Among the 15 bishops advocating openness to gay men and lesbians , the two groups most strikingly represented were women and the west . We who have been outside experience the back row as a place of entrance . It is not surprising that many of the hand-wringing reformers focused on representation issues . Their proposals would have reasserted the southern U.S. as the center of power in the denomination @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the church is shared with traditionally " disempowered " persons . Willimon heard the defeat of these proposals as " bad news . " I experienced the reassurance that , while the United Methodist Church is changing radically , we have not lost our bearings . We are blown by the winds of the Holy Spirit and kept on a true course by a deep and trustworthy keel of faith . We are God 's church , not perfectly , but faithfully . I 'll stick with Bishop Woodie White 's closing affirmation that the " good news is the bad news is wrong . " Elaine Stanovsky Puget Sound District of the United Methodist Church , Everett , Wash . Scholarship and commitment . . IT WAS disappointing to see James M. Wall describe the American Academy of Religion and its members as antagonistic toward scholars who " might be suspected of harboring a genuine religious commitment " ( " Speaking of religion , " April 24 ) . Perhaps Wall 's comment was a merely rhetorical flourish within an editorial focusing on the failure of American media to deal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It is deeply ironic , however , to find Wall engaging in precisely the kind of biased coverage he condemns . With one offhanded comment he effectively reinforces the false notion that all scholarship is antireligious and dismisses the life work of thousands of scholars who see the AAR as a place where they can effectively pursue those forms of scholarship that spring from their religious concerns and sensibilities . Surely there are some AAR members who view religious life and practice with suspicion , just as there are some who pursue the study of religion for purely intellectual ( rather than religious ) reasons . But there are also AAR members-probably the great majority-whose spiritual sensibilities and religious commitments set a context for their intellectual reflections . The AAR has self-consciously positioned itself to welcome " all disciplined reflection on religion from both within and outside communities of belief and practice . " We believe that religious reflection is strengthened by the fruitful juxtaposition of diverse perspectives . It is important that our openness not be misconstrued as hostility to faith . That simply is not true . Barbara DeConcini @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ga . Using civilians as shields . . IN CONTENDING that Israel 's inadvertent shelling of the United Nations base in Cana caused disproportionate suffering , James M. Wall ignores Hezbollah 's current and longstanding belligerence toward Israel , and the pain which this terrorist organization has inflicted upon Israelis ( " Out of proportion , " May 22-29 ) . This pro-Iranian terrorist organization has a long history of bloody antiIsrael violence , including years of deadly Katyusha rocket attacks on northern Israeli population centers . Most recently , Hezbollah 's despicable use of fellow Lebanese civilians as human shields in Cana demonstrated its lack of regard for the sanctity of human life . Undoubtedly expecting Israeli retaliation on the launching spot , Hezbollah proceeded to fire Katyushas from the parameters of the base in Cana which housed hundreds of civilians . The Israeli shelling in Cana was a tragedy . But the UN report on the incident was unjust in drawing premature conclusions before Israel had a fair chance to review the findings and present its own data . An objective account would have included a complete examination of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ criticized the United Nations Interim Force in Lebanon ( UNIFIL ) for having permitted Hezbollah to conduct terrorist activities from the area of the UN compound . Abraham H. Foxman Anti-Defamation League , New York , N.Y Revisiting Forrest Gump . . . THE IDEA that Forest Gump is a " feel-good " movie is ludicrous to me ( " Ignorance is bliss , " by Matthew Giunti , May 12 ) . The whole story is of pain and hopelessness . It is more like a Greek tragedy that is set in motion the moment Forrest gets on the school bus , and maybe when his momma does what is necessary to get him on that bus . There is even an implication that the cycle may repeat in the last scene when the junior Forrest Gump gets on the school bus with the same bus driver . Forrest Gump is the story of what it is like to love an abuse survivor . The special effects with past presidents , the simpleton who invents happy face T-shirts and thinks Apple Computer is a fruit company-all of this is incidental @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the abuse survivor . The movie shows how those who love an abuse survivor must let her work through her self-destructive impulses , act out her low self-esteem and live life with unclear boundaries . Frederick W. Keene San Bernardino , Calif . I felt in the minority until I read Matthew Giunti 's comments on Forrest Gump . When I saw the movie I liked it immediately . Yet as I thought about the movie 's message over several months , and as " Gumpmania " consumed America , I changed my mind . I think Giunti is correct : " The message is clear : you can do good in America , or you can do well , but to do both , simply turn off your mind and go with the flow . " The film seems to say that Gump is lucky to be " blessed " with lower intelligence : his life includes awards , meetings with presidents and a thriving business built on being literally too ignorant to " come in out of the hurricane . " Stephen H. Janssen First Presbyterian Church of Orange @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . MANY THANKS for James M. Wall 's editorial " Remembering the facts " ( June 19-26 ) . I recently spent three months at the Tantur Ecumenical Institute on the Jerusalem/West Bank border . Wall 's description of what has been and continues to happen is dead-on accurate . On what is Holy Saturday for the Western church , a walk was held from Manger Square in Bethlehem to the site of a proposed " military road " ( read " settlement road " ) for the Jabal Abu Ghneim area 's proposed Har Homa settlement . I participated in that peaceful protest walk with 800 to 1,000 others . The next week an Israel court ordered a temporary halt to the road construction . I do not know whether that halt is still in effect ; I would not be surprised if it is not . The military often disregards court orders for " security " reasons . We Americans can not afford to ignore the reality of what is happening to the Palestinian people in the Holy Land . David Bruning St. Andrew Church , St. Patrick Church @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ newspapers and a non-Zionist Jew , I take issue with James M. Wall 's columns " Behind the bombing " ( April 3 ) and " Out of proportion " ( May 2229 ) . The theme of both is Israel 's disproportionate reaction : to the relentless Palestinian suicide bombers , and attacks by Hezbollah guerrillas in Lebanon on northern Israeli towns . The Israeli bombardment of southern Lebanon killed 100 refugees in Cana , which Israel insists was a horrific accident . Israel has shown Gandhian restraint in the face of wave after wave of Palestinian suicide bombers and of barbarous attacks against its citizens ( not to mention the many others foiled ) which have caused 215 deaths since the Israeli-Palestinian " peace accord " of 1993 . No industrialized democracy has confronted this kind of savagery since 1945 , yet the Israeli government and public have refrained from retaliation to a degree unheard of . Jacob Mendlovic Toronto , Ontario <p>                     