@@398795

/Jan 1998 When her son Brian was 2 , Susan Wilkowski , of Merrick , NY , concocted a way to keep him close by while still giving him room to roam . She fastened one end of a rope around her waist and the other around his , with just enough slack for him to reach the sidewalk while she worked in the front-yard garden . " My son is a runner , " says Wilkowski . " A cat , a squirrel-anything can get him going . I wanted him out in the fresh air , but not out of my sight . " Although many parents would never consider using a restraint on their children , others have discovered that a leash or harness can allow an extremely active child to wander without getting into harm 's way . " A two-year-old has little sense of danger and a short attention span , " says Paul Trautman , M.D. , medical director of the pediatric psychiatry clinic at ColumbiaPresbyterian Medical Center , in New York City . " If you say , Stay nearby , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but then he 's going to wander . " Restraints should be viewed as a means of keeping your child close while shopping , traveling , or walking , rather than as a means of immobilizing him . " Leashes are not for parental convenience as much as for encouraging movement , " says Angela Mickalide , Ph.D. , program director of the National Safe Kids Campaign . WHAT WILL THE NEIGHBORS THINK ? You may draw disapproving looks from passersby , but according to Dr. Trautman , a child will have no lasting memory of wearing a harness or a leash , and most likely there will be no psychological consequences . Your best retort to critics may be that you 'd rather use a leash than chance losing your child in a crowd or letting him get injured . RESTRAINING ORDERS Toddler tethers come in several varieties . Leashes connect parent to child either wrist to wrist or by linking the adult 's wrist to the child 's torso . Harness vests consist of a strap that wraps around the toddler 's waist , shoulder straps , and a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the vest . The parent attaches the other end of this rein around her wrist . Whichever tether you choose , keep these safety tips in mind : To avoid the risk of strangulation , never leave your child unattended when he 's wearing the contraption . Secure your toddler to you , never to a fixed object . Keep a close watch on your toddler at all times . A harnessed child can still walk a few feet away , into the path of a car backing out of a driveway , for instance . If using a leash in a crowd , shorten the strap to minimize the risk of others tripping over it and injuring themselves or your child . Always store the rein out of your child 's reach . - TERI DANIELS <p>                     