@@392820

After nearly one year of legal challenges , the law that bans affirmative action in California went into effect on the same day as the 34th anniversary of Dr. Martin Luther King , Jr . ' s " I Have A Dream " speech at the March On Washington . Protesters marched across the Golden Gate Bridge in San Francisco to show their disgust with Proposition 209 , which makes California the first state to eliminate race and gender consideration in everything from hiring to education . The Rev. Jesse Jackson , who organized the march , urged the opponents of the law to keep fighting . " In this country there are those who are dreamers and those who are dream-busters , " Jackson told the crowd of about 9,000 that gathered for a rally following the march . " The dreamers need to outlast the dreambusters . We must pursue the dream of an inclusive society . " San Francisco Mayor Willie Brown also joined the protesters . He likened the ban on affirmative action to Jim Crow laws . " This same kind of march @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ same thing , " Brown said . Many of the demonstraters-who ranged from school children to college students to elderly of all races-wore buttons that said " Save the dream . " The marchers chanted and sang We Shall Overcome as they trooped across the bridge . Others who drove by honked to show their support . The protest was peaceful . Proposition 209 was passed by a 54 percent margin by California voters last year . However , the law had been tied up in courts since . The American Civil Liberties Union and other opponents tried to have it struck down , but the 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals refused to block implementation while it is appealed to the U.S. Supreme Court . " This is history , " said Jestine Singleton , 60 , of Riverside , CA , about the march . " We 've still got the dream . It 's still coming . " Another march participant , Jean Mont-Eton , 68 , of San Francisco , added , " I do n't think we 've undone the negative effects of slavery ... I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not clear whether the implementation of the law would have any immediate impact . Some local California officials said they would keep their affirmative-action programs , but others were quick to warn that failing to abide by the law would not be tolerated . The effects of laws such as Proposition 209 have already been felt . In a similar measure approved by University of California regents in 1995 , the school banned affirmative action on the system 's campuses . This fall , the number of minority students admitted to the University of California 's law schools dropped drastically . The law will go into effect at the undergraduate level in the fall of 1998. // <p>                     