@@481049

The proofs of recession had been so unmistakable for so many months that I had thought President Bush might wish to say something pertinent on the topic in his State of the Union address . He spoke on January 29 , and January had been an especially grim month along the whole line of the economic front . The Bank of New England failed on January 6 , at a cost to the government of $2.3 billion ; on January 7 the Defense Department canceled a $52 billion weapons contract , obliging two defense contractors ( McDonnell Douglas and General Dynamics ) to lay off 10,000 workers in St. Louis and Fort Worth ; over the course of the next two weeks the unemployment rate reached 6 percent ; Eastern Airlines collapsed and Pan American World Airways filed for protection under the bankruptcy laws ; numerous major corporations , among them Occidental Petroleum and Manufacturers Hanover , halved the dividend paid to stockholders ; the governors of twenty-eight states declared what one of them called " financial martial law " and preached what another of them called " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and fewer public services ) ; the big automobile companies reported heavy losses , and the consumer-confidence index receded to its lowest ebb since the Great Depression . Together with the news of general and institutional failure , the media supplied a fund of grim anecdotes that measured the winter 's defeats in the specific instances of individual suffering and panic : people losing jobs , houses , their definitions of self ; a woman in Iowa too frightened to go into a store because she could n't afford to buy anything ; a former owner of a marketing company in California glad of the chance to clean toilets ; two high school students in North Carolina who had given up the hope of college ; and a woman in Massachusetts saying , " It 's scary ; it 's like unemployed people are coming out of the sky , there are so many of them . " The casualty reports apparently did n't make much of an impression on President Bush . Buoyed by the applause of the Congress on the evening of January 29 , the President talked mostly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of planes and boats in the Persian Gulf . He took up the question of the nation 's troubled economic affairs with an air of faint distaste , as if any extended discussion about money was somehow beneath the dignity of a gentleman . About a third of the way into his speech he descended to the topic by means of a transition from the patriotic heights of sententious moralism : " We are resolute and resourceful , " he said . " If we can selflessly confront evil for the sake of good in a land so far away , then surely we can make this land all that it should be . " For the next fifteen minutes Mr. Bush read through the list of catchwords that his speechwriters deemed appropriate to the occasion ? " hard work of freedom , " " shining purpose , " " thousand points of light , " " next American century , " " economic expansion temporarily interrupted , " " what America is all about , " etc. , etc . He dutifully performed the ritual of polite phrases , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ try to express a feeling of heartfelt concern . Blinking earnestly in the light , his voice reaching for the note of tremulous sincerity , he said : " I know , tonight , in some regions of our country , people are in genuine economic distress . And I hear them . " The effect was embarrassing . It was obvious that Mr. Bush did n't hear anybody who was n't talking to him about the sport of war in " a land so far away . " His attempt at genuine emotion proved as unctuous and vacant as the sentiment sent to an unknown nephew on a Hallmark card . His failure was one of the imagination , what his handlers in the 1988 election campaign recognized as his difficulty with " the vision thing . " His words were empty because he could n't see through the veil of abstraction ( deficit , interest rate , percentage of unemployed , loans defaulted , etc. ) to the scenes of human suffering implicit in the numbers . He did n't know ? quite literally ? what he was talking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of his experience , his lack of sympathy is by no means surprising . Listening to him speak , I remembered that he was a rich man , accustomed from birth to the attitudes of mind associated with the habits of privilege and wealth . Rich people find it almost impossible to imagine the existence of anybody unlike themselves . Their indifference follows from their inability to take seriously other people 's desires , and they constantly ask themselves the peevish questions , " Who are all those other people out there , and what in Heaven 's name do they want ? " The self becomes so inextricably identified with money that the rich man imagines that only his attachment to it gives it meaning , substance , and virtue . Money has no discernible reality in the hands of lesser mortals because lesser mortals have no decent use for it . The philosophers of the reactionary Right dress up this congenital selfishness with the argument that although money is good for the rich it is bad for the poor . The rich know how to ward off the corrosive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ temptations placed in the way of the poor ( such as welfare payments , student loans , or food stamps ) invariably corrupt their morals and destroy their sense of self-worth . Because the rich object to the very thought of other people also becoming rich ? crowding the golf courses , commanding tables at the better restaurants , taking up too much of the available light , space , air , and publicity ? nothing comforts them so much as reading the obituary notices of their peers , or the reports of ruin and catastrophe visited , like moral judgments , on the lower classes . From the point of view of people with money in hand , an economic recession is always extremely good news . As long ago as last December the secretary of the treasury , Nicholas Brady , a friend of Mr. Bush 's and himself a rich man , put the matter as plainly as possible in answer to a journalist 's question about the state of the deteriorating economy : " I do n't think it 's the end of the world , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . We'llpull back out of it again . No big deal . " No big deal for Mr. Brady , who rests comfortably on an expensive fortune , and certainly not the end of the world for Mr. Brady 's fellow members of the Links Club and the Essex County Hunt , who welcome the bracing atmosphere of bankruptcy and debt as a sign that soon they will have the chance to buy property at gratifyingly distressed prices . The business principle is as simple as the looting of Kuwait . Students of human unhappiness as different from one another as J. P. Morgan and Voltaire understood that the comfort of the rich requires an abundant supply of the poor . Without the goads and spurs of poverty , who would clean the toilets in California , or carry the golf clubs at Burning Tree , or enlist in President Bush 's armies ? Although the mathematics of recession remain constant the rich get richer , the poor get poorer ? the tone of the accompanying sophism reflects the balance of power between the possessing and the nonpossessing classes . If @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ present danger to the moral perfection of the status quo , the rich give some thought to their choice of words . During the recession of 1982 the managers of the national finance took as much care with their rhetoric as with their raids on the Treasury . If the Bush administration no longer feels obliged to maintain anything other than the minimum appearance of polite concern , it is because the rigged financial markets of the Reagan administration called into being what can be of the population became 8 percent poorer ; during the same period of time American families within the richest 20 percent of the population became 13 percent richer . The disparity between rich and poor was most glaringly apparent at the extreme points of measurement . The income received by the upper 1 percent of American families improved by 49.8 percent in the years between 1977 and 1988 ; simultaneously , and by no means accidentally , the income received by families in the lowliest 1 percent of the population declined by 14.8 percent . Somewhere toward the middle of the decade of the 1980s , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the income that the American people earned from capital ( i.e. , from rents , dividends , and interest ) equaled the sum earned as wages . The people who profited so handsomely from the miracle of the junk-bond markets and the wonders of deregulation meant to keep what they had , and the election of President Bush ratified the division of the spoils . The company of the blessed ( i.e. , citizens of newfound leisure enjoying the view from the society 's box seats ) may not represent an impressive percentage of the population ( probably no more than 5 percent ) , but when counted as an absolute number ( ten or twelve million timid and self-interested individuals ) they comprise a formidable political faction . By and large they are the people who manage the government , operate the media and the banks , control the universities and the advertising images , print the money , and write the laws . Not all of them , of course , have had the sense to recognize their own interests , and I assume that a good many of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ summer and so neglected to buy heavily in the bond markets . Some others among them undoubtedly found themselves on the wrong side of the corporate ledger when it came time for the company chairman to write the awful memorandum about how the company had no choice ( given the need to " restore America 's competitive spirit in the world " ) but to let go entire battalions of its middle management . Even so , and no matter what accidents might befall as much as a third of the membership , the possessing classes stand to profit from the recession . Assured of their prerogatives , and knowing that their interests will be flatteringly portrayed in the press , the possessing classes can count on the full faith and hacking of President Bush . By the end of January they understood that the phrase " thousand points of light " referred to the fireworks displays in Kuwait and Iraq . If they had any further doubts about the President 's distrust of the American poor , they had only to study the bias embedded in the budget that he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ State of the Union address , the budget offered no concessions to charity : no public works ; no nonsense about social safety nets . Richard Darman , the budget director , complained , becomingly , about so much money ( the wretched entitlements ) still being wasted on the greedy poor , and he recommended a subtraction of $46.6 billion over the next five years from the line items that fall under Medicare , farm price supports , and schools . With the projection of a $318 billion deficit for the next fiscal year ( a sum certain to prove grossly understated ) , everybody holding cash or its equivalents could look forward both to a near-term fall in property prices and a long-term rise of the interest rates . Even if the Bush administration wished to correct the economic imbalances in the country , I doubt that it possesses the means to do so . The government 's fiscal and monetary policies appear to work against one another , and the interests of the domestic economy seem almost directly opposed to the interests of the international economy . Nor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ endorses ( unanimously and by acclamation ) whatever expedient purpose serves its own nonpartisan vanity and cowardice . Like the President , the Congress obeys the rule of money , and the successful politician learns , as do the merely rich , that in order to preserve the coldness of heart necessary to the maintenance of a safe fortune or a public image he must alienate himself from anything so subversive as an honest thought or a magnanimous act . He can buy a place for himself in the midst of events ( the front row at the Los Angeles Coliseum , say , or a seat in the United States Senate ) , but if he knows what 's good for his career ( and President Bush always has known , as unerringly as a blind pig on the scent of a white truffle , what 's good for his career ) then he will listen to the advice of the family lawyers ( or the National Security Council , or the Federal Reserve Board , or the Joint Chiefs of Staff ) who warn him against the folly of generous @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ anybody other than themselves . It 's possible to love one 's dog , or one 's dress , or one 's duck-shooting hat ( maybe even one 's air force or one 's Ferragamo shoes ) , but a human being presents a problem of a far more difficult order of magnitude . In his State of the Union address Mr. Bush spoke more touchingly about the distress of the nation 's banks than he did about the suffering of his fellow citizens . The priority of his concern reminded me of a press conference last summer at which a government bank examiner was trying to explain why it was going to cost yet another $2 billion to make good the debts of yet another savings bank . The man was impatient and annoyed . For some days he had been looking for trace elements of liquidity in the desert of the balance sheet , and he was inno mood to comment on the loss of jobs likely to result from so spectacular a fraud . In answer to what he thought was a stupid question , he said , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , I only represent banks , not people . " From the point of view of the season subscribers in the box seats , the recession presents itself as spectacle ? something seen on television , a kind of down-market sitcom that allows the audience to laugh about the beggars pawing through the garbage in the streets , about the 37 million Americans who can not afford the price of health insurance , about the grammar schools abandoned to the drug trade , about all those homeless people lying around on the sidewalks . If we find the jokes depressing , we can always switch the channel to the scenes of glorious war in Iraq . The brightly smiling newscasters will assure us , once again , that we are doing the right and noble thing , that we have become , just as President Bush promised , a kinder , gentler nation .                     