@@395770

IT WAS A LITTLE BEFORE 3 P.M. ON July 4 , 1979 , when a district fire dispatcher notified Larry Keown that smoke was billowing from the forest south of Gardiner Lookout . As District Fire Management Officer with the U.S. Forest Service , Keown was responsible for overseeing all fires in the Noose Creek District of Idaho 's Selway-Bitterroot Wilderness . The spreading flames crackled and spit on the steep southern slope of Ponderosa pine above Bear Creek , a tributary of the Selway River . Keown knew the blaze had the potential of becoming an inferno , one that could engulf thousands of acres of trees and blot out the sun with its smoke . He decided to let the fire burn . Its name became Independence . The decision to let Independence run wild through the woods was the result of years of slowly changing attitudes toward the role of fire in land management . This and other " let burn " and " prescribed burn " decisions on public lands have been a long time in the making , but their positive affects on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ And the improved hunting opportunity fire has created is undeniable . Around the turn of the century , a series of nine catastrophic fires in the Great Lakes region took a devastating toll on human life and timber , killing a total of 3,400 people and consuming more than 6 million acres of forest land . This destruction helped incite a national mood that saw fire as an ugly force that had to be dealt with . By 1934 the Forest Service had initiated its 10 A.M. Policy . It meant that all available firefighters and equipment be brought into action to suppress a forest fire by 10 A.M. the day after it started . In 1942 the Forest Service launched a massive nationwide fire-prevention drive . Three years later , Smokey the Bear was introduced to the public as the official spokesman for this effort . The now familiar " Only you can prevent forest fires " was his gruff warning . The campaign has taught generation after generation of us that all fires  --  except well-controlled campfires  --  are bad news . According to the Forest Service , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has dropped dramatically since the campaign first began . " Smokey has become one of the most effective campaigns in history ... to influence a serious national problem , " reports the organization . Larry Keown kept a daily log of the Independence fire . And on July 10 , six days after its beginning , Keown and Dave Clarke hiked into the wilderness to set up a base camp near the confluence of Cub and Bear Creeks , positioned within sight of the smoke and the flames . To men for whom fire had always meant fire lines , machinery , and backbreaking work , it was a totally new experience . " It was so quiet , " Larry says , remembering . " There were n't any chain saws ; no one was yelling . There was just the crackle of the fire , and once in a while a tree would crash to the ground . " For the next month , Clarke acted as a fire monitor , relaying fire and weather data via radio to the Noose Creek Ranger Station . Keown used this information @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . While Smokey the Bear was teaching us to bad-mouth forest fires , the use of fire suppression was teaching the Forest Service other things . Where fires were regularly extinguished , trees matured and died . As they began to fall and cover the ground , movement became difficult for moose , elk , and deer . While dead trees piled up on the forest floor , understory vegetation  --  in the absence of fire  --  grew to heights that were unreachable by browsing wildlife . Moose , elk , and deer populations began to decline , and hunters were hard pressed to find game . With the accumulation of dead wood , the likelihood of wildfires began to escalate until they became inevitable in some areas . When they did occur , they raged in all-consuming fireballs that were extremely costly to combat . As a result , the Forest Service began recognizing that fire could play a positive role in wildlife environs . For centuries , across the continent , Native Americans started fires to drive or surround deer while hunting . According to one report from the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of fire hunting in October " .... hundreds of Indians ... spreading themselves in length through a great extent of country , set the woods on fire , which with the assistance of the wind is driven to some peninsula , or neck of land , into which deers , bears and other animals were drove by the raging fire and smoke , and being hemm 'd in are destroyed in great numbers by their guns . " Indians were also aware of fire 's beneficial aftereffects . Tom Puchlerz of the Forest Service says , " Indians started a lot of fires ; they understood that if they burned an area , they could come back later and it would be a good place to hunt . " Likewise , early settlers in the Southeast recognized that periodic fires promoted forage growth for wildlife , attracting game and giving hunters more success . When fires did not occur naturally , homesteaders set them on purpose . In so doing , they became users of what has become known as prescribed burning  --  burning forests or plains under controlled conditions to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has been developed by the Forest Service as an important tool to reduce wildfires and to improve wildlife habitats . For example , northern Idaho conifer forests offered little browse for elk until prescription burning was used in certain areas . Today shrubs grow where trees were burned , and elk and deer use has increased dramatically . In some areas , winter elk use has risen over 300 percent . In other areas , whitetail use has surged 500 percent above that of nearby areas which have not been burned . The increased game use , visibility , and ease of access caused by the burning has greatly improved hunting conditions . Two weeks after starting , Independence had burned 682 acres . But before going out , several months later , its affects were already becoming evident in new vegetation sprouting up on the site where the fire first began . " Traveling upstream along Bear Creek was like walking through a time machine , " recalls Keown . The vegetation that came back most rapidly were plants that had structural adaptations that could respond to fire ; Plants @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for example , were quick to regenerate . Their horizontal , subsurface stems had been protected from the intense heat . Soon after the fire , they started sending up leafy shoots that were supplied with nutrients by roots that had remained unaffected by the flames . The first new-growth appeared where rocks had funneled water onto dormant rhizomes and root crowns . By October , protected with a mulch of scorched and fallen pine needles and fern fronds , wheatgrass would be 4 inches tall , and mountain maple saplings would reach 3 feet . Much of the rapid growth was due to the increase of nutrients present in the ash left by the burned vegetation . This new-growth represented an improved food supply for wildlife dependent on browse and forage . It is this fire-equals-food equation that makes fire such a beneficial element in managing a variety of wildlife habitats . Increasingly , the Forest Service is setting fires ad letting naturally caused fires burn in order to improve these habitats , and improved game habitats inevitably lead to improved hunting . Prescription burning is being used in Virginia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ being set in California 's chaparral to upgrade mule deer habitat . Old groves of aspen are burned in the Midwest to stimulate new sucker growth for the benefit of grouse and deer . Willows are torched in Montana to regenerate moose browse . Prescription burns are set in the Rockies to renew winter range for bighorn sheep and to stimulate huckleberry growth for grizzlies . The positive affects of these fires can last for years , even decades in some instances . DESPITE CINEMATIC NOTIONS TO the contrary , animals are rarely killed by fires . Although the aftereffects of fires occasionally produce conditions that favor some species over others , in most instances a heterogeneous and dynamic environment is created . Normally a fire does not devastate an entire area . Instead , it produces what is called a vegetative mosaic . As the fire travels over valleys and ridges , the terrain and the fuels in its path offer different conditions for burning , causing the fire to move in irregular patterns over the landscape . In some places , most of the vegetation may be destroyed , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may burn . The result is a mixture of vegetation of varying ages growing side by side . This mosaic provides not only food , but also thermal and escape cover for a diversity of wildlife . In addition to creating and maintaining a complete and healthy habitat , fire also creates various patterns of cover for hunters to use while stalking game . Fire scars found on Douglas firs at elevations between 5,000 and 8,600 feet in Wyoming indicate that wildfires may have burned every twenty to twenty-five years before we started extinguishing them . On the plains , natural fires may have occurred as frequently as every ten years , suggesting that grassland can also be improved by periodic burning . Consider the Sun River Game Range near Choteau , Montana , where approximately 3,000 elk winter on a mixture of native plants . Rough fescue , a perennial bunchgrass , is their favorite . But in some areas of the range , the accumulation of old-growth grassland and dead plant litter impeded elk access to new-growth , and what they could find was poor in nutrition . As @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ set ablaze in the fall of 1983 and 1984 . The result of that burn was a 300-percent increase in elk use . A similar prescription burn was set in the spring of 1987 in the Elkhorn Mountains near Helena , Montana , in an attempt to regenerate old-growth grassland , which elk had not been using . Of particular interest is the fact that half of the cost of this Elkhorn burn was paid for by the Helena Chapter of the Rocky Mountain Elk Foundation , a private organization dedicated to the preservation of elk , elk habitat , and elk hunting . Through a new Forest Service Challenge Grant created by Congress , the Rocky Mountain Elk Foundation has provided hundreds of thousands of dollars for habitat improvement and has become the Forest Service 's biggest grant matcher . Despite the success stories over the rediscovery of the beneficial effects of fire for wildlife habitats and for improved hunting opportunities , some shortsighted uses of prescribed burns have occurred . One Forest Service official in Montana admits : " There 's a lot of controversy as far as burning @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to it . In a lot of cases it 's providing some pretty good cover . We made some mistakes in the late 1970s ; we burned up some sagebrush that should never have been burned . It was really tall stuff that was providing really good cover for mule deer , but we were trying to improve grass production for elk and forgot about the deer . " We 've laid off sagebrush lately , " says the official . " Fire can produce a lot of grass . You can get a lot of elk coming in there right away . But you have to think about the trade-offs on other species . " The use of fire for wildlife is here to stay , despite the admonitions of Smokey the Bear . But the problem now , according to one Forest Service researcher , is " reeducating the public on the ecological soundness of the role fire has played in the maintenance of natural ecosystems in much of the U.S. " As for the Independence fire , eight months after its birth by lightning , the last of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by an employee of the Idaho Department of Fish and Game conducting an elk survey . There is no doubt that the affects of Independence today , even after a decade , remain a boon to elk and deer and the people who hunt them . The author hails from Montana , and is a frequent contributor to FIELD &; STREAM . <p>                     