@@404254

From Thanksgiving through Hanukkah , Christmas , and Kwanzaa til New Year 's Day-whatever your tradition-a glorious season is on the way , provided you avoid the dreaded holidaze . It 's all up to you ! Plan , plan , plan Start planning now . Planning is fun . But expect glitches . Definitely plug flexibility into your agenda . Discard the useless " I used to " . Start your planning by taking an inventory of things that work for you . For example , if rest time works for you , schedule some time to meditate or just " zone out " during the day . Do n't wear yourself and everyone else out . That is definitely not fun ! Next , make a realistic budget for gifts and food you 'll buy so you do n't have to pay for overdoing it later . Organize-and amaze yourself with your efficient and calm accomplishments . My family ca n't believe how much I have ready before they arrive . Freezing desserts and casseroles weeks ahead of time makes me a hero . If you @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a list of tasks you need help with . And if you 're celebrating with Uncle Homer in Timbuktu , include an accessibility check . Anticipate your needs before you go , so you wo n't be ambushed by toonarrow doors or too many steps . Gift shortcuts Choosing gifts is easier if you remember that a gift symbolizes something you know about the recipient-it says this present was " intended just for you " . Start now to use your phone and those catalogs because mail-order companies can be overwhelmed later . ( I did n't get my granddaughter 's butterfly wings until two days post-holiday last year . ) Also consider gift certificates for long-distance telephone calls , video clubs , bookstores , even candy stores , or give money to the National MS Society in a friend 's name . As you order , keep a gift list with confirmation numbers . Simple is beautiful Decorating can be creative yet economical . Stick cloves into citrus fruit and pile them in a festive bowl . Put nuts in a wooden bowl with a nutcracker and sprig of greenery @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their cookie supply . Collect paints , markers , sponges , and butcher paper so your children can make wrapping paper and help wrap gifts . I think greeting cards are optional-your true friends do n't need a card to know you wish them your best . At least whittle down your list by erasing names you have n't heard from in years . One-page holiday letters , please ! Consider e-mail . Make enjoyment , not drudgery . Special pleasures You can eat , drink , and be merry-moderation is the key . You do n't have to attend every party even if you have a career . Prioritize ! For a quiet evening , rent a holiday movie , and make popcorn and hot chocolate . Sharing the work has special rewards . Is your marriage strong enough to clean a turkey together ? Talks over the dirty dishes , even if one of you is resting , cause giggles and insights . Do n't let sports or TV dominate the season . Spark memories by pulling out the photo albums-and ask older family members to share holiday remembrances @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : change your answering machine message to something cheerful . It 's not always " The Waltons " Family dynamics are a concern at holidays-a real family wo n't be constantly agreeable . Our expectations can be unrealistic . We all have poignant memories from holidays past . And we feel our losses more at this time of year . That 's part of real life . But let today be the focus . Make new memories for the future . It 's a New Year Resolution is not a dirty word . In 1999 , throw away that " everything is so hard " feeling , and replace it with a resolution to pat yourself on the back whenever you have a small victory such as a safe transfer or a fantastic pumpkin pie . Resolve to be aware of how glad you are for small pleasures ! Author Affiliation <p>                     