@@410695

These days , executives across the country are waking up in the morning to read that their companies will be restructured . They will be working longer , harder , and for less money  --  if they still have a job ! Many managers will have to assume the responsibilities formerly handled by their peers as their ranks are cut during restructuring . After announcing wage freezes , layoffs , and cuts in health care benefits , how do you motivate these managers , and how do they , in turn , motivate those under them ? Take the Ford Motor Company , for example . In 1985 , the automaker announced that it would reduce its white-collar employment by 20% by 1990 . Although this goal was not achieved , Ford cut medical benefits during this period , requiring employees to assume more of their health expenses , and also eliminated cost-of-living benefits . In 1990 , merit pay for its white-collar employees was cut by 25% , and merit raises were suspended completely in 1991 . " We need to get a dollar 's worth of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we still have some fat , particularly in our salaried cost structure , " Alexander Trotman , Ford executive vice president and head of North American auto operations , told reporters on April 5 , 1991 , while presenting an award for quality to the company 's Wixon , Mich. , assembly plant . Growing job insecurity coupled with heavier work loads have soured many in white-collar and mid-managerial ranks . Faced with the threat of downsizing and/or restructuring , able managers quickly decamp for greener pastures . Many of the remainder have developed a foxhole mentality that eschews risk-taking . Watching one 's back becomes more important than watching one 's work . Restructuring has been the trend in most American industries . In some , this can be attributed to the mid-1980s deregulation movement . Industries such as airlines , trucking , and telecommunications had no option but to reduce prices  --  and costs  --  to compete with new non-union domestic competition . Other restructurings were forced when foreign competitors used currency maladjustments to snatch domestic market share , making cost reductions in the U.S. imperative ( apparel , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) . In 1991 , Brown and Sharpe abandoned the machine tool business , in which it had been a leader for 158 years , in favor of producing measuring devices because of the heavy competition from Japan , Taiwan , and Europe . The firm finally gave up a 10-year struggle to remain in its traditional markets . During that decade , its sales were battered by the 1982 and 1990 recessions , and its market share eroded by the effect of a lengthy and often violent machinists strike . The Rhode Island company dismissed 12% of its workforce to aid the transition . Inland Steel is dumping its bar and structural steel product lines  --  closing the most antiquated mills in its giant Indiana Harbor Works  --  in favor of flat-rolled products used by the automotive and appliance markets . Meanwhile , U.S. automakers virtually have surrendered the low ends of their lines to the Japanese , with the exception of General Motors , which created a new company , culture , and organization to produce its inexpensive Saturn car in Springhill , Tenn . Although companies make these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the usual results are plant closings , massive layoffs , and frequent transfers . Surviving senior executives now are realizing that one of their priorities must be re-establishing high morale and motivation among key survivors  --  those middle managers weighed down with extra duties in a fluid environment . However , the manner by which the restructuring is accomplished often makes a revival of morale even more difficult . STRATEGIES There are various types of restructuring efforts . One is slash-and-burn , emphasizing short-term cost savings and giving little thought to a corporation 's long-term future . Another is a strategic revamping that concentrates upon enhancing the value of current assets while strengthening the firm 's long-term viability . A strategic reorganizing effort is most successful when management installs programs designed to minimize layoffs and maximize employee cooperation in improving organizational effectiveness to restore a company 's future profitability . When the slash-and-burn restructuring begins , it often concentrates on two short-term tactics : immediate and indiscriminate head-chopping to reduce expense and juggling short-term financial matters to boost cash flow . These may be necessary expediencies , but often are undertaken @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ effects on the company 's long-term future . Executives who concentrate on short-term tactics tend to produce three adverse results . First , indiscriminate dismissals often result in wrongful termination , as well as age discrimination and other suits and charges brought by fired managers and white-collar workers . In the factories , unions frequently engage in wildcat strikes , slowdowns , and sabotage at a time when high productivity , not turmoil , is needed . On Jan. 22 , 1991 , for example , the Oil , Chemical and Atomic Workers Union filed a $100,000,000 lawsuit against American Home Products , alleging criminal fraud in the relocation of its Whitehall-Robbins plant from Elkhart , Ind. , to Puerto Rico . According to the company , the Indiana shutdown is " due to overcapacity and duplicate administrative costs as a result of our acquisition of the A.H . Robins Co . " This is the latest chapter in the union 's fight to prevent the plant closure . A second adverse result of a short-term mentality is that the survivors of the Black Friday dismissals become alienated . They lose @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a far more powerful emotion . The mass terminations at American Broadcasting Company after its acquisition by Capital Cities Communications in January , 1986 , caused many able managers in apparently secure jobs to abandon ship . " The only topic of conversations around here these days , " said one employee , " is " How 's your resume coming along ? ' ' " When mass managerial layoffs are imminent , work ceases , except on direct orders from senior executives . Surviving middle managers often are bewildered by added responsibilities when they are forced to assume the assignments of those let go , as well as to handle their own jobs . They have been given no clear vision of the future potential of their company or their roles in it by the shortsighted executives who are restructuring their corporation . Most importantly , the third result of these savage reorganization efforts is that productivity and quality of production fall . In many companies that are prime candidates for restructuring , operations are inefficient and personnel overly plentiful . Faced with the short-term task of cutting costs , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ layoffs , done to save cash , often are ordered before identifying organizations ' structural inefficiencies or devising ways to remedy them . After the deep and precipitous layoffs , only a relative handful of managers remain , often doing double and triple duty . Still using the inefficient practices that led to the company being uncompetitive in the marketplace , this group struggles to coordinate production , concoct marketing schemes , and bring new product designs to fruition . Working with the continuing legacy of outdated practices , the number of surviving managers is so small that the entire situation becomes that much more inefficient . Profits continue to sink , and morale plummets . Perhaps one reason many executives adopt these short-term tactics is their background . Most have broad financial experience and can navigate their course through a profit-and-loss statement far more readily than pilot their way around a factory floor . Hence , restructurers are likely to concentrate on the numbers and symbols on financial statements , rather than explore the realities behind them . They are more apt to use some type of financial legerdemain to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ improve the efficiency of manufacturing , reduce inventories , or revamp the distribution system so as to improve deliveries to customers or speed new product development by forming multi-disciplinary task forces to analyze market demands . The second type of restructurer understands that he must do more than cut costs . He realizes the key to reviving his distressed company is retaining key managers and using their talents to gain employee cooperation in improving productivity and over-all organizational effectiveness . Having aided in many restructuring efforts , our experience indicates that four key goals must be reached to save a declining company : identifying the underlying problems that have caused the decline ; gaining employee cooperation and enthusiasm in solving the problems ; educating and training management as to their new responsibilities ; and creating multi-disciplinary task forces of managers to break down internal barriers and generate new solutions to company-wide problems of inefficiency . IDENTIFYING PROBLEMS . An important initial step is to emphasize to employees that a new era is dawning , letting them know what the state of the company is  --  frankly and realistically . In this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ levels that management intends to use its treasure trove of technical and product knowledge to help identify and solve the firm 's problems . In short , the restructuring expert moves immediately to make the entire workforce part of a team motivated to save the company . GAINING COOPERATION . Restructuring executives who are seeking ways to streamline operations often use outside experts initially to begin company-wide employee involvement programs and then train the firm 's staff to continue them . Such an approach is a wide-ranging initiative to seek out employee ideas for ways to eliminate inefficiencies , boost productivity , and , in the process , improve morale at all levels . Due to the sensitive situation of a company undergoing a restructuring , experienced outside professionals often are used to start this key task , and eventually train internal managers to make it a continuing effort . Usually , the senior executives directing the restructuring are far too busy to undertake this effort themselves . It can not be accomplished at odd moments by someone with spare time . Employees respond because they quickly realize the involvement program @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a device designed to soften up unions for give-backs . Rather , it is an attempt to generate employee cooperation and improve over-all organizational effectiveness by using their ideas to eliminate wasteful practices and inefficient procedures . In most companies requiring restructuring , employees at all levels have been frustrated by the inefficient methods and indifference . That has been the norm , often flying in the face of operating realities as seen by the workers . In our experience , we have found that when vice presidents can not explain why a certain situation exists or a specific practice is used , managers often can . When the latter ca n't tell us , first-line supervisors or their employees often have the answers . Thus , when employees are asked for ideas to rejuvenate operations through a specialized involvement program , they almost invariably have a host of good suggestions . We have found this to be true at every level within a restructuring company  --  from the newest janitor to the most experienced middle managers . The higher productivity that results improves profitability , thus decreasing the need to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and training middle managers about the basic business problems facing the organization is a key part of the restructuring process , as is making use of their expertise to solve those difficulties . One commonly used approach is to gather them at a weekend retreat . They are asked what the company does best and worst . This approach is fruitful when the goal of restructuring is to return a corporation to its core businesses which are profitable and eliminate money-losing peripheral operations or product lines . Emotions based on status may become ugly at planning retreats . Hierarchies , pet projects , and petty jealousies often are revealed . For these reasons , skilled facilitators frequently are asked to conduct the meeting while senior executives look on . Insights gained by observing the debates and interaction are valuable in assessing the ability of individual managers to function as continuing members of the team . As the problems of the organization are defined and focus turns to who is responsible for implementing their solutions , it often becomes obvious that additional training will be required to help the surviving managers excel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ usually are to teach them how to function effectively in a more open environment that emphasizes teamwork , cross-functional task forces , and delegation of responsibility . Middle managers who have spent their careers following orders suddenly may find themselves responsible for complete projects and need extra help and training to weld their new areas of responsibility into a tightly knit , results-oriented team . In most companies needing restructuring , responsibilities often have been ill-defined and goals have been even more vague . Working within such a system is frustrating for the most able middle managers . They want to succeed in their jobs and frequently seek goals against which they can measure their progress . Thus , a critical accompaniment to the training must be devising feedback systems for goal attainment and recognition . CREATING MULTI-DISCIPLINARY TEAMS . The involvement programs help the restructuring process in yet another way . They often indicate which operating problems were caused by lack of coordination of senior individual managers ' methods , rather than by lazy workers or stifling union contracts . Such programs often uncover the individual baronies that operate to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , slowly developed over the years by managers jealous of their prerogatives , is necessary in the restructuring process if the company is to survive and reach its overall goals . Based on information generated by the involvement programs , senior executives can structure multi-disciplinary task forces to improve efficiency while destroying individual baronies . With representatives from the relevant areas of a company , these task forces can identify the sources of problems and be forced to commit the resources of their own disciplines to solutions that boost over-all profitability , rather than continue the past parochialism that has produced contradictory plans of individual area managers . DIFFERENT PROBLEMS REQUIRE DIFFERENT SOLUTIONS Companies face the need to restructure for a wide variety of reasons . Some are the aftermath of overconfident leveraged buyouts and others are the result of overexpansion . However , most restructurings are needed in companies whose complacency and inefficiency have brought them to the brink of failure , overwhelmed by their more efficient competition . Corporations such as Carter Hawley Hale Stores , U.S. Gypsum , and Interco ( and its Broyhill and Lane Furniture units @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) assumed enormous debts in efforts to thwart takeovers and are choking on their debt payments . Interco filed for Chapter 11 on Jan. 25 , 1991 , and is suing its former investment bankers , Wasserstein Perella &; Co. , for negligence . Others , such as Greyhound , the New York Daily News , and Eastern Airlines , can point to years of labor strife or violent strikes as the reasons for their decline and/or demise . Still others , such as G. Heilman Brewing Company and Harcourt Brace Jovanovich , found restructuring necessary , despite healthy sales , after they overleveraged themselves . Meanwhile , falling sales in a jittery retail market killed overleveraged Campeau Corp . and its Federated Department Stores and Allied Stores subsidiaries . Restructuring has proved to be quite successful in turning around inefficient operations . Harley Davidson revived itself in the 1980s and again dominates the motorcycle market at the expense of the Japanese . Fluor Corp. , a California construction company , recovered , with new management , when it restructured by ( in part ) shedding questionable acquisitions and concentrating in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Wickes Companies , and International Harvester ( now Navistar International Corp . ) . Wheeling-Pittsburgh Steel also survived by closing inefficient mills and dumping unprofitable product lines , although it required a five-year stay in Chapter 11 to do so . Such operations have revived many smaller companies , including Health-Tex ( now owned by VF Corp . ) , Koss ( the speaker and stereophonic equipment makers ) , and Carpenter Body Works ( school buses ) . In the vast majority of cases , the effort was successful because it used the information derived from special employee involvement programs to gain worker cooperation in meeting austerity goals . These programs identified internal inefficiencies so they could be corrected with minimum layoffs and upheaval . That 's harder to do than slash-and-burn tactics , but it preserves jobs , equity , and the company 's ongoing value for all stakeholders . It might not be easy , but that 's what restructuring is all about . Dr. Imberman is president , Imberman and DeForest , Inc. , a Chicago , Ill. , management consultants firm . <p>    @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @        