@@353413

The words sounded drearily familiar . Bosnia 's Serbs " have gone too far , " intoned German Foreign Minister Klaus Kinkel . " This is where we draw the line . " NATO Secretary-General Willy Claes asserted that " the international community can not accept any longer to be humiliated "  --  just as so many other statesmen had insisted so many , many times in the past three years . <P> It seemed that this time , for once , words would be matched with action . And they were , sort of , in what might be called a Balkan-style chain reaction . A heavy NATO bombing raid was swiftly countered by Serb shelling of supposed " safe areas " ; that brought a second , more intense NATO bombing attack , which in turn prompted the Serbs to take more than 200 U.N . peacekeepers as hostages against still more air raids . There the explosive situation stalled , as everyone from troops on the ground to diplomats on their cellular phones teetered between the dangers of excess belligerence and empty bluster . <P> @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ microcosm of the escalating confrontation . At 4:30 a.m. , two Bosnian Serbs disguised as French peacekeepers , complete with blue helmets and flak jackets , infiltrated a U.N . observation post on the Vrbanja bridge and spearheaded the Serbs ' capture of the post  --  and 12 French U.N . prisoners . Four hours later , a platoon of French troops responded in the first-ever combat engagement for territory between Serbian and U.N . soldiers , recapturing one end of the bridge . In the process , two French soldiers and four Bosnian Serbs were killed . <P> But with so many U.N . peacekeepers held hostage  --  in some cases chained by the Serbs to ammunition dumps or near other potential bombing targets  --  the French willingness to strike back did not translate into rhetorical resolve on the part of the allies . Top U.N . officials , backed by the Russians , argued against further confrontation . Meanwhile , the British , the Germans and the Americans continued searching for a way to avoid both a full-scale continuance of the air campaign and the humiliation of yet another @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ increasingly open Serb violations of a heavy-weapons exclusion zone enforced by NATO around Sarajevo . The Serbs had already been shelling the Bosnian capital from inside the zone , breaking the February 1994 agreement . Last week they made the nose thumbing official by brassily pulling three artillery pieces and a mortar out of a U.N . impoundment depot , firing them at Sarajevo and ignoring a U.N.-NATO ultimatum to hand them back . That was too much even for Yasushi Akashi , the top U.N . official in Bosnia . He had vetoed several previous requests by local U.N . commanders for bombing strikes , but this time he approved one . It came Thursday and was more than the usual pinprick : a squadron of 15 NATO planes flying out of Italy  --  mostly American but including a sprinkling of other craft  --  bombed ammunition dumps just outside Pale , the Bosnian Serbs ' so-called capital .                     