@@409282

Could Jurassic Park become reality ? In the best-selling novel by Michael Crichton , an ambitious entrepreneur builds the ultimate theme park : a prehistoric landscape , complete with live tyrannosaurs and apatosaurs . These Mesozoic monsters have been brought to life by scientists who cloned DNA from dinosaur blood , which they obtained from the guts of blood-sucking flies preserved in amber . A physician by training , Crichton presented details that made the science in his thriller seem credible . His major premise was inspired by the Extinct DNA Study Group at the University of California at Berkeley ; among other goals , the group was trying to extract DNA from amber fossil insects . At the American Museum of Natural History , the team in the Molecular Systematics Laboratory  --  Rob DeSalle , John Gatesy , and Ward Wheeler  --  and I recently succeeded in amplifying and sequencing DNA from a 30-million-year-old termite preserved in an amber globule from the Dominican Republic . At about the same time , similar results were achieved by a joint research group from Berkeley and California Polytechnic University , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . While it is a long way from amplifying a bit of DNA to reconstructing a whole dinosaur  --  or even a termite  --  these new developments open up many exciting scientific possibilities . A few years ago , molecular biologists doubted that DNA could even survive for millions of years . Now it may be possible to compare genetic structures , along with fossil leaves and skeletons , opening up the possibilities for a new field : molecular paleontology . In 1984 , scientists were intrigued by the news that Allan Wilson 's laboratory at Berkeley had cloned DNA from the hide of a quagga  --  the partly striped wild ass from southern Africa that became extinct about 110 years ago . Svante Paabo , then at Wilson 's lab , has gone on to become an authority on the study of ancient DNA . In 1985 , Paabo , now at the University of Sweden , extracted and sequenced DNA from a 2,500-year-old Egyptian mummy . Direct genetic comparisons between modern and ancient human populations were suddenly possible : whether , for instance , ancient Egyptians carried such deleterious @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The mummy 's DNA survived because of the ceremonial practices of Egyptian morticians , who routinely removed viscera ( and the bacteria within them ) to prevent bodies from bloating and decomposing . Also , the cadavers were stored in a cool , very dry place , and the burial gauze contained astringents , such as pulverized amber , that helped extract moisture . Dehydration is the common element among the success stories in the extraction of ancient DNA . The famous 5,200-year-old " Iceman " from the Austrian Alps ( see Natural History , April 1993 ) , probably died of exposure , then dehydrated in the cold , dry mountain air before becoming frozen inside a glacier . Researchers expect to extract DNA from his tissue samples . ( The tissues of most corpses of modern hikers found in the Alps decompose into adipocere , or " grave wax . " ) Dehydration also preserved mammoth and other Pleistocene mammals from about 15,000 years ago , before they became frozen in ice . Mammoth DNA , analyzed by Russ Higuchi at the Cetus Corporation , shows that the extinct @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ elephants . Similarly , DNA was sequenced from a 14,000-year-old saber-toothed cat , whose remains were recovered from the La Brea tar pits in Los Angeles . Genetic studies of fossil bones corroborated some taxonomic relationships : the saber-tooth is closely related to living species of big cats . Before the current work on amber insects , the oldest-known DNA was from 17-million-year-old leaves preserved in ancient lake sediments from Clarkia , Idaho . One was an extinct Magnolia , and the other was a bald cypress . Among the genes within the bald cypress 's chloroplast DNA , one was very similar to genes of its living relatives , such as redwood . The DNA of the fossil Magnolia , however , was unexpectedly divergent from modern species . Both studies were possible because the Clarkia sediments were anoxic , preventing decomposition of the specimens ( see " Magnolias from Moscow , " Natural History , September 1992 ) . Fortuitous preservation of these fossils , however , was only half the battle . The other half was a marvel of new technology : a technique called polymerase chain reaction @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of minuscule quantities of DNA ( even just a single strand ) , enough so that sequencing can be worked out . This technique is so sensitive , however , that it may also amplify contaminants , including bacteria or even the researcher 's fingerprints . One of the first indications that amber fossil insects might be a good source of ancient DNA came from electron microscopist Roberta Hess , working with her husband , George Poinar , in the Berkeley group . Hess prepared ultrathin sections of a sciarid midge ( fungus gnat ) found in Baltic amber and discovered organelles preserved within its cells . Researchers at Cambridge University also found microstructures that had not been seen before , including mitochondria  --  the repositories of female-inherited DNA . If the organelles were there , why not the DNA-containing chromatin ? The race for amber DNA was on . DNA is rarely preserved in mineralized or sedimentary fossils , but amber yields intact genetic material much more consistently . As sticky resin wept from ancient tree trunks and branches , insects that blundered into it became trapped , and small @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " creatures shrink and mummify , but many do not . Most decay , leaving husks that appear solid until the amber is dissected . Millions of years of polymerization hardens the amber and makes it virtually inert . Resinous compounds such as terpenes , which probably evolved as a tree 's defense against insects , also help to prevent trapped insects from decomposing . Large deposits of 25- to 30-million-year-old amber  --  frequently containing fossilized organisms  --  are found on the Caribbean island of Hispaniola and in Chiapas , in southern Mexico . The largest , most studied deposits come from the Baltic Sea coasts and other parts of Europe , and are between 15 and 40 million years old . Raoul Cano and his colleagues at California Polytechnic University examined amber specimens of an extinct stingless bee , Proplebeia dominicana , for a portion of the same ribosomal gene that we investigated for the termites . This group of bees has rudimentary , ineffectual stingers and evolved into diverse species found throughout the world 's tropics . Although P. dominicana is very common in Dominican amber , no native @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the morphology of these creatures had led to controversies over relationships , so genetic sequences from the extinct bee are being compared with those from two living species from Central America . Such DNA comparisons may tell us whether the Dominican amber bee has its closest living relatives in Africa or in Central America . Our first successful DNA extraction at the American Museum 's laboratory was from an extinct termite that Kumar Krishna , a research associate , and I had recently described . We named it Mastotermes electrodominicus , " termite from the Dominican Republic with an electric charge " ( in a reference to a familiar attribute of amber when rubbed ) . Other fossil species of Mastotermes occur in shales from North America and Europe and in Mexican amber , so we know that this genus once existed throughout the Northern Hemisphere . However , it has no living relatives anywhere except in northern Australia , where a thriving relict population is a notorious pest . ( M. darwiniensis , named for the great naturalist , destroys wooden utility poles so rapidly that they have had to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ extract and amplify DNA from the Dominican amber termite , we had two specific questions in mind . First , we wanted to know whether Mastotermes is a natural genus . Species in this genus are traditionally defined by the large , fanlike lobe at the base of their hind wings and by many wing veins , characteristics that originated before termites evolved . But cockroaches also have these " defining " features , and we know that they evolved well before Mastotermes . ( That would be like defining humans on the basis of hair  --  a trait that occurs in almost all mammals and evolved well before humans . ) To better establish the group as a real evolutionary unit , we needed to find traits that were exclusive to species in the genus . The second question that concerned us was , is Mastotermes actually a " missing link " between roaches and termites ? The traditional view  --  that termites are morphologically simple , myopic , wood-eating social roaches  --  is based partly on their roachlike wings and partly on how they lay their eggs . Unlike @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ M. darwiniensis in Australia lays its eggs in clumps of neat rows . Most entomologists interpret these egg clumps as a rudimentary form of the cockroach egg sac . After a lengthy search , I obtained specimens of M. electrodominicus , which is rather rare in Dominican amber , and brought them to the Molecular Systematics Lab . There , entomology curator Rob De Salle and postdoctoral researcher John Gatesy extracted and sequenced DNA for two genes , only one of which yielded key information . Invertebrates curator Ward Wheeler aligned its sequences with those of three other termites , including the living species of Mastotermes , as well as with a mantis , a cockroach , and three distantly related insects . We found several unexpected differences in the DNA sequences among the extinct and living Mastotermes termites . But biochemical information from the amber specimen did confirm that the extinct and living species of Mastotermes are closest relatives . Finally , genetic data also confirmed the status of Mastotermes as more termite than roach  --  although it retains features of a distant ancestry that roaches , termites , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ amber insects , I am often asked these days whether the premise of Jurassic Park is realistic . According to George Poinar at Berkeley , extracting dinosaur material from a fossilized Cretaceous fly is within the realm of possibility . If one were searching for dinosaur blood , an amberized fossil insect would be an imaginative place to look for it  --  but then the real difficulties begin . Amplifying and cloning minuscule , undigested dinosaur DNA from the gut of a blood-sucking fly remains fiction , especially since red blood cells have very little DNA . Consider the magnitude of the current effort to sequence the human genome ( which is the entirety of human DNA ) , for which billions of dollars , hundreds of researchers , and an almost infinite source of fresh samples are available . Reconstructing the genome of a dinosaur from base pairs of DNA would be like trying to reconstruct Tolstoy 's War and Peace from a gigantic vat of alphabet soup . ( By the way , devotees of Crichton 's novel may have noticed that he includes a DNA sequence in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ code . According to Mark Boguski , a molecular biologist at the National Institutes of Health , the sequence is that of one of the most common strands of fabricated DNA used in human genetic research . ) Will these new genetic techniques replace traditional detailed anatomical studies for tackling questions about evolutionary relationships ? The comparison of organisms ' structures will always be intriguing and one of the most aesthetic branches of study  --  although some molecular biologists have been known to wax sentimental over the codelike patterns of bands on a gel . Bones , teeth , and insect wings are the products of thousands of genes and of complex interactions among them , and can be as good a source as molecules in studying phylogenies . Yet the delicate insects trapped in amber , along with other special kinds of fossils , present a unique challenge : Their retrievable DNA sequences can shed a great deal of light on evolutionary questions that morphology alone sometimes can not answer . David Grimaldi , an associate curator of entomology at the American Museum of Natural History , specializes in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                    