@@361805

Saturnine by disposition , Syrian President Hafez Assad is not known for saying anything nice about anyone . So it astonished all manner of Middle East pundits last week when he showered praise on the leader of his No. 1 enemy , Israel . Prime Minister-elect Ehud Barak , Assad told an Arabic newspaper , is a " strong and honest man " who had a " real desire for peace . " Barak blew a few kisses of his own , crediting Assad with creating a " strong , independent , self-confident " country . <P> The Middle East is not often a land of such sweet words . The intermedia flirtation between the two leaders has added muscle to rumors that the new Israeli leader will move fast toward a peace agreement with Syria . Last week Barak was still finalizing his government , but he seems intent on starting off his term with a dramatic gesture . Peace with Syria would fit the bill . An expected adjunct agreement with Lebanon would mean an end to the state of war on all of Israel 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Golan Heights , the strategic plateau captured by Israel in the Six-Day War of 1967 , the loss of which he regards as a personal and national indignity . Outpowered militarily , Assad knows negotiations are his best option . The Syrian leader , 68 , suffers multiple ailments , which are thought to include diabetes and heart disease . He is eager to prepare the succession of his son Bashar , 34 , a mild-mannered , British-trained ophthalmologist who emerged as heir apparent only after his elder brother Basil died in a 1994 car crash . " Assad has more a sense of urgency now because he would like to strike the deal himself , " says Bassma Kodmani-Darwish , an analyst at the Ford Foundation in Cairo . " He would rather go as the man who brought the Golan back . " <P> Barak , a former army chief , imagines his legacy as that of a warrior turned statesman who completed the circle of peace around Israel . The incoming PM promises to proceed toward a final agreement with the Palestinians , but aides say the Syrians @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can expect drawn-out negotiations involving issues like the status of Jerusalem and the future of Jewish settlements in the Palestinian territories . By contrast , a Syrian deal could come quickly  --  possibly within a year . " With the Syrians , it 's cleaner , " says an aide close to Barak . " The deal can be his , not something he inherits from previous governments . " <P> Making peace with Syria may be a prerequisite for fulfilling Barak 's most concrete campaign pledge : to withdraw within a year Israel 's occupation forces from south Lebanon , where they are fighting a costly , no-win war with the Hizballah militia . Barak wants an agreement from Lebanon that its army will disarm Hizballah and protect northern Israel from infiltration and rocket fire . Lebanon wo n't make that deal without the approval of Syria , which does n't want to release Israel from its Lebanon quagmire without a reward .                     