@@394852

Since childhood I have loved looking through a telescope at the faint wisps of light that reach us from distant galaxies . I 've long known that the starlight from these faraway objects is old and that those galaxies appear not as they are now but as they were millions or even billions of years ago . When I look at galaxies of the spectacular Virgo Cluster , I am seeing them as they were some 50 million years ago ( by comparison , dinosaurs became extinct 65 million years ago ) . As a biology teacher , I am acutely aware of another universe , one that is within us , one of thought , feeling , and memory . This inner universe consists of as many interacting cells as there are stars in the Milky Way . Electrochemical impulses flick between the myriad brain cells in ways we are only beginning to understand . The power of the brain is immense , but can that brain fathom immense quantities of time ? Can we comprehend the length of the journey made by the ancient light that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have found a way to imagine the depths of time . It involves three seemingly unrelated phenomena : the dynamics of the Earth-Moon system , the skeletons of corals that lived 400 million years before the human species arose , and a wonderful animal called the nautilus . In the 18th century , Edmond Halley noted discrepancies between predicted and observed positions of solar eclipses and showed that these deviations resulted from the gradual slowing of Earth 's rotation . Immanuel Kant , the philosopher , correctly suggested that tidal friction causes the slowing . The Moon 's gravity causes ocean tides that , as they lap against shorelines , dissipate the energy of Earth 's rotation . The rate of slowing is about 0.00002 second per year ; that is , every 50,000 years the day becomes one second longer . Until the 196Os the only evidence supporting the rotational slowing came from astronomical observations . Then paleontologist John Wells found that certain long-dead corals contain in the annual rings within their fossilized skeletons a record of the passage of days and years . Within the rings are fine laminations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ polyp within the skeleton . Careful examination of fossil corals from previous geological periods spanning millions of years reveals that the average number of laminations within each set of rings increases as one searches further and further back into time . For example , in the Devonian period , some 370 million years ago , fossil corals contain an average of 400 laminations per ring . This indicates that the corals lived through a year of approximately 400 days , with each day only about 22 hours long . Does 0.00002 second per year make a difference ? It would seem so . This story has an additional dimension because the slowing of Earth 's rotation affects the Moon . Earth and the Moon revolve around a common center of gravity . This point lies deep inside Earth because of the far greater mass of Earth . The angular momentum of the two bodies ( the product of their masses and velocities ) remains constant , so as Earth loses momentum as its rotation slows , the orbital momentum of the Moon increases . This causes the Moon to accelerate in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shows the lunar recession . Consider the chambered nautilus , a cephalopod related to octopuses and squids . Once nautiluses were a mighty group , 10,000 species strong . But like so many other tribes , most have disappeared . Today only a scant five species remain . The nautilus lives within a shell and , as it grows , it secretes a new chamber into which it moves . The animal then seals off the old chamber with a septum , or wall . Between the septa of present-day nautiluses is an average of 30 fine laminations , which suggest that each lamination represents one day and the secretion of the septa is tied to the 30-day lunar month . Fossil nautiloids show an almost linear decrease in the number of laminations per chamber as one examines progressively older specimens . The youngest fossil nautiloids have about 25 lamina per chamber . In the Ordovician period some 420 million years ago , each chamber contains only nine or ten laminations . The lunar cycle in the Ordovician must have been only nine or ten days . From Kepler 's laws @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ distance in the past from its present distance , present orbital period , and past orbital period . A 10-day month means that the Ordovician nautiloids saw a gigantic Moon at a distance of about 100,000 miles  --  just 40 percent of its present distance . Their day would have been about 21 hours long at a rotational slowing rate of 0.00002 second per year , and each year would have had 417 days , assuming no change in Earth 's orbit around the Sun . The Grand Canyon is one place in the United States where one can peer back to the Ordovician . Recently , I stood at its rim at sunset and could see the colorful layers of rock that show so much of Earth 's long history . The great chasm yawned beneath me , full of light , darkness , and shadows . I imagined I was standing at the edge of the abyss of time . I thought back 420 million years to those ancient Ordovician nautiloids , whose strange eyes had witnessed a gigantic Moon that raced through all of its phases in just @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time that had passed since those nautiloids swam in their ancient ocean made me giddy . In the rocks of central and western Texas , I have found ancient corals and nautiloids . When I hold the fossils in my hands , they speak to me in haunting voices . For me , they carry messages from deep time : Astronomy is not only over our heads but under our feet as well . Next time you look through your telescope across the light-years to a distant galaxy , remember that seemingly insignificant 0.00002 second per year . Ponder its dramatic effect upon the Moon and the amazing record in the crust of our beautiful blue planet , unknowingly preserved by those corals and nautiloids . Edward Greding , Jr. , is a professor of biology at Del Mar College in Corpus Christi , Texas . <p>                     