@@427907

The rains have come early to Mugumu , Tanzania , this wet season . When I arrive in December , the landscape is already lush and the roads unnervingly slick . I am less than ten miles from the boundary of the Serengeti National Park , but the eighty-mile drive from the park headquarters at Seronera has taken more than three hours . Parking my Land-Rover beside the village post office , I stretch my legs and contemplate the satellite dish that connects Mugumu to the outside world via an ancient windup telephone in its colonial-era booth . Nearby , a boy sells mangoes from a wooden table ; his dog sleeps fitfully in the heat . I am greeted by the regional veterinary officer , Magai Kaare , who offers me a cup of tea , then excuses himself to collect vaccine , syringes , and members of his staff before leading me to the nearby village of Maranga . Driving through herds of cattle and goats , past hand-tilled cassava and maize fields and huts made from mud and thatch , we wind up a hill @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hall by a tide of about 500 dogs and their owners . Dr. Kaare 's staff open their bags in the shade of the veranda , pull out their ledgers , and start filling their syringes . The dogs are leashed , some attached to bicycle chains , others tethered by woven strands of grass , and still others held by chains that could secure a treasure chest . The owners come in all ages and sizes : small boys , teen-agers , old men . Many of the dogs are called Simba  --  someone explains to me that the fiercest dogs are always given the Swahili name for lion . Others answer to Rambo , Khomeini , Saddam , Scud , or Mandela . The vets restrain each dog with a makeshift muzzle of cotton gauze . Dr. Kaare asks if I can bring him some leather muzzles from the United States ; most of these animals are n't used to much physical contact , and a good portion of them could be carrying rabies . Dr. Kaare is hoping to control rabies in this remote part of Tanzania , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ canine distemper . And my principal motivation is to protect a different carnivore : the Serengeti lion , which I have been studying for the past eighteen years . The period leading up to this intensive effort to vaccinate as many dogs as possible against distemper was fast paced and emotional . It all began on February 3 , 1994 , as a group of tourists glided over the heart of the Serengeti in a hot-air balloon . In the morning light , the scene below looked idyllic . Wildebeests , zebras , and other wild ungulates grazed as birds flew nearby ; the savanna stretched unspoiled to the horizon . But not far from the banks of the Seronera River , the tourists saw something else , something disturbing : a male lion flailing and jerking and unable to stand . After landing nearby , the balloon pilot sent an urgent message to the chief veterinary officer of Tanzania National Parks , Melody Roelke . When Roelke drove up to the dark-maned male later that day , he was disoriented and apparently oblivious to his surroundings . Within a few @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and stretching his neck . His limbs began to tremble , then jerk . He tried to stand , but his legs failed to support his weight , and he collapsed on his side , thrashing helplessly , unable to breathe . A few minutes later , the seizures ceased , and he lay flat out : panting and exhausted . The pattern of convulsions alternating with exhaustion repeated itself every half hour or so for the rest of the day , and the animal died during the night . By the next morning , only his head remained . The rest of the body had been eaten by hyenas . Over the next few weeks , Roelke and my field assistants , Sarah Legge and Pamela Bell ( I was away teaching at the University of Minnesota at the time ) , encountered seven more lions suffering from the same symptoms and recovered the bodies of another dozen . Part of my research program involves regularly monitoring the 250 lions living in the southeastern sector of the Serengeti National Park . By May , more than a third of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the survivors were left with neurological damage , manifested by a permanent twitch in their forepaws or upper lip . By August , the disease had spread to the far western part of the Serengeti ; by October , it had reached Kenya 's Masai Mara Reserve , where it likewise killed more than a third of the lions . Assuming comparable mortality over the entire Serengeti ecosystem , I estimated that the overall lion population dropped from 3,000 to 2,000 in less than a year . As the disease raged throughout the region , Roelke autopsied as many of the victims as she could , and I flew out to the Serengeti to help her veterinary team collect blood samples from fifty-seven of the surviving lions . We sent tissue samples to Linda Munson , a pathologist at the University of Tennessee , who immediately recognized the damaging signs of canine distemper , a viral disease that causes encephalitis and pneumonia . Virologist Max Appel , of Cornell University , soon confirmed Munson 's diagnosis using monoclonal antibodies , which seek out the biochemical fingerprints of a specific virus . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Serengeti lions had been exposed to the virus in 1994 . In contrast , his analysis of samples we had routinely collected over the previous decade showed that no lion had been infected between 1981 and 1993 . ( The samples showed that some lions born before 1981 had been infected with canine distemper ; whether that earlier strain was the same or different , more or less virulent than the latest one can not be definitively determined at this time . ) With the diagnosis in hand , the next step was to find out the source of the infection . This too was quickly determined by Sarah Cleaveland , who has been conducting doctoral research on rabies for the London Zoological Society . Blood samples in her collection revealed that distemper had struck domestic dogs around Mugumu in each of the four preceding years . Margaret Carpenter , a molecular geneticist working at the National Cancer Institute , examined virus extracted from the dogs and found that the sequence of nucleotide bases matched the virus that had killed the lions . Canine distemper is an airborne disease @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the first lions became infected , but since they seldom venture into towns or villages , the virus is unlikely to have traveled directly to lions from domestic dogs . More likely , lions caught the virus from some of the other carnivores affected by the disease : bat-eared foxes , spotted hyenas , jackals , and leopards . Hyenas and jackals , for example , often scavenge near village compounds ; leopards eat domestic dogs . Lions come in contact with these species at kills . Once one lion was infected , the virus would have spread quickly to others in the animal 's pride . Sick lions sometimes become nomadic and follow the wildebeest migration throughout the Serengeti , spreading the virus to other prides . The pathogen responsible for canine distemper belongs to a class of RNA viruses  --  the morbilliviruses  --  that often demonstrate an alarming ability to hop from one species to another . The morbilliviruses include measles , rinderpest ( a disease of cattle and other cud-chewing ungulates ) , and a recently discovered virus that suddenly infected a stable of Australian horses in 1991 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ two of their handlers . The canine distemper virus itself is well known for infecting a wide range of hosts , including black-footed ferrets , seals , and dolphins . Several " new " viruses have made headlines in the past few years . One , the Ebola virus , captured the world 's attention in 1995 when it killed several hundred people in Kikwit , Zaire . An Ebola-like virus even became the subject of a Hollywood movie , Outbreak . But the Ebola virus may pose less of a long-term threat to humans and animals than do the morbilliviruses , for it is relatively hard to catch ; most victims are health-care workers who have come in direct contact with the body fluids of infected patients . The morbilliviruses , in contrast , are easy to catch . They have evolved aggressive means of transmission : violent sneezing in the case of distemper ; severe dysentery in the case of rinderpest . Morbilliviruses can be deadly , sometimes killing up to 80 percent of their victims . Even measles , which we have largely forgotten in the West , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other infectious disease . Survivors of a morbillivirus , however , typically enjoy lifelong protection against other infection . Consequently , these diseases can persist only in a very large population of susceptible animals . Epidemiologists calculate that measles requires a human population with at least 200,000 susceptible hosts . Such a dependence on population size is a definite drawback for any pathogen , but many morbilliviruses surmount this difficulty by attacking more than one species at a time . The tens of thousands of wild carnivores in the Serengeti , for example , would not have provided enough susceptible hosts to sustain a " hot " strain of canine distemper . But domestic dogs are another story . Sarah Cleaveland estimates that more than 30,000 domestic dogs live within ten miles of the park boundaries , and millions more populate the rest of the country . By far the most abundant carnivore in the region , the domestic dog is the critical link in the cycle of infection . The recent spread of distemper from the dogs to wild carnivores has similarities to , and , ironically , is the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the 1890s , the most famous epizootic in history . Rinderpest spreads itself by causing uncontrolled diarrhea . When a healthy animal grazes on contaminated grass , it picks up the virus and carries it elsewhere . Stories differ as to precisely how rinderpest first reached Africa . It may have been when Italians brought an infected herd of cattle to Ethiopia or when the British attempted to relieve General Gordon at Khartoum . At any rate , the first recorded cases on the continent occurred in the Horn of Africa in the late 1880s . Less than ten years later , rinderpest had swept its way to the Cape of Good Hope . Millions of animals died , including nearly 80 percent of all domestic livestock . Pastoralist tribes were devastated ; one Masai elder reported that so many people starved that " the vultures forgot how to fly . " Populations of many wild ungulates  --  buffaloes , wildebeests , gazelles , giraffes , wart hogs  --  were decimated . In several areas , lions no longer had enough wild prey to eat and turned to human flesh @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lions , they were unwittingly writing about the far-reaching consequences of human activity . Rinderpest raged across Africa until the 1930s , when it subsided everywhere except in the Serengeti . Repeated outbreaks of the disease greatly reduced the Serengeti 's once vast ungulate populations , but the many cattle left in the region , together with the surviving wildlife , provided the necessary pool of susceptible hosts for the virus to persist . Various techniques were employed in an attempt to protect the cattle from the disease . Fences were built ; livestock movements were restricted . Nothing worked . Finally , in 1962 , the colonial veterinary service initiated a large-scale vaccination program for the cattle around the Serengeti . No longer able to infect livestock around the park , the virus died out in the wild animals as well . After 1963 , there were no further infections . In the absence of the disease , wildlife populations rebounded . Wildebeest numbers went from 250,000 to more than 1.5 million by 1978 . The number of buffaloes and other ruminants likewise increased severalfold . As Canadian ecologist Tony @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is the story of rinderpest . In the last several decades , the human population around the Serengeti has grown at more than 4 percent a year . With a doubling time of only eighteen years , the number of people in the villages of Mugumu and Maranga , for example , has almost quadrupled since rinderpest was brought under control . In a sense , solving the rinderpest problem paved the way for canine distemper , for more people means more dogs . The local people rely on dogs to watch their cattle ; they also use them to drive wild game while poaching inside the park . There may now be enough dogs named Scud , Simba , and Saddam to constitute a potentially permanent reservoir for the canine distemper virus that so devastated the lions in 1994 . Today , the remnants of the colonial veterinary service provide the foundation for Project Life Lion , our program for vaccinating the burgeoning domestic dog population against distemper and rabies . For the villagers , this is one of the few tangible benefits of living next to a well-protected national @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the local villages , and the law prohibits villagers from using their traditional hunting grounds inside the Serengeti . Everyone in Maranga knows we 've come to vaccinate their dogs because of the lions . It seems odd to talk to someone who may have lost a cow  --  or even a child  --  to a lion and then explain that our ultimate goal is to protect the wildlife . But even here , in this impoverished town on the front lines of the battle for the future of the wild , people are pleased to think that there might still be lions in the next century and proud to be able to help . <p>                     