@@410486

In June , for the third consecutive year , the Christian Reformed Church convened its annual synod in an atmosphere of war . The battle was all about Eve . Last year it was over Adam . The year before it involved both . Cynics might attribute such wrangling to the denomination 's predominant ethnicity ; as the proverb says , " One Dutchman a church , two Dutchmen a denomination , three Dutchmen a schism . " Other observers will want to place the episode amid the broader religion wars of the late 20th century . Measured against recent turmoil in ecclesiastical giants like the Southern Baptist Convention and the Lutheran Church-Missouri Synod , the CRC quarrel might rate only a footnote , befitting the denomination 's modest size ( 300,000 members ) and habits . ( Christian Reformed folk say " just " modestly , like denizens of Lake Wobegon , not fervently like eager evangelicals at prayer . ) But the footnote reveals some interesting complications . The CRC 's troubles tend to confirm the emergence of a two-party system in American religion , as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Religion ; they confirm as well the salience of sexual politics to the party divide ( see James D. Hunter 's Culture Wars ) . But the quarrels also testify to eroding ethnic cohesion at a time when tribalism is quite the rage . And they must discomfit sentimentalists from all sides . Advocates of " diversity in unity " will not want to gaze on CRC 's fractious spectacle long , for the denomination has managed to salute the principle and miss the point . Any surviving evangelical triumphalists should also avert the eye , for the episode represents a doctrinally conservative denomination reaping the already spoiling fruits of success . Jim Bakker had Heritage theme park , the CRC has heresy trials . This much is familiar : underlying the CRC commotion twines a double helix of theology and sociology  --  a theological statement on biblical hermeneutics that the Synod adopted in 1972 , and a sociological process of diversification that began with World War II . Fifty years ago the Christian Reformed Synod met as the congress of a tiny nation within a nation . Its fellowship ranged @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by Whitinsville ( not Boston ) , Massachusetts , and Bellflower ( not Los Angeles ) , California . The denomination in 1942 had one Lord , one faith , one baptism , one college , one seminary , one ethnicity and one order of worship . It was propelled by a quick normative memory forged , first , out of post-Civil War immigration and the concomitant yearning for respect , and second , out of an unceasing struggle against theological liberalism . Twice ( in 1834 and in 1886 ) the forebears of the CRC left the National Reformed Church of the Netherlands in flight from liberalism . In the 1920s the church purged an alleged liberal from his post at Calvin Theological Seminary . The same decade saw the church vigilant against the other side too , ousting one dispensationalist and two hyper-Calvinist pastors from its ranks . These cases , which represent the CRC 's Americanization crisis , shaped the church for the next 40 years . Reformed scholasticism and antiworldly piety held command ; " safety " ( meaning survival ) was the goal : " distinctiveness @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and " balance " ( on a fulcrum set to the right ) was the key to both . World War II tested that balance . On the one hand , the church in 1942 could paint the war as the punishment due for the modernist and secularist sins that plagued American culture . On the other hand , as its young people were swept into the armed forces and its communities into wartime patriotism , the church committed itself to the mainstream of American life as never before . It commissioned chaplains , called its young men to their duty and preached the justice of the American cause . It also glimpsed new opportunities in the day of judgment . America had great need for an orthodox Reformed witness , church leaders averred . Chastisement might lead to repentance , if only churches like the CRC found bolder voice and broader influence on the American scene . And so it did . First , the CRC expanded its Home Missions board in the late ' ' 40s to bring in the orthodox Calvinists among the postwar Dutch immigration to Canada @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 25 percent of CRC membership , with two colleges of their own and a reputation , on the American side , of being a bloc interest in denominational councils . ( This perception is a mistake : the Canadians comprise at least three factions , not all on best terms with one another . ) With those sheep in the fold , the CRC began evangelizing American suburbanites , African-Americans and Latino-Americans in the inner cities , and Korean-Americans on the West Coast . Today the CRC worships in a half-dozen languages , and its uniform liturgy has gone every which way , from black Baptist to quasi-Anglican to crooner-contemporary , At the same time , a dedicated laity contributed the agents and money needed to build vigorous international ministries in evangelism and social development . The CRC professoriate , especially at Calvin College and Fuller Theological Seminary , helped lead the past quarter century 's renewal of North American evangelical scholarship . From internationally known scholars ( such as philosophers Alvin Plantinga and Nicholas Wolterstorff ) to the religion editor of Time magazine ( Richard Ostling ) to officers at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ corporations ( Amway and Waste Management , Inc. ) to politicians at every level of state and local government in Michigan and Iowa , the CRC membership of 1992 has realized the status dream of 1942 . Influence and diversity , of course , require theological change . Although the CRC excursions in this area might barely register on a mainline Protestant map , they have been troubling enough to members who remember safety , balance and distinctiveness . The change began with the alleged Barthian tones of the young war veterans who became seminary professors in the early 1950s . They and their conservative opponents , who despised Barth as a liberal , were swept away together in a purge at Calvin Seminary . Nevertheless , a progressive  --  progressive at least by CRC standards  --  spirit went forward little hindered . The new order was fixed with the 1972 Synod 's rejection of a literalist-inerrantist view of Scripture . By then old ethical strictures had faded as well  --  prohibitions of movie attendance , of social dancing , of remarriage after divorce , of fun on Sunday . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a commanding to a peripheral position . The marginalized have been hanging around the departure terminal ever since . Schism  --  or in their own terms , quitting apostasy to worship freely in the true faith  --  has always defined the dissenters ' thinking . For one , it echoes the CRC 's founding act , the 1857 " separation from the Reformed Church in America and return to the standpoint of the fathers . " For another , an internal coup on the order of the Southern Baptist fundamentalists ' is unlikely in the CRC . since its polity does not award the spoils of ecclesiastical appointments to the Synod 's presiding officer . Over the past ten years the conservative campaign for separation has become hot and pointed  --  pointed ever at a perceived " liberal " ( also " bureaucrat/intellectual " ) hegemony in the denomination . Their militancy and ruthless negativism qualify these dissenters as Christian Reformed contras . " Conservatives " by self-designation , the contras in fact constitute an intriguing mix of radicals and traditionalists , the later being further divisible between custodians of organic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ goes beyond the denominational corral to include some two dozen congregations that have already bolted for the sweet grass of independence . Geographically , conservative boldness increases with distance from the center . Some of the party live in the CRC 's old Michigan-Chicago-Iowa heartland , where 15 dissident fellowships have formed since 1970 . The more outspoken of late hail from Canada , where ten churches have left in the past three years alone . The most radical are denominational neophytes from the two coasts : Steve Schlissel , a convert from Judaism who organized a church in Brooklyn under the Home Missions board 's special extension provisions , and W. Robert Godfrey , a professor at Westminster Theological Seminary in Escondido , California , just one of many contra leaders to have joined the CRC from the even smaller and more conservative Orthodox Presbyterian Church . The contra movement has traveled along lines common to Reformed ecclesiastical strife . A 5,000-member Committee of Concerned Members forms the organizational base . Two new periodicals  --  Christian Renewal ( 1982 ) and the Reformed Witness ( 1991 )  --  have joined @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ communication . Mass rallies add punctuation and spice . The group 's daily diet consists of condemnations of CRC doings , both usual  --  the machinations of " the bureaucracy "  --  and unusual  --  the coming out of a ( celibate ) gay CRC pastor . It is the denomination 's annual Synod , however , that makes the contra heart race . Only the predicted havoc wrought there by an alleged " liberal " steamroller can demonstrate the power of error in the denomination and thus justify separation . Such a warrant for schism creates one difficulty , however : for the contras , anything short of a total defeat of their agenda amounts to defeat . Thus it is in the Synod 's interest to leave things in a muddle . That it has accomplished the past two years . In 1991 the Synod had to compete the CRC 's chapter in the creation-science debate . The controversy began with the publication of The Fourth Day ( Eerdmans , 1986 ) by Calvin College astronomy professor Howard Van Till . While the book intended to harmonize the Genesis @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ critics fell , first , upon its implications for " sixth-day " concerns ( human origins and the historicity of Adam ) and , second , upon the book 's treatment of biblical narrative as culturally relative " packaging " in which truthful " content " could be found by critical analysis . In light of their protests , Calvin 's board of trustees undertook a laborious review which finally , in 1991 , found Van Till 's work to be within Reformed confessional bounds . The 1991 Synod concurred but added a rider prohibiting " espousal " of any theory positing nonhuman origins for homo sapiens , to which they appended yet another resolution assuring academic freedom to professors under its purview . The decision left academics bemused and the contras unhappy . The contras had already convicted Van Till of heresy in various venues , the most remarkable being a dozen full-page advertisements that ran in the Saturday religion section of the Grand Rapids Press , courtesy of Grand Rapids millionaire and CRC layman Leo Peters . Casting himself as both ordinary believer and scientific authority ( by virtue @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fortune ) , Peters argued that Van Till 's hermeneutics made God " a liar " and that the college and Synod 's exoneration of the astronomy professor made them " Satan 's little helpers . " Peters 's own Bible reading followed the lines of inerrantist literalism ; his science amounted to unrelieved Baconianism the two together evinced the common-sense realism dear to Protestant fundamentalism . That such a view of things had never been embraced by the CRC even in the palmiest days of scholasticism mattered little to Peters 's " traditionalist " audience . Against the conspiracy of the intellectuals , aid was to be taken where found . The Van Till bout still had the air of a preliminary , however , because Adam is almost as distant as astrophysics . The daughters of Eve are nearby . The question for 1992  --  opening all church offices to women  --  was compelling for everyone . This issue , too , had been brewing for 20 years . It began in days past with proposals to allow the ordination of women as deacons  --  a measure first adopted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of synodical study committees and congregational advice and dissent . As the opposition predicted , the logic of CRC polity , which gives parity to all church offices , did indeed lead to this year 's proposal to open the church at all levels to women . But the movement to secure ordination for women actually advanced more rapidly than even its advocates anticipated . The Synod of 1990 , bogged down in a discussion of how the biblical principle of male " headship " applies to church affairs , unexpectedly voted ( 99 to 84 ) to drop the word " male " from the relevant article of the denomination 's Church Order . More specifically , the assembly explained , congregations would be " permitted " to use " the gifts " of all persons , regardless of sex , in all ministries . It scheduled ratification by a later assembly ( a constitutional requirement ) for the 1992 Synod . Some proponents of the change attributed their success to the Spirit 's presence invoked by the " prayer warriors " of the 1990 assembly 's convening congregation , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The contras instead saw the twin demons of secular feminism and " the new hermeneutic . " Many less radical but truly conservative congregations across the denomination saw a bewildering and unwarranted change . Defening to such conservative concerns , the 1991 Synod appointed a study committee to present biblical ground for the proposal . This panel responded by presenting two hermeneutics , one allowing the change , the other not , and argued further that since no biblical consensus against women 's ordination could be found , congregations so inclined should be permitted to proceed with such ordinations . However , fully half the denomination 's regional assemblies and 23 individual congregations filed petitions to keep women out of office . The contras accelerated their organizing efforts , forming a denomination-in-becoming , the Alliance of Reformed Churches , to whose 1991 convention some 50 churches sent delegates . Deprived of the victory of clear defeat in the Van Till case , the contras determined to make the " women 's question " their last stand . Faced with such polarization , the 1992 Synod took a tour back to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the report on the biblical grounds for women 's ordination , the delegates declared it to be " not sufficiently persuasive " one way or the other , then proceeded to the real point . Ratification would " aggravate the current unrest in the church . " Pace George Bush , it would n't be " prudent . " Yet the Synod , in avuncular recognition of women 's gifts , ruled that congregations might make use of them in teaching , in publicly " expounding sustituted during floor debate for " exhorting , " which connotes ministerial licensure the Word , " and in providing pastoral care " under the supervision of duly ordained , hence male elders . " In short , both women and the contras would have a sop , while the denomination kept the cake of unity . These deliberations were accompanied by signs and wonders befitting a charismatic age . At one point in the proceedings , a thunderstorm knocked out power to the auditorium , leading the two wings to mutter about the wrath of God while the middle began a nervous hymnsing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of 109 to 73 , the delegates broke for lunch ; they returned to find women occupying their seats , singing psalms and hymns and spiritual songs . In due time the demonstrators filed out of the building for an impromptu session of their own . Some contras were heard to utter sexist slurs at the sight . Others granted that the women , at least , had acted on conviction . Safe to say , the decision has pleased no one . Some , of course , hope that a temporary peace may retain a maximum membership , but that strategy has not adequately accounted for the quiet erosion on the left which the denomination has already suffered . Several multiracial congregations ordained women elders before 1992 ; in August the venerable Eastern Avenue CRC in Grand Rapids joined them , and others may do likewise within the year . The contras were not mollified either , since women are now occupying CRC pulpits . Nor , for that matter , did the Synod show " repentance " for the decision of 1990 , as the contras demanded . Overall @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ complicated the contras ' tactical position , possibly dividing the precipitant from the dawdlers and in any case bleeding some of their momentum . What , then , of the denomination 's future ? Unless the CRC moves to depose the councils of some of its signal congregations , women will continue to serve as ordained elders , and the denomination will have effectively moved toward a congregational polity . Unless the denomination stops that political trend and bans women " expounders " in the bargain , many contras will leave and take some  --  how many , no one knows  --  conservatives along . Unless the denomination ratifies the proposal of 1990 , women  --  and an equal number of men ?  --  will continue to leave on the left . As one delegate summarized the situation , sooner or later the CRC will have to bite the bullet , not dodge it . Sadly for a denomination forged on principle , " sooner or later " has become a matter of numerical cost-benefit conjecture . Ordination controversy aside , the denomination 's numbers do not look good . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to having 400,000 members by the year 2000 . The campaign netted 1,800 joiners its first year , 2,700 in 1991  --  just enough to offset the Canadians who were leaving at the same time . Financial figures look worse . For the first time , contributions for denominational assessments have fallen below 80 percent of budget ; Calvin Seminary last year received only 57 percent of its assigned quota . The Synod 's response ? Change the word " quota " to " denominational ministry shares . " See a problem , coin a euphemism . Administrative efficiencies are promised as well , although previous reorganizations have nor prevented cutbacks in the church 's international agencies . Doubtless these concerns influenced the assembly 's decision on the other " women 's issue " it faced o thick study of physical , sexual and emotional abuse among CRC membership . Alas for Reformed distinctiveness , CRC behavior on this score matches that of the general society : 28 percent of the members report such abuse , usually women and children at the hands of male relatives . While the Synod found @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to fund a full-time officer to address the concern . It appointed a study committee instead . After 135 years of existence , then , the CRC is faced with the prospect voiced by one delegate : " I wonder if our vision has exceeded our resources . " Put otherwise , the vision may have become so fractured or diluted that resources are flowing to other channels . As to fractures , both left and right on women 's ordination appeal explicitly to Reformed principles , yet arrive at opposite conclusions . As to dilution , the church-growth would-be center speaks generic evangelese , aiming to increase market share by diminishing brand distinctiveness . Yet the current social scene would argue that the fathers and mothers of 1942 were right on the central point . North America could use Calvinism 's strong suit : a disciplined body of believers , confessionally committed , publicly responsible , attentive to education , neither fleeing nor caving in to the world order but seeking to redeem it in the name of a sovereign God whose grace requires justice , mercy , humility and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that God only knows . James D. Bratt is professor of history at Calvin College in Grand Rapids , Michigan . <p>                     