@@401581

Cloning Versus Microinjection THE PREDOMINANT method of creating animaLs that secrete medicine in their miLk is by microinjection-injecting human DNA directLy into animal embryos . But this is laborious and , in Large animaLs such as sheep and cows , expensive . Cloning also creates animals that produce medicine in their milk , but at a fraction of the cost . What 's more , cloning enables scientists to seLectiveLy work with ceLLs they know have taken up human DNA . And because the process starts with a fetus whose sex is known , scientists can select for females-the future miLk producers . Microinjection does not give scientists either option . Here 's how they both work : JUST BEYOND THE GREASY burger joints lining the main street of Worcester , Massachusetts , is a laboratory where a small group of scientists is tinkering with a technology that might forever transform the way medicines are made . The scientists at this lab are creating a new kind of drug factory , one without a single piece of machinery . // It will be made from skin , bones @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ genetically engineered cow that secretes medicine for humans in its milk . Steven Stice hovers over a microscope , eyeing a single bovine cell that he hopes will grow into a medicinemaking cow . If this experiment is successful , the cow will join growing herds of sheep , goats , and pigs at the forefront of a revolution in biology . A combination of two new technologies-gene insertion and cloning-is making this revolution possible . It 's all happening so quickly that the first drugs made from animal milk could be ready for the market within a year . Stice and a group of fellow scientists formed Worcester-based Advanced Cell Technology ( ACT ) four years ago . They knew that many human diseases are caused by defective proteins , and that the blueprints for these proteins are defective genes . The scientists reasoned that if they could insert healthy human genes into a cow , and then clone that cow , they might be able to create an entire herd of animals capable of producing healthy human proteins in their milk . These proteins could then be extracted from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cows because the animals pump out enormous quantities of milk and would consequently produce large amounts of medicines . ACT 's first target drug is human serum-albumin , a protein component of blood that , among other functions , gives blood enough pressure for the heart to pump it efficiently through the body . Doctors inject the protein into patients undergoing various types of surgeries to maintain their blood pressure . The annual worldwide demand for serum-albumin is between 400 and 500 metric tons , according to Stice . Currently , serum-albumin is extracted from human blood . But with mounting concerns over infectious human pathogens such as the HIV virus , human blood has become a suspect source . What 's more , rigid screening procedures have shrunk the blood donor pool so dramatically that the protein is becoming scarce , which is driving up the cost . Stice estimates that a herd of between Z , OOO and 3,000 cows could produce enough protein to satisfy the current demand at a reasonable cost , without the risk of transmitting infectious agents . Producing medicines in animal milk holds so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Cross ( ARC ) are interested . ARC has recently teamed up with the Dutch drug company Pharming to produce human fibrinogen-a blood protein responsible for blood clotting-in cow milk . ARC is working with the Virginia Polytechnic Institute in Blacksburg to incorporate fibrinogen into a sophisticated new bandage that stops bleeding almost instantly . " We 're talking about a bandage that could revolutionize emergency medical care , ' says William Drohan , head of ARC 's Plasma Derivatives Laboratory in Washington , D.C. " We can also formulate the fibrinogen sealant into an expandable foam or powder that could be sprayed on deep gouges to plug severe bleeding , " he adds . Fibrinogen is currently extracted from human blood , but there just are n't enough donors to supply the protein in the amounts necessary to make the sealant . The only way of producing huge quantities is to use animals that have been genetically engineered to carry the human gene responsible for the production of fibrinogen . Milk is n't the only vehicle for producing medicine . James Petitte at North Carolina State University in Raleigh is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to make human proteins in their eggs . And Bob Wall of the Agricultural Research Service in Beltsville , Maryland , is popping human genes into mice , and hoping that the mice will produce human proteins in their urine . The ability to mix and match genes from different species-known as transgenics-has been around for more than a decade . Mice , goats , and sheep that carry genes from other species , including humans , are almost commonplace . Scientists make these animals by injecting human DNA into animal embryos , a process that involves a lot of trial and error . Combining transgenic technology with cloning , however , speeds up the process and cuts costs by eliminating a lot of guesswork . To create a herd of transgenic cloned calves that produce serum-albumin , for example , the scientists at ACT splice human genes into fetal cow cells and then fuse the nuclei of these cells with eggs that are implanted in surrogate mothers . Cloning also gives scientists better control over the transgenic technique by allowing them to not only add genes , but also take @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ animals to produce other medically useful products-such as organs and tissues for transplantation into humans . In fact , Stice is trying to perfect a technique to genetically modify and clone pigs for precisely that purpose . Pigs have proven good donors because the sizes and shapes of their organs match those of humans . But because porcine tissue is so different from human tissue , it immediately turns black when transplanted : Human immune cells , recognizing the pig tissue as foreign , choke its blood supply . By turning off the genes responsible for this problem , doctors might be able to transplant pig organs directly into humans without giving patients toxic immune-suppressing drugs . Novartis Pharmaceuticals Corp . of East Hanover , New Jersey , has already had some success in transplanting genetically engineered pig hearts and kidneys into monkeys . In preliminary studies , the monkeys have been able to hold onto the transplanted organs for as long as 70 days . Stice himself has been cloning animals since the late 1980s . " The biggest misconception about cloning is that everything started with Dolly , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ used today were developed more than a decade ago . At the time , the goal was to clone prized animals for agricultural purposes . Scientists hoped , for example , to clone cows with the highest milk yields , the most tender meat , and the best flavor . But most of these efforts flopped after experiments showed cloning large animals to be more difficult than anticipated . The physiology and embryology of each species varies tremendously , and the payoff was too low to justify the expense . Combining cloning with transgen ics to produce medicines makes ter economic sense , because the end product , a drug , is worth a lot more than a prime cut of meat . In fact ; Dolly herself was the result of an effort to create a sheep that would secrete medicine in its milk . Today , a number of biotechnology companies around the world are pursuing this idea , using sheep and other animals in attempts to produce a variety of medicines . Although Dolly 's birth proved that an animal could be cloned from an adult cell , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ scientists trying to produce medicine in animal milk.Why use an adult cell when we have much greater success in making Cloned transgenic animals with younger or embryonic cells ? " Stice asks . But that does n't mean scientists are n't investigating the cloning of adult cells . There are many unanswered questions about how cloning works , and the technology has other applications such as cloning endangered species , growing human tissues for transplants , and generating cloned lab animals for research . Making medicine in animal milk is simply the first application of cloning . Although some of the future applications may be ethically troubling , their potential benefits are too tantalizing for scientists not to forge ahead . // Coming Soon to a Drugstore Near You <p>                     