@@427910

One of the most striking of all trees is a bizarre , contorted form of the European beech , known as the monster or parasol beech ( Fagus sylvatica " Tortuosa ' ' ) . I first became familiar with it while working at Boston 's Arnold Arboretum , and it became my favorite specimen in a collection numbering thousands . Among huge and stately beeches from around the world , it grew in an odd , stunted way , a misshapen interloper . Standing only twenty feet high after one hundred years , this tree surely has battled for every inch , rising from a splay of roots , its trunk is a curving , silvery gray column , encrusted with knobs , warts , and carbuncles . The lower branches have grown out , contorting backward and grafting themselves into the trunk to form odd cup handles , or " horse collars . " Clusters of main branches writhe upward , then branchlets zigzag down to the ground . The crown forms a dome of serpentine branches , a parasol fit to shade a Mad Hatter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the contorted growth pattern of the wood is exposed ; it looks more like tightly folded igneous rock than wood . This tree is botanical chaos , Quasimodo in wood , its dramatic bearing at odds with the staid Brahmin institution . When I worked there , I would often come upon adults perched in its branches , drawn back to their childhood by a perfect climbing tree . One can not look upon such mutants and not be filled with wonder . Beech is the common name of a genus of plants ( Fagus ) that has eleven species , all of the Northern Hemisphere . North America has two of them : the American beech grows from Nova Scotia south to the Florida Panhandle and west to Texas , and the rare Mexican beech is found in the cool , moist mountains of the Sierra Madre . Asia has the greatest variety , with three species growing in China , two in Japan , and two rare endemic species , one each on the islands of Taiwan and Ullung-Do , Korea . The cool , temperate rain forests @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the beech tree with which most Americans are familiar , the European , was transplanted here several centuries ago . A titan that grows quickly to maturity , the European beech is by now a mainstay of large landscaped spaces . In Europe it can be found as far north as Norway , where a single stand grows , and in most of the central , southern , and western parts of the continent . The classic image is of pure stands of trees , their tall , columnar trunks clad in light gray bark , their lowest branches dozens of feet from the forest floor . On Denmark 's island of Moen , I once saw a stand atop a 150-foot-high chalk cliff overlooking the churning Baltic Sea . Storms erode the cliff , causing the land to slide and the giants to tumble like botanical lemmings into the drink . Going against the stereotype of pillarlike patriarchs , the European beech has spawned a host of mutations  --  purple-leafed , tricolored , and golden leaf forms  --  as well as a host of atypical branching patterns . Myriad cultivated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to either a greater genetic mutability or a greater prowess on the part of Europeans for spotting and propagating these aberrations , as the American and Asian beeches have produced nowhere near the same number of selected mutations . One can not look upon monster beeches and not feel the urge to explain them or to ask why they are so diferent from normal beeches . After coming to know the Arnold Arboretum 's wonderful specimen , I added the monster beech to the wish list of trees I had to see in their wild state . I found reports of the mutation at Verzy and Remilly in France , in the Stuntel Highlands of Germany , and at Parkanour , Northern Ireland . One of the earliest printed references was written in 1864 by Elie Abel Carriere in the French journal Revue Horticole , an account of a journey to the beech forest at Verzy , southeast of Reims . Carriere urged readers to " imagine a certain number of serpents in a bag , which one could hit with a little stick ; these reptiles will contort themselves in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into a hideous and bizarre group . Such is more or less the general form that the monster beech trees of Verzy exhibit at the point where they branch out . My own chance to see monster beeches in the wild came about when I undertook a plant-collecting trip to Norway and Sweden , in the spring of 1993 . Karl Flinck , a self-taught dendrologist who nurtures his private arboretum at Bjuv in southern Sweden , delighted me by revealing there was a grove just an hour 's drive south of his home . Together we traveled across low , rolling hills covered by a patchwork of tidy , centuries-old family farms until , outside the town of Dalby , we parked in the tawny grass of a field at the edge of a bare forest of beech and hornbeam . Few trees of any great size were in evidence . Karl 's theory is that contorted beeches are more prevalent in this area because their twisting wood is useless for timber , so they were spared from cutting over the centuries and the mutation became entrenched in the local @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ similar to ones I had seen in cultivation , with the gnarled trunks building to a height of twenty feet , the outer branches then cascading into a dome . Some branches made regular patterns of syncline and anticline . Others writhed without reason , like Carriere 's serpents . This grove also included two specimens of English oak ( Quercus robur ) with the same twisting growth . The grove at Verzy also has contorted oaks . Beech and oak are in the same family of plants , the Fagaceae ; could there be a common cause of the aberrant growth ? Still another grove at Dalby had within its ranks densely branched , shrubby plants , no more than four feet high and with tightly curved contortions . Each plant , though , was a unique specimen , varying , for example , in the degree of contortion and mature height . But like a conductor who knows his music , Karl saved the best tree for the final flourish . This monumental specimen stood fifty feet high . It had a forty-foot-wide dome , which reached to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ side branches , which were an addled , chaotic tangle . The trunk was seven feet across at the base , where a bench of three mossy stone slabs offered a resting place within a room formed by the pendent branches . What makes the monster ? Is it an inherited character or something in the soil , say a pathogen or mineral imbalance ? The first to postulate that soils were responsible was M. Mailliart , a physician from near Verzy . But the idea of an in situ mineral imbalance causing the beech to twist and turn is disproved by trees in the rich brown soil of my own Boston backyard . Ten years ago I grafted a scion of a monster beech onto the understock of a normal European beech . As the scion grew , it retained its twisting character . The aberrant growth pattern is held within and can be passed on through seed and by clonal propagation . My favorite theory involves extraterrestrial forces . Anthony Huxley , in his book Plant and Planet , postulated , " It is known that artificial radiation will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this are the tortuous beeches of Europe .... They exist in Denmark , Germany , northern France and Brittany .... The remarkable thing is the localities are in a straight line , and one implication is that a radioactive meteorite passing over these places a century ago affected young trees immediately below it . " Huxley conveniently omitted stands , such as the one in Ireland , that were not on his meteoric line . The case for genetic inheritance is stronger . The classic work of dendrology The Trees and Shrubs of Great Britain and Ireland , by H. Elwes and A. Henry ( 1906 ) , notes that " fruits of this form have been sown in the garden of the Forest School of Nancy , and have reproduced the twisted form in about the proportion of three-fifths ; the other two-fifths of the fruit produced form like the common beech and intermediate varieties . " This account suggests that the character of contortion is passed on from parent to offspring . That a wild stand of these trees shows a spectrum of forms and degrees of contortion would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , just as genetic characters segregate within and among human families . Several mutations affect the growth habits of trees . A lack of apical dormancy , that is , failure of the top shoot to grow properly , results in prostrate or weeping forms . Reduced intervals between buds produce dwarfism . Reduced angles between trunk and branch produce side branches that grow more nearly parallel to the trunk . In a normal beech the side branches grow off the trunk at a prescribed angle ; while initially pointing upward , over time they may arch downward . But the monster beech has a different pattern of branch growth ; the side branches do not show any recognizable pattern at all . Clearly , they operate under a dierent set ofcontrols . Growth in plants is controlled by DNA through hormones and other regulators . Indole acetic acid ( IAA ) , a hormone of simple molecular construction but with many profound effects , can stimulate the elongation of shoots . It is synthesized in the stem tip and leaves and moves downward through the stem . Other growth regulators @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cytokinins , which stimulate cell division . Precise combinations of these compounds produce specific effects and determine what type of wood is formed in the branches . A curving stem is produced when one side of a branch grows at a different rate from the other , usually the result of a denser concentration of IAA on one side . The branches of a monster beech grow in a sine wave pattern , but the signals to produce the right mix of hormones seem to be sometimes on and sometimes off . The evidence pointing to this as an inherited character comes mainly from accounts of contortion in seedlings , a genetic flaw that produces an aberrant set of signals resulting in the wrong cocktail of hormones . But various diseases are known to afect hormone production levels in infected plants , with a resultant change in growth rate and form . The late Calvin Sperling , a botanist with the U.S. Department of Agriculture , offered the possibility of a virus spread by root-to-root contact as the cause of contortion in the monster beeches . Both bacterial and viral pathogens @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into seeds and the resultant seedlings , so a theory of a nonlethal pathogen that can be passed through both contact and inheritance is reasonable . To test this idea , I pruned fresh leaves , stems , and bark from the monster beech in my yard and pureed them in a blender . After filtering this green mush , I obtained a clear , golden liquid , which I injected into the stems of normal American beech seedlings . Now I will wait to see if infection takes hold and alters the architectural pathways of the branches . A rare mutant , the monster beech helps us to see the trees of the forest as individuals , each subject to the randomness of the genetic draw . <p>                     