@@409920

Has the sexual revolution been sidetracked by AIDS , and the return to traditional values we keep hearing about ? In a word , no . The forces that originally fueled the revolution are all still in place and , if anything , are intensifying : mobility , democratization , urbanization , women in the workplace , birth control , abortion and other reproductive interventions , and media proliferation of sexual images , ideas , and variation . Sexuality has moved for many citizens from church-and state-regulated behavior to a medical and self-regulated behavior . Population pressures and other economic factors continue to diminish the size of the American family . Marriage is in sharp decline , cohabitation is growing , traditional families are on the endangered list , and the single-person household is a wave of the future . AIDS has generated a great deal of heat in the media but appears to have done little , so far , to turn down the heat in the bedroom . It is true that in some surveys people claimed to have made drastic changes in behavior  --  but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , cohabitation , teen sex , out-of-wedlock births , sexually transmitted diseases ( STDs ) , contraception , and adultery . These are far more revealing of what we do than what we say we do . And those tell a tale of what has been called a " postmarital society " in continued pursuit of sexual individuality and freedom . Arguably there are , due to AIDS , fewer visible sexual " excesses " today than there were in the late 1960s and into the 1970s , but those excesses ( such as sex clubs , bathhouses , backrooms , swinging singles , group sex , public sex acts , etc. ) were never truly reflective of norms and were , in any case , greatly inflated in the media . Meanwhile , quietly and without fanfare , the public , even in the face of the AIDS threat , has continued to expand its interest in sex and in increased , rather than decreased , sexual expression . Numerous studies reveal that women are more sexual now than at any time in the century . Whereas sex counselors used @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lack of " receptivity , " it is now more often the women complaining about the men . And women , in this " postfeminist " era , are doing things they never used to believe were " proper . " Fellatio , for example , was seldom practiced ( or admitted to ) when Kinsey conducted his famous sex research several decades ago . Since that time , according to studies at UCLA and elsewhere , this activity has gained acceptance among women , with some researchers reporting that nearly all young women now practice fellatio . Women 's images of themselves have also changed dramatically in the past two decades , due , in large part , to their movement into the workplace and roles previously filled exclusively by men . As Lillian Rubin , psychologist at the University of California Institute for the Study of Social Change and author of Intimate Strangers , puts it , " Women feel empowered sexually in a way they never did in the past . " Meanwhile , the singles scene , far from fading away ( the media just lost its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ James Bennet , writing in The New Republic , characterizes this growing population of no-reproducers thusly : " Single adults in America display a remarkable tendency to multiply without being fruitful . " Their libidos are the target of million-dollar advertising budgets and entrepreneurial pursuits that seek to put those sex drives on line in the information age . From video dating to computer coupling to erotic faxing , it 's now " love at first byte , " as one commentator put it . One thing is certain : the computer is doing as much today to promote the sexual revolution as the automobile did at the dawn of that revolution . Political ideologies , buttressed by economic adversities , can temporarily retard the sexual revolution , as can sexually transmitted diseases . But ultimately the forces propelling this revolution are unstoppable . And ironically , AIDS itself is probably doing more to promote than impede this movement . It has forced the nation to confront a number of sexual issues with greater frankness than ever before . While some conservatives and many religious groups have argued for abstinence as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for wider dissemination of sexual information , beginning in grade schools . A number of school districts are now making condoms available to students  --  a development that would have been unthinkable before the outbreak of AIDS . Despite all these gains ( or losses , depending upon your outlook ) the revolution is far from over . The openness that it has fostered is healthy , but Americans are still ignorant about many aspects of human sexuality . Sexual research is needed to help us deal with teen sexuality and pregnancies , AIDS , and a number of emotional issues related to sexuality . Suffice it to say for now that there is still plenty of room for the sexual revolution to proceed  --  and its greatest benefits have yet to be realized . THE REVOLUTION AND RELATIONSHIPS The idea that the Sexual Revolution is at odds with romance ( not to mention tradition ) is one that is widely held , even by some of those who endorse many of the revolution 's apparent objectives . But there is nothing in our findings to indicate that romance and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ romance disguises an agenda of traditional male dominance and the courtly illusion of intimacy and communication between the sexes . The trend now , as we shall see , is away from illusion and toward  --  in transition , at least  --  a sometimes painful reality in which the sexes are finally making an honest effort to understand one another . But to some , it may seem that the sexes are farther apart today than they ever have been . The real gender gap , they say , is a communications gap so cavernous that only the most intrepid or foolhardy dare try to bridge it . Many look back at the Anita Hill affair and say that was the open declaration of war between the sexes . The mistake many make , however , is saying that there has been a recent breakdown in those communications , hence all this new discontent . This conclusion usually goes unchallenged , but there is nothing in the data we have seen from past decades to indicate that sexual-and gender-related communication were ever better than they are today . On the contrary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have always been worse . What has changed is our consciousness about this issue Problems in communication between the sexes have been masked for decades by a rigid social code that strictly prescribes other behavior . Communication between the sexes has long been preprogrammed by this code to produce an exchange that has been as superficial as it is oppressive . As this process begins to be exposed by its own inadequacies in a rapidly changing world , we suddenly discover that we have a problem . But , of course , that problem was there for a long time , and the discovery does not mean a decline in communication between the sexes but , rather , provides us with the potential for better relationships in the long run . Thus what we call a " breakdown " in communications might more aptly be called a breakthrough . Seymour Parker , of the University of Utah , demonstrated that men who are the most mannerly with women , those who adhere most strictly to the " code " discussed above , are those who most firmly believe , consciously or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ weaker ( i.e. , less capable ) than men . " What has long passed for male " respect " toward women in our society is , arguably , disrespect . Yet what has been learned can be unlearned  --  especially if women force the issue , which is precisely what is happening now . Women 's views of themselves are changing and that , more than anything , is working to eliminate many of the stereotypes that supported the image of women as weak and inferior . Women , far from letting men continue to dictate to them , are making it clear they want more real respect from men and will accept nothing less . They want a genuine dialogue ; they want men to recognize that they speak with a distinct and equal voice , not one that is merely ancillary to the male voice . The sexual revolution made possible a serious inquiry into the ways that men and women are alike and the ways that each is unique . This revolutionary development promises to narrow the gender gap as nothing else can , for only by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stand any chance of mastering those complexities . SUBTRENDS GREATER EQUALITY BETWEEN THE SEXES Despite talk in the late 1980s and early 1990s of the decline of feminism and declarations that women , as a social and political force , are waning , equality between the sexes is closer to becoming a reality than ever before . Women command a greater presence in the workforce and wield greater political power than they have ever done . They are assuming positions in both public and private sectors that their mothers and grandmothers believed were unattainable ( and their fathers and grandfathers thought were inappropriate ) for women . Nonetheless , much remains to be achieved before women attain complete equality  --  but movement in that direction will continue at a pace that will surprise many over the next two decades . Women voters , for example , who have long outnumbered male voters , are collectively a sleeping giant whose slumber many say was abruptly interrupted during the Clarence Thomas-Anita Hill hearings in 1991 . The spectacle of a political " boy 's club " raking the dignified Hill over the coals @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ On another front , even though women have a long way to go to match men in terms of equal pay for equal work , as well as in equal opportunity , there is a definite research trend that shows women can match men in the skills needed to succeed in business . This growing body of data will make it more difficult for businesses to check the rise of women into the upper echelons of management and gradually help to change the corporate consciousness that still heavily favors male employees . As for feminism , many a conservative wrote its obituary in the 1980s , only to find it risen from the dead in the 1990s . Actually , its demise was always imaginary . Movements make headway only in a context of dissatisfaction . And , clearly , there is still plenty for women to be dissatisfied about , particularly in the wake of a decade that tried to stifle meaningful change . The " new feminism , " as some call it , is less doctrinaire than the old , less extreme in the sense that it no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to itself . The movement today is less introspective , more goal oriented and pragmatic . Demands for liberation are superseded  --  and subsumed  --  by a well-organized quest for power . Women no longer want to burn bras , they want to manufacture and market them . THE NEW MASCULINITY To say that the men 's movement today is confused is to understate mercifully . Many men say they want to be more " sensitive " but also " less emasculated , " " more open , " yet " less vulnerable . " While the early flux of this movement is often so extreme that it can not but evoke guffaws , there is , nonetheless , something in it that commands some respect  --  for , in contrast with earlier generations of males , this one is making a real effort to examine and redefine itself . The movement , in a word , is real . Innumerable studies and surveys find men dissatisfied with themselves and their roles in society . Part of this , undoubtedly , is the result of the displacement men are experiencing in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ There is evidence , too , that men are dissatisfied because their own fathers were so unsuccessful in their emotional lives and were thus unable to impart to their sons a sense of love , belonging , and security that an increasing number of men say they sorely miss . The trend has nothing to do with beating drums or becoming a " warrior . " It relates to the human desire for connection , and this , in the long run , can only bode well for communications between humans in general and between the sexes in particular . Many psychologists believe men , in the next two decades , will be less emotionally closed than at any time in American history . MORE ( AND BETTER ) SENIOR SEX People used to talk about sex after 40 as if it were some kind of novelty . Now it 's sex after 60 and it 's considered not only commonplace but healthy . Some fear that expectations among the aged may outrun physiological ability and that exaggerated hopes , in some cases , will lead to new frustrations  --  or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seniors to remain sexually active beyond any " decent " desire to do so . But most seem to welcome the trend toward extended sexuality . In fact , the desire for sex in later decades of life is heightened , studies suggest , by society 's growing awareness and acceptance of sexual activity in later life . Diversity of Sexual Expression As sex shifts from its traditional reproductive role to one that is psychological , it increasingly serves the needs of the individual . In this context , forms of sexual expression that were previously proscribed are now tolerated and are , in some cases , increasingly viewed as no more nor less healthy than long-accepted forms of sexual behavior . Homosexuality , for example , has attained a level of acceptance unprecedented in our national history . MORE CONTRACEPTION , LESS ABORTION Though abortion will remain legal under varying conditions in most , if not all , states , its use will continue to decline over the next two decades as more  --  and better  --  contraceptives become available . After a period of more than two decades in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in this field is again growing . AIDS , a changed political climate , and renewed fears about the population explosion are all contributing to this change . Additionally , scientific advances now point the way to safer , more effective , more convenient contraceptives . A male contraceptive that will be relatively side-effect free is finally within reach and should be achieved within the next decade , certainly the next two decades . Even more revolutionary in concept and probable impact is a vaccine , already tested in animals , that some predict will be available within 10 years  --  a vaccine that safely stops ovum maturation and thus makes conception impossible . RELIGION AND SEX : A MORE FORGIVING ATTITUDE Just a couple of decades ago mainstream religion was monolithic in its condemnation of sex outside of marriage . Today the situation is quite different as major denominations across the land struggle with issues they previously would n't have touched , issues related to adultery , premarital sex , homosexuality , and so on . A Special Committee on Human Sexuality , convened by the General Assembly of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ many when it issued a report highly critical of the traditional " patriarchal structure of sexual relations , " a structure the committee believes contributes , because of its repressiveness , to the proliferation of pornography and sexual violence . The same sort of thing has been happening in most other major denominations . It is safe to say that major changes are coming . Mainstream religion is beginning to perceive that the sexual revolution must be acknowledged and , to a significant degree , accommodated with new policies if these denominations are to remain in touch with present-day realities . EXPANDING SEXUAL ENTERTAINMENT The use of sex to sell products , as well as to entertain , is increasing and can be expected to do so . The concept that " sex sells " is so well established that we need not belabor the point here . The explicitness of sexual advertising , however , maybe curbed by recent research finding that highly explicit sexual content is so diverting that the viewer or reader tends to overlook the product entirely . Sexual stereotyping will also be less prevalent in advertising @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , is that women will not be singled out as sex objects ; they 'll have plenty of male company , as is already the case . The female " bimbo " is now joined by the male " himbo " in ever-increasing numbers . Sexist advertising : is still prevalent ( e.g. , male-oriented beer commercials ) but should diminish as women gain in social and political power . There 's no doubt that films and TV have become more sexually permissive in the last two decades and are likely to continue in that direction for some time to come . But all this will surely pale alongside the brave ( or brazen ) new world of " cybersex " and virtual reality , the first erotic emanations of which may well be experienced by Americans in the coming two decades . Virtual reality aims to be just that  --  artificial , electronically induced experiences that are virtually indistinguishable from the real thing . The sexual revolution , far from over , is in for some new , hightech curves . FROM BIOLOGY TO PSYCHOLOGY : THE NEW FAMILY OF @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ making a comeback , the evidence suggests that over the next two decades the nuclear family will share the same future as nuclear arms : there will be fewer of them , but those that remain will be better cared for . Demographers now believe that the number of families consisting of married couples with children will dwindle by yet another 12 percent by the year 2000 . Meanwhile , single-parent households will continue to increase ( up 41 percent over the past decade . ) And household size will continue to decline ( 2.63 people in 1990 versus 3.14 in 1970 ) . The number of households maintained by women , with no males present , has increased 300 percent since 1950 and will continue to rise into the 21st century . Particularly alarming to some is the fact that an increasing number of people are choosing never to marry . And , throughout the developed world , the one-person household is now the fastest growing household category . To the traditionalists , this trend seems insidious  --  more than 25 percent of all households in the United States now @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ doubt : the nuclear family has been vastly diminished , and it will continue to decline for some years , but at a more gradual pace . Indeed , there is a good chance that it will enjoy more stability in the next two decades than it did in the last two . Many of the very forces that were said to be weakening the traditional family may now make it stronger , though not more prevalent . Developing social changes have made traditional marriage more elective today , so that those who choose it may , increasingly , some psychologists believe , represent a subpopulation better suited to the institution and thus more likely to make a go of it . As we try to understand new forms of family , we need to realize that the " traditional " family is not particularly traditional . Neither is it necessarily the healthiest form of family . The nuclear family has existed for only a brief moment in human history . Moreover , most people do n't realize that no sooner had the nuclear family form peaked around the turn of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ continued ever since . For the past hundred years , reality has chipped away at this social icon , with increasing divorce and the movement of more women into the labor force . Yet our need for nurturance , security , and connectedness continues and , if anything , grows more acute as our illusions about the traditional family dissipate . Our longing for more satisfying sources of nurturance has led us to virtually redefine the family , in terms of behavior , language , and law . These dramatic changes will intensify over the next two decades . The politics of family will be entirely transformed in that period . The process will not be without interruptions or setbacks . Some lower-court rulings may be overturned by a conservative U.S. Supreme Court , the traditional family will be revived in the headline from time to time , but the economic and psychological forces that for decades have been shaping these changes toward a more diverse family will continue to do so . SUBTRENDS Deceptively Declining Divorce Rate The " good news " is largely illusory . Our prodigious national divorce @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ period , now shows signs of stabilization or even decline . Still , 50 percent of all marriages will break up in the next several years . And the leveling of the divorce rate is not due to stronger marriage but to less marriage . More people are skipping marriage altogether and are cohabiting instead . The slight dip in the divorce rate in recent years has caused some prognosticators to predict that younger people , particularly those who 've experienced the pain of growing up in broken homes , are increasingly committed to making marriage stick . Others , more persuasively , predict the opposite , that the present lull precedes a storm in which the divorce rate will soar to 60 percent or higher . Increasing Cohabitation The rate of cohabitation  --  living together without legal marriage  --  has been growing since 1970 and will accelerate in the next two decades . There were under half a million cohabiting couple in 1970 ; today there are more than 2.5 . The trend for the postindustrial world is very dear : less marriage , more cohabitation , easier and  --  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Those who divorce will be less likely to remarry , more likely to cohabit . And in the United States , cohabitation will increasingly gather about it both the cultural acceptance and the legal protection now afforded marriage . More Single-Parent Families and Planned Single Parenthood The United States has one of the highest proportions of children growing up in single-parent families . More than one in five births in the United States is outside of marriage  --  and three quarters of those births are to women who are not in consensual unions . What is significant about the single-parent trend is the finding that many single women with children now prefer to remain single . The rush to the altar of unwed mothers , so much a part of American life in earlier decades , is now , if anything , a slow and grudging shuffle . The stigma of single parenthood is largely a thing of the past  --  and the economic realities , unsatisfactory though they are , sometimes favor single parenthood . In any case , women have more choices today than they had even 10 years @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ parenthood over the financial security ( increasingly illusory , in any event ) of marriage . More Couples Childless by Choice In the topsy-turvy 1990s , with more single people wanting children , it should n't surprise us that more married couples do n't want children . What the trend really comes down to is increased freedom of choice . One reason for increasing childlessness among couples has to do with the aging of the population , but many of the reasons are more purely psychological . With a strong trend toward later marriage , many couples feel they are " too old " to have children . Others admit they like the economic advantages and relative freedom of being childless . Often both have careers they do not want to jeopardize by having children . In addition , a growing number of couples cite the need for lower population density , crime rates , and environmental concerns as reasons for not wanting children . The old idea that " there must be something wrong with them " if a couple does not reproduce is fast waning . The One-Person Household @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ world . It has grown in the United States from about 10 percent in the 1950s to more than 25 percent of all households today . This is a trend that still has a long way to go . In Sweden , nearly 40 percent of all households are now single person . " Mr. Mom " a Reality at Last ? When women began pouring into the work force in the late 1970s , expectations were high that a real equality of the sexes was at hand and that men , at last , would begin to shoulder more of the household duties , including spending more time at home taking care of the kids . Many women now regard the concept of " Mr. Mom " as a cruel hoax ; but , in fact , Mr. Mom is slowly emerging . Men are showing more interest in the home and in parenting . Surveys make clear there is a continuing trend in that direction . Granted , part of the impetus for this is not so much a love of domestic work as it is a distaste for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ among many men , a genuine desire to play a larger role in the lives of their children . These men say they feel " cheated " by having to work outside the home so much , cheated of the experience of seeing their children grow up . As the trend toward more equal pay for women creeps along , gender roles in the home can be expected to undergo further change . Men will feel less pressure to take on more work and will feel more freedom to spend increased time with their families . More Interracial Families There are now about 600,000 interracial marriages annually in the United States , a third of these are black-white , nearly triple the number in 1970 , when 40 percent of the white population was of the opinion that such marriages should be illegal . Today 20 percent hold that belief . There is every reason to expect that both the acceptance of and the number of interracial unions will continue to increase into the foreseeable future . Recognition of Same-Sex Families Family formation by gay and lesbian couples , with or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a leading-edge signifier of just how far society has moved in the direction of diversity and individual choice in the family realm . The number of same-sex couples has steadily increased and now stands at 1.6 million such couples . There are an estimated 2 million gay parents in the Unites States . And while mast of these children were had in heterosexual relationships or marriages prior to " coming out , " a significant number of gay and lesbian couples are having children through adoption , cooperative parenting arrangements , and artificial insemination . Within the next two decades , gays and lesbians will not only win the right to marry but will , like newly arrived immigrants , be some of the strongest proponents of traditional family values . The Rise of Fictive Kinships Multiadult households , typically consisting of unrelated singles , have been increasing in number for some years and are expected to continue to do so in coming years . For many , " roommates " are increasingly permanent fixtures in daily life . In fact housemates are becoming what some sociologist and psychologists call " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ being generated in many of these situations , with some housemates even assigning roles ( " brother , " " sister , " " cousin , " " aunt , " " mom , " " dad , " and so on ) to one another . Fictive families are springing up among young people , old people , disabled people , homeless people , and may well define one of the ultimate evolutions of the family concept , maximizing , as they do , the opportunities for fulfillment of specific social and economic needs outside the constraints of biological relatedness . THE BREAKUP OF THE NUCLEAR FAMILY It 's hard to tell how many times we 've heard even well-informed health professionals blithely opine that " the breakup of the family is at the root of most of our problems . " The facts disagree with this conclusion . Most of the social problems attributed to the dissolution of the " traditional " family ( which , in reality , is not so traditional ) are the product of other forces . Indeed , as we have seen , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ social , and psychological problems . To try to perpetuate a manifestly transient social institution beyond its usefulness is folly . What can we do to save the nuclear family ? Very little . What should we do ? Very little . Our concern should not be the maintenance of the nuclear family as a moral unit ( which seems to be one of the priorities of the more ardent conservative " family values " forces ) , encompassing the special interests and values of a minority , but , rather , the strengthening of those social contracts that ensure the health , well-being , and freedom of individuals . <p>                     