@@383233

We are moving toward a future where doctors can practice surgery on " virtual " patients and marketers can sell " virtual " products . Here 's a wide-ranging survey of future possibilities bg a virtual-reality expert . Photograph A British housing development created in virtual reality . Architects , landscapers , real-estate developers , and construction companies can use virtual-reality simulations to display and customize houses-as well as the surrounding environment-before building them in the real world . // Virtual reality may be one ot the most important technologies in our future , producing a great leap forward in many fields . While most people now focus on VR 's use in entertainment areas , its real impacts will be in the arts , business , communication , design , education , engineering , medicine , and many other fields . Due to the importance of this emerging technology , I would like to dispel some misinformation about it and suggest some important applications it will have in the future . But first , let 's get clear about what virtuality is . Defining Virtual Reality Virtual @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in which one can navigate around , interact with , and be immersed in another environment . In this sense , " virtual " is derived from the concept of " virtual memory " in a computer , which acts " as if " it is actual memory . Virtual reality provides a reality that mimics our everyday one . Since human beings are primarily visual animals , we respond much better to spatial , three-dimensional images than we do to flat , two-dimensional text and sketches . With three-dimensional images like those produced in virtual reality , we are better able to see patterns , relationships , and trends . Virtual reality goes beyond mere static images to ones that we can navigate through and interact with in real time . We can look at things from any perspective . Virtual reality is also immersive-it draws you into the visualization . Virtual reality is not just a set of devices , but a medium for expression and communication . Virtual reality is a means to create , experience , and share a computer-generated world as realistic or as fanciful as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and other devices are only tools to help us experience this parallel world . Other names for the concept of virtual reality include " artificial reality , " " augmented reality , " and " telepresence . " However , the term " virtual reality , " or " VR , " seems to have won out in common parlance . The term hooks us with the excitement of creating and experiencing different realities . There is also an ongoing debate over exactly what virtual reality is and what it is not . Most observers agree that one necessary characteristic is that you can navigate in a virtual world with some degree of immersion , interactivity , and a speed close to real time . Hype and Reality Right now , there is a great deal of hype surrounding virtual reality . The technology , s present state of advancement has been overstated . Coverage in numerous magazines and newspaper articles , on TV shows , and even in TV ads suggests that virtual reality is now fully developed . Unfortunately , this is not true . Present virtual-reality visualizations are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be jerky and not respond quickly to our movements . Few systems allow for tactile feedback-a sense of touch . Some people even question the physiological and psychological safety of virtual reality , particularly in entertainment . However , the future of virtual reality is important and real . We should not abandon the technology because it does not yet fit our expectations . Virtual reality is with us now in a very early and rudimentary form . Its state of development has been likened to the space program in the 1950s or microcomputers in the 1970s . We are just beginning to see the potential of virtual reality . Faster computers , better software , and new devices to inform our senses are expected to come rapidly onto the scene , improving virtual reality and increasing its utility . Better content and new applications will rapidly emerge in the years ahead . Virtual reality will come to us over the Internet , reducing the need for complicated and expensive stand-alone equipment . Do n't let the hype fool you . Virtual reality is not fully here yet , but it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ our society as a whole . Let 's now consider some present and future applications of virtual-reality technology . Our time frame is in the range of the next 10 years and our list is far from being all-inclusive . Virtual reality 's uses are still being explored and defined . The only thing we can be certain of is that we 'll be surprised and that we must remain open to surprise . Virtual Reality Applications , Today and Tomorrow Architecture and construction . Virtual reality is already showing its potential in the architecture and construction industries . A building can be created as a navigable , interactive , and immersive experience while still being designed , so that both architect and client can experience the structure and make changes before construction begins . It has been said that every building built today is actually a physical prototype , leaving little room for input or changes until after construction . Virtual reality would allow for an electronic prototype to be created and modified , so that costly changes during or after construction are avoided . Photograph An atrium in a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Integrated Manufacturing Studies at the Rochester Institute of Technology allowed school officials to " tour " the facility while it was still in the design stage . Photograph Young girl takes a virtual ride on " Aladdin 's Flying Carpet " at Disney 's Epcot Center . // In the future , clients will want to experience their house or building in virtual reality before final designs are completed and construction begins . Beyond today 's capabilities , clients will not only be able to see the structure , but hear sounds from within it , feel its textures , and experience its fragrances . Home builders and real-estate developers are particularly excited about the potential of virtual reality to sell their designs . Why build expensive model homes or demonstration spaces when prospective buyers can see the range of options electronically ? City planners will use virtual reality to consider various changes in the community , greatly assisting the work of zoning and planning boards . Art . At present , you can " virtually " visit a number of actual art galleries and museums via the Internet . Recently @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ virtual-reality art works . Virtual reality will change our conception of what constitutes art . A work of art may become a physically navigable , interactive , and immersive experience . You may travel into a virtual painting , which will actually be a mini-world for you to explore . You may interact with its elements , perhaps even change them . You may enter a sculpture gallery and interact with the art pieces . You will actually become part of the art as you interact with it . Business . Already , several companies have created three-dimensional visualizations of the stock market . The stocks appear as upright cylinders ( like a stack of poker chips ) on a three-dimensional grid representing different sectors of the market . The cylinders ( each with a company logo ) will rise and fall with stock prices and spin at different speeds as an indication of each stock 's sales activity . With this arrangement , a stock broker or analyst can quickly see patterns for a market sector as a whole , as well as the activity of specific stocks . A @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the screen and give the broker an opportunity to rapidly buy or sell a stock . The use of virtual reality in stock market trading will greatly increase in the future . Those companies trading on various stock markets globally will require this virtual-reality application to identify trends and make trades more rapidly . They will , in fact , be interacting with the stock market in real time . Their work will be much like playing a large and complex video game . Some virtual-reality software developers have been working on a product called FlowSheet . It will be like a spreadsheet , but will show more than mere numbers displayed in two-dimensional columns and rows . Rather , it will give a threedimensional depiction of numbers with varying sizes , shapes , colors , and spatial relationships . In the future , FlowSheets will allow for much clearer and quicker analysis of alternatives , relationships , and trends . Still other software developers are considering the benefits of creating DataSpaces , a step beyond the database . Like the FlowSheet , DataSpaces represents information sources as objects that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ relationships . You will surf through information in a world of three-dimensional objects , selecting the information you need by clicking on the appropriate one . In the next few years , you will be able to conduct this kind of search on the Internet using a recently accepted standard called Virtual Reality Modeling Language ( VRML ) . Using a combination of the FlowSheet , DataSpaces , and other virtualreality software , companies will be able to simulate their entire operation . Different aspects of operation , such as production , inventory , sales , and productivity , can be represented in three dimensions for analysis . Various " what-if " scenarios could be proposed . A company could also use this system to watch its actual operation in real time rather than in simulation . Disabilities . Several organizations , such as Prairie Software and Hines Veterans ' Hospital in Illinois , are experimenting with virtual reality to confirm the accessibility of buildings for people with disabilities . One university , Oregon Research Institute , has created a program that teaches children to operate wheelchairs . Another , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mentally retarded students how to ride a bus . Just beginning are many other applications aimed at allowing people with disabilities to experience worlds they can not currently explore due to their physical limitations . Photograph Inspecting radiation contamination safely . With many Cold-War-related sites to decontaminate , the U.S. Department of Energy has been using VR software to create simulations of such buildings for training and demolition purposes . The top image is an actual photo of a contaminated site , while the bottom one is its VR counterpart . // In the future , it will be standard procedure , if not mandatory , to use virtual reality in private homes and public places to test accessibility before plans are approved . People with disabilities will be able to visit new areas virtually before they visit them in the everyday world . They will also be able to experience skiing , hang gliding , and other sports in virtual worlds . Education and training . VR is just beginning to be applied in education and training . Students can study anatomy or explore our galaxy . Some training applications @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Builder of Rochester , New York , allows trainees to walk through a virtual factory and learn about health hazards-a more engaging experience than reading a manual or attending a lecture . In the future , students will be able to learn through studying in virtual worlds . Chemistry students will be able to conduct experiments without risking an accidental explosion in the lab . Astronomy students will be able to visit a range of virtual galaxies to study their properties . History students will be able to visit different historical events and perhaps even participate in the action with historical figures . English students could be on stage at the Globe Theater as it was when Shakespeare 's plays were first presented . They will also be able to enter into a book and interact with its characters . Virtual reality will also be used in teaching adults . Trainees in a wide variety of environments will be able to safely try out new techniques . They will be able to learn by doing tasks virtually before applying them in the real world . They will use these practice tasks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the job . However , much remains to be done to bring virtual reality fully into the classroom or the training facility . Engineering . Engineers of all descriptions are already using virtualreality simulations to create and test prototypes . Each of the Big Three automakers is using some form of virtual reality to test new models . In the aerospace industry , the new Boeing 777 was the first aircraft to be designed and tested using virtual-reality technology . Physical prototypes take a great deal of time to produce and are very costly . Changes to electronic or simulated prototypes can be done rapidly and inexpensively , shortening development time . Hoping to save money in prototyping and avoid cost overruns , the U.S. military has even coined the phrase , " Sim it before you build it ! " In the future , nearly every engineering pursuit will use virtual-reality prototypes so that designs can be shared , evaluated , and modified with input from both co-workers and customers . Even the manufacturing process and expected repairs will be simulated , saving money and aggravation . Given advances in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ engineers in distant locations around the globe working in teams to design products . Entertainment . Virtual reality is already being applied in entertainment . Location-based entertainment centers are cropping up in major cities around the globe and traveling virtual-reality entertainment shows are on the road . Soon , nearly all video arcades will be VR centers ; all games will be 3-D , interactive , and immersive . While the number of such entertainment centers will increase in the future , home-based virtual reality will also grow dramatically . Current systems are primitive , due to a lack of computing power and the high cost of most virtual-reality equipment , but advanced virtual reality is set to invade the home entertainment scene in the years ahead . While stand-alone entertainment systems will be offered , perhaps the most important form of home VR will come over the Internet , and with it the potential for virtual reality to promote human interaction over wide distances . Imagine an adventure game in which you are immersed in a threedimensional world , interacting with other participants . It can become a real , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a participant interacting with the plot and other characters . While these kinds of entertainment have been seen as separating participants in the past , in the future they may be seen as a new kind of socializing , one which may lead to richer relationships in the " real " world . Marketing . Virtual reality is just beginning to be used by companies who want customers to experience their products and to understand them better . They 've found that a new technology , such as virtual reality , draws people to their exhibits and involves them with a product much more than standard displays . Cabletron , a cable network company in Rochester , New Hampshire , has customers travel through their network virtually . Sopporo , a beer company in Japan , allows customers to visit its production plant to experience the beer-making process in virtual reality . In the future , virtual reality will be used to develop and test products with much greater customer involvement . A company will be able to create products , gain customer feedback , and then modify the products much @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an electronic idea that they can directly test before creating the physical product . This electronic prototyping may also lead to individualized products that are portrayed in virtual reality , customized by the individual , and then transmitted electronically to a production facility . Medicine . Virtual reality is just beginning to be used in medicine and medical research . The University of North Carolina ( UNC ) uses it in biochemical engineering . They test the docking of molecules using visual and auditory displays and a forcefeedback device . Virtual reality is also being used at UNC and other locations to practice aiming X-rays before cancer treatments of that type are performed . Several companies , such as High Techsplanations of Rockville , Maryland , and Cine-med of Woodbury , Connecticut , are creating virtual bodies , a kind of " body electronic , " to enhance medical training . In the future , medical students will study anatomy by dissecting virtual cadavers-a much more cost effective and efficient way of studying the human body . Medical students and surgeons will practice virtual surgery before attempting a new procedure . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , whose unique body characteristics have been scanned into the computer . Different diseases and medical emergencies can also be simulated to test a medical student 's or doctor 's knowledge regarding treatment . On a different front , virtual reality could be used for treatments in guided visualization . Patients could use virtual reality to assist in visualizing a part of their body for healing . Likewise , virtual reality could help improve relaxation techniques , providing a pleasant world in which to relax . Military . One of the first applications of virtual reality was in flight simulators . Today , these applications are used not only for aircraft simulation , but also for ships , tanks , and infantry maneuvers . With the advent of networked virtual reality , the U.S. military is able to stage SimNet tank battles between various military installations around the world over what it calls the " Defense Simulation Internet . " First used extensively in the Gulf War , SimNet allowed nearly every flight and battle to be conducted in virtual reality before the real war began . Records of Gulf War @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can test the skill of military leaders and soldiers . In the future , every aspect of warfare will be practiced in simulation before being conducted in a realworld situation . Simulations will become so real , it will become impossible to distinguish the real from the simulated . While there are dangers here in misunderstanding the real from the simulated , it may also be possible for combatants to see the folly of their aggression before a conflict begins . Perhaps we could substitute a virtual war for a real one . Religion . At present , religion does not seem to be making much use of virtual reality . However , there is potential for VR in both religious education and experience . One Christian religious denomination reportedly has been having discussions with a virtual-reality developer about creating biblical scenes in virtual reality . One author , Richard V. Kelly of Digital Equipment Corporation , has proposed the creation of religious experiences from all of the world 's various religions . In the future , we can expect to see an array of religious experiences via virtual reality . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Sermon on the Mount or even the Crucifixion , among other events in that faith 's history . He or she could also explore events in Judaism or Buddhism . Even more profound mystical experiences , such as the prophecies of Ezekiel or a revelation from eastern religions , could be created in virtual worlds . SM Virtual sex is a hot topic . It has been labeled teledildonics by several authors . At least one virtual-reality company , Thinking Software of Woodside , New York , is selling a " cybersex machine , " and there are some multimedia sexual experiences that come close to virtual reality . These products are not very advanced , however , and many obstacles must be overcome to produce a satisfying tactile experience . But expect great strides to be made in creating advanced " sex machines " using virtualreality technology . There is too much potential profit in these applications for them not to be pursued . In the future , virtual sex will be either a stand-alone or networked experience . Expect virtual reality to be used in treating sexual dysfunction @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and for sexual exploration or , unfortunately , exploitation . Today 's 900 number hotlines and sex sites on the Internet will be tame by comparison . Expect major controversy over this topic from lawmakers , religious groups , and proponents of family values . The Promise of Virtual Reality These are just some present and future applications of virtual reality As you can see , there are many potential applications for virtual reality . Perhaps , in the future , we will only be limited by our imagination regarding the uses of virtual reality . Virtual reality is neither good nor bad . It is a new tool that will have important implications in our future . In working in the field of virtual reality , I have found a very important aspect of it that is often overlooked . In order to create virtual worlds , one must have an in-depth understanding of how our everyday world works . Perhaps one of virtual reality 's greatest gifts will be helping us to understand better our own reality Author Affiliation John C. Briggs is the chief process officer for NorthLight @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ New York . He is also the communications director for Author Affiliation the Western New York Futurists , a chapter of the World Future Society . His address is 3238 Winton Road South , E21 , Rochester , New York 14623 . Telephone 716/424-6198. // <p>                     