@@353312

Annamarie Miller is a dedicated schoolteacher with an obvious love of history and ideas , who dresses fastidiously in neatly pressed shirts and slacks and is inclined to exclaim " Gosh ! " when she gets excited . Though hardly a menacing presence , Miller , 27 , is a determined renegade who refuses to take any authority figure 's word at face value . It all began , she says , during her student days at California State University at Chico . " I became disillusioned by the revisionism of history , " she says . " A lot of stuff they were teaching me twisted the truth . " Inspired by campaign literature , she began to question the " truths " of authorities far more powerful than her college professors . The Federal Reserve Board , for instance . Why had it never been audited ? Had it perhaps already bankrupted the U.S. ? Or the Social Security Administration . Was it going to collapse before Miller was old enough to collect ? Through such questions , Miller gradually arrived at a hard " truth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all Americans , she believes , are threatened by an overgrasping , irresponsible government . <P> She does n't keep it to herself . Each Tuesday at 7 p.m. , Miller broadcasts that unflinching message via public-access TV to an audience of 50,000 viewers in Northern California . Along with her husband Scott , a retail clerk , and his brother Randall , a chef , she uses their half-hour show , The Informed Citizen , to warn of threats to the American way of life . Among them : a conspiratorial U.S. government that is surrendering its sovereignty to the U.N. ; efforts by police and gun-control advocates to disarm citizens ; and a tax burden that is robbing Americans of their hard-earned income . Her aim , she insists , is simply to inform and motivate . " A lot of people , " she says , " are willing to give up their rights and freedom out of fear . " <P> Before the bombing in Oklahoma City , few Americans would have thought that either Miller or her show posed a serious threat to the civic order @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " patriots "  --  an amorphous , far-right populist movement of both armed militias and unarmed groups that harbor a deep distrust of government  --  Miller does not spend her weekends running around in camouflage , shooting at imagined enemies . Nor does she buy into every conspiracy theory that crackles along the patriot grapevine , like last week 's alert that the Oklahoma catastrophe-which " patriots " suspect involved three bombs , not one-was a government plot to enable President Clinton to proclaim martial law and divert attention from forthcoming hearings on the Whitewater financial scandal . Indeed , Miller 's attitude toward the Oklahoma City culprits  --  " I say hang ' em "  --  sounded much like the President's.                     