@@410544

When President Clinton introduced in September his proposal for health care reform , he urged Congress and the rest of us to " write a new chapter in the American story " by righting what is wrong wit the health care system . He did not deny , of course , that by some measures health care in the U.S. is the best on earth . The research facilities , the clinical facilities , the innovative technologies , the sophisticated professionals  --  all of that is remarkably good . But not everyone has access to " all of that , " and " all of that " is also remarkably costly . That 's what 's wrong with health care in this country , according to Clinton and many other observers : we face a crisis of access Consider first the crisis of access . The numbers are clear . There are 38.5 million Americans ( nearly 10 million of them children ) who are uninsured . Another 22 million are underinsured , and with cutbacks in Medicaid and rising costs for private insurance , the numbers have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ second class " medicine . The consequences are predictable . One recent study in the New England Journal of Medicine demonstrated , for example , that women who are uninsured or on Medicaid came to a doctor with more advanced cases of breast cancer than women who are privately insured , and also died as a result of their breast cancer much more often . These numbers and their consequences need to be righted . The numbers also are clear regarding the crisis of costs . The U.S. spends 14 percent of its gross national product on hearth care . That number has grown and keeps on growing in spite of efforts over two decades to contain costs . According to some projections , by the turn of the century the number could grow to nearly 20 percent . Again the consequences are predictable : spiraling health care costs threaten to cripple industry , to close those small businesses that insure their employees , and to bankrupt government programs . These numbers , too , and their consequences need to be righted . That our health dare system has problems is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ these wrongs  --  the outline of that " new chapter in the American story "  --  is the heart of the Health Security Act . What are its key elements ? Will it right what 's wrong ? The first and morally fundamental concern of Clinton 's plan is providing universal and comprehensive health care insurance for every American . Hospitalization , emergency care , the services of a physician or other health care professional , clinical preventive services , mental health care , substance abuse services , family planning and pregnancy-related services , hospice care , home health care , extended care , ambulances , lab services , prescription drugs , rehabilitation services , medical equipment , vision and hearing care , preventive dental services for children and even health education classes are part of the benefits package that must be offered by every health plan . The test is simply whether the service is " medically necessary or appropriate . " Though certain services ( for example , in vitro fertilization ) are excluded , and though limits are imposed on other services ( for example , until the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of days of inpatient care covered for mental health and on the number of visits to a psychotherapist ) , the universal coverage proposed is hardly a minimal set of benefits . The obvious question is who will pay for this generous health insurance coverage . Clinton 's answer , given the existing and widespread system of employers providing health care coverage for their employees , is almost equally obvious : employers . Employers will pay 80 percent of the average cost for health care coverage for each of their full-time employees ( and a pro-rated share for part-time employees ) . The remainder will be paid by the employee . If one is unemployed , the employer 's share will be paid by the government . Subsidies are proposed for small businesses and for individuals unable to afford the insurance . Clinton 's answer may be an obvious one , but it has not gone uncontested . A number of critics have complained that an unfair burden will be placed on small businesses . But the planned subsidies , along with the possibility of ensuring fairer competition among small businesses @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ employees and others do not , and especially the Clinton plan 's continuity with the current system ( which should minimize the difficulties of initiating a major social reform ) , all combine to make the president 's solution also good public policy . Indeed , if small businesses  --  especially those that currently struggle to insure their employees  --  could be confident that the cost-containment measures in Clinton 's plan will be effective , they would probably happily accept this approach as not only good policy but good business . This last issue brings us to the much more difficult matter of cost-containment ; it also brings us back to the crisis of escalating costs . Clinton 's proposal to right what is wrong about the current system includes an innovative ( but untested ) combination of cost-saving strategies and premium caps . One money-saving strategy is to cut administrative costs ( now about 25 percent of a hospital 's cost ) . The uniform benefits package and the standardized billing proposed in the Clinton plan should significantly cut down on administrative costs ( and , to some degree , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the insurance forms that accompany patient care ) . But because the president 's proposal also requires new administrative and regulative bureaucracies in both national and state governments , one is inclined to be a little suspicious of claims about significant savings on administrative costs . The plan 's other strategies to contain costs ( a little ) include malpractice reform , a new toughness on medical fraud , and the creation of a health care " work force " that would include more general practitioners , more nurse practitioners , and fewer medical specialists . The central feature of the Clinton plan , however , and its key strategy for cost containment is the now-famous notion of " managed competition . " Nearly everyone would belong to the " health alliance " of their region . ( Some large corporations would have " corporate alliances " to which their employees would belong . ) The alliance would negotiate with companies offering health plans . Each health plan would be required to include the same comprehensive benefits package and to extend it to anyone residing in the health alliance region @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ eliminate " pre-existing conditions " or " health risk factors . " Health plans would have to rely on community ratings rather than on the actuarial tables . The health plan could be a " low cost-sharing plan " ( a Heath Maintenance Organization  --  HMO  --  plan with access to affiliated health care professionals and hospitals ) , a " high cost-sharing plan " ( a " fee-for-service " plan ) , or a " combination plan " ( a " preferred provider " plan in which there would be larger costs to use providers outside of the system ) . Once a health plan and its premium have been accepted by an alliance , which will wield significant bargaining power , that plan could be offered within that region alone , with other approved health plans . Any resident of the region could choose from a number of plans negotiated by their alliance , and could change plans during an annual open enrollment period . The various plans negotiated between an alliance and insurance companies would be forced to compete on the basis of quality and price . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be contained ; that more and more people will enroll in high-quality , cost-effective HMOs ; and that we will all live happily and healthily . Actually , not even the framers of Clinton 's plan hold such extravagant expectations . Indeed , they are evidently less confident about the ability of " managed competition " to control costs than are many other supporters of the plan . More modest expectations are the course of wisdom , I think . Not only is. the record of competitive strategies designed to control health care costs mixed , but the costs of HMOs ( although less than " fee-for-service " plans ) are also increasing at approximately the same rate as health care in general . According to Joseph Newhouse 's recent article in Health Affairs , increased medical capability  --  technology  --  is driving up all health care costs . If Newhouse is right  --  and in spite of wonderful innovations like the polio vaccine , a " cost-effective medical technology " does appear to be something of an oxymoron  --  then " managed competition " alone will not succeed in containing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its new technologies will constantly lead to rising expectations of medicine , increasing demands upon it and expanding applications of it . Moreover , an increase in morbidity will remain a curious and ironic consequence of excellent medical care , because good medicine keeps sick people alive . As technology expands , so inevitably does the category of the " medically necessary and appropriate , " and so inevitably do the costs . Hence a backstop is needed , a measure to control costs when " managed competition " fails . To its credit , the Clinton plan has such a backstop  --  what the president has called " an emergency brake "  --  to ensure that health care costs do not spiral out of control in spite of the " managed competition " strategy . The brake is a cap on premiums . The National Health Board called for in the Health Security Act must , among its other duties , establish budgets for various regions of the country and enforce those budgets . It is to set a cap on the average premium in the U.S. and adjust it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ then be responsible for negotiating with representatives of health care plans to preserve that average premium for the comprehensive benefits package . The premium caps assure that health care costs will not rise faster than the rest of the economy . While these caps have provoked more criticism than any other single feature of the Clinton proposal , they are critically important if the U.S. is to achieve an economically sustainable system of universal health insurance . The Clinton plan optimistically forecasts that by the year 2001 , as the health care system is brought under economic control through increased competition and budget constraints , expanded benefits for mental health and long-term care will be included in health care packages . The plan even authorizes the National Health Board to expand benefits earlier than that if it can be done within the constraints of the premium caps . A more likely scenario is that the system will be driven by new technology , new costs , new desires for health care in desperate circumstances  --  but driven with the " emergency brake " on , and with the emergency brake pulled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more likely future includes the R-word  --  rationing . When developing technologies and the demand for them collide with cost controls in the form of premium caps . then the National Health Board will inevitably have to redefine the comprehensive benefits package . The Clinton plan permits such redefinition insofar as it permits the Health Board to determine the meaning of a central concept  --  that of " medically necessary or appropriate . " The meaning of that phrase will have to be elastic enough to exclude from the comprehensive benefits package some technologies that are extraordinarily expensive and usually ineffective  --  say , autologous bone marrow transplants for end-stage metastatic cancer . It will also have to be expansive enough to allow rationing decisions to be made , and the choices that will be necessary ( and necessarily tragic ) will not be simply " medical " decisions . That the Clinton proposal provides a mechanism for making such hard choices is to its credit . But it nurtures little public awareness of the necessity and hard reality of those choices . It nurtures little public appreciation of the limits @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ little to public wisdom about issues involved in such choices : the appropriate ends of medicine , the sort of social good health care is , the priorities important to public support for the practice of health care : The optimism of the Clinton plan is self-deceptive , and its description of necessary choices concerning health care as simply " medical " choices is potentially self-destructive . I am not suggesting hat the Clinton proposal is a bad policy . It is a good policy  --  and it represents a great improvement over the current system . I am underscoring the insufficiency of policy . Whether this policy works to right what 's wrong with health care may very well depend on public virtues and a public wisdom which policy innovation by itself can not supply . The success of the policy may depend on the larger story within which we advance and interpret any " new chapter . " When President Clinton urged us to " write a new chapter in the American story " by righting what 's wrong with health care , he also briefly plotted that story @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who dreamed of life , liberty and the pursuit of happiness , a people who settled the frontier and then continuously encountered new frontiers , constantly overcoming new obstacles and securing new horizons . It 's an optimistic story , and it forms an optimistic character . It helps to explain , I think , the optimism of Clinton 's proposal . But the same story also helps to explain what 's wrong with the health care system . The story of the frontier does not train those who tell it to be content with limits , and when the discontent with limits becomes a discontent with the limits of human mortality and finite resources , then medical expectations become boundless . The story of the frontier celebrates the rugged individualist , fighting against nature and the odds , and it celebrates the technical innovations that extend human mastery over nature and help one to beat the odds . The frontier knows justice , of course , but it is a tightfisted justice that looks out for number one . Though the American story knows tragedy , knows that in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it trains us to respond to tragedy by battling on . Another part of the larger American story  --  a part implicit in Clinton 's proposal and in the proposed idea of " managed competition , " even if not mentioned in Clinton 's summary of the story  --  is the omnipresent story of the marketplace . In this story the seller gets rich by supplying what the buyer wants . This narrative shapes identity too . It frequently creates incentives  --  and moral characters  --  geared for productivity and creativity . In some cases such a narrative and its correlates advance the interests of everyone in society . But when medicine becomes a commodity like cookies or cars , then the crises of access and costs are made worse rather than solved . Marketplace medicine tends to become a medicine for the rich and powerful while the weak and poor watch and pray . And marketplace medicine will not control costs . Although most consumers are unwilling to mortgage the house to pay for safety features in their automobiles , in the face of disease and death they do seem @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ improvement in health care technology . Moreover , the marketplace story of medicine will not sustain the dispositions of care and trust which have sometimes marked the covenant of physician and patient . President Clinton drew no narrative lines from the story he plotted to our discontent with limits , our individualism and tightfisted sense of justice , or to our suspicion of nature and our confidence in technology . He also drew no connecting lines from the American character to what 's wrong with American health care . Unless we Americans revise our larger story , we will have reason to worry that the " new chapter " of health care will simply repeat the same old story . Christians in particular should have less confidence in the frontier narrative than in the story of pilgrimage . The pilgrim encounters obstacles and new horizons , too , of course , but with hope rather than optimism ; and Christian pilgrims are trained to acknowledge and faithfully accept the limits of mortality and finite resources . Further , Christians should have less confidence in the story of the marketplace than in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , too , of course , but the test for justice is not a pinched view of individual entitlement but the care given to the poor and weak . In covenant we are not just strangers but neighbors , and we are known to be such through compassion and care . Christians should have less confidence in the American story than in the story they love to tell and struggle to live ( also as a part of the common life ) ; this story endows compassion not only with artifice but with wisdom about life lived in a mortal body and in community . I do not mean to suggest that public policy is unimportant , only that it is insufficient . I do not mean to suggest that stories are sufficient , only that attention to them is necessary for the sake of policy . No particular policy on any point of public order is simply given with the Christian story , but those who tell it and delight in it should not neglect it when they advance , consider or implement public policy . In the light of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  to play in response to the health care crisis . It must sometimes speak prophetically against the injustices of medical care delivery . It must sometimes speak politically , using analysis and compromise to preserve or to accomplish some little good that is possible or to avert some great harm toward which human selfishness always tilts a society . The church must sometimes speak sagely , reminding itself and our culture of the tradition 's wisdom about life lived in a mortal body and in community . And always it must tell  --  and struggle to live  --  the old , old story even while " new chapters " are being drafted . Allen D. Verhey , director of the Institute of Religion at the Texas Medical Center in Houston , is coeditor of Theological Voices in Medical Ethics . <p>                     