@@414326

Rivers controlled by dams experience tide-like high and low water levels that affect gamefish location and feeding activity . Fishing is generally slow while fish relocate during rising and falling water conditions , then picks up once they stabilize in new positions . Areas that were too shallow to hold fish during low-water periods can become good holding and feeding spots during heavy flows . Near most river dams , fish become so reliant on feeding off the heavy influx of organisms washed through the turbines and dislodged from the bottom that they brave heavier currents than they normally would . This pertains not only to trout but also to such divergent species as smallmouth bass and freshwater drum . When power generation shuts down , so do the fishes ' feeding tendencies . Farther downriver , species behavior is more predictable , but be prepared to shift fishing emphasis between the following areas . 1 . DEEP WATER , LOWER RIVER When oxygen is present in sufficient quantities , holes with humps and other high spots in lower river sectors become striped bass summer sanctuaries . Steep @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but seek out specific uprising bottom structure using sonar , and work large rocks in the primary creek channel as well as the mouths of major deepwater creeks entering the area . 2 . LOW-WATER STRUCTURE If a tailwater supports a trout fishery , low-flow events will find the fish positioning themselves above and below large rocks , rocky points , deep riffles , runs , and pools . Deep channels between vegetation beds ; braids of current around these beds ; mouths of small , cold tributaries ; and seep springs are all good areas . Where water temperature is too warm for trout , smallmouth bass are often the primary upper-river species . 3 . HIGH-WATER STRUCTURE High-water releases move trout to and along banks , especially where current breaks like tree roots , branches , boulders , and undercuts exist . Shoals , gravel bars , points off islands , and shorelines that were too shallow during low-water periods will now hold rainbows and sometimes browns , if the fish can find both shelter and feeding opportunities nearby . Splits off the main current , sloughs , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ high-water periods . 4 . MAJOR CREEKS In lower-gradient areas , large , slow-moving creeks support largemouth bass populations in their upper and lower reaches . Sandbars in midstream , creek channels , and humps on underwater points are all reliable spots . Bends in the creek , especially where brush , stumps , and lay-downs occur are hot spots . 5 . CREEK MOUTHS Flats , sandbars , weed beds , and islands at the mouths of large creeks entering the main stream play host to roaming groups of walleyes . Bass  --  either largemouths or smallmouths , depending on whether the bottom makeup is rocky or silt-strewn  --  utilize the junction of two currents . In addition , individual pike and muskellunge sometimes lurk in weeds just out of current washes . 6 . TRANSITIONAL RIVER POOLS In mid-to lower-river reaches pools with rock or gravel bottoms , occasional boulders , and some current offer excellent shelter and feeding grounds for smallmouths and walleyes . Riffles at the heads and tails of transitional pools are also favored by channel catfish . During periods of high flow , splits off @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rocks or gullies are present on bottom . 7 . ISLANDS Exposed islands and large underwater sand and gravel bars that feature holes or washouts at their heads or tails are key walleye locations in deeper portions of the lower river . Deep cuts between well-spaced islands and bars sometimes attract the species as well . Though midstream islands appear exposed to the full force of the river  --  especially when located farther upstream  --  hard-to-spot underwater gravel bars at the heads of islands are enough to deflect flows and offer refuge to gamefish holding in pockets behind such bars . 8 . SHORESIDE HOLES Besides riffles in transitional river sectors , channel catfish are drawn to holes and troughs along banks and to holes along outside river bends . Snags , rocks , and other cover that interrupt the current are key to finishing off such spots as prime cat habitat . Though daytime fishing often is productive , catfish hunt most actively during low-light periods , which makes precise presentations to heavy cover and other potential snarls less vital when fishing for channel cattish during the peak nighttime hours @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ main river can be extensive . Quiet water and lush weed growth make them ideal panfish habitat . Northern pike work their mouths , and largemouth bass also take up residence in these havens . Backwaters located in good trout habitat upstream are usually devoid of panfish , support less vegetation , and are utilized by trout during high-flow events . <p>                     