@@385795

The Pentagon Uses Radioactive Waste as Armor and Bullets // As many as 700,000 American soldiers served in the 1991 Persian Gulf war , but it was n't until last year that the Pentagon finally admitted that some of those servicemen and women may have been exposed to chemical weapons . Deborah Edwards did n't serve in the Gulf War , but she has all the symptoms of Gulf War syndrome , a controversial medical condition-still denied by the military-that is characterized by chronic fatigue , digestive problems and joint pain . In the early 90s , Edwards worked at Vitro Corporation , which tested bullets and other ammunition at Eglin Air Force Base 's Teefax facility on the Florida panhandle . " I was low person on the totem pole , so I got all the bad work , " she says . After test firings , Edwards worked inside a big stainless steel tank , cleaning it of radioactive shell fragments . Today , like many Gulf War veterans , Edwards is disabled , having had , she says , three knee operations , two tumors @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and muscle deterioration in her back and legs . Vitro has given way to a new contractor , which continues the " advanced warhead experimentation , " while Edwards collects $471 a month in Social Security disability benefits . Until last month , Edwards never associated her ailments with the job she held five years ago . Then Dr. Christina Larson , a psychologist at the University of West Florida , told her about Depleted Uranium ( DU ) , the dense radioactive waste product the Pentagon reprocesses into artillery shells and armor plating for tanks . Edwards grows more certain each day she was poisoned by her former employer . Dr. Larson says she began her work on DU after speaking to an Air Force public relations officer several years ago . " He told me if I wanted to ask about sonic booms , that was fine , but DU , no . When he was telling me this , his hands were shaking . " Since 1938 , the U.S. government has had this problem : After extracting U-235 to make bombs , what could be done with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ore that is not explosive ? Depleted uranium still contains about .2 percent U-235 . It is still radioactive . And it could be enriched to Plutonium 239 , also a prime bomb material . For 50 years , critics have urged that DU be disposed of with extraordinary care . But the military has had other ideas . DU was used to make components of the first two atomic bombs . Now it 's being fashioned into bullets . During the Gulf War , DU was used for the first time on the battlefield and dubbed a " conventional " weapon . More than twice as dense as lead , DU is the world 's most impenetrable armor plating , used in the skin of the Army 's MlA1 Abrams battle tank . In fact , just about the only thing that can stop a tank shrouded in DU is a bullet of the type Edwards helped test as an electronics technician . Like Edwards , the soldiers who used and handled these shells were mostly not told what they were handlingmany did n't find out the stuff was radioactive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a fire at an ammunition de- pot at the Doha Army base in Kuwait may have contaminated 3,000 U.S. soldiers with uranium oxide dust and uranium hexafluoride . Depleted uranium is only slightly radioactive , but as a heavy metal , it is extremely toxic , causing cancer , birth defects and serious kidney ailments . Photograph A tank coated in depleted uranium sees action during the Gulf War . // DU 's explode-on-impact properties turned the Army 's A-10 " Warthog " attack plane into a devastating weapon during the Gulf War . Its comparatively small , 30mm cannon shells destroyed Iraqi tanks by burning through their steel armor instantly and killing everyone inside . " It leaves a nice round hole , almost like someone had welded it out , " says Army combat engineer Dwayne Mowrer . The United States fired 350 tons of DU projectiles during the Gulf War . According to an Army report , when a DU projectile explodes , tiny particles of uranium are inhaled by anybody in the areabe they survivors of the blast , rescue workers or bystanders who happen along days @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the Gulf climbed in or on destroyed Iraqi vehices ; most could have been exposed to DU dust . According to Leonard A. Dietz , a former Knolls Atomic Power Laboratory scientist , a fivemicron particle of uranium oxide can travel miles from its source and lodge in the lungs permanently , where it would expose surrounding tissue to a 1,360-rem radiation dose each year , 8,000 times the federally permitted dosage . " The fallout range of airborne DU aerosol dust is virtually unlimited , " Dietz says . After the Gulf War ended , Congress asked the Army Environmental Policy Institute to prepare a report on DU ; it was completed in June 1994 , but was not made public until last year , when a high-ranking Army official leaked it to The Military Toxics Project . " Depleted uranium has no business being used as a munition , " says project national organizer Dolly Lymburner . The report notes positively that the comparatively cheap DU has already been sold to the militaries of Turkey , Pakistan , Israel and Thailand , but admits that its toxicity is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inherent chemical and radiological toxicity of DU . " The report also acknowledges that DU is radioactive and should be deposited in a " licensed repository . " But the U. S. government has 500,000 tons of DU stockpiled or dumped in more than 50 non-licensed installations in the U. S. Woody Cunningham , technical director for the Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board , said last March that the long-term solution is to convert the DOE 's 46,000 rusting steel cylinders of uranium in Pikton , Ohio , Oak Ridge , Tennessee and Paducah , Kentucky into some usable form for manufacturing . The Army is studying a process developed by a Tennessee-based partnership between Lockheed Martin and Molten Metal Technology that allegedly breaks down materials like DU into basic elements , which are then recycled into fuel and ceramics . Meanwhile , The Military Toxics Project 's Depleted Uranium Citizens ' Network is trying to build support for an international ban on the military use of depleted uranium . <p>                     