@@409551

After almost 150 years of degradation , D-day arrived for the salmon of the Pacific Northwest this spring with the closing of recreational and commercial fishing entirely off the coast of Washington state and strict limits on fishing off Oregon and California . Certain stocks of these magnificent fish , once one of this country 's greatest renewable resources , the very stuff of legend and inspiration , are so depleted that the only available option was to grant them a reprieve on the way to the execution chamber . And that is all it is , a reprieve . If these restrictions remain the only steps taken , it is unrealistic to expect salmon  --  including stocks of Chinook , coho , pink and sockeye salmon , plus certain steelhead  --  to recover significantly . The speed and magnitude of the decimation that brought on this ban is documented in a critically important scientific paper , Pacific Salmon at the Cross Roads : Stocks at Risk from California , Oregon , Idaho and Washington , published in Fisheries . In it , scientists Willa Nehlsen , Jack @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ least 106 major populations of salmon and steelhead on the West Coast have been extirpated totally wiped out , " and they identify 214 naturally existing stocks that appear to be facing a high or moderate risk of extinction , or are of special concern . Conditions , if anything , have worsened following publication of that paper in 1991 . Therefore , the radical steps taken this spring were almost inevitable . In Portland , Oregon , in late March , federal Judge Malcolm F. Marsh found that the National Marine Fisheries Service had violated the Endangered Species Act by declaring that the hydroelectric dams on the Columbia and lower Snake rivers posed " no jeopardy " to salmon ( interestingly , National Marine Fisheries Service biologists had originally decided on a " jeopardy " opinion until overruled by their superiors ) . Terming the " no jeopardy " opinion " arbitrary and capricious , " Judge Marsh said , " The idea that dams are immutable and uncontrollable like the weather ignores decades of fish protection improvements such as bypass facilities and ladders and other structural and operational enhancements @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers , the U.S. Bureau of Reclamation and the Bonneville Power Administration 90 days to come up with a plan that did not jeopardize Snake River salmon . Idaho Gov . Cecil D. Andrus instigated the lawsuit . An angler and hunter and former Interior Secretary , Andrus has made the return of spawning salmon to the Snake River the crusade of his life and legacy he wants to leave his state . " This is a significant victory in Idaho 's long struggle to save one of the defining species of the Northwest  --  the salmon , " Andrus says . " Judge Marsh recognizes the flaws in the federal government 's attempts to continue ' business as usual ' while the salmon continues to decline toward extinction . " Then on April 8 , the Pacific Fishery Management Council decided to halt salmon fishing entirely off Washington state for the first time in history and put harsh limits on sport and commercial fishing off Oregon and California . Both commercial and recreational fishermen seemed resigned to the move . " The salmon problem did @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ did not only appear yesterday , " says Pietro Parravano , president of the Pacific Coast Federation of Fishermen 's Associations . " For the past 18 years we have told state and federal fishery agencies that restrictions on fishing alone would not save salmon ; we told them hydropower dam operations , logging and grazing practices , and water diversions for irrigation had to be changed to protect the fish 's spawning and rearing habitat . But all they did was cut the fishery more and more each year while the runs continued to decline because no one listened to our warning that the environment had to be protected . " Salmon made up the most valuable sport and commercial fishery from Santa Barbara to Alaska . In the Pacific Northwest alone , salmon were responsible for more than 60,000 jobs and $1.25 billion a year in regional income . Now , many of those jobs will disappear , and California 's two senators and 12 of the state 's representatives have asked the administration for immediate emergency assistance for workers and communities where the decline in the salmon fishery @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ joined with delegations from Oregon and Washington in calling for " formation of a joint task force of state , local and federal officials to coordinate immediate short ; term and long-term disaster response . " The battle over salmon has often created alliances between commercial and recreational fishermen , desperately pitted against governmental bureaucracies and special interest lobby groups . In 1976 , following passage of the Magnuson Fishery Conservation and Management Act establishing regional fishery councils , sportfishing , charter boat and commercial fishing organizations in California joined together in an effort to save salmon and salmon habitat . They asked the Pacific Council to begin managing habitat  --  meaning spawning rivers  --  as well as fishing . But the National Marine Fisheries Service ruled that the councils had no authority over habitat . As a result the pro-salmon allies found themselves involved in expensive and time-consuming lawsuits time after time to protect salmon from federal finagling . For instance , they sued the U.S. Forest Service to stop logging that would have ruined salmon streams within the Klamath River basin in northern California . They sued the National @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Chinooks in the Sacramento River under the Endangered Species At . " Many of our salmon runs exist despite the government , not because of it , " says Parravano . " We have been all that 's stood between the salmon and their extinction at the hands of powerful economic interests . " There is reason for hope for the salmon in the Pacific Northwest , as well as cause for despair . The situation differs from river to river and in each of the four directly affected states . But the longer time goes on before effective remedial action is taken , the harder it will become to rebuild stocks because of the loss of wild fish genetically programmed to return to spawn in a given river . Hatchery salmon can not take over that role . In fact , the hatchery fish may actually do harm to what native fish remain , from competition for food to feeding on the fry of the wild fish . To understand what has brought about this desperate situation one can find no better example than the Sacramento River . Devastation began @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mill on the American River , a Sacramento tributary . The development of hydraulic mining allowed miners to divert streams and use the water to wash away Sierra Nevada mountainsides with high-pressure hoses more forceful than the fire hoses of today . Until outlawed in 1884 , this practice annually sent tens of millions of tons of earth , rock and other debris avalanching downhill to smother spawning beds and block fish runs . Sand , gravel and boulders up to 140 feet deep buried the Bear River to its mouth , mining spoil raised the bed of the Sacramento by as much as 30 feet and covered parts of San Francisco Bay as silt ran all of the way to the Golden Gate . ( To compensate for the loss of salmon , 329 striped bass netted in northern New Jersey in 1879 and 1881 were sent west by special railroad car and planted in San Francisco Bay , but that 's another story . ) Logging , railroad construction and overfishing also played a role in decimating the salmon runs , as did the rise of agriculture . By @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ salmon spawning grounds remained unobstructed . The coup de grace was yet to come : The gigantic federal Central Valley Project run by the Bureau of Reclamation and California 's own State Water Project were to turn the land into a maze of plumbing by throwing up dam after dam and diverting water , mainly for irrigation . California originally had 5 million acres of wetlands , mostly in the Central Valley . Now the entire state has only 300,000 acres of wetlands . Agriculture consumes 83 percent of all water used in California , even though it accounts for less than 3 percent of the state 's annual gross product of about $700 billion . Moreover , a third of this water goes to irrigate rice , cotton , alfalfa and pasturage , four low-value crops that are highly subsidized and highly water consumptive . Salmon are a valuable renewable resource that come free for the taking if their habitat is undisturbed ; in contrast , Marc Reisner , author of Cadillac Desert points out , " It takes 48,000 pounds of water to raise one pound of cow in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the winter spawning run of Chinook salmon in the Sacramento numbered more than 100,000 fish , but by the winter of 1989-90 , the run had plummeted to only 445 fish , which is when fishermen had to sue the National Marine Fisheries Service to list the run as threatened . But no coordinated action was taken . In 1992 , Rep. George Miller of California , who is chairman of the House Natural Resources Committee , joined with Sen. Bill Bradley of New Jersey to get passage of the Central Valley Project Improvement Act , which adds the protection of fish and wildlife to the project 's operating purposes and calls for the doubling of the anadromous fish populations in the San Francisco Bay-Delta system . The act also calls for the allocation of 800,000 acre-feet of fresh water for fish and wildlife , mainly during the in and out migrations of salmon , steelhead and striped bass . Will this be enough to restore the system to historical levels of flow and productivity ? No way , San Jose . Will it be enough to stabilize the system ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that Nehlsen and colleagues identified as at risk or of special concern are in Oregon coastal rivers , exclusive of the Columbia , which it shares with Washington . The same applies to 41 stocks in the Washington Coast/Puget Sound area . The causes are multiple , ranging from winter habitat degradation caused by logging , siltation from dirt roads , inadequate dam passage , diversions for agriculture and low ocean productivity , the last apparently part of a long-term cycle involving a shift in the Japan Current . Nothing can be done about the last , and it promises to be difficult to correct the abuses inflicted on river systems . Not too many fishermen realize this , but forested streams derive much of their basic productivity , or energy , from fallen tree leaves and other dead organic matter washed or blown from the land . Indeed , two studies done in Oregon in the 1960s showed that young coho salmon in wooded steams derived more than 50 percent of their energy ultimately from this outside matter . Not that the salmon ate tree leaves or needles , they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that processed the detritus . On the Columbia , once the greatest salmon river in the world , the runs of adult salmon and steelhead have fallen from a historic high of 16 million fish in pioneer days to 1.5 million in 1992 , with many of them hatchery fish . Hydroelectric dams are a principle cause . Mature salmon can ascend fish ladders to reach spawning grounds , but young heading downstream get chewed up by turbines or stuck in slack water because there is n't enough flow to carry them downriver . Some are actually barged downriver , which strikes Gov . Andrus as ridiculous . " No matter whether they 're hatchery fish or not , they 're going to die anyway , " he says . " There 's temperature , abrasiveness in the handling destroying the scales or they 're held up in the barges too long and become diseased . All you have to do is to go below Bonneville Dam and watch the predators down there wait for the dumping of the barges because it 's mealtime for all types of sea gulls , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " The situation on the Snake in Idaho , where salmon once swam more than 900 miles up from the Pacific to spawn , is nothing short of tragic . Snake River cohos are extinct , and in 1992 exactly one sockeye salmon made it up the river to Salmon , Idaho . The sperm from the lone sockeye was frozen , and the table-mounted fish , dubbed " Lonesome Larry , " has been on exhibition in Andrus ' office . " The last of the great studs , " says the governor . To restore salmon , Andrus advocates sudden drawdown releases in the spring from the reservoirs behind the dams on the lower Snake , re-creating the vernal surge that formerly flushed young salmon to sea in a matter of a week . Do this , he says , and when the salmon return to Idaho they 'll find pristine spawning habitat , much of it in tributaries in federally protected wilderness , or what he calls " four-star hotels for fish . " The extraordinary restrictions on salmon fishing this spring should not be regarded as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a means of buying time to decide on a coordinated effort to save this magnificent gamefish . The cost already is immense , both economically and in terms of the pleasure and satisfaction that are denied to both recreational and commercial fishermen . But it is this very impact that may generate the support that will reverse a century and a half of degradation . That is precisely what Gov . Andrus had in mind when he said , " We have the power to save the salmon , but time is precious . Contact your congressmen and urge them to see that the federal agencies become part of the solution and that they not resist change of a river system management that threatens to make a museum piece out of a legend . The Army Corps of Engineers needs authorization from Congress to modify its dams to provide for downstream migration of juvenile salmon . The Office of Management and Budget needs to give Bonneville Power Administration the flexibility in the repayment of its debt to commit the dollars sufficient to make these changes . The salmon 's hope rests @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Robert H. Boyle is a founder of the Riverkeeper movement , author of eight books , and a former winner of the OUTDOOR LIFE Conservationist of the Year award . <p>                     