@@425022

During a presidential election year I expect the books published on political themes to read like the speeches at a Fourth of July picnic-heartwarming cant as plentiful as the beer and as empty as the balloons  --  but six weeks before the New Hampshire primaries I discovered The Frozen Republic : How the Constitution Is Paralyzing Democracy , by Daniel Lazare , to be the exception that proves the rule . In the sanctuary of the American civil religion nothing except a private fortune in excess of $5 billion is more precious than the four pages of parchment brought forth by the corporate sponsors of liberty in Philadelphia in the summer of 1787 . Lazare , an accomplished iconoclast , manages within the space of a few hundred pages to assign them to the realm of magical objects in which a museum of natural history also might place the totem poles , the scraps of sacred moleskin , and the bones of a departed saint . I 'm not enough of a constitutional scholar to find the flaws in Lazare 's legal reasoning , but his knowledge of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ despite his lack of academic connections and his provenience in the often ideological left ( as a columnist for The Village Voice and the New York editor of In These Times ) , I was glad to encounter a writer willing to suggest that only by reconfiguring our system of government ( i.e. , by rewriting the Constitution ) can we address what by now have become the all too obvious consequences of our political weakness and stupidity . The proposition seems to me to stand as proven in any morning 's newspaper . At least one story in every four speaks to the presence of a constitutional crisis that we pretend not to notice but which accurately defines the enfeebled state of our national politics  --  the federal government twice shut down in the early winter because of a quarrel about a balanced budget ( i.e. , a metaphysical dispute about a set of wholly imaginary numbers ) , the futility of a Congress unable to negotiate a disarmament treat with a citizenry possessed of 200 million guns , the selling off of the public lands despite the objections of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the notion of legitimate political authority so far from anybody 's mind that the office of the presidency can be bought at a price well below that of a second-rate record company or a losing football team . Lazare arranges his polemic in historical sequence  --  the origins of the Constitution as a marvel of eighteenth-century political mechanics made to the design of seventeenth-century religious belief , the impious ( and unanswerable ) questions forced on its infallible authority by the Civil War , the desperate denials of the document 's obvious imperfections during the era of American ascendance following the victories in the Second World War , the blind worship of the sacred text that has accompanied the last fifty years of the country 's descent into bankruptcy and the wisdom of Rush Limbaugh . Three of Lazare 's points about the obsolete and the undemocratic character of the Constitution strike me as useful glosses on a presidential election year likely to present the owner of Forbes magazine as the friend of the common man . VIRTUOUS INCAPACITY Listening to a politician talk , or while reading an indignant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ make the mistake of thinking that the government was supposed to work  --  as if political power were a form of energy ( like diesel fuel or department store credit ) meant to be used for a constructive purpose . The supposition is false , but it gives rise to the chorus of complaint ( about crime and drugs and federal fraud , or the cities falling into ruins and the suburbs foundering in the morass of debt , or the failures of will and the lack of ennobling moral vision ) that accompanies the ritual of an American election . The complaints goad the candidates to promises of reform , which supply the news media with headlines , but have nothing to do with anything other than their own reflection in the public opinion polls . The government was never supposed to work , at least not in the ways imagined by a municipal planning commission . The political shambles is deliberate , and the government 's incompetence a testimony to its virtue . The gentlemen who wrote the Constitution were as suspicious of efficient government as they were wary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that they associated with the unruly ignorance of an urban mob . They looked upon political power as a corrupting substance  --  in much the same way that William Bennett and Pat Buchanan look upon the evil of crack cocaine  --  and they belonged by temperament to what in seventeenth-century England would have been understood as " The Country Party "  --  well-to-do gentry , many of them Puritans , who opposed , on principle as well as for reasons of interest , what was known as " The Court Party . " Lazare cites Lawrence Stone 's The Causes of the English Revolution on the division between the two parties , a division that continues to define , much to our misfortune and nearly 350 years after Charles I lost his head , the ideal and anti-ideal of the American political dream : " T he Country was peaceful and clean , a place of grass and trees and birds , the city was ugly and dirty and noisy , a place of clattering carts and coaches , coal dust and smog , and piles of human excrement ... the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was thrifty , the Court extravagant ; the Country was honest , the Court corrupt ; the Country was chaste and heterosexual ; the Court promiscuous and homosexual ; the Country was sober , the Court drunken ... the Country was outspoken , the Court sycophantic ; the Country was the defender of the old ways and old liberties , the Court the promoter of administrative novelties and new tyrannical practices .... " Like their descendants on both our own Arcadian left and Suburban right , the wealthy American planters and merchants who wrote the Constitution associated themselves with the purity of the Country Party . Believing themselves morally and intellectually superior to the democratic rabble , they defined the practice of government as the duty of the judicious few to control and improve the instincts of the foolish many , and they undertook to render the federal political power as impotent as a eunuch in the court of a Ming emperor . Power was to be kept out of the hands of children ( a.k.a. the sovereign people ) and away from anybody as likely as Alexander Hamilton to make @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was a forward-looking man who assumed that the events looming below the horizon of the future would best be met by a strong government and a flexible constitution . Jefferson imagined that America in 1900 would look much the way it looked in 1800 , and with more or less the same pastoral prospect in mind the editorial committee in Philadelphia conceived the portrait of the American future as a romantic reconstruction of the Roman or Tudor past . Toward that idyllic end they produced a government weak enough to preserve the institution of slavery and a Constitution rigid enough to resist the invasions of social change . The Preamble granted unlimited powers to " We the People , " but Article V ( the clause that makes amendment virtually impossible by requiring a two-thirds vote in both houses of Congress and ratification by three fourths of the states ) declared the Preamble null and void . Denied the means of revising what suddenly had become an immutable and ancient law , the newly independent Americans enjoyed even less freedom to alter the course of their destiny than the subjects of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ government in a mechanism as finely balanced as a late seventeenth-century ornamental clock , the authors of the Constitution distributed political energy among so many weights and counterweights that nobody could say for certain how the movement originated or where sovereignty was to be found . Let the several functions of government work at cross purposes ( the legislature against the executive , the executive against the legislature , and the judiciary against anyone it chose ) , and with any luck they would hold one another indefinitely at bay . Political power divided into as many parts as the fragments of the True Cross could n't interfere with the economic power , and the marvelous state of suspended animation served everybody 's interest as long as everybody agreed that the private good was another name for the public good . But the practice of keeping slaves presented the gentlemen in Philadelphia with a contradiction for which their Constitution had no answer ( human liberty on the one hand , private property on the other ) , and the absence of a political means of addressing the question resulted , seventy-four @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 600,000 dead . Contrary to Lord Acton 's often quoted dictum about the corruption inherent in absolute power ( i.e. , the " tyrannous and arbitrary power " dreaded by the eighteenth-century American gentry and reviled by the teachers of twentieth-century American civics lessons ) , concentrated power can be plainly seen and ( if the opposition has the courage to do so ) held to account . Power broken into a thousand pieces can be hidden and disowned . If no individual or institution possesses the authority to act without the consent of everybody else in the room , then nobody is ever at fault if anything goes wrong . Congress can blame the President , the President can blame the Congress or the Supreme Court , the Supreme Court can blame the Mexicans or the weather in Ohio . Checked and balanced by powers of all denominations , the country 's public servants become , in theory , accountable to everybody ; in practice they remain accountable to nobody , " dithering and indecisive , borne aloft on great billows of empty rhetoric , " free to strike attractive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the highest corporate bidder . By further complicating the proceedings with congressional committees and subcommittees ( now numbering nearly 300 ) and a myriad of federal , state , regulatory , regional , and district government entities blessed with the authority to levy and collect taxes ( at last count numbering at least 83,000 in the United States ) , the machinery of divided government disperses even the semblance of responsibility into a haze of impotent recrimination . THE GOD IN THE MACHINE Lazare traces the fervor of our present constitutional devotions to the complacence that settled on the American mind in the years immediately following the Second World War , and he begins his chapter on the consequences of that complacence with the observation that " the only thing more dangerous than total defeat is total victory , " The winning of the war prompted the Americans to think that their military and industrial supremacy was proof of their moral and political virtue , and by 1953 Daniel Boorstin , the historian soon to become the Librarian of Congress , was attributing what he called " the genius of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is not surprising that we have no enthusiasm for plans to make society over . We have actually made a new society without a plan . Or , more precisely , why should we make a five-year plan for ourselves when God seems to have had a thousand-year plan ready for us ? " Almost everybody else in the country at the time , Democrat and Republican as well as liberal and conservative , held to similar beliefs  --  God was in his heaven , all was right in the world , America was great because it was America , and the Constitution had been brought to Washington in a glass box by the Archangel Gabriel . The less fortunate nations of the earth might have to suffer the indignity of realigning their political thought with the events of the second half of the twentieth century-in the last fifty years new constitutions have appeared in Germany , France , Portugal , Holland , Sweden , Denmark , Russia , and Japan  --  but the Americans , being American and therefore perfect , could afford to look upon the stately passing of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . What was the point of thinking seriously about politics when the country was being governed , as it had always been governed , by the magic parchment in the museum with George Washington 's inkwell and Benjamin Franklin 's wig ? The United States in the meantime fell behind every other country in the industrialized world in most of the categories that measure the well-being of a civilized society  --  the most brutal police force and the most crowded prisons , the harshest system of criminal justice , repressive drug laws , a lazy and sycophantic press . Over the span of the same fifty years our political campaigns have come to resemble nothing so much as games of trivial pursuit , charades reduced to works of performance art in which the candidates smear one another with insults instead of chocolate . All observations about the country falling off its marble pedestal were met by referrals to the Constitution . America was still the wonder of the world because our wealth made us wise , and because in its handsome display case in Washington , as miraculous as the engines @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by day as by night , the liberties of its chosen people . The assumption renders any further effort at political thought both unnecessary and impious . Theocratic societies tend to have a weak grasp of reality , and toward the end of his book , remarking on the fulminations of the Country Party presently holding the majority in Congress , Lazare says : " All those Republican House freshmen in early 1995 who could be seen sporting copies of the Federalist Papers were not all that different from Iranian mullahs waving copies of the Koran . " An historian rather than a political scientist or a first-year congressman , Lazare does n't offer a set of instructions for redrafting the Constitution , but he carries his point about our idolatrous worship of the document , depriving us of the courage to imagine a future that does n't look like one of the Disney Company 's replicas of the nonexistent American past . The framers of the Constitution lived in a world innocent of electricity , jet aircraft , telephones , computers , nuclear weapons , and MTV ; if their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the nineteenth century ( i.e. , incapable of resolving the question of slavery ) , then how can we expect it to address the questions likely to be presented by the twenty-first century ? Maybe we would be better served by a government more nearly resembling Britain 's parliamentary system , and I suspect that we would be well advised to take from the Supreme Court the privilege of judicial review and rework the undemocratic electoral equation whereby each state elects two senators no matter how small its population . But we ca n't engage in the conversation unless we rid ourselves of our documentary superstitions , and until we begin to talk about revising the structure of American government , our political debate amounts to little more than a twittering of opinion polls about which candidate has the most money , the fewest felony convictions , and the best hairdresser . <p>                     