@@359603

DIED . JUNIUS KELLOGG , 71 , incorruptible cager who as a star collegiate center in 1951 exposed a point-shaving scheme that rocked the sport ; in New York City . Kellogg , Manhattan College 's first black basketball player , notified his coach after being asked to participate in what was revealed to be a widespread plot to fix games at seven colleges , a fateful decision that led to numerous players ' arrests . Kellogg joined the Harlem Globetrotters after graduation , but a 1954 car accident left him paralyzed and confined to a wheelchair . He went on to popularize and coach wheelchair basketball . <P> DIED . GEORGE WALLACE , 79 , four-term Alabama Governor , four-time presidential hopeful and political penitent nonpareil who was first elected in 1962 on a platform of segregation forever but later renounced his divisive rhetoric ; in Montgomery , Ala . ( See NATION ) <P> DIED . DANE CLARK , 85 , actor and self-described " Joe Average " with an uncommon knack for portraying sympathetic tough guys ; in Los Angeles . The no-nonsense , Bronx-born @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such World War II-era films as Destination Tokyo and God Is My Co-Pilot , also acted on Broadway and television . DIED . STANISLAV REMBSKI , 101 , prolific portraitist with an economical style that masterfully evoked the spirit of his subjects ; in Baltimore , Md . Among the best known of Rembski 's 1,500 works were posthumous portraits of Presidents Woodrow Wilson and Franklin Roosevelt , the latter commissioned by Eleanor in 1945 . <P> DIED . YANG SHANGKUN , 91 , former Chinese President and unreconstructed Marxist who in 1989 gave the order for the People 's Liberation Army to fire on pro-democracy protesters in Tiananmen Square ; in Beijing . A veteran of the Long March , Shangkun was an acolyte of Mao Zedong , and later his victim , imprisoned for 12 years during the Cultural Revolution . Rehabilitated in 1978 , he was put in charge of the army by longtime revolutionary compatriot Deng Xiaoping .                     