@@394849

Among the astronomical phenomena visible to the unaided eye , the zodiacal light is perhaps the most sublime . Delicate in every respect , the zodiacal light is a uniform , soft wedge of light that stands above the horizon at the end of twilight . It is no brighter than the faintest patch of Milky Way , so you can easily see dim stars through it . The light is so elusive that its most brilliant displays are often mis-attributed to lingering sunset glow or light pollution from a nearby city or town . In fact , many backyard astronomers have probably seen it and did n't know it . Despite its retiring nature , the zodiacal light is well worth hunting for , and springtime is the best season of the year to look for it in the evening sky . You might think that such a faint phenomenon would be hard to photograph , but that is easier to do than you 'd think . The Solar System 's Dust Ring The zodiacal light comes from sunlight scattering off bazillions of microscopic dust motes orbiting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ comets and from debris knocked off meteorites and asteroids by collisions . Like the planets , the dust orbits largely in the plane of the solar system , which is essentially the same as the ecliptic , the plane of Earth 's orbit around the Sun as projected against the stars . The constellations through which the ecliptic path passes are known cumulatively as the zodiac , and it is from these constellations that the eerie zodiacal light got its name . From an Earth-bound vantage point , the zodiacal light is broadest near the horizon and tapers upward as it climbs a distance of 60deg or 70deg above the horizon . Because the glow stretches along the ecliptic , it reaches a higher altitude and is easier to observe during the seasons when the ecliptic inclines most steeply to the horizon . Hence , in middle northern latitudes , the zodiacal light is most prominent in the west after nightfall in spring , and in the east before dawn during autumn . To see it , the Sun has to be at least 18deg below the horizon . ( The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ observers in the Southern Hemisphere , although the actual months will be the inverse of their northern counterparts . ) That covers the mid-latitudes . In the tropics , where the ecliptic always stands more nearly perpendicular to the horizon , the zodiacal light is visible throughout the year in both the evening and morning sky . During total solar eclipses , viewers have also seen it surrounding the Sun and blending its milky glow with the soft " petals " of the Sun 's corona . The Gegenschein and Zodiacal Band One form of zodiacal light appears in another part of the sky , where it bears a different name and is more difficult to see . Called the gegenschein ( German for " counter-glow " ) , this phenomenon appears as a very faint , elliptical glow some 10deg across lying directly opposite the Sun . It is caused by dust lying beyond Earth 's orbit reflecting sunlight directly back toward us in a kind of ghostly echo of the Full Moon . Because it 's so faint , however , you wo n't see the gegenschein unless you @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Perhaps the most favorable time to view it is during the autumn , when the glow lies projected against the relatively dull and star-poor regions of Pisces and Cetus . Still , I 've clearly seen the gegenschein from McDonald Observatory in West Texas on transparent moonless spring evenings . It was a soft patch shining among the rising stars of Leo and Virgo . On the rarest occasions , when sky conditions are exceptionally dark and clear , you may discern a band of light connecting the zodiacal glow with the gegenschein . This light path extends along the ecliptic and is called the zodiacal band . It , like the zodiacal light and the gegenschein , results from sunlight scattering off interplanetary dust . Tips on Observing the Light But now it is a March evening , and the zodiacal light beckons from the west . To see it or photograph it , you 're going to need dark skies and clear , haze-free conditions . An unobstructed western horizon does n't hurt either , but if trees and other foreground objects reach no higher than about 15deg @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 30deg to 35deg ) , go out an hour and a half after sunset ( two hours if you 're farther north ) , let your eyes dark-adapt , and look off toward the west-southwest . At that time , the Sun is 18deg below the horizon , which defines the end of astronomical twilight . The sky is now fully dark and all of the sunset glow should have disappeared . Look for a soft , white , wedge-shaped glow climbing up through Pisces and Aries . The wedge will lean slightly toward the south , and it would not be unusual for the glow to reach up to and beyond the Pleiades . Do n't bother with optical aid . Binoculars and telescopes are no help at all because of their constricted fields of view . You 'll have to depend on your eyes alone . If the light is hard to see , try shifting your gaze across the sky very slowly . You are seeking the boundary between the cone of light and darker sky background . You may see this demarcation better if you do n't @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is like looking for a large , low-surface-brightness galaxy in a telescope . It 's often easier to detect by looking slightly to one side of it , an old observer 's trick called averted vision . Photographers : Think Big and Think Faint Photographing the zodiacal light is n't hard , but it does call for a little cleverness . The trick consists of bringing out an already ethereal luminescence against a fairly persistent , low-grade sky glow that may be tinged with the last vestiges of twilight or light pollution . At least the equipment you need is pretty simple : a camera on a tripod , medium-speed film , and a wide-angle lens . The camera must be capable of time exposures , and you should avoid using a zoom lens unless you have no other . Zooms contain lots of glass to absorb and scatter light ( which lowers contrast ) and typically have photographically slow focal ratios . With a 35mm camera , the best technique is to use a 24mm or 28mm wide-angle lens ( the wider the better ) and make exposures of 20 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The sky must be completely dark and transparent down to the horizon to record the zodiacal light with any contrast . And even then you may have to boost the image contrast either by making several slide duplications of the original photo or by printing on high-contrast paper . Push-processing the film wo n't hurt , either , since it pumps up both speed and contrast . You might shorten exposure times by using ISO 1600 or 3200 film , but this incurs a grainier image . ( Fast films have less inherent contrast , too . ) You wo n't want to use films this fast in semi-light-polluted regions because the zodiacal glow will probably disappear in the increased film grain and the scattered light from the city . But under darker skies your options open up , especially if you piggyback the camera on a telescope with a clock drive . Try a fast film , ISO 1000 or 1600 speed , and a 50mm or 28mm lens at f/2 . Position the long axis of the field of view along the ecliptic , centered about 40deg above @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to 8 minutes  --  longer if the nearest city lies more than 50 miles away . You should end up with a star-rich image , crossed by a narrow wedge of zodiacal light . I you are piggybacking the camera , any terrestrial features in the field of view  --  distant mountains or trees , for instance  --  will blur slightly , adding a dreamlike quality to the photo . Slower films with finer grain ( ISO 100 or 200 ) also work if you 're willing to extend exposures to 15 or 20 minutes . In any case , be sure you are n't shooting over any unshielded security or farm lights that may be down in the trees or just beyond the hill : That glow you capture may be a lot more local than celestial . Taking astrophotos of extended objects  --  and the zodiacal light and zodiacal band are about as extended as they come !  --  means carefully weighing such factors as ambient light , the brightness and contrast of the zodiacal light , sky brightness and clarity , and film grain . Even how you @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ though , is a kind of astrophotography that offers much more than ordinary possibilities for making expressive pictures . Whether you try to photograph the zodiacal light or are content simply to enjoy it visually , it 'll take dark clear skies and an ability to detect subtle changes in contrast . It 's a quiet , low-key activity . While many observers before you have found it rewarding , it is still a branch of backyard astronomy that most observers have yet to discover O Jeff Kanipe is an amateur astronomer living in Austin , Texas . The editor of StarDate magazine , he also writes regularly for ASTRONOMY 'S Sky Almanac department . <p>                     