@@401296

// My pickup bounced along the dirt road through the Book Cliffs region of northeastern Utah , leaving a plume of dust behind . The deer season was only two days away , and I wasted no time getting to my favorite camping spot , where I could settle in and do some scouting . I headed for a ridge that had consistently produced big bucks . As I drove , it seemed the road was wider and smoother than I remembered , and I soon discovered why : An oil-drilling rig sat squarely atop a brushy peak where I 'd taken three dandy mule deer in the past . Disappointed , I checked out a nearby water hole that had also attracted plenty of muleys , but all I found was a few old tracks . Obviously the drilling activity had driven off the deer . Before dark I would see four more rigs in this prime deer country . What I saw over the next few days proved to be increasingly discouraging . As oil exploration reached a frenzied pitch in the 1970s , roads were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The Book Cliffs region was once wellknown for big muleys . Today much of it is closed to mule deer hunting . The new roads opened up more areas to vehicles and hunters , and heavier hunting pressure is one of the factors blamed for the closure . The Book Cliffs is just an example of what has been happening to muleys throughout the West . Habitat losscaused not only by opening land to vehicular access , but by outright development-is the primary culprit . Human encroachment continues unabated , eliminating vital mule deer range , especially the critical wintering areas . In recent years , hunters have found it harder and harder to find good mule deer hunting and in their frustration are pointing fingers at game managers and developers . But what really is happening to our mule deer ? Are they in big trouble , as many people are saying nowadays ? To understand the problem , a bit of historical perspective is in order . When Lewis and Clark made their epic trip up the Missouri River in 1804 , they noted a scarcity of mule deer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any except rough country , " they wrote . Other early explorers likewise reported on the dearth of muleys . As the country was settled , market hunting , unlimited seasons and generous bag limits took a heavy toll . After the turn of the century , however , early conservationists began a successful campaign to protect game animals . As the 1900s progressed , a monumental face-lift of the West created superb conditions for muleys , resulting in deer populations far higher than seen before , perhaps historical highs . In Utah , for example , an estimated 9,000 deer inhabited the state in 1916 . By 1989 , that population estimate had soared to more than 600,000 . Wally Haussamen , of the New Mexico Department of Game and Fish , says population booms were caused by habitat changes , including uncontrolled logging and grazing , aggressive predator control and hunting restrictions . " Compared to those anythinggoes ' days , logging and grazing have become more restrictive , " Haussamen says . " Combined with aggressive fire-suppression efforts , the new regulations have allowed climax botanic species to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ habitat has gotten less suitable for deerand probably more suitable for elk . " In other words , we had forged a temporary artificial habitat for mule deer , and now that the habitat is diminishing , so are mule deer numbers . Ever since I can remember , mule deer have undergone dramatic population swings . My introduction to the big gray western deer was in the early ' 60s , when big muleys gawked at you in the open sagebrush as you drew a bead . Those glory days waned as the ' 60s progressed , and soon mule deer numbers began to plummet . In 1976 , a symposium addressed the mule deer decline . Attended by experts from every western state , the meeting included discussions of the factors that could have affected deer populations , including winter starvation , habitat destruction , predation , disease and parasites . However , one old game warden leaned over and whispered to me , " They 're blaming everything but the thirty-aught-six . " The final speaker , Les Pengelly , a Montana wildlife biologist , did finally raise @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the alleged decline is overhunting .... If 6 million deer have been removed by hunters in the last 10 years , including many females , it is probable that we have had some effect on the slope of the population curve . " The fact that game managers are besieged when muleys become scarce also has historical precedent . Sometimes the logic of wildlife agencies is lost on sportsmen . For example , the Wyoming Game and Fish Department allowed a substantial antlerless deer harvest to continue for years in the southwestern part of the state . Then , during the severe winter of 1992-93 , deer herds collapsed throughout much of the West . Some Wyoming outfitters and sportsmen were quick to blame Game and Fish for the subsequent low populations , claiming that too many deer had been harvested during the mild years . Dr. Harry Harju , a senior big-game biologist with Game and Fish , says that these critics do n't understand how winter-kills affect deer herds . " You can not stockpile deer , " Harju says . " We 'd rather have hunters put that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mother Nature wipe the animals out in one fell swoop , which is exactly what happened in some neighboring states in 1992-93 . " In response to declining mule deer numbers , an interesting evolution in western deer regulations has occurred over the last several decades . Nevada was among the first to move toward a more conservative approach when , in 1975 , the state abandoned general seasons in favor of state-wide lottery draws in which even residents were required to enter . Though locals initially protested , Nevada has become an important mule deer state . In 1997 , Montana required all deer hunters to choose a specific region , rather than allowing its traditional general hunt . And then the big news broke this year : Colorado , the king of mule deer states , where residents and nonresidents alike can buy tags over the counter , is reportedly going to require all hunters to get their muley tags via lottery in 1999 . One of the unfortunate facts of life for western game managers is that mule deer herds take big hits during severe winters . When @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ haystacks , many animals die because their digestive systems are n't suited to unfamiliar foods . The muley collapse of the early 1970s hit its low in the extreme winter of 1973-74 , when hundreds of thousands of muleys died of starvation . At that time , I made an extended trip through Colorado , Utah and Wyoming , and I could n't believe the deer carcasses scattered everywhere ; in some areas , more than half the deer had perished . It was a bleak period for muleys , and at the time it was hard to believe that herds would ever recover . But recover they did , though not to the extent of the boom years of the late ' 50s and ' 60s . Severe winters have occurred since 1973-74 , and mule deer populations again began declining . They have always bounced back . But will they continue to bounce back in decent numbers after each severe winter ? Given the rapidly disappearing habitat , it seems possible that the all-time high populations may never again be achieved . Charlie Eustace , a biologist from Montana @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ numbers . In the Billings Gazette , Eustace wrote that-bad winters notwithstandingMontana 's mule deer numbers are predictably cyclic . Based on buck mule deer harvests , he states , " Without exception , in the past three decades-the 1960s , ' 70s and ' 80s-the years ending in the numbers 5 , 6 and 7 have been the three lowest years in the mule deer harvest . Also , without exception , mule deer have hit their peaks in years ending in 1 , 2 and 3 . " If Eustace 's theory of cycles holds , hunters can expect an upturn in population numbers . The role that predation plays in determining herd size is a source of some disagreement and controversy among hunters and wildlife biologists . Many scientists contend that predators have no significant impact on deer herds if the deer herds are healthy and habitat is in good condition . According to Jay Lawson , chief of the Wildlife Division for the Wyoming Game and Fish Department , " evidence indicates that most predators , especially coyotes , have been able to increase population size and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the early 1970s .... For mule deer , the result has been an increase in predation rates , primarily due to the steady increase in the mountain lion populations . " Lawson adds , however , that predation may have a positive impact , since high mule deer populations adversely affect range quality . Overgrazing has long-term impacts on the forage base , which makes recovery more difficult . Other factors , though much more subtle , may also adversely affect muleys . Dr. Valerius Geist , perhaps the foremost expert on mule deer , is concerned that hybridization with whitetails could pose serious future consequences . Typically , whitetail bucks breed mule deer does , and the resulting offspring are frequently clumsy and unable to flee from predators . Therefore , mule deer will slowly phase themselves out , as whitetails gain in numbers . Dr. Harju in Wyoming disagrees : " Muleys and whitetails have lived together for eons . If muleys were to be bred out by whitetails , it would have happened long ago . " Geist is also concerned about competition between deer and elk . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " usually the smaller suffers , because the bigger eats up the high-quality feed . Whenever there is an increase in elk , it 's going to be to the detriment of the mule deer because the elk is a generalist that gobbles up a lot of good stuff . " When you step back and look at all the forces that seem to be against the mule deer 's survival , it 's easy to be pessimistic . But I prefer to focus on their cyclic track record . I have no doubts that muleys are here to stay , though not as in the banner years of yesterday . Only time , a helping hand from Mother Nature and intelligent management will get the job done . <p>                     