@@429204

This is the land of the Dirty Devil , and as we descend through a sandstone fantasy of windcarved domes and cliffs , we stop to admire the surroundings that have been shaped over eons by surging waters . We tiptoe down steep ramps of slickrock , tramp across vast shale benches , then ford the cold but shallow Dirty Devil River . An unnamed tributary winds through streamside reeds and long sand washes . A lovely but impassable slot canyon finally stymies us , so we scramble up to a flat bench that overlooks our footprints in the sand below . Time for rest and the contemplative calm that wilderness brings . Jim and I kick back to examine the carved and folded sandstone world , magnificent even to my jaded Utahn 's eye . The sense of timelessness written in the surrounding petrified Jurassic dunes begins to soothe our work-jangled psyches . In this wind-scarred landscape , it 's easy to read the Dirty Devil 's distant past . Its future is far less certain . Yesterday ( March 27 ) the land surrounding the Devil @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other development . The same fate almost befell the austere Kaiparowits Plateau , the sandstone narrows of White Canyon , and the haunting Caineville badlands , all of which we 've seen on our tour of southern Utah 's most threatened wildlands . After following from a distance the brouhaha over the region 's wilderness designation , we decided to check it out with our boots . Fortunately for wilderness lovers , a filibuster by Senator Bill Bradley ( D-NJ ) thwarted a Republican-led attempt to sell down the river 3.6 million acres of potential Utah wilderness . Bradley and a sufficient number of other senators saw the legislation as a Trojan Horse designed to undermine legal protection for wilderness in Utah and elsewhere  --  on the one hand it would have designated 2.1 million acres of Utah wilderness , but with loopholes allowing construction of roads , power lines , dams , and pipelines . Congressional maneuvering seems distant when you 're camped on the sandstone edge of forever , but our visit has rekindled my political resolve . If Bradley 's filibuster had failed , our campsite would have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thrown a stone south onto land that might have become a strip mine . When I hear the transparent excuses of my own Utah congressional delegation explaining their industry-crafted legislation , I get angry and highly motivated to defend what I 'm seeing . The angry activist role is n't a comfortable one for me . I follow the issues , write my congressmen , and urge friends and co-workers to get active when a wilderness issue is breaking . But too often I 've let my political moderation or cynicism become an excuse for staying on the sidelines . By backpacking through the Dirty Devil wildlands at this particular time , though , I 've relearned several valuable lessons . There are some issues , some places , that demand more than simply writing Congress . Political involvement begins with a hike , and we backpackers can lobby with our feet . Wilderness needs passionate advocates now more than ever  --  people who 've spent time far from the nearest road , people who cherish those memories eternally . Anti-wilderness legislation is being advanced relentlessly by the current Congress , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ politicians to hear the voices of those who want wilderness to stay wild . To help you get started , BACKPACKER has assembled a list of 10 endangered wildlands that need your help right away . The clock is ticking on every one of them . We encourage you to hike through these special places soon , then join the fight to protect them . Here 's how you can flex a little political muscle on your next backpacking trip to these or any other wild places : 1 . Patronize local businesses before and after the trip . Let them know that wild , beautiful country brought you to the area . Urge them to support keeping it wild . 2 . Speak with local environmental groups and public land management agencies before your hike to get the latest on issues affecting the area . Become a member of the local grassroots environmental group so you can keep up on the issues . 3 . Carry a camera to document any violations or environmental abuse you come across . Send copies to the land management agencies and local environmental groups @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as well . When you bump into any area residents , praise the management agencies . 5 . Make a habit of stopping in at the local management agency 's offices , not just the visitor centers or regional headquarters . Talk with the wilderness rangers , forest supervisors , or others about your trip and the issues facing the area . Ask to be put on mailing lists for any information on issues , including opportunities for public input . 6 . Pick up a local paper . Write a Letter to the Editor congratulating the community on having such a beautiful backyard wildland . Urge readers to keep it wild for everyone to enjoy . 7 . Write a Letter to the Editor to your local paper spelling out the issues affecting your favorite wilderness area and the reason it should be important to others , even if they live far away . This is public land owned by all of us. 8 . Write to your own congressional representatives and those representing the district nearest the potential wilderness area . Remind them that this is public land , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them to support wilderness protection . 9 . Tout your trips . Politicians listen most closely to voters who 've actually been to places they 're writing about , and those who have a direct stake in the future of the area . Stress that you 've been to a wilderness area and that any decision affecting its protection or development would have direct consequences for you . 10 . Put on a slide show for friends , family , schools , civic groups , or others after your trip , and urge them to help keep these lands forever wild . 11 . Take advantage of public forums to ask political candidates their views on hiking trails , wilderness preservation , and environmental issues . 12 . Hike the area again . If you doubt whether your voice and actions can have an impact , listen to Susan Schock , whose grassroots group , Gila Watch , recently curtailed rampant overgrazing in the Aldo Leopold Wilderness in New Mexico : " Everybody told us it was a lost cause . They said Give up , you ca n't win . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are 10 threatened wild lands that need friends . Hike them . Save them . MOJAVE NATIONAL PRESERVE California Size : 1.4 million acres . Managememt : National Park Service . Status : One of America 's newest protected areas , it received " preserve " rather than " park " status because hunting for desert bighorn sheep is still allowed  --  a concession to hunting interests . Contains 694,000 acres of designated wilderness . Threats : Mininq , inadequate fundinq . This land is home to otherworldly Joshua trees , high peaks that rake moisture from the uncooperative sky , huge cinder cones , and sand dunes that boom to the rhythm of your footsteps . This huge tract of southeastern California was ostensibly safeguarded when President Clinton signed the California Desert Protection Act in 1995 . The Republican-controlled Congress thought otherwise and , led by California Congressman Jerry Lewis ( R ) , attempted to return the preserve to BLM hands by allocating $1 annually to the National Park Service for management of the 1.4million acre preserve . Since the measure would never pass on its own , Republican @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ budget package . Clinton vetoed the measure , and the House failed an override . " BLM management in the Mojave has been historically lax , " says Norbert Reidy of the Wilderness Society . " The Park Service was beginning to get a handle on the illegal prospecting , squatters , clandestine drug labs , and such . Then they got their funding cut . " Now , mining companies want to quarry limestone from Caruthers Canyon in the popular and scenic New York Mountains . Though not among the Mojave 's 69 recently designated wilderness areas , the mountains are a biological centerpiece of the new preserve . " The New York Mountains are a gorgeous place , " says Reidy . " There are remnant fir forests up there . In spring there 's water in the canyon bottoms . It 's a great recreational resource in a desert environment . " How you can help : Support increased funding for the Mojave Preserve by writing President Clinton ; the assistant secretary of Fish , Wildlife and Parks , George R. Frampton ; and director of the National @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Pages " on p. 47 ) . Best hikes : Caruthers Canyon , Granite Mountains , Kelso Dunes , Cima Dome , Fort Piute area . For more information : The Wilderness Society , Four Corners Office , ( 415 ) 541-9144 . California Wilderness Coalition , Adopt-a-Wilderness Program , 2655 Portage Bay E , Suite #5 , Davis , CA 95616 ; ( 916 ) 758-0380 . MALLARD-LARKINS ROADLESS AREA Idaho Size : 220,000 acres . Management : U.S. Forest Service . Status : No legal protection . Threats : Logging , road building , mudslides , stream siltation . Embracing the cool , green headwaters of the St. Joe River and North Fork of the Clearwater River in northeast Idaho , the Mallard-Larkins contains more than 38 high alpine lakes , magnificent mountains , and thick , low-elevation forest with plants usually found along the Pacific Coast . " It 's classic backpacking country , " says John McCarthy of the Idaho Conservation League , " and we could lose it to the saw . " Time may be running out , as the view south from the high @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ here has been intense ever since the Timber Salvage Rider was passed , " says McCarthy . Clearwater National Forest officials have drawn up plans to extend a massive network of roads and clearcuts into the steep mountainsides of the Mallard-Larkins . How you can help : " The public does n't realize just how beautiful this country is . More people should enjoy these areas , because the land needs friends , " says McCarthy . Besides hiking these mountains , write to your congressional delegation , Idaho 's delegation , and the foresters responsible for managing the Mallard-Larkins . Urge them to keep the area roadless and uncut . Contact the North Fork Ranger District , 1225 Ahsahka Rd. , Orofino , ID 83544 . Send copies of your letter to Jim Caswell , Clearwater National Forest , 12730 Hwy. 12 , Orofino , ID 83544 , and to Hal Salwasser , Regional Forester , Box 7669 , Missoula , MT 59807 . Best hikes : Black Lake , Smith Ridge , Goat Ridge , Mallard Peak , Five Lakes Butte , Elizabeth Mountain Lakes , Snow Mountain . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Field Office , P.O. Box 9783 , Moscow , ID 83842 ; ( 208 ) 882-1010 ; Email : Imclaud@icl.desktop.org . Licklog Mountain Georgia Size : 9,000 acres . Management : U.S. Forest Service . Status : No official protection . Threats : Logging . Hike the Licklog Mountain section of the rugged Benton MacKaye Trail in northern Georgia and you 'll stand in the deep shade of oldgrowth red oak and white oak along the south slopes of Duncan Ridge . But you 'd better hurry because if loggers get their way , the old growth will become lumber . Part of the greatest concentration of public lands in the eastern United States , the Chattahoochee National Forest currently has just 115,000 acres of designated wilderness . Despite being studied for wilderness designation , Licklog Mountain is not on the Forest Service 's list of eligible areas . It should be , according to Peter Kirby of the Wilderness Society . How you can help : " Visit and enjoy these areas , " encourages Kirby . " Become a knowledgeable , firsthand advocate of their protection . " Also @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Oak St. NW , Gainesville , GA 30501 ; ( 770 ) 536-0541 . Or call the Georgia Conservancy for information on their " Adopt A Roadless Area " program , ( 404 ) 876-2900 . Best hikes : The Benton MacKaye Trail winds over steep sections of the Wallalah and Licklog mountains . For more information : The Wilderness Society , 1447 Peachtree St. NE , #812 , Atlanta , GA 30309 ; ( 404 ) 872-9453 . ARCTIC NATIONAL WILDLIFE REFUGE Alaska Size : 1.5 million acres . Management : U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service Status : Closed to either development or wilderness protection pending congressional action . Threats : Oil and qas drilling . From just about any rise you can see forever across this kingdom of rolling hills and endless sky . Oil and gas companies look at it and see dollar signs . An estimated 3.2 billion barrels of oil lie deep below the tundra of far northeast Alaska  --  barely enough to quench America 's thirst for petroleum for 200 days . Getting to it would require 100 drilling rigs , 260 miles of pipeline @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and port facilities . All of that activity would occur in what Allen Smith , Alaska regional director for the Wilderness Society , calls " the biological heart of the Arctic Refuge . " The coastal plain is calving ground for the 160,000-strong Porcupine caribou herd , and prime habitat for grizzlies , wolves , musk oxen , and innumerable waterfowl . Although nearly half of the 19-million-acre ANWR was set aside as wilderness in 1980 , the sprawling coastal plain was omitted pending a decision on oil and gas exploration . Its fate has festered in Congress since . Alaska 's congressional delegation , led by Representative Don Young ( R ) , has vowed to open it up . President Clinton says he 'll veto any bill that does . Warns Smith , " With a President Bob Dole and a Republican Congress , this area could be toast . " How you can help : Lobby with your feet by paying a visit . " ANWR gets so few visitors , " Smith says , " that those who do hike there can become firsthand advocates for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ write President Clinton supporting his vow of a veto , write letters to the editor of your hometown newspaper . Push not just for wilderness protection but for a sound alternative energy strategy . " If we had that , " Smith points out , " we just might not need the oil from ANWR in the first place . " Best hikes : Around Mt . Chamberlin and along river corridors running from the Brooks Range to the Beaufort Sea coast , notably the Jago , Hulahula , and Kongakut rivers , which travel through caribou calving grounds . For more information : The Wilderness Society , Alaska Regional Office , 430 W. Seventh Ave. , Anchorage , AK 99501 ; ( 907 ) 272-9452 . Size : 218,000 acres . Management : National Park Service . Status : 127,438 acres recommended for wilderness by the Park Service . Threats : Increased motorized use from snowmobiles , powerboats , and float planes . With its loon calls , wolf howls , and bald eagles in the boughs of old-growth white pines , Voyageurs is one of the last , best @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ point of a national motorized versus nonmotorized recreation debate . The wilderness proposal , which has languished since the 1980s , includes much of the northeast Minnesota park but leaves out a 12-mile long , 100-foot wide snowmobile route through the Kabetogama Peninsula  --  the heart of the park . " The snowmobile corridor is completely inconsistent with wilderness protection , " says Jennifer Hunt , executive director of the Voyageurs Region National Park Association . " A place ca n't be wilderness with snowmobile trails crisscrossing it . " Some politicians and user groups want to go even further , and are pushing for near-total snowmobile access , more houseboats , increased float plane access , and even declassifying the park in favor of local control . How you can help : " Go there . Hike , paddle , ski , " says the Sierra Club 's Carl Zichella . " Visiting Voyageurs for non-motorized recreation is , in itself , a political act . " On your way in and out , patronize local businesses . Tell them you are a non-motorized user of the park . Write @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for wilderness protection . Best hikes : Cruiser Lake Trail offers the best hiking on the Kabetogama Peninsula . Paddling options are endless . For more information : Sierra Club . North Star Chapter . 1M13 Fifth St .. #324B , Minneapolis , MN 55414 ; ( 612 ) 379-3853 . Voyageurs Region National Park Association , 119 N. Fourth St. , Suite 302C , Minneapolis , MN 55401 ; ( 612 ) 333-5424 . GILA &; ALDO LEOPOLD WILDERNESS AREAS New Mexico Size : 558,065 and 202,016 acres , respectively . Management : U.S. Forest Service . Status : Designated wilderness . Threats : Overgrazing . In 1922 , forester and ecologist Aldo Leopold urged the Forest Service to protect the spectacular river canyons and uplands surrounding the headwaters of the Gila River in southwest New of the grassroots environmental group Gila Watch . " They show just what 's at stake . " Contrast that with the upper East Fork of the Gila and the northern Aldo Leopold Wilderness , where grazing is widespread . " Former trout streams are now gravel washes , and riparian areas are on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ you can help : Visit the two wilderness areas and document with photographs and careful notes any grazing abuses you encounter . Then draft a letter to sympathetic New Mexico Senator Jeff Bingaman ( D ) pointing out that you traveled to the area specifically for its wilderness value . Send a copy of the letter to the following , encouraging them to manage the Gila and Aldo Leopold wilderness areas for their ecological and wildland recreation values : Abel Camarena , Supervisor , Gila National Forest , 3005 Camino Del Bosque , Silver City , NM 88061 , ( 505 ) 388-8201 ; New Mexico Dept. of Tourism , Lamy Bldg. , 491 Old Santa Fe Trail , Santa Fe , NM 87503 ; and the Silver City Chamber of Commerce , 1103 N. Hudson , Silver City , NM 88061 , ( 505 ) 538-3785 . Then write to your congressional representatives and urge them to oppose New Mexico Senator Pete Domenici 's ( R ) efforts to increase grazing on public lands . Best hikes : West Fork , Middle Fork , East Fork of the Gila . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ National Monument Visitor Center east over the top of North Mesa , north along the East Fork , following White Rocks Trail to Jordan Canyon , then west along the Middle Fork . For more information : Gila Watch , P.O. Box 309 , Silver City , NM 88062 ; ( 505 ) 388-2854 . WORTHINGTON MOUNTAINS , WEEPAH SPRINGS , SOUTH REVEILLE , AND KAWICH RANGES Nevada Size : 47,633 acres , 51,137 acres , 106,200 acres , and 54,320 acres , respectively . Management : Bureau of Land Management . Status : Wilderness study areas . Threats : Nuclear waste rail lines . Cool forested islands in a sagebrush sea . The sound of pine needles in the ever-present wind . Clear water cascading out of the mountains to nourish the dry basins of Central Nevada . Sound inviting ? " These are magnificent places , and the public does n't even know they 're here , " says Charles Watson of the Nevada Outdoor Recreation Association , a man who has hiked these mountains extensively . These lands could lose their protecT tive study area status because of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the Nevada Test Site . " This project would do away with four of the best wilderness study areas in southern Nevada , " says Marge Sill of the Sierra Club 's Reno chapter . " The absurd thing about this , " says Watson , " is that alternate railroad rights of way exist , and this is basically a gratuitous effort to open up these ranges . " How you can help : This is a congressional issue , so write your delegates and urge them to keep the areas protected until a vote can be taken on a Nevada Wilderness Bill . Point out that alternate rail routes exist , and that declassification of these wilderness study areas is unnecessary . Send copies of your letter to Idaho Senator Larry Craig ( R ) , Michigan Representative Fred Upton ( R ) , and Utah Representative James Hansen ( R ) , who are the prime movers on this needless effort to scuttle wilderness study status . Best hikes : Few trails penetrate these ranges , but you ca n't go wrong bushwhacking into the high mountain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ information : Nevada Outdoor Recreation Coalition , P.O. Box 1245 , Carson City , NV 89702-1245 ; ( 702 ) 883-1169 . Sierra Club , Reno Chapter ; 720 Brookfield Dr. , Reno , NV 89503 ; ( 702 ) 322-2867 . BADGER-TWO MEDICINE ROADLESS AREA Montana Size : 128,000 acres . Management : U.S. Forest Service manages surface area , the Bureau of Land Management manages mineral rights . Status : Only 16,000 acres are currently under study for possible wilderness designation . Threats : Oil and gas exploration . This is a magical place , where grizzlies still wander onto the Great Plains that were once their kingdom . Here , just south of Glacier National Park on the east front of the Rocky Mountains , you 'll find majestic peaks , clear streams , and broad valleys populated by elk , moose , bighorn sheep , and mountain goats . " The Badger-Two Medicine is the flagship of Montana 's remaining unprotected wildlands , " says Bob Decker of the Montana Wilderness Association . " It 's ultimately photogenic and very threatened . The situation is extremely urgent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Chevron want to drill , and have kept the political pressure on for nearly two decades . Interior Secretary Bruce Babbitt recently placed a temporary moratorium on oil exploration in the Badger-Two Medicine , but that protection survives from year to year . " Oil pressure will continue until the area has been designated as wilderness , " predicts Decker . How you can help : " Get to know the Badger-Two Medicine and invest in it , " Decker urges . " People underestimate the power they wield . " Write to Secretary Babbitt , urging him to rescind the BLM Record of Decision approving the American Petrofina and Chevron wells in the Badger-Two Medicine roadless area . Also insist the area be protected until Congress assures its long-term management through wilderness designation . Write to members of your congressional delegation . Tell them to encourage Secretary Babbitt to save the area , and recommend they introduce or support legislation to protect the entire BadgerTwo Medicine area as wilderness . Best hikes : The Badger has an extensive network of trails . The most spectacular scenery lies along the eastern @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ P.O. Box 635 , Helena , MT 59624 ; ( 406 ) 443-7350 . MURDERERS CREEK Oregon Size : 35,060 acres . Management : Multiple agencies . Status : 9,400 acres make up the Aldrich Wilderness Study Area , which the BLM has not recommended for protection ; 23,700 acres are in Malheur National Forest ; and the remaining 1,960 acres are Oregon Department of Fish and Wildlife land or in private hands . Threats : Logging , road-building , stream siltation . Slopes of the high mountain ridges bisecting this eastern Oregon wild area support stands of virgin pine , oldgrowth tamarack , and huge , old Douglas fir . Desert bighorn sheep , black bear , and mountain lion call it home . Clear streams flowing out of the high country support a healthy population of steelhead . And timber companies have Murderers Creek dead in their sights . That 's why conservation groups have pushed hard for wilderness designation of this collection of lands managed by multiple agencies . " There is a total assault on roadless areas along the east side of the Cascades , " says @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The Forest Service is auctioning timber sales out there as we speak . " A 5,000-acre sale on the north side of the proposed wilderness area near the Aldrich Wilderness Study Area , and another 15,000-acre possible cut site on the south , put the Murderers Creek area in double jeopardy . How you can help : " Hike here and you 'll instantly see why it 's so vital we repeal the Timber Salvage Rider , " says Lillebo . Write letters to the Forest Service in Washington , D.C. , and the regional office in the town of John Day , Oregon , ( see address below ) urging protection for the wilderness values of this area until designation can be gained . Contact President Clinton and urge him to repeal the Timber Salvage Rider , which under the guise of salvaging dead standing timber , opens up vast tracts of wildlands previously off limits to saws . Urge the BLM to reconsider Aldrich Mountain WSA for wilderness designation . Best hikes : More than 45 miles of trail wind across canyons and ridges . For more information : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ N.W. Kansas , Bend , OR 97701 ; ( 541 ) 382-2616 . Malheur National Forest , Federal Building , 431 Patterson Bridge Rd. , John Day , OR 97845 ; ( 541 ) 575-1731 . DIRTY DEVIL RIVER Utah Size : 650,500 acres . Management : Bureau of Land Management . Status : 104,810 acres recommended as wilderness by BLM ; 263,500 acres recommended by Utah Wilderness Coalition . Threats : Tar sands development , uranium mining , water projects . In 1936 , the National Park Service proposed a 4.6-million-acre Escalante National Monument here in the dramatically folded and eroded redrock country of southeast Utah . At the same time Wilderness Society co-founder Bob Marshall had even grander plans : Make the canyons of the Dirty Devil the centerpiece of a 9-million-acre Colorado River Canyons roadless area . Neither proposal got off the ground , as mining and other development interests stalled the effort . Sixty years later , oil and uranium companies still want to see drilling rigs and strip mines . They 've convinced the Utah congressional delegation to exclude areas like the southern twothirds of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ missing from the delegation 's proposals are the Kaiparowits Plateau , White Canyon , Cedar Mesa , and the Caineville Badlands . How you can help : Should the Dirty Devil be designated as wilderness ? Do n't take our word for it , see it for yourself . Write your congressional delegation and urge them to support a Utah BLM Wilderness bill along the lines of the 5.7 million acres endorsed by the Utah Wilderness Coalition . Send copies to Utah senators and representatives . Encourage your friends and hiking companions to do the same . Best hikes : Fiddler Butte , The Block , Happy Canyon , Sams Mesa Box Canyon . For more information : Utah Wilderness Coalition , P.O. Box 11446 , Salt Lake City , UT 84147 ; ( 801 ) 4862872 . <p>                     