@@414589

The place : North Carolina 's Central Prison in Raleigh . The problem : Inmate No. 35271 ( not his real number ) has an unusual skin rash that the prison doctor ca n't diagnose . The prison administration does not want to be sued for inadequate medical care for its prisoners , but at the same time , it does not want to run the security risk of transporting a dangerous felon to an outside specialist . Bringing the specialist to the prison would also present problems . The solution : A telemedicine link with East Carolina University School of Medicine . In a special telemedicine booth a hundred miles away , a dermatologist sits in front of a video console and interviews the patient while directing the prison nurse where to point the tiny dermatology camera . He diagnoses the condition and prescribes a course of treatment . The result : The prisoner 's condition is treated , the prison does n't get sued , and the state saves potentially thousands of dollars . A far-flung view of the future ? Not at all . Telemedicine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may become nearly universal in the not-too-distant future . Creating Portable Health Care The phrase " health care reform " has been used in recent political years to describe changes in the way health care is financed . Even though health-care-financing reforms failed to make it through the last Congress , health care is changing in the United States . The real reform is developing in the way health care is delivered . As technology has developed over the years , medical diagnoses have become more accurate and treatments more effective . But the x-ray , magnetic resonance imaging machines , and other tools are not portable . Treatment and therapeutic facilities have been centralized in hospitals and rehabilitation centers , so that patients have to travel distances and wait in doctors ' offices to be seen . As a result , doctors do n't get to see patients on a regular basis and end up treating symptoms and diseases rather than people . Proposed solutions have been varied , from holistic health to formerly fringe ideas such as herbal medicine and massage therapy , which are gaining in popularity . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to mainstream medicine , with data being transported rather than people . The idea of telemedicine has been around for almost as long as there has been science fiction and has been in actual practice since the late 1950s . But the recent upsurge in medical costs , combined with advances in technology , are now making telemedicine a widespread reality . Telemedicine in Practice There are now 25 telemedicine projects in the United States , according to the American Telemedicine Association . At present , these programs tend to serve rural areas where population is sparse and income is low . Areas such as western Texas , eastern North Carolina , rural Georgia , and West Virginia are the most active in using telemedicine . A recent study by the consulting firm of Arthur D. Little , Inc. , showed that healthcare costs could be reduced by as much as $36 billion a year if health information technologies such as telemedicine were widely used . In 1989 , the U.S. Public Health Service gave partial funding to Texas Tech 's MedNet program , which linked health-care practitioners in hospitals and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its first year , this project reported a net savings of 14% to 22% in the cost of health-care delivery . The agencies involved reported a decrease in salaries and ambulance costs along with an increase in earned revenue . One important issue in developing telemedicine has been states ' costs in providing health care in prisons . California alone spends $380 million per year on prison health care . With the popularity of laws such as " Three Strikes and You 're Out , " prison populations will increase . So will the cost of prison health care . In 1990 , a prison inmate sued the state of Florida over inadequate health care and won a $1-million settlement . That prompted Florida to begin prison telemedicine on a pilot basis . The next year , North Carolina 's largest prison  --  Central Prison in Raleigh-contracted with the East Carolina University School of Medicine to provide telemedicine services . Since that time , physicians from the medical school have provided more than 350 consultations with the prison . In 1994 , the school built the first " telemedicine suite " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ telemedicine . In addition to the prison , two hospitals in rural eastern North Carolina have consultation links with the East Carolina medical school , and two more are scheduled to come on-line in 1995 . The Medical College of Georgia , too , is building a network of 60 sites around the state for telemedicine consultations . Just as cable television began as a way of serving rural areas outside of broadcasters ' range , telemedicine is beginning as a way of reaching out to medically underserved areas . As the possibilities of cable television offerings became better known , metropolitan areas became its heaviest users . Similarly , as physicians and patients see the possibilities in telemedicine , it should spread more widely and into urbanized areas . Patients recovering from heart attacks can already put on a headset , connect the electrocardiogram ( ECG ) wires to their chests , and ride their stationary bikes . The patients stay at home and communicate by telephone with the hospital . The same phone wires that carry their conversation also carry the ECG information to the medical technician on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can be served this way , and they are in contact with each other as well as the hospital . A pilot program for this type of cardiac rehabilitation took place at St. Vincent Charity Hospitals in Cleveland , Ohio , during the late 1970s and worked so well that it became a model for other areas , including Nashville , Tennessee , and Greenville , North Carolina . Doctors at East Carolina University are setting aside a cable channel so that the cardiac rehab patients can have visual contact with the hospital staff . As technology advances , there may eventually be two-way video interaction between the patient and the hospital . Health Care at Home and Work As the technology advances , telemedicine will spread out over the information superhighway to link rural hospitals with smaller medical centers ; then local doctors ' offices will come on-line ; and , finally , telemedicine will reach into private homes . Health House , now being built in Durham , North Carolina , is a demonstration project jointly sponsored by Applications Valley , Inc. , and the Smart House Subsidiary of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have a " smart toilet " that takes a urinalysis , a " smart medicine cabinet " that dispenses individual doses of medications , and high-tech controls for energy conservation and security . Shortly after the turn of the century , the following scenario will be commonplace in middle-class homes : You wake up and go to the bathroom , where the toilet performs a urinalysis and sends the information to your doctor 's office . You then step onto the scale , which tells you your percentage of body fat , reports how much weight you have gained or lost , and reminds you of the doctor 's orders about your diet . It also asks if you would like suggestions for food choices . You answer yes . A printer in the kitchen provides a menu based on leftovers in the refrigerator and fresh food in the pantry . The computer links up with the grocery store and orders any missing ingredients for delivery this afternoon . While you are still in the bathroom , you press the screen on the medicine cabinet , which dispenses your daily dose @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prescription is due for a refill and that you have a doctor 's appointment this afternoon . In the afternoon , you call up the doctor 's office from your desktop computer . She makes the connection with her computer and you talk face to face . She has all your records displayed on other screens so that you can talk about how you are doing with your medication , how well you are following her directions with your diet and exercise , and any other concerns that you might have . You tell her you are concerned about your throat . After you describe the symptoms , she sets up an appointment for an hour from now with the nurse in your office building . During that time she reviews your record , calls up records of other patients with similar histories , and reviews the latest on-line research . When you go to the nurse 's station later , she gets the doctor on-line and places the digital stethoscope on your chest , and the doctor listens through it on her end . The same thing is done with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ small camera and holds it in your mouth so the doctor can examine your throat . It 's a minor infection that 's easily treated . The doctor e-mails a prescription to your pharmacy , where it will be delivered with the food that your home computer ordered earlier . You go to your desk and log in . Your computer notes that you have spent 45 minutes of sick leave during your two appointments today and sends that information to the personnel office 's computer . Medical author Maryann Karinch reports on the Star Trek medicine of tomorrow . In 1968 , an interactive television project linked Boston 's Logan Airport to Massachusetts General Hospital so emergency patients could be seen by doctors by means of video cameras . No time was wasted sitting in Boston traffic . More recently , doctors in the United States and the former Soviet Union participated in a telemedicine project during 1989 and 1993 . Known as " The Spacebridge , " the system used a satellite linkup to facilitate videoconferencing , allowing doctors to discuss cases and exchange medical data . The project @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Armenia during 1989 and a natural gas explosion in northern Russia that same year , as well as to consult on follow-up Gases from the 1986 Chernobyl disaster . In addition , the U.S. Army used similar technology in Somalia during 1993 to facilitate diagnosis and consultation near battle areas . " Such Star Trek medicine is not some science fiction creation of the future : it has already begun , " says medical author Maryann Karinch in her new book , Telemedicine : What the Future Holds When You 're Ill . The U.S. military has also been working on telemedicine technology and robotics , Karinch reports . In 1993 , a surgeon at Fort Gordon demonstrated " telepresence surgery " by performing a procedure on a pig that was at a site 100 feet away . High-quality video cameras and microphones , as well as a remote manipulator arm , gave the surgeon the ability to see what was going on , then to pick up and use surgical instruments as if he were in the operating room . " This is not a virtual reality technology . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ actions result in a real effect , " says Karinch . And while some may worry about the steadiness of a manipulator arm holding a scalpel , Karinch believes that such technology actually improves on current surgical techniques , since it can " filter out the tremor of a surgeon 's hand . " This technology can already be used to augment laparoscapic surgical procedures ( which make use of small incisions and tiny cameras ) by making precise and steady cuts . " Telepresence technology will become practical before the year 2000 , " the author predicts . Karinch points out that most of the problems in instituting large-scale telemedicine programs center not on technology , but on matters of liability , fees , and record keeping . There is also some concern about keeping medical data confidential . " Cracking the code protecting medical data transmissions might be a game to a student or electronic media aficionado , but not to those whose private parts end up on some strange person 's computer screen , " says Karinch . More-secure methods of data transmission and encryption need to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ When You 're Ill by Maryann Karich . New Horizon Press , P.O. Box 669 , Far Hills , New Jersey 07931 . Telephone 908/604-6311 ; fax 908/604-6330. 1994. 183 pages . Paperback . $13.95 . About the Authors Thomas Blanton is a former educational media specialist at East Carolina University , Center for Health Sciences Communication . His address is Route 6 , Box 320-B8 , Greenville , North Carolina 27834 . David C. Balch is the director of the Center for Health Sciences Communication , 1S-10 Brody Medical Sciences Building , Greenville , North Carolina 27858 . The authors wish to thank Dr. Lowell Christ of Applications Valley , Inc. for his assistance in developing this article . <p>                     