@@403747

Healthy-Hair Tips and Relaxed-Hair Styles to Brave the Elements Soft , Supple Skin Made Easy Wave Good-bye to Dry Hands and Nails BY JULIA CHANCE PHOTOGRAPHY BY PAUL LANGE Photograph // Tress Relief PROBLEM : Environmental conditions such as snow , harsh rain , wind and indoor heat can really work a number on our hair if it 's relaxed . A regimen that will protect our hair in the colder months begins with adjusting the frequency of shampoos . Veteran hair-care specialist George Buckner , owner of Hair Fashions East Salon in New York City , says , " Women do not shampoo their hair as often in the winter as in milder seasons , so they do n't condo tion their hair as often . " Then there 's the struggle to maintain a style , which leaves many of us relying too heavily on moisture robbers like blow-dryers , curling irons and holding products . And finally , the wool we wear to stay warm can wreak havoc on our hair . " I treat a lot of clients for breakage in the winter because @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , making it tangled , dry and prone to damage , " says Rob Willis of Rob Willis International Salon in Southfield , Michigan . According to Ali Syed , president of Avlon , makers of Affirm and Kera Care , the more damage done to hair , the less moisture it will be able to hold . SOLUTION : Take decisive measures to defend your hair against the ravages of winter . Shampoo your hair at least once a week , more if you 're active , with a moisturerich shampoo like Motions Salon Finish Moisturizing Shampoo . Condition with a penetrating conditioner like J.F. Lazartigue 's Energizing Elixir and a leave-in treat- ment such as Infusium 23 Leave-in Conditioner . Rejuvenate your scalp and hair with nourishing essential oils . New York session stylist Ted Gibson recommends massaging a preshampoo treatment of four drops each of lavender , rosemary and jasmine into the scalp . His treatment is designed to moisturize , reduce mineral buildup , remove toxins and calm overactive scalps that produce dandruff . Avoid waxy or petroleumbased pomades and heavy oils that keep out moisture and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ liquid moisturizer like Clairol 's Textures &; Tones Light Moisturizing Oil and Shiner . Limit the use of products with high alcohol content ( like firm-holding sprays and gels ) . Brush hair regularly to distribute your own natural oils through your hair . Wear fuss-free styles , preferably close to the scalp . Opt for roller-setting over blow-drying , and wear hats and scarves that are silk or satin-lined to protect your hair from the elements and breakage . Radiant Skin PROBLEM : Oooh baby , it 's cold outside ! And as temperatures drop , so does humidity , indoors and out . Add to that the dehydrating effects of indoor heat , and before you know it you 're left with dry , flaky , lackluster skin that seemingly no amount of lotion can cure . " Many people do n't start moisturizing properly until their skin becomes chapped , " says Alex Znaiden , director of the Skin Innovation Center for Vaseline Research . Dr. ii.D . Fallon , a consuiting dermatologist for Aveeno skin-care products , adds , " Washing too often , as well as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with a moisturizing sealant , is drying to the skin . " SOLUTION : Do n't suffer through another dry season . Keep your skin moist and supple by being proactive in your skin-care regimen . Resist the urge to submerge yourself in hot water for long periods of time . Take short , tepid baths and showers . Wash with gentle , soap-free cleansers , like Aveeno Cleansing Bar for Dry Skin , New Dove Ultra Moisturizing Body Wash or Jergens Moisturizing Sensitive Skin Body Wash , which moisturize as they clean . Supplement baths and showers with skin-softening treatments like NeutrogenaBody Oil Light Sesame Formula ( apply while skin is damp or also use in bath water ) or Aveeno Oatmeal Soak . Gently pat skin dry with a towel . Apply lotion immediately after bathing to lock in moisture . One to try : Vaseline Intensive Care Dry Skin Lotion with vitamins A and E. For the face , look to Clinique 's Weather Everything Cream , a moisturizer , antioxidant and sunscreen all in one . If you 're a skier or like to romp in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the winter when sun reflects off snow-by wearing sunscreen and a hat for added protection . Dress adequately for the weather . Wear nonrestrictive clothing of natural fibers to allow your skin to breathe and help reduce moisture loss . Moisturize your home by using a humidifier in the rooms you spend the most time in . As an inexpensive alternative , try putting a shallow pan of water near heating sources . Seek professional help by seeing a dermatologist if dry-skin symptoms persist . TLC for Hands and Nails PROBLEM : Our hands are two of the hardestworking parts of our bodies and " the most easily damaged , " according to manicurist Sheril Bailey , author of The Complete Mancuring and Nail Care Handbook ( Andrew McMell/Alias Books ) . That 's because they are exposed to the elements and susceptible to all types of abuse on a daily basis . So when the chill is on , hands can suffer cracked skin , ragged cuticles and chipped nails . And sometimes even our best efforts at making our hands look better are misguided . We cut our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ soak to the prune stage during household chores , wash them too frequently with harsh antibacterial cleansers or use drying nail-polish removers too often . SOLUTION : Give your hands and nails the care that they deserve . Come clean with mild , lanolin-free soaps . Use fast-drying antibacterial sanitizers only on the palms of your hands , where the skin is less dry . Use moisturizing lotions and creams that have long-lasting effects . Replenish dry hands with moisture-rich preparations like Joey New York Pampered Hands , a three-part regimen that includes Protective Day Treatment SPF 15 , Intensive Night Treatment ( which is made with 12 percent glycolic acid to slough off those dead cells ) , and Enzyme Exfoliating Treatment , a hydrating hand mask . Keep small containers of lotion and cuticle moisturizer handy for use when you 're on the go . Two products to try : Hand Relief by Aveda and Sally Hansen Cuticle Massage Cream . When you 're having a professional manicure , request a hot cream soak . Touch up chipped nails with polish between manicures rather than taking it all off @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ warm cotton- or cashmere-lined gloves or mittens ( unlined leather gloves sap the skin of moisture ) . If you have long nails , make sure that your gloves fit over them comfortably . Finally , to protect your hands , wear rubber gloves for household cleaning and work gloves for yard work . Photograph Photograph For flattering winter hairstyles that stand up to the elements and do n't tax your tresses with heavy maintenance , keep it simple . New York City hairstylist Kimberly Hendrickson% buzz-cut bob ( left ) is actually a lightweight weave . She creatively reinvents one of our favorite styles with edgy bangs and multiple layers for volume . For midwinter flair , New York City stylist Reiko Love updates the pixie ( center ) by giving mildly relaxed hair less curl and an asymmetrical kick . Love keeps longer tresses sleek ( right ) with geometric lines like the diamond part she created here . Wrap for low maintenance . Photograph Photograph Photograph // <p>                     