@@398864

The small dot in each of these images is a brown dwarf orbiting the star Gliese 229B , about 19 light-years from Earth . Below , we see a ground-based image taken without the benefit of adaptive optics ( 3 ) . Above , we see a Hubble Space Telescope image ( 1 ) . A ground-based image using adaptive optics ( 2 ) appears on the left . Top : Shrinivas Kulkarni ( Caltech ) , et al. , and NASA . Center : Michael Lloyd-Hart ( University of Arizona/Steward Observatory ) , et al . Bottom:Tadashi Nakajima ( Caltech ) , et al . Ground-based telescopes equipped with adaptive optics can resolve the two members of a binary star system ( top , 4 ) ; stars that appear smeared together when adaptive optics are not used ( above , 5 ) . European Southern Observatory Using adaptive optics , the 3.6-meter Canada-FranceHawaii Telescope imaged a double nucleus in the galaxy Markarian 273 ( 6 ) . The two nuclei are only 1 arcsecond apart . At the galaxy 's distance of 500 million lightyears , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The double nucleus probably arose from a galactic merger . Johan H. Knapen ( University of Hertfordshire ) , et al . University of Hawaii astronomers used an adaptive optics-equipped telescope to resolve a disk of gas and dust orbiting the young binary star GG Tau , about 460 light-years away ( 7 ) . Tidal interactions with the binary star are clearing out the inner part of the disk . Claude Roddier ( University of Hawaii ) Photograph The small dot in each of these images is a brown dwarf orbiting the star Gliese 229B , about 19 light-years from Earth . Below , we see a ground-based image taken without the benefit of adaptive optics ( 3 ) . Above , we see a Hubble Space Telescope image ( 1 ) . A ground-based image using adaptive optics ( 2 ) appears on the left . Top : Shrinivas Kulkarni ( Caltech ) , et al. , and NASA . Center : Michael Lloyd-Hart ( University of Arizona/Steward Observatory ) , et al . Bottom:Tadashi Nakajima ( Caltech ) , et al . Ground-based telescopes equipped with adaptive optics @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( top , 4 ) ; stars that appear smeared together when adaptive optics are not used ( above , 5 ) . European Southern Observatory Using adaptive optics , the 3.6-meter Canada-FranceHawaii Telescope imaged a double nucleus in the galaxy Markarian 273 ( 6 ) . The two nuclei are only 1 arcsecond apart . At the galaxy 's distance of 500 million lightyears , this translates to a physical separation of 2,200 light-years . The double nucleus probably arose from a galactic merger . Johan H. Knapen ( University of Hertfordshire ) , et al . University of Hawaii astronomers used an adaptive optics-equipped telescope to resolve a disk of gas and dust orbiting the young binary star GG Tau , about 460 light-years away ( 7 ) . Tidal interactions with the binary star are clearing out the inner part of the disk . Claude Roddier ( University of Hawaii ) // THE LAUNCH OF THE HUBBLE SPACE Telescope seven years ago began an era of discovery that is revolutionizing our view of the universe . It seems that everywhere Hubble looks , it finds new and surprising @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ state and evolution , but which also generate new questions and force astronomers to re-examine many of their most cherished theories . This revolution of how we view the universe has resulted from our ability to lift a large optical telescope above the blurring effects of Earth 's atmosphere . Although much larger ground-based telescopes view the sky from high-altitude observing sites around the world , their image clarity simply can not match that of an orbiting telescope such as Hubble . Accompanying the new views granted by Hubble is a quiet , but equally exciting , revolution underway in ground-based astronomy . It is based on the recently declassified technology of adaptive optics , which originated in the mid-1980s during the U.S. military 's Strategic Defense Initiative , better known as the " Star Wars " program . Over the last several years , eight adaptive optics systems have become operational at observatories all over the world , and at least 20 are being developed . Adaptive optics use lasers , sensors , computers , and deformable mirrors to compensate for atmospheric blurring , the plague of all groundbased observations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a space telescope and the sheer brute light-gathering power of a large ground-based telescope . In principle , adaptive optics systems on large telescopes could provide higher resolution pictures of the universe than Hubble , allowing us to look deeper and farther than ever before . Adaptive optics will image planets orbiting other suns and answer questions about the origin and fate of the universe . " Adaptive optics is a technology whose time has come , " says Robert Fugate of the U.S. Air Force , one of the technology 's pioneers . " It could have as much impact on ground-based optical astronomy in the 21 st century as did the invention of the telescope in the 17th century . " To Explore Strange New Worlds Astronomers are eager to use adaptive optics for a wide range of studies , but the detection of extrasolar planets appears near the top of the priority list . Over the past few years , astronomers have detected about ten extrasolar planets through small variations in their host stars ' spectra . Astronomers are observing the " wobble " of the star @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wobble 's period and magnitude allow astronomers to calculate the planet 's orbit and minimum mass . But this method generally takes years of observations to find planets and it yields no further information about them . Photograph Large telescopes equipped with adaptive optics should soon be able to directly image planets orbiting nearby stars . The white blip is a simulation of how a Jupiter-like planet would appear orbiting a star 24 light-years away . // Adaptive optics should enable astronomers to move from indirect to direct detection by actually imaging planets next to their parent stars , which should greatly accelerate the pace of discovery . In addition , adaptive optics will improve on some of the current indirect detection techniques , allowing them to detect lower-mass planets . The Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory in California is putting together an extrasolar planet detection system using adaptive optics that will be connected to the giant 10-meter Keck II Telescope in Hawaii . The team 's goal is to develop a system capable of discriminating the image of a planet from that of a star that is 10 to 50 billion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ width of a penny as seen at seven miles ) . Although considerable problems remain to be worked out , astronomers expect the Keck II system in a few hours of observing time - to be able to image giant planets in distant orbits around nearby solar-type stars such as Epsilon Eridani and Tau Ceti . A Poor Man 's Spacecraft Adaptive optics wo n't be limited to the study of planets orbiting other stars . The resolution achieved with adaptive optics systems will give ground-based telescopes the ability to view weather patterns on other planets in our solar system . It will also allow astronomers to map features on near-Earth asteroids , which will tell them about the asteroids ' histories and chemical compositions . This capability should greatly enhance solar system studies that could be done previously only by space probes  --  which are far more expensive and subject to breakdown . It will also partially relieve tight constraints on precious Hubble Space Telescope observing time . A group of astronomers at the European Southern Observatory in Chile , using a 3.6-meter telescope , has managed to accomplish something @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ surface features on Saturn 's large moon Titan . Without adaptive optics , the telescope never could have resolved these markings . The team observed Titan at infrared wavelengths that can penetrate the moon 's thick atmospheric shroud . The Voyager spacecraft , which flew right by the moon in 1980 and 1981 , were not equipped with an infrared imager . NASA 's Goddard Space Flight Center and the Air Force 's Starfire Optical Range in New Mexico are collaborating on a solar system project . The team , led by Fugate , has been taking high-resolution images of Saturn and Titan , but their primary interest has been asteroids . Using the relatively modest 1.5-meter telescope at the Starfire Range , Fugate 's team has shot a " movie " of the oblong asteroid Vesta as it tumbles through space . The team has also determined that Ceres - the largest asteroid in the solar system - is not perfectly spherical . Future work with larger telescopes will enable astronomers to study the sizes , shapes , and rotation rates of smaller asteroids . The Mt . Wilson Observatory @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for ground-based solar system astronomy . The 100-inch ( 2.5-meter ) Hooker Telescope has been outfitted with an adaptive optics system called ADOPTICS , which can achieve a resolution of 0.06 arcsecond ( comparable to Hubble 's resolution ) . The system 's 1996 images of Vesta show surface details a mere 40 miles across , a resolution unobtainable by a ground-based telescope without compensating for the atmosphere . This system has the potential to engage in long-term projects such as monitoring volcanic eruptions on Jupiter 's large moon Io . Quasar Fuzz Much farther from home , adaptive optics are playing an active role in the study of quasars , which are among the most luminous objects in the universe . Astronomers believe quasars are highly energetic galactic cores that are powered by supermassive black holes . Because some quasars are extremely far away , the light we see from them was generated when the universe was much younger . By studying these objects , astronomers will learn how quasars and their host galaxies have changed over a huge stretch of cosmic history . Photograph By compensating for atmospheric blurring @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ large image of Saturn was taken with adaptive optics ; the inset image was taken without adaptive optics . Both come from the 1.5-meter telescope at the U.S. Air Force 's Starfire Optical Range in New Mexico . Photograph With adaptive optics , modest-size telescopes such as the 1.5-meter reflector at the Starfire Optical Range can resolve exquisite detail . The large image shows the four Trapezium stars in the Orion Nebula . The inset shows a detail from the large image . // Studies of quasar host galaxies should provide information about their relationship to the blackhole-driven central engines . Some quasars are radio-loud , meaning they emit very strongly at radio wavelengths . But most quasars are radioquiet . Previous optical observations have generally found that radio-loud quasars are found inside more luminous , larger , elliptical galaxies , and that radio-quiet quasars exist in spiral galaxies . However , this conclusion is not definitive ; there are in fact recent claims of some radio-quiet quasars existing in elliptical galaxies . This conflict could be a result of the difficulty of the observations . Astronomers have a hard time @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The light from the quasar dominates the brightness of the galaxy near the nucleus , leading to potential misinterpretations of the structure of the surrounding galaxy . It 's much easier to separate the quasar from its host galaxy in the infrared part of the spectrum , which reduces the quasar 's brightness relative to the galaxy . The infrared is also the range of the spectrum in which most adaptive optics systems operate . One example is the University of Arizona 's FASTTRAC II , which is attached to the Multiple Mirror Telescope . This system is about to be upgraded to a more sophisticated system which will have a theoretical resolution of 0.04 arcsecond , exceeding that of the Hubble Space Telescope in infrared light . Eric Hooper of the Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics is conducting an ongoing program to observe quasar host galaxies with the University of Arizona adaptive optics system . Hooper 's observations will complement Hubble Space Telescope images of the same quasar fields in visible wavelengths . The combination of Hubble and adaptive optics images will reveal the nature of quasar host galaxies , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The Hubble Deep Field released in January 1996 contained a number of galaxies that seem to be the most distant objects observed to date . Subsequent ground-based observations have confirmed that these galaxies date to an epoch reaching back to the time when the universe was only five percent of its current age , only a few hundred million years after the Big Bang . This means these galaxies may be undergoing the first burst of star formation associated with the initial collapse of gas clouds into galaxies . These Hubble observations have further fueled astronomers ' ongoing desire to look deeper into the early evolution of the universe . Hubble images seem to suggest that elliptical galaxies developed quickly into their present shapes , while spiral galaxies evolved into their present shapes over a longer period . These observations challenge recent observations that indicate a rapidly expanding universe because such a universe should n't be old enough for galaxies to have evolved into the mature forms seen by Hubble . The need to look at the structure of these early galaxies becomes essential in these studies . Up until now @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could image details in the galaxies ' shapes and configurations . With the advent of adaptive optics , however , the world 's largest telescopes , with their larger mirrors , should be able to provide higher resolution images than Hubble , to afford a view of the young pristine universe in its early stages of evolution . Black Holes and Gravitational Lenses The study of our own galaxy can also be aided by the use of adaptive optics . Our galactic center is buried deep in a shroud of obscuring dust . Images taken in visible light can not see through the dust , but infrared light penetrates right through it . The University of Arizona 's FASTTRAC adaptive optics system , used on both the university 's 60- and 90-inch telescopes , provided a highresolution infrared image of the galactic center , one of the first direct images of the prodigious radio source at the center of our galaxy , believed to be a million-solar-mass black hole . Astronomers think that nearly all large galaxies harbor massive black holes in their cores . This conclusion is based primarily on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ using the Space Telescope to observe the motions of stars orbiting the centers of galaxies . Superfast stellar motions belie the presence of a massive object . This technique has been tried on ground-based telescopes , but they have proven to be inadequate due to atmospheric blurring . Now that a viable technique has been demonstrated , ground-based telescopes equipped with adaptive optics can come to the aid of overworked Hubble once again . Surveys of many galaxies should support or disprove the conclusion that nearly all large galaxies have sizable black holes at their centers . Adaptive optics will also help astronomers find gravitational lenses , which occur when the gravity from a very massive object , such as a black hole or galaxy , bends the light rays from an object behind it and projects multiple images of the distant object around the massive object . Since the first gravitational lens was discovered in 1979 , very few lenses have been observed , and bright quadruple lenses are extremely rare . But the increased resolution gained from adaptive optics means that searches can be extended to fainter , farther @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ distances to faraway galaxies and quasars . With accurate distance measurements , astronomers will be able to determine how fast the universe is expanding , which in turn will help answer the question of whether the universe is open and will expand forever , or whether it is closed and will eventually begin to collapse upon itself . The Future The projects listed above are just a sampling of what adaptive optics can accomplish . Using an adaptive optics unit paired with the 3.6-meter Canada-France-Hawaii Telescope , astronomers have clearly resolved a double nucleus in a galaxy 500 million light-years away . The nuclei are separated by a mere 1 arcsecond . Astronomers believe the double nucleus represents the cores of two merging galaxies . University of Hawaii astronomers have imaged a dusty disk around a newborn binary star . The two young stars appear to have cleared out the inner part of the disk , resulting in a circumbinary disk . Even amateur astronomers are getting into the game . Stellar Products , of San Diego , California , manufactures a relatively low-cost and easy-to-use adaptive optics system , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about any type of backyard telescope . The company is also developing a more advanced version called the AO-5 . Santa Barbara Instruments Group ( SBIG ) is just about to come out with a low-cost adaptive optics unit for their ST-7/8 line of CCD cameras . What began as a classified military project , adaptive optics has seen an explosive growth in its use at professional astronomical observatories all over the world since its declassification in 1991 . When all the currently planned adaptive optics systems become operational , ground-based astronomy will never be the same.ID Photograph Even amateur astronomers can enjoy the benefits of adaptive optics . This image of Jupiter was taken with a 10-inch telescope equipped with an adaptive optics system made by Stellar Products . Photograph By looking at infrared wavelengths with adaptive optics , the European Southern Observatory 's 3.6meter telescope imaged surface features on Saturn 's cloud-enshrouded moon Titan . Author Affiliation Glenn Gombert ( gleng@infinet.com ) is a member of the Miami Valley Astronomical Society in Ohio and an avid CCD imager . He co-authored " The Year of the Comet " in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ **28;1008;TOOLONG ) is an electro-optical engineer for Anteon Corporation at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base in Dayton , Ohio , where she works with high-power lasers for materials evaluation and processing // <p>                     