@@409286

On cold , cloudy days early in the British spring , very few insects forage for nectar and pollen despite an abundance of flowers . A few queen bumblebees , the first of the year , might be out , but they are flying slowly through gardens in search of nesting sites . Honey bees stay huddled in their hives . They emerge only when the sun comes out and warms the air to 50deg F or more . If the sky clouds over , the honey bees vanish . One species of bee , however , thrives here in the early spring . About twice the size of a honey bee , Anthophora plumipes is Britain 's most common species of " flower bee , " so named because males in the genus Anthophora are sometimes found sleeping in flowers . This genus of solitary bees , which make tunnels in walls of earth or soft rock , is found throughout the Northern Hemisphere . When I first observed A. plumipes flying from blossom to blossom at temperatures as low as 32deg F , I realized they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ small bees and other insects lose heat too rapidly for their flight muscles to function efficiently in cold weather . Yet flower bees mate , provide for their young , and die before mid-June . They complete their life cycle in the notoriously unreliable British spring , which , although it has its relatively warm days , also has its long periods of cold , rainy weather and sharp frosts . I decided to study how these bees overcame the limitation of the cold . The courtship and mating behaviors of A. plumipes were my second reason for studying the species . Males compete fiercely for opportunities to mate , often fighting each other in flight . Sometimes a group of males will pursue a single female , forming a long " queue . " Little else was known about their mating rituals . A parking lot in the center of Oxford hardly seems like an ideal site for studying nature , but despite the noisy traffic and the exhaust fumes , this is where I spent three years studying flower bee ecology and behavior . The parking lot is surrounded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ forage among early-blooming spring flowers . At the rear of the parking lot , a stone and mortar wall at least three hundred years old separates University College from Merton College . The southern side of the wall is pocked with holes about a half inch in diameter , each one an entrance to a flower bee 's nesting tunnel . For up to fifteen hours each day , I watched the comings and goings of the bees , gradually gaining insights into their behavior . Sitting on a deck chair in a space between cars , gazing intently at an apparently unremarkable piece of wall in the car park , I came to be regarded as some sort of benign lunatic . Amazingly , over all the years that I watched bees in the parking lot , only a few people ever asked me what I was doing there . Oxford must be one of the few places in the world where my odd behavior could have gone unquestioned . The male flower bees I studied are rustbrown in color , while the females are black . Both sexes are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ This similarity soon disappears when the insects fly . Flower bees , particularly the males , are superb aerial acrobats , capable of hovering with pinpoint accuracy for long periods or executing tight turns at high speeds . Their visual acuity is also impressive . I have watched them hover within an inch of an orb-weaving spider , examining the motionless predator from both sides of its web before flying on . They are most sensitive to movement and respond to it by disappearing , a behavior that has given them a reputation for shyness . Only by remaining absolutely still , could I observe them up close without disturbing them . Before dawn on a cold day in March 1987 , I arrived at the parking lot to make my first formal observations . The bees overwinter as pupae , and males emerge before the females , sometimes as early as late February if the winter has been mild . Establishing territories in fields and flower gardens , males prepare to compete for the females , which emerge from mid-March onward . Females select the nest site ( in this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ brood cells . On my first morning of observation , the temperature was hovering around a distinctly chilly 40deg F. I parked my deck chair in an empty space between cars , poured some coffee from my thermos , and waited . Within a few minutes the first female emerged from her tunnel in the wall . Although it was too dark to see well , I could hear her flying slowly back and forth in front of the nest before disappearing in the direction of the Botanical Gardens , half a mile to the east , in search of pollen and nectar . The bees frequently perform such side-to-side flights outside nest entrances to orient themselves to marks on the wall , which they use to guide them home on their return . Over a period of thirty minutes , all the females left their tunnels , the last disappearing toward University College as the clock in nearby Magdalen College struck 5:30 . My hands were numb . How were these bees able to move ? Most insects rely on the sun 's warmth to raise their body temperatures high @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , they become sluggish . But researchers are finding a growing number of insects that are endothermic ; that is , they are able to generate their own heat . Bumblebees are among the best-known endothermic insects , thanks largely to twenty years of work by Bernd Heinrich , a biologist currently at the University of Vermont . He and other researchers found that flight muscles of bumblebees and some other insects are among the most metabolically active tissues known , burning oxygen at a very high rate . In the process , only 15 to 20 percent of the chemical energy consumed is converted into wing movement ; the considerable remainder is released as heat and is potentially available to the body . In cold weather , endothermic bees precede each flight with a warm-up period , using flight muscles to raise their body temperature . ( The bee 's flight muscles are powered by a number of interdependent chemical reactions . The various enzymes that control these reactions work efficiently only in a narrow range of relatively high temperatures . A. plumipes can not fly well with thoracic temperatures @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shivering in mammals : the sets of muscles that raise and lower the wings contract more or less simultaneously , causing the wings to vibrate . Once the thorax reaches the required temperature , the insect begins contracting the two sets of muscles alternately , moving the wings to provide the lift for takeoff . The exertion during flight maintains the high temperatures . Bumblebees , for instance , can forage at air temperatures as low as 32deg F while maintaining a thoracic temperature in excess of 86deg F. I caught a few of the Oxford bees to take to the laboratory so that I could determine whether or not they were endothermic . Taking the temperature of such a small animal without harming it is not easy , but it can be done . With great care I surgically inserted a tiny sensor into the bee 's thorax , placing it in direct contact with the heat-producing machinery . I attached the wire leading from the sensor in the bee 's body to a measuring device in such a way that the animal could walk , feed , and take @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the sensor was removed and the bee was released unharmed . Flower bees , I discovered , are astoundingly endothermic for their size , particularly females , which can raise their thoracic temperatures as much as 35deg F per minute . The lower the air temperature , however , the lower the rate of increase . At an air temperature of 48deg F , for instance , bees may take about ten minutes to warm to flight temperature . Nevertheless , their levels of heat production are about one and a half times those of larger bumblebees under the same conditions . Measurements that I have taken from twenty-six species of Anthophora in Britain and Israel show that this group warms up fastest . The record-holding species is A. fulvitarsis , which is slightly larger than A. plumipes and flies in the chilly spring mornings in the Negev Desert in Israel . Perhaps the flower bee 's superior heating system evolved in the desert regions of the Middle East and Central Asia , where such bees are found in their greatest diversity . Arid-zone bees are adapted to fly in low @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can desert flowers spare enough water for their nectar to flow . However it evolved , the ability to heat up rapidly definitely enables Anthophora bees to fly with speed and precision at low air temperatures . For a solitary wall-nesting bee in the temperate zone , aerial agility can mean the difference between life and death . Early in the morning , on top of the wall in the college parking lot , birds wait for the female flower bees to emerge . But a female leaving her nest is too quick to be caught . Returning laden with pollen and nectar , however , she is vulnerable for the few seconds that she takes to align herself with familiar features on the wall before flying into her tunnel . Great tits and blue tits seize such opportunities to swoop down and catch bees . But their intended quarry often darts sideways at incredible speed , and even though the birds have only a few feet to dive , they almost always return to their perches with empty beaks . Male bees are equally fast . I have filmed aerial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ninety-degree turns in flight in a twenty-fifth of a second  --  usually fast enough to save their lives from any aerial predator . On warm mornings , male flower bees leave the wall shortly after the females depart , but on cold days , males may stay in their tunnels for as much as two hours after the females have gone off to forage . Once out , males guard their territories and look for mates . The females work a long shift ; they often forage until as late as 9:00 P.M. , completing twenty to twenty-five round trips in search of pollen and nectar . Foraging continues when low temperatures keep most bumblebees and honey bees in their nests . Even rain does not stop the flower bees from flying . And when foraging ceases at night , females may continue to work within the wall , excavating new brood cells along the sides of the tunnel at a rate of about one a day . By placing my ear at the entrance of a nest , I could often hear the scraping sounds of a female 's mandibles @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ few minutes , she would back up to the entrance and jettison a small load of rubble . Once a cell is excavated , the female lines it with a layer of fine silt , tamping it down with a smooth plate at the tip of her abdomen . She then lines the cell with a glandular secretion to stop mold from spoiling the food she stores inside . The cell is now ready for provisioning with pollen and nectar and then for a single egg . Unlike social bees , solitary flower bees lack nestmates to help feed the developing larvae , so females must be completely self-sufficient in providing for their young . Despite the impressive heat-generating abilities of this bee , the payload they can carry when foraging is still strongly dependent on air temperature . At 53deg F and below , most females collect only nectar , carrying an average load of 21.5 milligrams per trip . During warm weather , however , females will carry up to 71 milligrams of both pollen and nectar , or more than a third of their body weight . As @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the aggressive attentions of courting males , which are hot-blooded in more than one sense of the word . In their small territories around patches of flowering plants , such as comfrey and lungwort , males intercept other males that attempt to enter . If an intruding male does not depart immediately , the two grapple in flight and drop to the ground , where they continue to fight it out ( completely oblivious to the huge human observer only a few inches away ) . Eventually , one male  --  almost always the smaller of the pair  --  flies off , with the victor in pursuit . The number of females that visit a male 's territory depends on the quality and quantity of its flowers . In the early spring competition for the best patch of flowers , the larger males are usually able to repel others from prime territories and are thus better placed to encounter foraging females . Although aggressive toward each other during the day , males commonly roost together in nest tunnels in the wall at night or in particularly bad weather . One threesome @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ten weeks . Males usually rest in a sunny spot in their territory and chase after anything even vaguely resembling a female flower bee . Predominantly black bumblebees are the most common targets of this misguided passion , but blackbirds , and even black cats , are sometimes pursued . The stimulus provided by a female is so strong that when she flies by , all territorial dispute is abandoned in favor of pursuing a potential mate , wherever she flies . Males show a characteristic flight pattern when they approach a female , hovering approximately two to four inches behind her as she moves from flower to flower . Often the male follows her every move for a minute or more , trying to keep her in sight . The female is swift and often disappears , but if the male is able to follow her , he darts rapidly forward and grasps her around the waist with his legs . The pair then fall to the ground , where the female usually rejects the male by curving her abdomen beneath her body and fending him off with her legs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the male is never stung . When the female is receptive , she allows the male to initiate a complex courtship . The species ' name plumipes ( Latin for " feather-footed " ) describes the male bee 's second pair of legs , which end in a brush of long , featherlike hairs . The male draws one brush and then the other through his jaws , coating them with pheromones secreted by special glands in his head . He waves these feathery , scented feet alternately back and forth in front of the female 's head while they mate . If other males discover the pair on the ground , they will usually try to dislodge the mating male . Watching slow motion video recordings of these attacks , I saw male bees flying into a pair , trying to pull the mating male away with their legs and mandibles . Even if an attacker is successful , the female always has the last word and can always reject a new male . Males of other solitary bee species live much shorter lives than females , so that all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at the start of the season . Male flower bees , however , live longer than females , and this seems to be consistent with the species ' mating season , which lasts all spring . This raises the question of whether female A. plumipes mate more than once during their lives . While DNA " fingerprinting " of the sperm carried by individual females has not yet been done , work by Morteza Esmaili in the 1960s showed that the volume of sperm carried by females of a North American species , A. occidentalis , varies considerably , suggesting that females do indeed mate more than once . Another explanation for the extended mating season may be that females emerge at different times from place to place , so that virgin females continue to appear throughout the spring . I noticed that after the first week at a given nest site , receptive females make up only a small proportion of the resident females . As each female forages , she has to run the gauntlet of a crowd of males . I often saw a female race by with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Flower bees fly so fast that it was often impossible for me to see exactly what was happening . I managed to persuade two other Oxford zoologists , Tim Blackburn and Phil Loader , to help me catch the mating melee on video . To recognize individuals , we marked and weighed as many males as we could catch with small , colored , numbered plastic discs placed on the top of the thorax . On frame-by-frame replays , we observed the male bees as they hovered in their queue . When we disrupted the line of males , they dispersed and then returned , resuming the same order . This suggests that males are able to recognize where they belong in line . Furthermore , the order of males in the train is not random ; their distance from the female is in order of decreasing body mass , suggesting that size plays an important role in mating . Female flower bees are harassed not only in flight ; a female on an exposed flower may be leaped upon by a succession of males at a rate of one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ severely hampers her foraging , and females occasionally appear to decide that enough is enough . They will then chase males away , even giving some of them a head butt in flight until they disperse . When levels of male interference are at their highest  --  in the middle of the day  --  females tend to stay low . In the dense mesh of stems and leaves , a female can continue to forage , but at a price . She must spend more time flying from flower to flower because there are fewer blooms lower down on the plants . These inner flowers contain significantly less sugar than outer flowers so females are moving into a less rewarding environment . In the absence of interfering males , however , females spend less time fighting off suitors and more collecting nectar and pollen . What would females do if these interfering males were removed ? In a simple series of experiments , I captured all of the males from a patch of flowers and confined them to a large netting cage over some potted lungwort . The females now preferred @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ignored the more labor-intensive inner flowers . The males were released the following day , and the females once again adopted their evasive strategy during the peak period of male activity . Flower bees prove what some have maintained for a long time  --  females get on with the important business in life far more effectively without the interference of hot-blooded males ! <p>                     