@@421025

Berlin has been awash with Russian culture this fall . The crowded calendar of events has included concerts , ballet and theatrical performances , literary readings and film series as well as visits by scores of Russian visual artists . At the center of all this activity is " **27;0;TOOLONG 1900-1950 , " the blockbuster exhibition that opened in early September and runs through Jan. 4 at the Martin Gropius Bau . Organized by Moscow 's Pushkin Museum and the Berlinische Galerie , a museum of 20th-century art , architecture and photography , the show encompasses a staggering array of nearly 2,500 objects : paintings , sculptures , photographs , architectural drawings and models as well as a host of vitrines packed with books , letters and musical scores . The seeds of " Berlin-Moscow " were sown in the years just after the Berlin Wall came down in 1989 , when Jorn Merkert , director of the Berlinische Galerie , and Irina Antonova , the Pushkin 's director , hit on the idea of an exhibition that would explore the tumultuous cultural relations between the two cities @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wider political significance of " Berlin-Moscow , " which was intended as a symbol of reconciliation on the 50th anniversary of the end of the Second World War , has been lost on none of the participants . The show and its accompanying activities , whose costs are expected to reach $10 million , are taking place despite an ongoing public dispute between Russia and Germany over the fate of World War II " trophy art " see A.i.A. , Sept. ' ' 95 , in which Antonova is a key player . And the public facade of unity that was presented at the exhibition 's opening press conference barely concealed a behind-the-scenes wrangle between the Russian and German curatorial teams . At issue : the authenticity of certain works by Lissitzky , Popova , Exter and others belonging to a private German collection , which were included in the show despite strong Russian objections . Like the extravaganzas organized by Pontus Hulten at the Centre Georges Pompidou  --  " Paris-New-York " ( 1977 ) , " Paris-Berlin " ( 1978 ) and " Paris-Moscow " ( 1979 )  --  " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ literary exchanges that took place between two enormously innovative 20th-century cultural centers . But while the Pompidou exhibitions concentrated on the period prior to the 1930s , when each of these cities served as a laboratory of modenity , " Berlin-Moscow " extends to around 1950 , well after the close of the classic avant-garde era . It must thus contend with the problem of how to present the overblown totalitarian art of the Hitler and Stalin regimes as well as modest , moving works smuggled out of the Nazi death camps and the Soviet Gulag . The organizers promised a " dialogue without taboos "  --  a reminder that " Paris-Berlin " had stopped abruptly at 1933 and that the " Paris-Moscow " catalogue had remained silent on the fate of persecuted Soviet artists and writers . " Berlin-Moscow " aims for a kind of balanced , documentary inclusiveness , which is achieved in part by a willed detachment from the utopian fantasies of the 1920s avant-garde and an ironic distance from the " heroic " state art of the 1930s . To say that the exhibition seeks a post-ideological @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an agenda . The Russian curators , especially , seem to have been guided by an understanding of the art history of this period that is sharply at odds with that of most Western scholars . This vision , to judge by the evidence in " Berlin-Moscow , " assumes a tradition of independent Russian figurative painting that begins in the early 19th century , is enriched by contact with Western art and Russian folk art in the years before World War I , and stubbornly persists at the margins throughout the era of the avant-garde and Socialist Realism . What makes this perspective so potentially controversial is the way it makes the efforts of artists like Malevich , Tatlin , Rodchenko , Stepanova , Exter and Popova  --  so impressive in the Guggenheim 's " The Great Utopia " see A.i.A. , May ' ' 93  --  seem a false turn , a fleeting aberration that left no lasting trace on Russian art . " Berlin-Moscow " unfolds according to broad general themes  --  " Before World War I , " " War , Revolution , Civil War , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Era of the Dictatorships , " " In the Second World War , " " When the War Was Over , 1945-50 "  --  and without benefit of a single wall text or interpretative label . Late in the game , because of worries that viewers might be overwhelmed by the planned sequence of 37 densely hung galleries , architect Daniel Libeskind was commissioned to devise an installation that would somehow unify the sprawling display . His solution was to begin by filling the large central atrium of the Martin Gropius Bau with two dramatically intersecting , wedge-shaped constructions , one black and one red , each rising two stories to the building 's glass roof . Libeskind 's obvious reference is to Lissitzky 's famous Constructivist agit-prop poster Beat the Whites with the Red Wedge ( 1920 ) . But he also conceived the forms as " magnetic needles " within a dramatic historical field : the black wedge points to the site of a Gestapo and SS administrative complex that once stood nearby , and the red wedge points toward the remnants of the former Berlin Wall , which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Extensions of the red and black wedges cut through the galleries on both stories , serving sometimes as functional walls on which works are hung , sometimes as massive obstacles that block the visitor 's path . Despite its metaphoric overload  --  a press handout suggested that these violently opposing forms might also stand for the battle of Communism and Fascism , for skyscrapers and wailing walls , for the red of blood and the darkness of night  --  Libeskind 's architectural intervention does help visitors make their way through the exhibition 's labyrinthine progression of galleries . The opening section , " Beauty of the Metropolis , " sets the stage with documentary photographs and architectural renderings that evoke the two cities at the turn of the century : Berlin filled with new iron bridges , railway stations , bustling commercial streets and enormous department stores , Moscow revealing a sharp contrast between palatial private villas and streets teeming with the ramshackle kiosks of small tradespeople . Impressive architectural drawings from both cities introduce a motif that recurs throughout the show : the idea of the modern city as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the architect and city planner . Also included are a few examples of the paintings presented in Berlin in the 1806 Russian art exhibition organized by impresario Sergei Diaghilev . In one bravura painting , the Symbolist Mikhail Vrubel 's Flight of Faust and Mephistopheles ( 1896 ) , we find Goethe 's characters soaring on horseback through the sky at daybreak . Unfortunately , only those possessing similar levitational powers can proper take in this canvas , which , like many others throughout the show , hangs far above the visitor 's head . A room exploring early visions of Russia suggests the degree to which German artists before the First World War saw Russia as an " exotic " premodern culture . The theme of the Russian village figures strongly in Expressionist works by Karl Schmidt-Rottluff and P.A. Bockstiegel , and a sense of the absolute otherness of the Slav dominates a brooding Emil Nolde portrait of three swarthy , bearded Russian men . A related theme is that of Diaghilev 's Ballets Russes , which gave rise to paintings such as Max Pechstein 's Russian Ballet ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( 1911 ) . Conversely , affer 1910 the work of modernist German and French painters was seen regularly in the annual Moscow exhibitions of the Jack of Diamonds group . An early Russian echo of the Fauvist/Expressionist idiom is provided in a string portrait of an anonymous sitter by Ilya Mashkov from 1910 . Against a pulsating red ground we see a dark-haired young man in a sober morning coat and striped trousers , a red flower in his buttonhole , gazing intently if not quite sympathetically at the viewer . An especially strong selection of around 40 works suggests the parallel paths taken by early avant-garde composers and visual artists in both countries . This notion is carried through with vitrines holding musical scores published in Berlin by Schoenberg , Busoni , Stravinsky and Scriabin , and with an unobtrusive music-listening station where the visitor can sit and sample period compositions . The dominant impression , though , is that of the dizzying range of modenist styles being simultaneously explored by Russian artists in the years leading up to the 1917 revolution . We see , for example , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by Natalia Goncharova ; the violently criss-crossing red , black and blue lines of Mikhail Larionov 's Rayonist composition Red and Blue Rayism ( 1913 ) ; and Aristarkh Lentulov 's Moscow ( 1913 ) , a fairytale vision of the city that owes much to early Kandinsky . Not surprisingly , there is a tighty focused selection of works by Kandinsky , the most important emissary between the Russian and German art worlds , ranging in style from folkloric/illustrational to purely abstract . The interplay of musical and visual expression carries through with the inclusion of a moody Symbolist-style painting by Kandinsky 's friend Schoenberg , Night Landscape ( 1910 ) , in which several shadowy figures appear to be floating along a path that winds through dark overhanging trees . The most ambitious section of the exhibition 's first half examines the impact of the Russian artists and writers who streamed to Berlin in the years after the First World War  --  part of the estimated 300,000 Russians who settled in the city , either to escape the upheaval of the Russian revolution or to await the expected German @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gathered around 100 works  --  paintings , wall reliefs , photomontages , drawings and sculptural objects  --  that reconfirm the vitality of the Soviet avant-garde and elain the enormous influence of the First Russian Art Exhibition held in Berlin in 1922 . Organized by the painter David Shterenberg with the support of the Soviet government , the exhibition presented to an astonished German public around 1,000 works representing every tendency from the turn-of-the-century realism of the Wanderers to the abstract works of the Suprematists and Constructivists . The response that these works evoked is conveyed in " Berlin-Moscow " by a large selection of geometric abstractions from early members of the " Constructivist intenational "  --  Moholy-Nagy , Theo van Doesburg , Willi Baumeister and Lajos Kassak . Another grouping highlights the way that Berlin Dada 's photomontage technique was effectively joined with Constructivist graphic design by Lissitzky , Hannah Hoch and others . There is also a reconstruction of Lissitzky 's famous Proun Room , the early Constructivist environment made for the 1923 Great Berlin Art Exhibition . Wasted here , unfortunately , are four of Malevich 's Suprematist paintings @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ walls . Leaving this gallery and reentering the central atrium , the viewer discovers a coda of sorts : a group of 10 abstract paintings by Rodchenko , Popova , Puni and others hung far overhead on Libeskind 's red wedge . The architect apparently believed that he was paying homage to these works by showing them irresistibly drawn to the " energy center " of his installation . A less happy metaphor , though , immediately comes to mind : the avant-garde , cut off from any audience , is drifting into a cul-de-sac . This image proves unexpectedly apt , for the presence of the Soviet avant-garde in the rest of the exhibition dwindles rapidly to nothing . While the saga of the 1920s avant-garde has become one of the most familiar episodes in 20th-century art , a more obscure chapter of German-Soviet artistic relations comes to light in the section called " For a Proletarian Culture , " which concludes the first floor . This section complicates the usual picture of a vital , heroic Soviet avant-garde losing ground to esthetic reactionaries in the years just before the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we find a powerful selection of German works from the " revolutionary realists " of the 1920s , such as the Red Group , which included Grosz , Dix , Rudolph Schlichter , Conrad Feloniller and Otto Griebel . The work of these artists appears to have attracted considerable attention among younger Soviet artists at the time of the First General German Art Exhibition , held in Moscow in 1924 . Even cultural commissar Anatoly Lunacharsky , noting the Soviet avant-garde 's continuing preoccupation with formal concerns , pointedly remarked , " The German artist , in his imaginative conception of the Revolution , has surpassed almost all of our artists . " The works shown in " Berlin-Moscow " detail the way that German artists like Grosz and Schlichter gradually turned from the biting anti-bourgeois caricature of the postwar years to a more veristic style of agitational imagery . Recalling that many German artists took part in the International Workers Relief campaigns of the early and mid-1920s , a time of economic crisis in Germany and widespread starvation in the USSR , there is a moving Hunger Portfolio ( 1924 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have much in common . Grosz and Dix appear here alongside Kathe Kollwitz and the popular illustrator Heinrich Zille . All , surprisingly , are working the same esthetic and emotional territory : we see heartrending and not yet cliched images of impoverished mothers with clinging babies , angelic working-class children in grim surroundings , and ragged proletarians standing mesmerized before shop windows bulging with gourmet delicacies . Yet we also encounter many less predictable German examples of abstracted figuration meant to serve political ends . These include F.W. Seiwart 's renderings of flattened , geometricized workers in somber industrial landscapes ; Oskar Nerlinger 's canvases evoking the new technological world by means of attenuated human figures set inside dynamic linear fields ; and Alice Lex-Nerlinger 's For Profit , an unusual photogram-and-tempera composition showing a factory clock superimposed over repeating , gridded images of a worker 's hand and arm . By the end of this section , when we see John Heartfield 's comparatively heavy-handed paean to Lenin in the pages of the deluxe Soviet propaganda magazine USSR in Construction , the message is clear that independent currents on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ increasingly sentimental realist portrayals of the working class presented in " For a Proletarian Culture " provide a perfect segue into " The New Soviet Pictoriality , " which opens the second floor of the exhibition . This section , which primarily features works by members of such artists ' groups of the ' ' 20s as OST ( the influential Society of Easel Painters ) and the Projectionists , is designed to show the hybrid figuration , containing trace elements of primitivism and Expressionism , that Goerdsted with the abstract works of Malevich , Rodchenko , Tatlin and others . Here we find paintings by Yuri Pimenov and David Shterenberg as well as Alexander Deineka 's 1932 canvas Who Whom ? ( in Russian an idiomatic phrase meaning , approimately , " Who will beat whom ? " ) , in which heroic scenes from the Revolution appear like film flashbacks within a modern industrial landscape dominated by calm , steadfast workers . This section includes a number of the paintings seen in the final room of the Guggenheim 's " Great Utopia " exhibition , where they served to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ forces with bad taste . There the effect was deflating , even depressing , and the paintings seemed timid if not trivial . " Berlin-Moscow " offers no such jarring transitions . But the exhibition sequence inadvertently suggests other readings : we see that the " New Soviet Pictoriality , " in contrast to the caustic critiques and revolutionary exhortations of Grosz , Dix or Kollwitz , swiftly shiffed away from specific political issues to iconic , generalizing representations of workers . After all , the German artists remained in opposition to the ruling powers , while in Russia the revolution had , supposedly , been won . Many of the paintings in this section ( which is , in general , much more effective than the choice of works from the same period in " The Great Utopia " ) are marked by a prototypically " revolutionary " severity , a quality that was gradually infected by sentimental optimism . But some works still contain the kind of ambiguous , disturbing overtones that would be considered counter-revolutionary after 1932 , when Stalin abolished all independent artistic associations . The peasants @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into the new Soviet reality by a gesticulating firebrand who keeps a copy of Pravda on the table beside him ; yet the thoughtful demeanor of these peasants suggests a cautious reticence . The female bottling-plant workers in Elena Bebutova-Kuznetsova 's Product Examiners at the Narzan Mineral Water Plant ( 1932 ) , in contrast , are already enthusiastic cogs in the new industrial machine . Alexander Labas 's City Square ( 1926 ) features a contingent of Young Pioneers marching in line across a Moscow square busy with trams and cars ; Sergei Luchishkin 's The Balloon Flew Away ( 1926 ) shows a red balloon floating away from a forlorn child who is dwarfed by high-rise blocks of workers ' housing . Both paintings make use of illustrational anecdotes verging on the sentimental ; but if Labas 's cityscape is mere a tribute to Soviet modernity , the eerie mood and the tiny figure of a suicide hanging in a window in Luchishkin 's painting give an unexpected twist to the conventional pathos of the lost balloon . If the Russian curatorial team seems to regard the Russian avant-garde @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ history , it has clearly placed its bets on Alexander Deineka , a member of OST , as the artist who most fruitfully married modernity and tradition . His husky peasant men and women appear in the guise of model Soviet athletes , workers and soldiers in several sections of the show . In terms of Deineka 's place in Soviet art history and his influence on post-Stalinist generations , this is probaby a reasonable call . Remembered for the spectacular ceiling mosaics which can still be seen in the Mayakovsky Station of the Moscow metro , Deineka is a fascinating artist whose best work ( much of it not included in this show ) combines a figuration influenced by Cezanne , Cubism and Expressionism with Baroque perspectives that recall Rodchenko 's unorthodox photographic angles . These qualities are most evident in Downed Airman ( 1943 ) , in which we see , from below , a blond Luftwaffe flyer hurtling headfirst toward earth . The avant-garde of the ' ' 20s is almost absent from this section ; a lone Gustav Klucis agit-prop poster of 1930 urging the populace to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ transformed into a willing servant of the state . Scattered about this room like presentiments of things to come are understated portraits of Lenin and Stalin by Isaak Brodsky , the accomplished academic painter who became in effect the " father " of Socialist Realism , and a heroizing vision of Lenin by Alexander Gerasimov , who as a leader of the Artists Union and head of the Academy of Arts was to keep an iron grip on the Soviet visual arts for many years . The reappearance of Libeskind 's black wedge announces the onset of " The Era of Dictatorships , " which covers the years from the early ' ' 30s up to World War II . This section could easily have been called " Fictions of Statehood and Leadership . " It is here that we find the most direct parallels between the art of the two regimes : in the iconography of Stalin 's and Hitler 's respective cults of personality ; in their imperial ambitions , revealed in megalomaniacal architectural plans for Moscow and Berlin ; and in the surreptitious works of artists who remained @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the margins " throughout this period . During these years Berlin and Moscow seemed to move in nightmare tandem : imperial , totalitarian states that choreographed the annihilation of millions of people and then turned on each other . At the core of these regimes , of course , lay the personality cults of Stalin and Hitler . The curatorial selection aclowledges these cults with a few portraits of the two leaders but unfortunately does not engage in any systematic presentation . Whether this is because such paintings all seem so dismally interchangeable or because some Russians still resist comparisons of Stalin to Hitler is hard to say . In general , the selection of works and their installation bypasses many obvious opportunities to make connections and reveal subtle differences in the iconography of German and Russian totalitarianism . Several celebrated paintings of Stalin are on view , including Vasily Svarog 's unusually jolly , candy-colored 1939 depiction of Stalin and various Politburo members surrounded by a passel of Young Pioneers in Gorky Park . More typical of the period are the somber , reserved tones in Vasily Efanov 's tear-jerker @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Maxim Gorky 's deathbed and in Gerasimov 's classic 1938 portrait of Stalin and Voroshilov strolling confidently along the Kremlin ramparts . In these works Stalin is represented in his most important hypostases : Father of All Peoples , protector of children , devoted friend and colleague , commanding statesman . Consigned to museum storerooms after Khrushchev 's denunciation of Stalin in 1956 and not seen in public until the fall of the Soviet Union , these paintings and others like them have been reintegrated to some extent into Russian museums ' permanent-exhibition surveys of the nation 's art . The real sensation of the show , at least in its Berlin venue , is the exhibition , affer 50 years of strict prohibition , of National Socialist art confiscated by the U.S. Army at war 's end . Several portraits of the Fuhrer are on view , including Walter Einbeck 's almost photographic oil of a stern , preoccupied Hitler in a dapper , double-breasted suit , and Hubert Lanzinger 's allegorical rendering of the Third Reich 's leader as a white knight in armor on a black steed . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its use of hyperbole , there is no comparably romanticizing portrait of the Soviet leader . On the other hand , Otto Hoyer 's In the Beginning Was the Word ( 1937 ) , which shows Hitler addressing several dozen men ( and a few women ) in an apparently underground room bathed in a smoky , Rembrandtian glow , recalls any number of paintings of Lenin or Stalin exhorting the Party faithful . Similarly , Soviet and National Socialist portrayals of " the people "  --  narod or Volk , respectively  --  were essential to the elaboration of state ideology . To judge by the works presented in this show , Soviet paintings of the period tend more toward collective portrayals , as in Deineka 's holiday parade of white-suited Stakhanovite Workers ( 1936 ) . For both the USSR and Germany , depicting a productive workforce and elaborating certain positive " national " types were important  --  whether the model worker , as in Elizaveta Ignatovich 's photograph of women workers of the " Red October " candy factory , or Hans Retzlaff 's Aryan Girl in Work Costume @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fairly shine from the black-and-white photograph . Nazi ideology , however , tended to place more emphasis on the family , whose economic and emotional ties the Russian Revolution had sought to discourage , and German women were usually portrayed as wives and mothers . In Soviet painting , by contrast , women activists  --  party organizers , teachers , doctors and factory workers  --  abound . Even when the nuclear family is the subject , as in Vladimir Vasilev 's Commandant 's Family ( 1938 ) , the wife sits a bit apart , clearly a professional woman who watches with satisfaction as her military husband talks with their children . In contrast , the mother in Adolf Wissel 's Kalenberg Peasant Family ( 1939 ) sits passively with her daughter on her lap and is compositionally locked into the family grouping . The flip side of the German stress on " family values , " however , and one of the most string differences between Soviet and German painting of the period , is the chill , somewhat sinister eroticism of many Third Reich paintings , and the preponderance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the nudes  --  male or female  --  in well-known Stalin-era paintings can probably be counted on one hand . While both the Soviets and the Nazis drew heavily on 19th-century academic painting in their construction of a national iconography suitable to a great empire , the German work is by and large colder , more restrained and meticulous in composition and rendering . One German painting on view , however , Leopold Schmutzler 's 1940 Girls Returning from the Fields , with its uncharacteristically warm tones and loose brushwork , could easily have been a Soviet work ; such peasant idylls were popular in both countries . Similarly , both used parallels with ancient national mythologies to instill wartime valor in their respective nations . Hans Toepper 's German Symphony , for example , shows a stern , armored knight , firmly gripping a sword , flanked by contemporary members of various professions . Pavel Korin 's 1942 Alexander Nevsky stands in an almost identical pose , evoking the proud Russian bogatyr who fearlessly vanquished the foreign invader ( a theme that still inspires Russian nationalist painters like Ilya Glazunov ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fighting men of the Second World War in monumental , Caravaggesque canvases that recount the feats of soldier-heroes . Moments of Norman Rockwellian sentimentality are also present , as evidenced in the exhibition by Paul Mathias Padua 's On Leave ( 1944 ) and Alexander Laktionov 's Letter from the Front ( 1947 ) . The art of World War II was only cursorily noted in the exhibition , however . Given that the theme of the exhibition is , after all , " Moscow-Berlin , " and that this is the 50th anniversary of the war 's end , it is swrprising not to find such iconic Soviet works as Viktor Krivonogov 's monumental Victory over Berlin , which shows jubilant Soviet soldiers swarming over the steps of the bullet-pocked Reichstag . The war may have been a mercifully brief episode in the history of German art , but Soviet artists continued to crank out paintings on the subject for decades . By the time in the 1930s covered in the section of the exhibition called " Quiet Art , " all opposition and even friendly criticism had been ruthlessly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  by both regimes . Neither did personal fantasy or artistic experiment have any place in Stalin 's and Hitler 's master plans . The effect on the artistic production of once innovative artists was devastating . Many of the Germans who are represented earlier in the exhibition ( Grosz , Heartfield , Lotte Jacobi , Heinrich Vogeler ) emigrated from Germany ; those who remained , like Oskar Schlemmer , were no longer able to teach or exhibit ... their work . By the early ' ' 30s most Soviet artists could no longer leave the USSR . Their private effort in the face of the two overwhelming ideological machines is also given its due in this show . The visual legacy of artists who were imprisoned or who perished in the Soviet and German camps is obviously meager . The exhibition nonetheless pays homage to them with a small selection of drawings from the Gulag , including tiny landscapes fashioned from toothpaste , clay and ashes by former Proletkult artist Mikhail Sokolov , who died in 1947 , his health broken by five years in the camps . There @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) a fascinating series of anonymous drawings , discovered in a bottle after the war 's end , that details the brutal daily routine at Auschwitz . Both the German and Soviet sections of this part of the exhibition feel , as we might well expect , like funerals . Unfortunately , the confusing installation hinders understanding of what , precisely , the curators are trying to tell us about this material . One vitrine in the " Quiet Art " section displays official Soviet publications of the day , including The White Sea Canal , the famous 1934 volume edited by Maxim Gorky that is devoted to a monumental building project in which thousands of prison laborers died ; but none of the relevant historical information is provided in the accompanying labels . A second vitrine , standing nearby , is one of the most powerful displays in the show , for those who have time to stand and read the KGB dossiers on the " spies " and " Trotskyist terrorists " who were executed or died in the camps  --  Osip Mandelstam , Vsevolod Meierkhold and Sergei Tretiakov @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shots made at the time of their arrest . But these vitrines are unaccountably bracketed by a group of colorful set designs and maquettes for Soviet productions of Shakespeare during the ' ' 30s . Only by searching through the catalogue does the connection emerge : Shakespeare 's plays were often produced in these years because they could be read between the lines as commentaries on the follies of power . This section also displays late , post-avant-garde paintings  --  mostly small portraits and still lifes  --  by Rodchenko , Malevich , Tatlin , Robert Falk ( an important painter otherwise unrepresented in the show ) , Alexander Drevin , Varvara Stepanova and Nadezhda Udaltsova . But it is not entirely clear how we are meant to read these esthetically timid , rather pathetic works . Do they testify to the failure of the avant-garde 's project to merge art and life ? Or are they evidence of intensely private feats of heroism , of resistance to the collective insanity of the age ? Given catalogue essayist Natalia Adaskina 's somewhat misleading designation of this work as " unofficial Soviet art @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Russian curators believe the latter . The true kinship between the Hitler and Stalin regimes is perhaps most evident in their architectural aspirations , which provide many of the show 's most arresting images . The reshaping of Moscow and Berlin , which runs as a theme throughout the exhibition , reaches its culmination in " The Era of the Dictatorships " with projects whose bombast often verges on absurdity . Hitler and Albert Speer dreamed of transforming Berlin into " Germania , " the postwar capital of a victorious Nazi empire . Some Third Reich projects , like the 1936 Olympic Stadium and the Reich Chancellery ( destroyed during the storming of Berlin ) were actually built . But the most ambitious remained unrealized , such as Speer 's mammoth Domed Hall , which was meant to hold 150,000 people and would have dwarfed the nearby Reichstag . Stalin 's visions were similarly grandiose . The plan for the reconstruction of Moscow , launched in 1935 , was intended to remake the city into the " Capital of the New Socialist World . " Such projects as the Volga @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ photographs included in " Berlin-Moscow " ) were designed to turn inland Moscow into a " Port of Five Seas " by connecting the Moscow River to the White , Baltic , Caspian , Black and Azov seas . The Soviet architectural projects of the era are marked by a pompous visual rhetoric epitomized by Boris Iofan 's never-realized Palace of the Soviets , conceived as a 1,500-foot tower bearing 235-foot-tall statue of Lenin . The dictators ' schemes for their respective capitals run absolutely parallel , but the impact of these ideological and political similarities is diluted in this show by the diffuse , sometimes chronologically confusing installation . History also offered the curators the obvious parallel of the 1937 International Exhibition in Paris , where Speer 's eagle-topped Third Reich pavilion stood opposite a tower by Iofan crowned by Vera Mukhina 's monumental steel Worker and Farm Woman . Unfortunately , the comparison of the two pavilions is not made explicit in the exhibition . As with many of the architectural drawings in this section , we are never told whether they remained on paper or were actually built @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the more fanciful Russian projects still stand in Moscow  --  like the Soviet Army Theater , built in the shape of a five-pointed star , or the decorative Ukrainian Pavilion for the All-Union Agricultural Exhibition ( subsequently the Exhibition of the Achievements of the People 's Economy , where Mukhina 's enormous worker and farm woman have resided since 1939 ) . Nor are they likely to recognize in Dmitry Chechulin 's 1934 drawing for Aeroflot headquarters a surprising prefiguration of his later Russian White House  --  the 1970s building that was pounded by tank fire and scorched black in October 1993 . Despite the optimistic title of the show 's closing room , " New Beginnings , " the postwar period receives only cursory treatment . This largely takes the form of architectural projects in Moscow and Berlin , which by 1949 was officially divided into two sectors . The section 's title is in fact belied by the centerpiece of the room , the spectacular architectural drawings for Moscow 's postwar " wedding cake " skyscrapers , which are massive tributes to the power of the state . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ these fantastical edifices were indeed constructed . ) Moscow would have to wait until 1956 , three years after Stalin 's death , for anything like a new beginning . During this time East Berlin became , architecturally , an extension of Moscow  --  we see plans for the ambitious Stalinallee that was built near Alexanderplatz in the early ' ' 50s  --  and West Berlin an eclectic , Americanized mini-metropolis . The truly new beginning came , as photographs at the end of the catalogue confirm , with the fall of the Berlin Wall . " Berlin-Moscow / Moscow-Berlin 1900-1950 " opened at the Martin Gropius Bau , Berlin , on Sept. 3 , and can be seen until Jan. 7 , 1996 . It travels to the Pushkin Museum , Moscow , where it will be on view Mar. 1-July 1 , 1996 . The exhibition is accompanied by a 709-page catalogue in German ; a Russian-language edition is forthcoming . <p>                     