@@397041

THE FIRST CHRISTIAN believers had no earthly identity . They were dead to this world . They belonged to God 's kingdom . In their homelands they were aliens . In foreign lands they were at home . They belonged everywhere and nowhere , for they were " fellow citizens with the saints and members of the household of God " ( Eph. 2:19 ) . When the early Christian martyrs were brought before their persecutors they often answered the threats of their torturers with the simple words : " I am a Christian ! " By virtue of their having been baptized into Christ and sealed with the Holy Spirit , thereby becoming participants in the eucharistic supper of God 's kingdom , the believers in the Holy Trinity had died to this world . Their lives were now " hid with Christ in God " ( Col. 3:3 ) . This consciousness , this experience and this conviction have to a large degree been lost by the great majority of Orthodox Christians now living in North America . How few  --  even among the bishops and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Orthodox Christians who belong to the one true church , which is , here and now , the foretaste God 's kingdom to come for peoples of all nations of the earth . For the most part we Orthodox in North America view our church membership primarily in terms of our ancestry as Albanians , Bulgarians , Carpatho-Russians , Greeks , Romanians , Russians , Serbians , Syrians , Ukrainians and so on . We identify ourselves and our churches in this way . And we are looked upon in this way by the Orthodox churches of the old countries ; they often consider us to be an ecclesiastical " diaspora " no matter how long we have been living in the U.S. or Canada . We in the U.S. and Canada are divided into many ecclesiastical jurisdictions on the basis of nationality , ethnicity and political ideology . We claim that we are one and the same Orthodox Church , and in liturgical rites and creedal statements we are . But we openly and shamelessly use our ecclesiastical structures for nationalistic , cultural , ethnic and ideological ends . We @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ museums for cultural exhibitions , concert halls for ethnic performances , training centers for languages and customs , meeting places for patriotic and political programs . We are free to do so . We have religious and political liberty . If we North Americans dislike what is being done in our church , we can go across the street with like-minded people and open another church of our own , even calling it Orthodox . This has happened again and again . The result is ecclesiastical and spiritual chaos , disorder , hostility , competition , opportunism , a steady decline in church membership in the churches without significant immigration of Orthodox from the " old countries , " together with an almost total loss of evangelistic and missionary consciousness and activity . Recent events in Eastern Europe fill some of us with sorrow and fear . We see Orthodox in those countries sinking into the state into which we have fallen . Will there be even a few Orthodox Christians who will follow the hard and narrow way of Christ , which is uncompromisingly opposed to the broad and easy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ethnic , chauvinistic , political , ideological and personal passions and interests  --  the way that leads to destruction , both here and in the age to come ? Will there be at least some who say : " I am a Christian ; I am Orthodox . I belong to the one , holy , catholic and apostolic church of Christ . I am of one mind , one heart , one soul and one body with all those who belong to Christ and the church , whatever their nationality and political opinions . I stand steadfastly opposed to those who use Christ 's church for any secular , nationalistic , ideological or political purpose , however apparently noble and justifiable . " The future of Orthodoxy depends on the few in all countries of the earth who follow the narrow way which insists that the Orthodox Church must be the church and nothing but the church : the presence and foretaste of God 's kingdom on earth for all peoples who wish to enter and be saved . THE ORTHODOX Church is essentially a worshipping church . We glory @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ services and sacraments , our rites and rituals , our customs and traditions . Liturgical life and worship have preserved the Orthodox Church and the faith of countless Orthodox Christians in the darkest hours of Muslim oppression and Marxist persecution , as well as in the painful conditions of immigrant life in the capitalistic countries of the new world where many Orthodox believers found themselves outside the mainstream of social , political and economic power and privilege . But once again , temptations confront Orthodox Christians . On the one hand there is the broad and easy way of turning the church 's worship into a self-enclosed cult providing an easy and comfortable escape from the life and activity of the world . And on the other hand there is the equally broad and easy way of making the liturgy nothing but the decorative and sentimental expression of national and cultural traditions and interests devoid of an power to provide a critical engagement of God 's kingdom with the real lives of those who attend and participate and a critical judgment of God 's truth upon their attitudes and actions in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of these broad and easy ways which lead to destruction . In order to be what it is , the church 's liturgy must be , as the liturgical service itself says , " reasonable worship " ( Anaphora of the Divine Liturgy of St. John Chrysostom ) . It must be accessible and meaningful to its participants . The church 's liturgy must be connected to the real lives and experiences of real people . It can not be the ritualistic enactment of ancient rites performed in a perfunctory manner in languages which no one really understands , according to measurements of time which nobody observes , by ministers who have little if any understanding or interest in the content of what they are doing and why . The church 's sacraments and services can not be " mysteries " in the sense that they are mystifying , meaningless and nonsensical to those who perform and participate in them in quasi-magical and mechanical ways . Nor can they be given whatever meanings one wishes to give them by those who use them for their own subjective personal , religious , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ North America shows that the church 's liturgy is truly the presence of God 's kingdom an earth for those who seek and desire Christ 's narrow way which leads to life . For those who believe in the Holy Trinity and desire " reasonable worship , " the Orthodox liturgy is truly divine . It is not in need of radical revision or substantial reformation for those who by God 's grace can discern what is divinely essential as opposed to what is humanly temporal and passing . But it is in need of continual spiritual renewal and practical updating regarding its external forms so that it may always be what it is : the living experience of God 's kingdom for the faithful in the midst of the earth . Our American experience demonstrates clearly that the church 's liturgy can be misused and abused . It can be frozen and fossilized . It can be nothing but a collection of irrelevant cultic rituals devoid of meaning , power and life . It can be the presence not of God 's living kingdom in this present world , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ relic of a past time and place ( usually sometime in the 19th century ) in which no distinction is made between what is of God in the liturgy and what is of man . When this occurs , people go to the church building as they go to a museum or theater : to see what people of another age looked like , how they spoke and sang , how they dressed and behaved . And if they so choose ( for any number of reasons ) , they can themselves imitate these people 's actions . What happens in such cases , which are all too familiar to us in America , is that the church 's services and sacraments have little or nothing to do with life in our contemporary world . And for some who choose this broad and easy way , the less the church 's liturgy has to do with contemporary reality the better . The stranger and less understood and less accessible the liturgy is to normal people , the " more mystical " and " more Orthodox " it is considered to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prone to producing massive variations in liturgical attitudes and practices which are not expressive of the rich and positive diversity inspired by God 's Holy Spirit in the church . These differences in practice are rather the sinful expressions of human predilection , opinion and passion . We know this well in the North America . We pray that the Orthodox in the newly emerging countries of Eastern Europe will be soared this experience , but we fear that human beings being what they are , those who want the narrow way which leads to life will , according to Christ 's own words , be few . Our experience has been that liturgical worship without catechetical instruction and the possibility to participate directly in Christian work and spiritual life produces no long-lasting fruits of the Holy Spirit . And neither does catechetical instruction and participation in activistic programs disconnected from well-prepared participation in the church 's liturgical life experienced as " reasonable worship . " Our recent experience has also revealed that on either side of Christ 's narrow way concerning the relationship between Orthodox Christians and non-Orthodox , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ easy ways , equally pernicious and destructive . One such way is to consider everyone and everything outside the Orthodox church to be totally devoid of God 's grace and goodness , totally untrue and totally evil . Those of this way consider Roman Catholic and Protestant Christians , as well as members of the pre-Chalcedonian Oriental churches ( the Egyptian Copts , the Armenians , Ethiopians and Syrian Christians of India ) , as not Christians at all . They hold that their services and sacraments are wholly devoid of grace and truth , that there is nothing of God and the true church of God in their doctrines and practices . They consider " ecumenism " to be heretically sinful , even when " ecumenism " is understood as all Orthodox churches in the world today officially understand it  --  namely , as the work to overcome disagreements and divisions among Christians and Christian confessions and communities , to affirm unanimities and agreements where these actually the work to overcome disagreements and divisions among Christians and Christian confessions and communities , to affirm unanimities and agreements where these actually @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the good of human beings , especially the poor , needy , afflicted , outcast and suffering . The opposite broad and easy way , also well known to us , is to consider that all Christian confessions and communities , and perhaps even all religious philosophies and movements , are essentially the same , or at least not different enough to matter in any important or significant manner . Those following this way view Orthodoxy as the cultural religious expression of the traditionally Orthodox peoples which is to be rigorously preserved by these nations for themselves . They would see no need for any theological dialogue with others , and no need for any missionary activity . Cooperation is usually welcome , especially if it serves the interests of the Orthodox . The narrow way of Orthodoxy , however , rejects both these destructive and untrue ways . We Orthodox have also always held that the Orthodox Church alone , among all Christian confessions and communities , is the one , holy , catholic and apostolic Church of Christ , " the household of God , which is the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the truth " ( 1 Tim . 3:15 ) , Christ 's very " body ... the fullness of Him who fills all in all " ( Eph. 1:23 ) . Having participated for many years in " ecumenical activity , " including membership in the Faith and Order Commission of the World Council of Churches , I have never heard one Orthodox Christian participant in North America or abroad ever deny any of these sacred truths . BUT ORTHODOX Christians have also always held  --  and must continue to hold if we are true followers of Christ  --  that every human person is made in God 's image and likeness , that virtually no human person is wholly devoid of God 's grace and truth , that heterodox Christians and Christian confessions and communities do retain something of God and God 's true church ( the so-called " vestiges of the church " : vestigia ecclesiae ) in their doctrines and practices , and that individuals in these communities  --  not in spite of them but because of them  --  have sometimes attained extraordinary levels of righteousness and holiness @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ strict teachings of the church 's holy scriptures and tradition , including the witness of the saints , that non-Christians and even nonbelievers are not wholly devoid of God 's grace and truth . Because of their being made in God 's image and likeness , we can converse with them and cooperate with them and witness to them of Christ  --  and even learn some things from them  --  precisely on the bases . The Orthodox Church is the one true church of Christ who is the only saving Truth for human beings and the whole of creation . As such , the fully committed members of Christ 's church are given the grace to discern whatever is of God and to rejoice and give thanks for it , wherever , however and in whomever it happens to be . And we are also given the ability to discern what is not of the Lord , and to expose and reject it in the light of Christ who is himself " the light of the world . " The hard and narrow way of Christ , the way of Orthodox @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wide and easy ways to destruction : the way of religious sectarianism on the one side , where we consider everything outside of the Orthodox Church as nothing other than undifferentiated demonic darkness to be avoided at all costs ; and the way of religious relativism on the other , where we would see no significant or substantial uniqueness in Orthodoxy , except for the fact that it is the traditional tribal religion of certain European , Middle Eastern and Asian peoples to be defended at all costs not only against those who would destroy it , but those who would wish to embrace it and accept it as their own . May the Orthodox Christians in the Balkans , Eastern Europe and the countries emerging from the former U.S.S.R. , together with Orthodox Christian believers in the U.S. and Canada , find and follow the way of Christ and the church , the hard and narrow way of Orthodoxy . We can do so only by God 's grace through sharing with one another . There is no infallible magisterium in Orthodoxy . No one person , bishop or local @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ And no individual , hierarch or church community is exempt from error . The religious , political and economic liberties which we now all enjoy , and for which we give thanks , present their own uniquely insidious forms of trial and temptation . We in the U.S. and Canada know this from long and painful experience . Our success in overcoming these temptations in uncompromising fidelity to the Lord has been minimal . Our only hope is that there will always be the faithful few among us who refuse to surrender to the broad and easy ways which lead to destruction . May these trials and temptations , which are historically new for Orthodox Christians in Eastern Europe , and therefore especially enticing and attractive , prove to be as powerless over true Orthodox believers as were the atheistic forces of the past with their persecutions , imprisonments and executions . Thomas Hopko is dean of St. Vladimir 's Orthodox Theological Seminary in Crestwood , New York . This article is adapted from a paper he distributed at a conference in St. Petersburg on the history of the Russian Orthodox @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                