@@354407

SUN MICROSYSTEMS HAD a problem on its hands . One of the company 's brightest software developers had created a new computer-programming language called Oak that nobody seemed to want . Originally designed for writing control software for the computer chips that run microwave ovens and other state-of-the-art household appliances , it had been reconfigured several times over the past five years  --  for cable-TV set-top boxes , for video-game machines , for personal computer CD-ROMS . But every time it looked as if Oak might finally find a home , the deal somehow fell through . Even its name was a problem : it could n't be protected by trademark because hundreds of companies had already used it . In the end , Sun decided that the best thing it could do for Oak was to give it a new name and give it away . So Sun called it Java  --  a slang term for coffee that dates back to the days when the best brews came from Indonesia , not Seattle  --  and made it available , free of charge , on the Internet . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ including Sun 's  --  Java is the hottest thing in cyberspace . More than 100,000 copies have been downloaded by software developers eager to try out the new language , which promises to make sending programs across a computer network as easy as sending E-mail or pictures . Hundreds of little Java applications ( dubbed " applets " ) have started to pop up on the World Wide Web , the multimedia portion of the Internet . One site lists more than 700 working Java applets  --  each only a mouse click away  --  that generate everything from small dancing cartoon figures and steaming cups of coffee to knock-offs of such games as Pac-Man and Missile Command . Several leading venues on the Internet , including cnet and Time Warner 's Pathfinder , now use Java applets with links to the wire services to display live news tickers running across the screen . <P> But Java is more than a way to spice up the pages of the World Wide Web . The news tickers and dancing cartoons are just the most visible signs of a deeper , more profound change @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could in the next few years shift the balance of power in the entire computer industry , changing not only the cost and shape of the machines on our desktops but also our very concept of what a computer should be . <P> With Java , data and programs  --  the twin staples of computing  --  do n't have to be stored on your computer anymore . They can reside anywhere on the Internet , called up by whoever needs them , whenever they need them . It 's a development that could finally make true Sun 's original and hitherto cryptic slogan : The Network Is the Computer . " There 's a paradigm shift every 10 or 15 years , " says Marc Andreessen , a Web pioneer and co-founder of Netscape Communications . " And we 're in one right now . "                     