@@403431

By JAMES R. KELLY A PARTICULARLY IMPORTANT TEST with national significance is now occurring in New Jersey that challenges the integrity of both pro-life and pro-choice idealists . Here is how it began . Only slightly ahead of national trends , in January 1992 the New Jersey State Legislature passed a welfare reform bill with implications for how Americans think about poverty and its causes . In a political climate of distrust of government programs , middle-class tax revolt and " individual-moral-failure " explanations of long-term poverty , New Jersey included in its welfare changes a family cap , an innovation at the time , that immediately caught national attention . The family cap meant that any woman on welfare who became pregnant and then chose to bring her child to term received no additional state money ( although she would continue to receive food stamps and Medicaid assistance for her additional child ) . By 1998 , 20 states had followed New Jersey 's example . Americans were now accepting policies that included provisions whose implied premise was that the single most important cause of poverty is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ book Dubious Conceptions : The Politics of Teenage Pregnancy ( 1996 ) , Kristin Luker reported : A compelling body of scholarship now shows that although people who become parents as teenagers will eventually be poorer than those who do not , a very large proportion of that difference is explained by preexisting factors .... More than 80 percent of teenage mothers were living in poverty or near poverty long before they became pregnant . Teenage parents are not middle-class people who have become poor simply because they have had a baby ; rather , they have become teenage parents because they were poor to begin with . In his 1995 encyclical The Gospel of Life , Pope John Paul II warns that even democracies are capable of a kind of social Darwinism because , unchecked , " the regulation of interests often occurs to the advantage of the most powerful , since they are the ones most capable of maneuvering not only the levers of power but also of shaping the formation of consensus " ( No. 70 ) . By treating abortion as a more " rational " choice @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a Darwinian policy , in that the state itself pits the interest of the fetus ( life ) against the interest of the mother ( economic survival ) . The Emergence of Common Ground in New Jersey . Because it seemed self-evident to them that the New Jersey family cap would force pregnant poor women , reluctant to deepen their family 's poverty , to choose abortion , New Jersey Right to Life , New Jersey Citizens for Life and the New Jersey State Catholic Conference promptly announced their opposition to the cap . And because it seemed evident to them that the cap subverted a poor pregnant woman 's " reproductive freedom , " the New Jersey Civil Liberties Union and the NOW Legal Defense and Education Fund also announced their opposition . The New Jersey welfare changes tested both movements ' integrity by challenging both sides ' slogans , which increasingly seemed irrelevant to the real world of poor women in New Jersey . The two sides in the controversy understood that an effective protest against the family cap , which violated the core principles of both movements , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Initial Dro-choice/oro-life collaboration was tentative and resulted only in press releases that surprised legislators but did not persuade them . The family cap remained in the welfare bill signed into law by the Democratic Governor , Jim Florio , on Jan. 21 , 1992 . On Sept. 9 , 1997 , the New Jersey NOW-L.D.E.F. and A.C.L.U. chapters filed a civil rights class action against the New Jersey Department of Human Resources . They argued , first , that the cap violated women 's reproductive freedom , which they claimed " includes the choice to carry a pregnancy to term . " Second , they claimed that the cap violated equal protection by creating " two classes of children , some of whom receive welfare benefits and some of whom do not , solely based on the timing of their birth . " NOW-L.D.E.F. and A.C.L.U. did not include abortion opponents in their suit . There had been no follow-up dialogue about crafting a court challenge that reflected the full range of objections to the family cap . After its surprising start , common ground had not deepened in New @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ intend to defeat our opponents ' principle , it seems morally counter-intuitive that an absence of common ground thwarts the goals-fewer abortions , real choice-of idealists in both movements . But it does . For example , as presently constructed , the A.C.L.U./ NOW-L.D.E.F. class action suit is unlikely either to be legally or publicly persuasive . In Harris v. McRae ( 1980 ) , which upheld the Hyde amendments , the Supreme Court ruled that states were not required to fund abortions for poor women , thus already deciding that a constitutionally protected reproductive choice does not financially obligate the state . And with regard to equality , the vast majority of New Jersey taxpayers are likely to find more persuasive Wisconsin Gov . Tommy Thompson 's rejoinder , " You do not get wage increases for having another child ; why should a welfare recipient ? " New Jersey Rejects Researchers ' Unwanted Findings . State-commissioned studies of the New Jersey family cap suggest other reasons for deep skepticism about the A.C.L.U. 's and NOW 's pro-choice argument that reproductive freedom means that taxpayers should help poor women in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ commissioned three reports . When researchers for the third report finally concluded that the data demonstrated an abortion-family cap link , the N.J. State Department of Health and Human Services rejected it and required a fourth report . The researchers had not rushed to judgment . In the first report ( 1994 ) , June E. O'Neill , M.D. , had found a 29 percent decline in birth rates among welfare women but said nothing about their abortion rates . The next two studies did . The second study ( Camasso et al. , July 1997 ) was entitled " An Interim Report on the Impact of New Jersey 's Family Development Program . " As had the first study , the researchers employed a narrow focus and ignored dimensions of poverty-such as the availability of work and training-that social science routinely considers highly significant . They reported that African Americans comprise about half of all New Jersey welfare recipients , Hispanics a little more and whites a little less than one-quarter . In 1994 in New Jersey , 28 percent of all children were born to unmarried mothers , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mothers . A sociologically appropriate presentation of this data , for example , would have related single motherhood and male employment patterns , but the Camasso study did not . While the researchers found that women affected by the cap were slightly more likely to abort than to give birth , and that the opposite was true of those not subject to the cap , they learned that too often the women themselves could not identify their control/experimental group status . ( Women in the control group continued to receive additional funds for their newborns , as they had in the pre-family cap era ) . They speculated that the family cap publicity affected even those clients who signed documents signifying that they understood they would continue to receive all the pre-reform benefits . The researchers concluded their interim report by describing the methodology they would use in their final report-multivariate analyses of birth and abortion rates before and after the cap . Reducing Births by Increasing Abortions . Since 1990 the national abortion rate has steadily declined . In their third study the researchers also found this pattern among New @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ receiving welfare . The New Jersey overall abortion rate had declined by 24.4 percent , from about 4.5 abortions per 1,000 women of childbearing age to about 3.4 . But in New Jersey , among welfare women the rate had increased by about 6 percent , from 27.1 abortions per 1,000 in 1990 to about 28.8 in 1996 . The largest increase was recorded among African-American welfare women , who before the cap were slightly more likely to give birth than to abort , but who after the cap were more likely to abort . The researchers calculated that the cap " appears to have increased abortion by about 2.4 each year per 1,000 women at risk " - about 240 more abortions per year than would be expected without the cap . They described this cap-impact on abortion as " small but non-trivial . " In a letter of May 14 , 1998 , the N.J. Department of Human Services instructed the researchers to label their final report a draft and required that " the revised document should be re-submitted ... no later than three weeks after your receipt of this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ employment of trend analyses and the focus on the family cap . They informed the researchers that " the current report does not marsall evidence that permits any casual sic contribution to FDP for changes in the rates of births and abortions . " The D.H.S. did not invite the researchers to respond to the objections , either in person or in writing . State Rejection , Movement Integrities . Both pro-choice and pro-life activists immediately concluded that the N.J. Department of Human Services had rejected the Camasso final report not because of its methodology , but because of its findings . Sherri Leuvant , an attorney of the NOW Legal Defense and Education Fund , informed reporters ( The Bergen Record , 6/9/98 ) that , in taking depositions for the court challenge , welfare women told NOW lawyers that social workers implied that abortion should be their choice . She reported one woman 's description of a conversation with a social worker : " She all but said that I should have an abortion , saying , Could n't you do something about this pregnancy ? " ' For @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for New Jersey Right to Life , Marie Tasy , said to reporters : " Whenever abortion rates go up , it 's something states should be concerned about ... especially when we as taxpayers are forced to pay for Medicaid abortions " ( 6/9/98 ) . The spokesperson for the New Jersey Catholic Conference , Regina Purcell , was quoted by the Associated Press ( 6/8/98 ) as saying that " the Rutgers findings have very serious implications for children in every state that has instituted a family cap . It 's important to remember not only the number of babies that were aborted due to the family cap , but also the number of children who were denied assistance . " A Consistent Ethic and Family Cap Objections . The Camasso study narrowly investigated only one dimension of the New Jersey welfare changes , namely the impact of the family cap on reproductive decisions , and asked no deeper questions about the causes and extent of poverty , why poor women who are not married have children , why the fathers do n't become husbands . And with few @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ focus . Regina Purcell told me she was " no longer surprised when observers from within and from outside the state responded to the findings with indifference . " Abortion is a constitutionally protected civil right and , though many continue to think of it as immoral , as a matter of law and public policy abortion can be included in the category of socalled responsible choices . Indeed , many would judge it irresponsible for a mother to bring a pregnancy to term when she will need resources taxed from other citizens . Pro-choice activists have yet to confront the libertarian limits of their rights language . Pro-choice activists , moreover , talk about autonomy and individual choice . The object of choice is not explicitly specified . Unlike " citizen discourse , " in pro-choice discourse there are neither responsible nor irresponsible reproductive choices , but only autonomous or coerced abortions . The legal director of the New Jersey A.C.L.U. chapter , Lenora Lapidus , said : " I think it 's important to understand that those of us who claim to be pro-choice are really prochoice . We @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ decision about what to do with her pregnancy , whether that coerces that woman to have an abortion or not have an abortion " ( AP , 6/8/98 ) . Described this way , the prochoice position seems to be an application to the issue of abortion of libertarian thought , which typically seeks to free individual choice from government constraint . But , unlike pro-choice discourse , libertarian reasoning also seeks to free private choices from the " coercion " of government taxes . Pro-choice , as with libertarian thought more generally , can persuasively argue for government neutrality in reproductive decisions but can not , if it is to be consistent , make an equally strong case for taxpayer support when the decision is an unaffordable birth . As yet , pro-choice has no persuasive rejoinder to politically astute cap defenders who retort that when working class families have another child , they do not automatically receive any more family income . Additionally , from a prochoice premise , it is hard to know why case workers should n't actively persuade poor women toward the " responsible " choice @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Voters are not likely to endorse the abstract language of reproductive choice , except insofar as they retain the traditional moral sentiment that , since pregnancy involves a developing human life with its own non-alienable dignity , the choice of birth is morally superior to the choice to abort and thus is to be socially preferred in state policy . Prochoice language unsuspectingly lives off pro-life moral capital . A pertinent Camasso finding is that welfare recipients gave not pro-choice but pro-life responses to survey questions . Only 28 percent agreed that " an acceptable reason for termination " is when " it is an accidental or unplanned pregnancy . " Only 38.5 percent agreed that an " acceptable reason " for abortion is if they " do n't want another baby . " Most welfare women say the only acceptable reasons ( 71 percent for both ) for aborting are that the birth would threaten life , and in cases of rape and incest . While poor women are more likely than other women to report abortions , they are also more likely to hold right to life sentiments . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is that these survey answers challenge New Jersey right to life groups as well . Poor women already affirm the pro-life attitudes right to life groups unflaggingly promote . The data show that poor women abort so often not because they lack prolife sentiment , but because they lack the resources to be pro-life . When asked about factors influencing their decisions about pregnancy , more than three-quarters said " finding adequate care " and even more , 85 percent , said " not having adequate finances to raise the child . " Integrity requires that pro-life idealists also acknowledge this finding and explicitly incorporate it into their movement 's thinking and politics . It is not that the right to life movement has not always recognized that pro-life words must be connected with pro-life help , as the more than 70 volunteer crisis pregnancy centers in New Jersey show . But these centers by themselves can not help poor women achieve the self-sufficiency required for promising parenting . Besides , these emergency pregnancy centers are disproportionately listed in non-minority areas ; in the right to life Internet listing , only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . New Jersey abortion opponents can effectively counter high abortion rates among the poor by contributing to a statewide effort that effectively challenges not merely the family cap , but also the moralistic and individualistic premises about poverty embedded in New Jersey welfare changes and crystallized in its Darwinian family cap . The challenges presented by the Camasso data far exceed the present thinking , tactics and lobbying of New Jersey right to life social movement organizations , with the possible exception of the New Jersey Catholic Conference . Potentially , this organization has the resource of a consistent ethic first given public expression by Cardinal Joseph Bernardin in his 1983 Fordham University lecture entitled " A Consistent Ethic of Life : An American Catholic Dialogue , " and then adopted by the National Conference of Catholic Bishops as its public policy on abortion . But so far the N.J. Catholic Conference can not be said to have effectively publicized the consistent ethic . Abortion opponents in their press interviews sound unconvincing and appear to be simply anti-abortion rather than prolife . Ironically , the N.J. Right to Life responses to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Darwinian political climate of safety net tax cutting and shrinkage of government responsibility : " Whenever abortion rates go up , it 's something states should be concerned about-especially when we as taxpayers emphasis added ... are forced to pay for Medicaid abortions " ( The Bergen Record , 6/8/98 ) . Coalition-Building . Typically , local abortion opponents are mostly political novices receiving on-the-iob training . The Camasso data strongly suggest that , to help women and children effectively , they require coalitions with groups actively promoting child care and work training for the poor . These are likely to bring abortion opponents into an uncomfortable political culture , where their anti-abortion sentiments are misunderstood , misconstrued and opposed . A consistent ethic approach to abortion requires a deepening moral and political sophistication , as well as uncommon stamina . But prolife/pro-choice coalitions that do not obscure moral objections to abortion can be achieved , usually with the aid of common ground terminology signaling the presence of vital principle and the absence of moral compromise . It has happened on the national level , and specifically on the question of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ A.C.L.U. media advisory announced : " Apart on Abortion , Together on Children . Pro-choice and Pro-life Groups Schedule Joint Press Briefing on Child Exclusion Policies . " Among the " 100 religious , civil rights and women 's rights organizations , " the press release listed Catholic Charities USA and Feminists for Life representatives who joined the A.C.L.U. and NOW-L.D.E.F. at a joint press briefing . Only this national coalition of prochoice and pro-life groups was able to make the child exclusion provision of the national welfare bill voluntary rather than mandatory . Challenge to Both Sides . Moreover , a consistent ethic perspective illuminates the advances required among pro-choice idealists in moral sophistication and integrity . The empirical data show that academic sounding abstractions like reproductive freedom will not persuade voters , and that welfare women speak pro-life , not pro-choice language . Equally important , the abstraction pro-choice evokes a libertarian vocabulary that subverts any equality requiring distributive justice . Prochoice idealists should more explicitly differentiate themselves from their false friends in the population control establishment . This will not be easy . The first known call for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Malthusian League that held that overpopulation was the chief cause of poverty . The initial argument offered in Congress ( 6/24/76 ) against the Hyde amendments restricting Medicaid funding of abortion was that these restrictions would cost taxpayers annually between $450 million and $565 million for the care of children born because their mothers could not afford an abortion . Finally , movement integrity requires that pro-choice idealists renounce the polemic that grassroots pro-life activists lose interest in both child and mother after birth . Renouncing this fundraising stereotype might prove to be the hardest of all . Diminishing state support for poor women , rationalized by a moralistic language of self-reliance , constitutes the most severe kind of challenge to the integrity of both movements . On the right to life side , it directly calls into question its tactical political alliance with fiscal conservatives . On the pro-choice side , the data expose the inadequacy of viewing abortion simply as a liberating right and demonstrate the need to align , in a common ground way , abortion rights with substantive traditions about the common good that traditionally include @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . I understand the complications and the difficulties involved in that sentence . There are powerful psychological , moral and historical impediments internal to both movements that make any common ground difficult to imagine specifically , much less to achieve . But the stakes are high . How New Jersey pro-life and pro-choice activists expand or narrow the common ground they have just barely begun in contesting the New Jersey family cap is an important chapter in an unfinished story . It is a story of how America thinks not only about abortion but about poverty , its causes and our responsibilities-in other words , about the long-term prospects for our human solidarity . Author Affiliation JAMES R. KELLY is a professor of sociology at For &am; University , Bronx , N.Y // <p>                     