@@402777

" THERE IS NO MORE wonderful moment than when you realize you have just invented something that will win the Nobel prize , " says biotechnology pioneer Kary B. Mullis , who was driving down a dark , country road when he suddenly thought of a way to make copies of DNA molecules . His method , called the polymerase chain reaction , has since been used for everything from tracing human evolution to identifying bloodstains at the O.J. Simpson trial . In most cases , though , inventions are born not of a Eureka moment but after years of trial and error , often building on the work of earlier inventors . So it was with Thomas Alva Edison , who perfected the light bulb and the phonograph in his Menlo Park , New Jersey , laboratory ( where he kept POPULAR SCIENCE on the shelves ) . One of America 's most prolific inventors , Edison was the first person to be inducted into the National Inventors Hall of Fame in Akron , Ohio . A few months ago , Mullis and Alfred Nobel ( whose @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ after him ) were among the six newest inductees . As we approach the year 2000 , we are surrounded by more inventors and inventions than ever before . The U.S. Patents and Trademarks Office received more than 250,000 patent applications in the past year alone . To commemorate a millennium of technological discovery , the editors of POPULAR SCIENCE have chosen the 100 inventions that have had the greatest impact on our lives . We 'll be bringing them to you throughout 1999 . We begin this month with aerospace inventions that have taken humans beyond the bounds of Earth . In future months , we 'll cover inventions in medicine , electronics , transportation , and other fields . We celebrate the inspiration and perspiration that have brought these great ideas to life . 1903 Airplane FOR CENTURIES , humans could only dream of soaring through the air like birds . But today so many people are flying that air traffic controllers are needed to prevent midair collisions . And because of airplanes , our world has become much smaller : We can now travel from one side of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Many would-be inventors made attempts to build flying machines around the turn of the century ; most were spectacularly unsuccessful . But on December 17 , 1903 , brothers Orville and Wilbur Wright achieved the first powered , sustained , and controlled flight of an airplane , at Kitty Hawk , North Carolina . To create their Flyer , the brothers built a glider in their Dayton , Ohio , bicycle shop , and then designed an engine and propellers for it . The 12-horsepower motor turned two chains , which drove the twin propellers in opposite directions . On its first flight , the airplane covered 120 feet in 12 seconds . One decade and thousands of flights after his first , Orville wrote : aI would hardly think today of making my first flight on a strange machine in a 27-mile wind , even if I knew that the machine had already been flown and was safe . After these years of experience , I look with amazement upon our audacity in attempting flights . " 1981 Space Shuttle NASA 'S SPACE SHUTTLE is the world 's first @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ orbits the Earth for as long as 17 days ( the record is 279 orbits ) , and then lands on a runway just like an airplane . As of November 1998 , five shuttles had flown a total of 93 missions . The shuttle has made it much easier for astronauts to live and work in space . 1939 Helicopter ALTHOUGH Leonardo da Vinci sketched a " whirlybird " in 1483 , and the first primitive helicopter flew in 1907 , it was n't until 1939 that Igor I. Sikorsky built the world 's first true production helicopter , the VS-300 . Because of its ability to take off vertically and hover , the helicopter has proved invaluable for life-saving rescue missions . 1939 Jet Engine LONG-DISTANCE trips are now common , but such globetrotting would n't be possible without the jet engine , which produces forward motion by the rearward discharge of a hot gas . Germany 's Heinkel HE 178 was the first plane powered by a jet engine ; it flew in 1939 . Jet planes entered commercial service in the early 1950s. 1957 Satellite THE SOVIET @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ first man-made satellite , marked the beginning of the space race . Today , some 500 commercial , military , and research satellites circle our planet . Among their tasks : relaying TV signals , keeping an eye on the weather , and sending spy photos to intelligence agencies . 1609 Optical Telescope NO OTHER TOOL has provided more clues about how our universe began , and how it may end . The telescope has enabled humans to gaze deep into space at stars , planets , comets , and other celestial objects . Galileo 's first telescope was a simple tube , but today 's instruments include huge ground-based observatories like the Keck Telescope and the Hubble Space Telescope ( above ) . 1971 Interplanetary Probe SINCE THE EARLY 1970s , the United States and Russia have launched a series of small unmanned spacecraft intended to explore other planets . Some of these craft have flown past faraway worlds and sent back pictures that provide clues about our solar system . Other probes , like the Mars Pathfinder and its rover ( above ) , have descended to a planetary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the first rockets around year 1150 , but it was Robert Hutchings Goddard who pioneered modern rocketry , building his first experimental projectiles in 1908 . Rockets have proved valuable as weapons , and have made it possible to propel all sorts of objects to high altitudes . It was a multistage rocket that put men on the moon . ) <p>                     