@@346736

Now that the cold war is over , one can sometimes hear diplomats gently rue its passing : communism was terrible , but at least you knew where you stood . Yitzhak Rabin 's first days as Israel 's Prime Minister have put Arabs and Palestinians in a similar bind . He has yanked open the door to serious negotiations against which they had been pushing , only to find them in a tangled heap on the floor , their muscles stiff and unprepared for a vigorous pas de deux . <P> Can the parties figure out how to dance together now that Rabin has raised great expectations ? Secretary of State James Baker , the master choreographer of the peace process , is traveling around the Middle East this week to see . His task is not easy . Even with an Israeli government genuinely committed to negotiating , the tactical challenges of bringing all the parties together are still complex . And if Baker decides to leave the State Department to run President Bush 's re-election campaign , as officials widely forecast last week , he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ give the talks his personal impetus . <P> Each party has its own agenda and political constraints in approaching the others . Rabin has three immediate priorities , all linked : quick progress with the Palestinians ; repairing the damage done to Israel 's ties with Washington during the tenure of his predecessor , Yitzhak Shamir ; rerouting Israeli shekels from building settlements in the occupied territories to creating jobs and absorbing immigrants . <P> His electrifying maiden speech to the Knesset was intended to warm the atmosphere with the Palestinians . Differentiating himself from the intransigent Shamir , Rabin set a reasoned and pragmatic tone , inviting the Palestinian negotiators for an informal parley before the next formal session in Rome , in a month or two , and pledging to bargain continuously until agreement is reached . " Rabin believes that the expectations the Israeli public has of him are very high , " says Gad Yaacobi , designated to become Israel 's next U.N . ambassador . " He would like to fulfill them early on in his term so as not to erode his political capital . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ben-Eliezer announced that the government was for the moment freezing all public housing starts in the settlements and was determining what to do with thousands of units already begun . Israel hopes its eagerness to make progress on this contentious issue will allow it to enlist Washington 's help in delivering the Arabs , instead of Arabs ' employing Washington 's leverage to put pressure on a recalcitrant Israel . <P> That strategy makes Palestinian negotiators anxious . They must show tangible results quickly to fend off fundamentalist opponents , yet must satisfy multiple constituencies  --  factions in the territories and the Palestine Liberation Organization , Palestinians in camps and abroad  --  before they can make any concessions . Publicly , their negotiators professed disdain for Rabin 's speech , exaggerating its tough elements and ignoring its invitations for cooperation .                     