@@410556

The black steam engine cuts through he Tennessee countryside , making its way into the Great Smokies . One passenger , a 19-year-old girl , sketches the conductor , then looks up as the mountains appear in her window . " The mountains were always a source : of inspiration and peace to me , " the narrator begins . A new television series begins here too , though the heroine and the story will be familiar to many : they were created by Catherine Marshall in Christy , a 1967 best-seller which has sold over 4 million copies . The two-hour-pilot for the six-part series airs on Easter Sunday evening on CBS . Marshall first attracted attention as a writer with her inspiring biography of her husband Peter Marshall , a Scottish immigrant who was pastor of New York Avenue Presbyterian Church in Washington , D.C. , and , for two years before his death at age 46 , chaplain of the U. S ; Senate . A Man Called Peter was popular in both book and movie form in the ' ' 50s . Catherine Marshall @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ continued to write and lecture until her death in 1983 . For Ken Wales , who co-produced Christy with Barney Rosenzweig , creating the television version has been a personal odyssey that began when he heard Catherine Marshall speak in 1976 . A feature film version of the story was canceled in 1969 , and interest in the project died . Now , Wales says , viewers want stories about characters like Christy  --  people with convictions and values confronting real problems . The pilot condenses too many scenes into two hours : an accident results in surgery on a kitchen table , vandalism is followed by arson in the schoolhouse , and a cache of moonshine is discovered , which leads to confrontations with moonshiners , a fall into the creek and feuding . But my children , who watched the preview episode with me , want to see the succeeding shows , and I will join them . I recall reading Christy when it came out . I was in high school , and the impulsive , romantic and idealistic Christy left an impression . Kellie Martin is almost @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ role ( she offers the same wide-eyed , earnest gaze to both a smitten young preacher and an angry armed bootlegger ) , but she conveys intensity and energy as well as youth . David Grantland , played by Randall Batinkoff , is the natural love interest . The young seminary graduate is a committed and tireless worker , but his strong rhetoric and moralizing do not endear him to the mountain people . en he discovers that moonshine has been stored under the mission school , he is outraged . The wooden benches are full for his Prohibition sermon , but the residents are ominously unresponsive when the pastor delivers his ultimatum : no more bootlegging . To people who depend on moonshine as their only source of cash the sermon generates resentment and destroys trust . The minister is at least indirectly responsible for the violence that ensues . In the third corner of the romantic . triangle is Dr. Neil MacNeill ( Stewart Finlay-McLennan ) , a native who has received medical training and returned to the mountains . MacNeill is , skeptical of both proselytizing missionaries and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Alice , the founder of the mission . It is startling to hear spiritual advice and Quake " thees and thous " coming from Type Daly , best known as one of the police-women in " Cagney and Lacey , " but she is , nevertheless , bright and convincing . The fist half-hour of the pilot makes it clear that if the missionaries are to come part of the community , they must be willing to drop everything when a crisis arises . On Christy 's first hike she encounters an injured man brought in from the woods . Other members of the community soon appear  --  the doctor , the wife and brother of the injured man arguing about whether to agree to surgery , a sister who takes children outside for stories . Christy administers ether to patient on the kitchen table , then runs out after she starts to feel faint . She learns the dynamics of a community without telephone or motorized vehicle : neighbors walk or run on a network of mountain trails , conveying messages and assisting in crises . As Christy struggles with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ provides support and challenge . Meeting her at the end of a discouraging day , she asks , " Were you supposed to come here , Christy ? Or were you just running away from home ? " The older woman continues to serve as a mentor and friend . Here is a relationship not often seen on television  --  a younger and an older woman in conversation , sharing spiritual strengths . Given the reaction in my own family I can see how eagerly children respond to someone with Christy 's kind of reckless faith and love . Christy is a good and decent TV show . It may be even better for the conversations that can follow it about the challenges of mission , and the relation of faith and works . Debra Bendis is an assistant editor at the CENTURY . <p>                     