@@421023

Like Rilke , Leon Kossoff strives " to be a beginner . " " Whether by scraping off or by rubbing down , it is always beginning again , making new images , destroying images that lie , discarding images that are dead , " he has written . In each painting there is an urgency , a sense of improvisation , such that one could believe that he had to learn as he went along how to make this image happen , to excavate or coax it from an oppressive overload of paint . Kossoff paintings are heavy  --  not just literally , the pigment heaped onto wooden supports , as canvas could never carry his amounts of paint , but emotionally too , the palette lugubrious and autumnal . Because of the sheer , manifest effort they embody , the works weigh heavily on the conscience of the viewer . Effort is the operative word . Kossoff was included in the seminal 1984 Tate Gallery exhibition of figurative painting and sculpture memorably called " The Hard Won Image . " The catalogue sported a photograph of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its cover : a crusty Victorian garret passed on to Auerbach by Kossoff himself . The state of Auerbach 's studio is much like Kossoff 's own , with waste pigment strewn upon the floor , the anguished encrustations of paint rhyming with the decrepitude of the mottling walls . Kossoff has himself described his work space as " a field in a house . Muddy hillocks of paint-sodden newspapers cover the floor burying scraped off images . Derelict boards stand in all corners , remnants of recent activity . " Visitors to Kossoff 's studio have described it in similar terms : notably Rudi Fuchs , director of the Stedelijk in Amsterdam , in the catalogue of Kossoff 's Venice Biennale exhibition , which is to travel to Fuchs 's institution next year . But that Kossoff himself should use the language of bemused visitor when he is the resident and author of this squalor suggests an artist with an eye to his own mythology . Hard-won-ness appeals to a romantic conception of the artist as Prometheus , wresting fire , defying the gods . The Kossoff/Auerbach esthetic makes a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ image . Both artists recall Cezanne , who , according to Merleau-Ponty 's classic essay , " Cezanne 's Doubt , " " needed one hundred sessions of work for one still-life , 150 sittings for a portrait . What we call his work was for him only a series of attempts towards the completed work . " In just this way , Auerbach and Kossoff commit themselves to strenuous pursuit of the unattainable in their conquest of the elusive image . Any effort that , on reflection , falls short in even a single aspect is scraped down to begin all over again at the next session . It is in the nature of an artist like Leon Kossoff to be " untimely " : to work against the grain , self-consciously within a great but marginalized tradition . Certainly at the Venice Biennale , ensconced in the British pavilion , he seemed isolated as a figure painter amidst all the hi-tech displays . He and Francesco Clemente , however , shared the distinction of being the only artists in national pavilions also included in the survey of 20th-century images @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Alterity , " curated by Jean Clair see A.i.A. , Sept. ' ' 95 . At the Palazzo Grassi , Kossoff 's from the early ' ' 60s hung alongside works by Bacon , Balthus and Giacometti . Kossoff 's reinventions of the figure and the urgent , obsessive excavation of his imagery made great sense in this context , as his pummeled contortions of paint we spied through a row of Giacometti 's fiercely modeled figures . But for all the postwar angst of his gritty depictions of the urban scene , it would be a mistake to read Kossoff only in the grim half-light of existentialism . Indeed , what came out in the warm glow of the Adriatic sun is the increasing sensuality of Kossoff 's paint , a sensuality which sometimes borders on joie de vivre . It is certainly true in the earlier work that there was an almost puritanical disdain for the actual stuff being heaped onto the support . John Berger , in one of Kossoff 's earliest reviews , thought that his pictures " look as if they were made of coloured , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " He likened the hatred of sensuous pleasure to Beckett 's profound pessimism . Perceptive in its time , this is the tone of criticism which has stuck with Kossoff despite the directions in which his art has matured . It is still true , of course , that the hurried visitor ( which is the typical Biennale visitor ) , unused to his style , would be struck by hefty , initially inscrutable forms , by his sitters ' typically resigned melancholy and by the chilled nonchalance of his nude models . But the longer one stays with the wolks , especialy the more recent ones , the brighter and more luminous they become . They are increasingly legible and yielding ; brushstrokes are more descriptive , color more suggestive . There is even a festive mood in the ambitious new series of ( for Kossoff ) large tableaux of the Embankment Underground Station . It is as if , in anticipation of his apotheosis in Venice , Kossoff moved away from his usual drab suburbs to a public space by the river . Embankment Station and Hungerford Bridge , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the subject is similar to Outside Kilburn Underground ( Nuclear Spring ) , 1987  --  an entrance to an underground station with an encroaching Victorian bridge  --  the smoothness with which the stone facade is achieved , the bursts of exuberance in the lower stalls , the almost dancing forms of commuters , despite being his typical clay figurines , all suggest a very different spirit . With the grand , classical buildings on the Strand crowding above the station it is almost possible to imagine the scene transported from murky old London to Italy . But more than any artist since Walter Sickert , Kossoff is a painter of London : not its famous landmarks but its humbler quarters . He evokes the sense of a city soiled through repeated use , and is especially taken by subjects redolent of movement and change : building and demolition sites , railway lines that cut unexpected routes behind houses , postindustrial landscapes . He has written in near-Proustian terms about his choice of subjects and purpose in evoking them : " The strange ever-changing light , the endless streets and the shuddering @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a faint glimmering memory of a long-forgotten , perhaps never experienced childhood , which , if rediscovered and illuminated , would ameliorate the pain of the present . " Before he can bring himself to paint a new subject , Kossoff feels he must gain intimacy by drawing it intensely over an extended period . When he hires a new model he will draw her daily for a year before attempting a work in oils . His favorite sitters are family members : his father sat almost daily for a number of years before the artist 's older brother , Chaim , took his place  --  almost literally , as brother and father are depicted in the same postwar utility armchair . And yet , for all the doggedness of his drawing from life , which applies as much to landscapes , urban scenes and old-master paintings as it does to human sitters , Kossoff tells us that " I have never finished a picture without first experiencing a huge emptying of all factual and topographical knowledge . " His art is shaped by opposing forces : empiricism and fidelity to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ moment of creativity ( he believes in " the image that makes itself . " ) Gritty realism cohabits with art informel ; a striving for tight gestalt with an active , willful awkwardness . The late Peter Fuller saw in Kossoff an unlikely coming together of William Coldstream , the fusty postwar Briish realist , and Jackson Pollock . But according to Fuller , who in the early 1980s pronounced Kossoff to be the greatest living British painter , Kossoff escapes the respective failures of these disparate exemplars : " He is neither subsumed and lost within his boundless self ; nor is he saddled with an arid and " untranscendable " set of historically specific representational devices . " The overlay of dribbled white paint Kossoff sometimes deploys does indeed recall Pollock , but the true source of his peculiar synthesis of the random and the grounded lies elewhere . In 1950 , Kossoff , aged 24 , was recruited by Auerbach to the drawing class of David Bomberg . Bomberg had been associated with the Vorticist group in 1914 , pioneering a Futurist-cum-geometric abstract idiom , but since @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a personal expressionist styie . As for so many of his generation , experience of the Great War overturned his faith in a technological future . An abrasive personality , Bomberg alienated both the academic establishment and his erstwhile avant-garde comrades . Late in his career , broke and frustrated , he took up teaching . He turned out to be a charismatic instructor , and he soon had a fanatical band of young followers . To Kossoff he imparted the absolute need for " conviction , " for " authenticity . " Bomberg 's great catchphrase , " seek for the spirit in the mass , " would be repeated to  --  and subsequently by  --  his students with almost talismanic force . If the words seem especially appropriate to Kossoff it must be because his paint is applied en masse . What Bomberg probably meant by " mass " is the totality of what the artist observes and experiences in terms of the , tone , weight , physicality . The spirit in the mass is an to the sense of form , or structure , that gives a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ observed world , the artist 's sensibility and what happens on the canvas , Kossoff can be said to have moved some of the " mass " of the outside world into the mess of inchoate paint which finds its way in such quantity to the picture surface . Just as there is a tension between observation and expression in Kossoff 's work , so the paint as he handles it pulls in two directions , towards actuality and metaphor . The paint connotes depth and deep ; it accumulates as if it were trying to keep pace with the build-up of the artist 's memories and obsessions . Kossoff went further than his master in taking expressive liberties with representation . The work of the young artist was close in style to the emerging abstraction of Nicolas de Stael , not to mention the Americans ( although examples of New York School painting were not seen in Britain until the mid-1950s ) . But however close his work came to abstraction , more remarkable was his commitment to  --  and his imaginative reinvention of  --  the figure . The expressive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only from Giacometti but , closer to home , from Francis Bacon , the central figure of a network of artists that included Auerbach and Lucian Freud , with Kossoff vicariously linked through Auerbach . For an " untimely " artist , Kossoff was in fact able to draw considerably upon contemporaries from a variety of orientations . There is more than a whiff of the resurgent 1950s social realism in his depictions of the grimy urban and domestic scene  --  of the artists championed by John Berger and scornfully labeled the Kitchen Sink school by David Sylvester . However much Kossoff is presented ( and presents himself ) as an artist going against the grain of the art of his time , he is in many ways a modernist : this can be seen in his accentuation of the actual stuff of paint on the support ; his foregrounding of process ; his willingness , indeed his need , to frustrate conventional ways of seeing . But his hostility towards the academic  --  the received , the mannered , the predictable  --  upon which his whole strategy as an artist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ might expect towards the masters . On the contrary , Kossoff constantly turns to the greats for inspiration . He does not study them for technical guidance , being quite indifferent to the specifics of application or detail , but wants to know " why certain pictures have a transforming effect on the mind . " He is devoted to certain works in the way he is faithful to models or sites , drawing them obsessively , repeatedly . Last winter , he visited the great Poussin centenary exhibition at the Royal Academy every morning at the crack of dawn despite a punishing schedule finishing other , unrelated works for Venice . Transcription plays a central role in Kossoff 's practice , as it does for Auerbach , whose copies of works in London 's National Gallery were the subject of a recent exhibition there . But Auerbach , by his own confession , goes to the masters when he is stuck and needs a clue as to how to finish a work . However subjective those clues ultimately are , his is a hardnosed , unsentimental attitude . Kossos relationship @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and complexity of what he is trying to achieve in paint . In an Auerbach there is almost always a single thrust , a tightness , a central gesture , that gives the work its vitality see A.i.A. , Dec. ' ' 94 . Kossoff , in his enormous , sometimes overarching desire to say everything about a subject in paint , is more the painter of great machines  --  in the sense of the ambitious set pieces 18th- and 19th-century artists would send to the salons . He is an inclusivist : he seeks the narrative complexity and range of characterization and observation to be found in painters like Rubens , Rembrandt , Poussin and Titian , not to mention their hefty grandeur , their fullness and fleshiness . However much Kossoff 's outlandish impasto is explained by the angst and brinkmanship of his creative process , it seems also to serve an expressive function . It arrests the gaze , or at least slows it down , to take in what the sheer quantity also implies , that not only effort is invested here , but a great deal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ David Sylvester wrote ( in relation to the late Michael Andrews ) that " the modern artist who aims at the inclusiveness of traditional European art runs up against the difficulty of recovering that inclusiveness without embracing what have become the cliches of the tradition .... Awkwardness arises from trying to have one without the other . " Awkwardness , particularly in rendering the body , is a defining characteristic of the School of London . In Freud , for instance , anatomical improbability verging on cackhandedness arises from joining up individually achieved parts in a way that is indifferent to the whole . Kossoff 's awkwardness is rather more a willed frustration of facility , in much the way that Modigliani is said to have drawn with his foot to break the effortlessness of his natural technique . Kossoff 's naively drawn figures compressed or distended in space recall the expressionism of Soutine and the naiviete of Chagall , but also the perspectival disorientations found in Bonnard . Stiltedness serves to isolate Kossoff 's people and alienate them from the crowd . Among the glum commuters in Booking Hall , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ blouse is virtually like a doll ; her lower stomach crumples in on itself , pushing her arms involuntarily outwards . It is another of the inherent contradictions in Kossoff that he should want to paint like the masters and yet retain a childlike quality . One old master to whom he is particularly close is John Constable . Constable himself spoke disparagingly of the old masters as " old men , " but this was in precisely the spirit of disdain for academic convention that fueled the impassioned naturalism which fascinates Kossoff . Ever the painter of the city , the nearest Kossoff comes to landscape is the railway cutting behind his North London home . Here Comes the Diesel , Earl Summer ( 1987 ) is almost a modern Haywain . The updated mode of transport and the warehouses which stand in for cottages would have represented the threat of technology and progress to Constable , but in Kossoff 's hands the North London industrial landscape becomes as wistful as Constable 's East Anglian idyll . The white drips of paint that often accent Kossoff 's surfaces , mentioned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ full-scale sketches with their peculiar paintery treatment . The series " Here Comes the Diesel " has a childish title because Kossoff was train-spotting in the garden with his young nephew when the subject suggested itself . Virtually everything in Kossoff relates to memories of childhood , even his relationship with Constable . Aged 13 at the outbreak of the Second World War , Kossoff , like many London children , was evacuated from the heavily bombed East End , where he had been raised by his immigrant Russian parents , to Norfolk , in the countryside . He taught himself to paint by copying the watercolorists in a local museum and the work of Constable , painting the same scenery as these artists . There is added poignancy in the fact that Constable constantly returned to nostalgic scenes of his own childhood , such as his father 's kitchen garden at East Bergholt . Since the mid-1980s Kossoff has repeatedly drawn and painted Christchurch Spitalfields . Nicholas Hawksmoor 's Baroque edifice visually dominates the area where Kossoff grew Up , a potent symbol of its genius loci . But Kossoff @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an artist like Constable , however tempting it is to cite Constable 's Salisbury Cathedral as its fobear . For Kossoff 's Christchurch is as much about alienation as it is about connectedness . As a Christian place of worship , it was out of bounds to the Jewish children living huddled around it in the labyrinth of 18th-century streets . Kossoff 's history with this subject was typically fraught . He had tried to draw it twice before , 30 and 15 years previously . He was prompted to try again after reading the eerie , atmospheric opening chapters of Peter Ackroyd 's 1985 novel , Hawksmoor . Drawing it in August brought home to him how redolent the area still is of the London of Blake 's Jerusalem . He has now made dozens of paintings of the church  --  10 were exhibited together in Venice  --  which , considering his means of working , of producing and scraping down hundreds of failures for each completed version , means that he has painted it thousands of times . It has become his unmistakable motif , like Cezanne 's Mont @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recognition of the importance to him of particular experiences located in time , many of the titles give seasons and times of day . But there is no value in trying to read them as a series , like Monet 's cathedrals . However important it is for Kossoff to draw the church itself , and however much contrast there is in the luminosity of different versions , the nuances that affect him are to do with his own memories of the subject , and their significance , rather than with the play of light on stone which is Monet 's subject . Kossoff is existential where Monet is phenomenological . But Christchurch is more than a curio of an albeit intensely personal local history . Kossoff 's fascination is charged by the extraordinary massing of porch and spire , by the audacity of structure and form . Hawksmoor 's expansive stone blocks find their equivalence in the mounds of paint pummeled and pushed around by Kossoff until they settle in their final if vertiginous position . The way Kossoff 's awkward , almost gormless drawing crowds the church into the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its theatricality and bravura . When Hawksmoor was building Christchurch , Christopher Wren 's regime at the Office of Works , under which he served , succumbed to an assault from a new style-neo-Palladianism  --  aligned with an ascendant Whig politics . The unorthodox repetition of Venetian arches in the Christchurch tower was rhetorical and knowing , a riposte to the new style . Kossoff , too , is conscious of being at the end of a line , of being isolated within an art world where paradigms have shifted . He has a sense of himself as a footnote to the great tradition . The quality common to Hawksmoor 's masterpiece and Kossoff 's best paintings can be defined as magnificence pushing against the odds . " Leon Kossoff " was on view at the Venice Biennale June-October 1995 and will travel to the Dusseldorf Kunstverein Dec. 12 , 1995-Jun. 21 , 1996 and to the Stedelijk Museum , Amsterdam Feb. 8-March 31 , 1996 . The show was curated by David Sylvester and Andrea Rose . Its accompanying catalogue includes essays by Rudi Fuchs , Sylvester and the artist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " which opened at the Scottish National Gallery of Modern Art , Edinburgh July 1-Sept. 5 , 1995 , and traveled to the Musee de l'Etat-Staatsmuseum , Luxembourg Sept. 2-Nov. 5 , before its appearances at the Musee Cantonal des Beaux-Arts , Lausanne Nov. 16 , 1995-Jan. 31 , 1996 and Fundacio Caixa de Catalunya , Barcelona Feb. 16-Apr. 16 , 1996 . A full-scale Kossoff retrospective will take place next summer at the Tate Gallery , London June 6-Sept. 2 , 1996 . Author : David Cohen is an art critic based in London . <p>                     