@@396012

I am a first-generation American , born , like the nation , in Philadelphia , the child of refugees from European barbarism . Both my parents , in their separate youths , escaped the Nazi effort to murder all Jews ; many in my family were not so lucky . I knew this fact , in some form , from as early in my life as I remember knowing anything significant . To a degree , I derived pride and a sense of romance from the distinctiveness of this awful yet dramatic heritage : I was glad to have a story that gave shape and meaning to my origins , and thereby provided me with a consciousness of destiny . I understood that my life belonged not only to me but to the course of history . Yet the story , the details of which I knew only sketchily until I was nearly twenty , worried me too . I had a dream around the age of seven or eight , a dream I may have dreamed more than once , of a vast , darkened plain across @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and at times surrounded by other equally chaotic masses . Fire at the margins of the scene illuminated the action , the only possible outcome of which seemed to be isolation and annihilation . I survived , of course , because I woke up ; the slaughter ended before I did . The phrase that became attached to this hateful vision was , " The Nazis are coming . " I do n't know if I thought the words in my sleep , or if I added them afterward . The experience seemed at once absolutely true and absolutely useless . Nothing could be learned from it , nothing taken away ; there was nothing in it for life . I was reminded of this dream of terror last April , when I visited the newly opened United States Holocaust Memorial Museum , the latest addition to the federal museum system  --  a $168 million facility built by federal decree on a plot of priceless federal land just off the National Mall in Washington , D.C. There I spoke with Michael Berenbaum , who was the museum 's project director throughout @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ theology at Georgetown University , he explained to me that the museum 's mission is twofold : to memorialize the victims of Nazism by providing an exhaustive historical narrative of the Holocaust ; and , at the same time , to present visitors with an object lesson in the ethical ideals of American political culture by presenting the negation of those ideals . Berenbaum has coined a phrase to describe the latter part of this mission . He calls it " The Americanization of the Holocaust . " " In America , " he said , " we recast the story of the Holocaust to teach fundamental American values . What are the fundamental values ? For example  --  when America is at its best  --  pluralism , democracy , restraint on government , the inalienable rights of individuals , the inability of government to enter into freedom of the press , freedom of assembly , freedom of religion , and so forth . " The museum , then , is meant to serve as an ideological vaccine for the American body politic . A proper dose of Holocaust , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ totalitarianism , racism , and state-sponsored mass murder . " The Holocaust , " Berenbaum has written , " can become a symbolic orienting event in human history that can prevent recurrence . " He and his colleagues have designed the national Holocaust museum so that as much of the American public as possible  --  particularly the school groups that are expected to make up a large percentage of visitors  --  will , in a sense , walk through my childhood nightmare . This experience , they believe , will teach Americans both to celebrate and to think critically about their political culture . " When America is at its best , " Berenbaum told me , " the Holocaust is impossible in the United States . " The fact remains , however , that the Holocaust was a European event , and that even at its utter worst , America has been a place where the Holocaust  --  a program of genocidal extermination mandated and implemented by every organ of a nation-state  --  has never entered the realm of possibility . America 's problems and America 's faults , however @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fascist Germany . To suggest that there are meaningful comparisons can only distort our already feeble understanding of European history and  --  worse  --  obscure our perception of current American reality . The museum 's dedication ceremony on April 22 was an exercise in official pageantry and speechifying , attended by virtually unanimous celebration in the nation 's press . President Clinton addressed the gathered thousands  --  survivors , foreign heads of state , American dignitaries , and assorted citizens  --  describing the museum as " an investment in a secure future against whatever insanity lurks ahead . " He went on to say that " if this museum can mobilize morality , then those who have perished will thereby gain a measure of immortality . " The President 's " if " had a particularly sinister resonance on that day ; as he spoke , Serbian forces in the former Yugoslavia were pressing forward with the slaughter of their Bosnian Muslim neighbors . There , in the heart of Europe , the Serbian program of murdering innocents , and the sickening euphemism " ethnic cleansing " ( with which even @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reminiscent of  --  though not equivalent to  --  the Holocaust . As of that moment , the international response to this atrocity had amounted to expressions of outrage and the decision to stand by . Indeed , many of the world 's leaders stood in Washington with the National Mall as their backdrop , the Washington Monument and the Jefferson Memorial looming in the near distance , and applauded President Clinton 's suggestion that the Holocaust museum could redeem the deaths of Nazism 's victims by serving as " a constant reminder of our duty to build and nurture the institutions of public tranquility and humanity . " In Yiddish , the language Hitler sought to eliminate along with the Jews of Europe , such talk is called chutzpah . There is something dangerously facile about opposing evil fifty years after the fact . Yet that is the price one pays for Americanizing the Holocaust ; as soon as the Holocaust is set up as a metaphor for national ideology , it comes back to haunt us , making its utterance a constant potential embarrassment and tainting the otherwise irreproachable impulse @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as a Jew , I am deeply discomforted to have to point out these things . I do not , for a moment , want to suggest that the Holocaust should be forgotten , remembered in silence , or ignored . I want only to serve a reminder , as this museum becomes a major new touchstone in America 's narrative of national identity , that denouncing evil is a far cry from doing good . Not surprisingly , the museum has been highly politicized from its inception . Jimmy Carter initiated the project , in large part as a means to mend his poor relations with the American Jewish community . The idea of a memorial had been kicked around by Carter 's Jewish advisers for some time , but the president only latched on to it in 1978 , in the wake of Jewish outrage at his decision to sell a fleet of F-15 fighter planes to Saudi Arabia . Carter appointed Elie Wiesel to chair a commission on the Holocaust , and in the fall of 1979 Wiesel presented Carter with the report that became the museum 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ plan , providing the federal land near the Mall . The rest of the museum 's $168 million cost was raised privately , mostly within the Jewish community . Debates about how Jewish and how universally American the museum should be have shadowed the project since its prehistory . Wiesel finessed the point by arguing that " the universality of the Holocaust lies in its uniqueness : the Event is essentially Jewish , yet its interpretation is universal . " In his report to the president , he described the Holocaust as ripe with lessons that reinforce democratic American principles of pluralism and tolerance . And although he made clear that Jews were the primary victims of the Holocaust , the only group singled out by the Nazis for total elimination , the council overseeing the development of the project decided that the museum should also represent the victimization of such non-Jewish groups as Gypsies , homosexuals , Jehovah 's Witnesses , and political prisoners . Wiesel has since appeared to vacillate on the merits of universalizing the Holocaust . When , shortly after receiving his Nobel Peace Prize in 1986 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gave as his chief reason his fear that the museum was losing its Jewish focus . Nevertheless , he played a central role in the museum 's dedication ceremonies , even scolding Clinton for his inaction on Bosnia , and shortly afterward he appeared to want the chairmanship back . Evidently Wiesel has come to accept what Berenbaum has been arguing all along : that the Americanization of the Holocaust is inevitable . In his essay " The Nativization of the Holocaust , " Berenbaum has written that " the place from which an event is recalled inevitably shapes memory " and that therefore " only a part of memory involves the past . " In this understanding , memory becomes a fundamentally antihistorical phenomenon . Berenbaum , however , does not seek to correct this tendency ; rather , he embraces it , declaring , in effect , that because memory will be relative , it is okay to relativize it . Now that the museum is a fait accompli , it is as much a memorial to this notion as to the Holocaust story it tells . For decades @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mall will be able to puzzle at the fact that some American Jews sought to establish a sense of security in America by presenting the Holocaust to the nation as a therapeutic mass-cultural experience . To draw people into this strange new American civics lesson , exhibition designers have devised a gimmick for audience participation in the Holocaust narrative . Upon admission , visitors are issued an identity card  --  matched to their age and gender  --  imprinted with the name and vital statistics of an actual Holocaust victim or survivor . As they pass through the three floors of the museum 's permanent exhibition , museum-goers will be periodically able to plug these bar-coded cards into computerized stations and measure their progress against the fate of their phantom surrogates , most of whom were murdered . The sample I.D . card included in the promotional materials that the museum sent me is stamped with the name and photograph of Haskel Kernweis , who was born in 1920 and lived in the rural village of Kolbushova , Poland . " His family is very religious , " the card explains , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ years 1933-1939 , we read that " Haskel now calls himself " Charley , " for his passion is no longer religion but English .... He writes to Eleanor Roosevelt telling her that he loves English and wants to speak it in America one day . She responds enthusiastically . The German police order Charley to work for them . " Between 1940 and 1944 , Charley fled to the woods with a group of Jews after learning that the Germans meant to kill him . Returning to town one day to buy bread , he was caught by Polish peasants and , the card announces , " his friends found him  --  dead , a pitchfork stuck into his chest . " The card 's final entry is : " 1945- . Charley 's entire family was gassed at Belzec . Only one of the Jewish fighters who went to the woods with him survived the war . " There are some five hundred visitor I.D . cards , but it is no accident that the one selected for publicity purposes should tell the story of a man who is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ death at the hands of Nazi collaborators . The card 's narrative even implies that the animosity of the Nazis was a consequence of Haskel/Charley 's Americanism . When I asked Berenbaum about this , he said , " Clearly , when they 're sending out fund-raising things they want to attract American people  --  to attract and interest the Americans without falsifying events . " Entering the Holocaust museum from southwest Fifteenth Street ( now renamed Raoul Wallenberg Place , after the Swedish diplomat who saved thousands of Hungarian Jews from Nazi extermination ) , one is confronted by a black marble wall engraved with the passage from the Declaration of Independence celebrating " life , liberty , and the pursuit of happiness . " Opposite this , chiseled in gray limestone , are words from George Washington : " The government of the United States ... gives to bigotry no sanction , to persecution no assistance . " From the I.D.-card dispensary one is ushered directly into an elevator , where a video monitor plays footage of an armored vehicle rumbling over bleak European terrain while the voice of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ without knowing what it was . After less than a minute , the elevator doors open on the fourth floor and the permanent exhibition begins with a wall-sized photograph of some twenty American G.I. 's looking down on a massive heap of charred logs and charred corpses . These are the calcined remains of concentration camp inmates at Ohrdruf , Germany , in April 1945  --  twisted limbs , broken torsos , blackened skin crumbling from skull bones . Along the same wall , video monitors play ghastly color footage of the liberation of Dachau , and a giant color photo presents a starved Buchenwald inmate sipping a post-liberation meal from a tin bowl . This man is the picture of cosmic woe ; cadaverous in his short-panted , striped pajamas , he sits in dazzling sunshine , squinting up at his photographer with a face so harrowed by unhappiness that it calls into permanent question just what it means to say that he has survived . Before visitors even reach the first exhibit on the rise of Nazism , they have been dealt a visceral , emotional wallop with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The effect is , at the least , shocking . A wincing , uncomfortable silence hangs over the crowded gallery , punctuated only by clucked tongues and staccato gasps of outrage  --  sounds that become less frequent as the museum tour continues and visitors recoup their defenses or become accustomed to images of horror . The museum 's designers explain the decision to begin the exhibition with the American liberation of the camps as a means of orienting visitors who may have no knowledge whatever of history . The idea is to ease the passage from the festive present of a visit to the Mall to the alien hell of Nazi Europe by discovering that hell through American eyes . Of course , opening the show from this vantage point will also comfort Americans by identifying them immediately as heroes . An odd spin , this : clutching their I.D . cards , museum-goers are asked to identify simultaneously with the victims and their saviors . Placing the American liberation of the camps in the foreground of the exhibition also nudges to the background the third role visitors are being asked @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ history by an acquiescent failure to act . The decision further blurs the understanding of the role of bystanders by creating the impression that Americans knew nothing of Hitler 's " Final Solution of the Jewish Problem " until the end of the war . That was true of many American G.I. 's , but the American government , some members of the press , and some of the public , especially the American Jewish community , had known of the death camps for years . This is a matter examined at several points later in the exhibition . By then , however , the issue is likely to be confused for anyone who does not already have a firm grasp of the events under examination . Shortly before he committed suicide , Primo Levi , the most lucid and probing of survivor-authors , wrote about receiving a lecture from a fifth-grader on how he should and could have escaped Auschwitz , a detailed plan of action that the child concluded with the words " If it should happen to you again , do as I told you . You 'll @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " To Levi , the boy 's remarks illustrated " the gap that exists and grows wider every year between things as they were " down there " and things as they are represented by the current imagination fed by approximative books , films , and myths . " Every aspect of the Holocaust museum 's exhibition that promotes Americanization drives the museum deeper into that gap . On either side of a darkened hallway , the history of Germany from 1933 to 1939 looms behind glass  --  a montage of photographs , artifacts , text and video displays . The section headings tell the story : " Nazi Takeover of Power , " " The Terror Begins , " " The Boycott , " " The Burning of Books , " " Nazi Propaganda , " " The Nuremberg Laws . " Here is an exhibit devoted to Nazi race science : photo charts of human heads describing various " racial types , " images of scientists taking cranial measurements from human specimens , a pair of metal calipers , a sampler of different types and colors of human hair @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ photograph of a Nazi rally , radiant blond children frozen as they give the stiff-armed " Heil Hitler " salute . Here is a school desk from the period , and over it a photograph of a little German girl cheerfully reading The Poisoned Mushroom , a popular anti-Semitic children 's book that took its title from Hitler 's description of Jews in Mein Kampf . Here is a section on laws against interracial relations , with images of Jewish-Aryan couples forced to wear signs confessing their crimes before mocking crowds in the public streets . In the section titled " Expansion Without War , " the Anschluss is seen on video : the Nazis ' triumphal arrival in Vienna , the joyous Austrians swarming to welcome them . Next to the monitor hang the famous images of Vienna 's Jews , forced on all fours to scrub the city 's streets with hand-held brushes while passersby stop to enjoy the show . Europe 's indifference to such goings-on is conveyed by a large color photograph of Neville Chamberlain , beaming and doffing his bowler hat in an open car beneath @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ alcove dedicated to the " Mosaic of Victims , " an authentic Gypsy caravan stands beneath images of Gypsies and Jehovah 's Witnesses and mug shots of German men arrested on charges of homosexuality . Desecrated Torah scrolls spill over the floor beneath a defaced ark from a German synagogue in the exhibition 's treatment of Kristallnacht . Four video monitors play footage from that night showing stores being smashed , synagogues burning . Festive martial tunes drift across the gallery from a nearby display on Nazi high society . Further along , a wall of photographs tells of the torture and murder of the Polish intelligentsia in the winter of 1939 : mass executions , mass graves , blindfolded people stumbling through the woods to their deaths . Around the corner is a display on the murder of the handicapped : a metal hospital cot with restraint bands stands before a 1941 photo of the Hadamar Euthanasia center in Hadamar , Germany  --  a large , factory-like building at the edge of a quiet-looking town . Smoke jetting from its chimney comes from a crematorium . Another photo shows a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attendant . The caption informs that she is mentally disabled and about to be murdered . After this , there is a long gallery on American reactions to the events in Europe , a chronicle of journalistic alarm and official isolationism that provides a short breather before one descends to the third floor and the story of the Final Solution . Here , the exhibition halls narrow and lift onto a bridge over a pavement of cobblestones imported from the Warsaw Ghetto . The process of herding Jews into ghettos , moving them about in railroad transports , and finally deporting them to death camps is carefully chronicled . Ghetto life is evoked in all its grim and hopeless detail . By the time I reached the exhibit on the Einsatgruen , or mobile killing squads , I felt I 'd had enough . In just a few hours I had already seen images of hundreds of dead bodies , many of them naked , and hundreds more people starving , beaten , and otherwise brutalized . Now a photograph hung before me of a man squatting at the edge of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ him , a pistol at his head about to be fired . Below this picture , the crowd  --  which was impossibly dense throughout the gallery  --  was even thicker than usual . I waited to draw closer and found , behind a low " privacy wall " designed to keep young children from particularly graphic material , two video monitors playing footage of the killing squads at work . This is what I wrote in my notebook : " Peepshow format . Snuff films . Naked women led to execution . People are being shot . Into the ditch , shot , spasms , collapse , dirt thrown in over . Crowds of naked people . Naked people standing about to be killed , naked people lying down dead . Close-up of a woman 's face and throat as a knife is plunged into her breast  --  blood all over . Someone holds a severed head in his hand . Mass graves of thousands . Naked . Naked corpses . Naked corpses . Street beatings . The gun , the smoke , a figure crumbles . Naked corpses . Naked @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The film begins again . " It was not exactly depression or fear or revulsion that overcame me as I stood before this exhibit , though I experienced all those reactions at one moment or another in the museum . Nor was it that I had seen it all before . The problem was simply that I could not make out the value in going through this . The Holocaust happened  --  it should be remembered and it should be found repellent . But I felt the way I did when I was a child waking from my nightmare : I know that this is hell and I know that it is true , but the ethical dilemmas and the political choices that I face in my life are not those of the Holocaust ; nor are the crises of America those shown in this museum . If that should change , and I should find myself in the shoes of any of these brutalized people whose stories surrounded me , nothing I could learn from having studied their plight would help me . I would try not to wind @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the corpses whose number I was about to join , but I might wind up there . Along the way , I hope I would try to help others , but I might not have the wherewithal and I might not succeed . Shortly before I came to the murder videos , I had passed through a sitting area off the main gallery and encountered an elderly gentleman dressed in a dark suit and an embroidered black veIvet yarmulke . He was wearing a museum tag around his neck with the name Jacob printed on it . From a conversation he was having as I approached , I learned that he was a Holocaust survivor who had volunteered to be on hand to talk to visitors . When we were left alone together , we stood a few feet apart without a word . He looked tired and sad , and avoided making eye contact , and I could not think what to say to him . Now , as I stood scribbling in front of the video monitor , I overheard a mother and her daughter discussing this man . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " the mother said . " He did n't seem to want to tell his story . " " So why would he be here ? " the daughter said . " He did n't want to talk . It just must be too painful . " " Of course , " the daughter said . " I understand that . But if that 's the case , why on earth would he want to be here ? " The daughter was asking a very good question . Jacob was no Ancient Mariner ; his burden was unspeakable . Perhaps that was the lesson he took home from the museum  --  a far cry from life , liberty , and the pursuit of happiness . But then , I thought : What about the rest of us here ? Why would anyone want to be here ? I hurried on , up a platform , past images of deportation , and into a railroad freight car , an actual railroad car on actual iron railroad tracks  --  one of the gifts to the museum from the Polish government . During the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Treblinka to be murdered . It was small and dark inside . I felt like a trespasser , someone engaged in an unwholesome experience , the way I might feel if I were asked to lie in someone else 's coffin . On the exit ramp , I stood behind another family group , a stout older man with his wife and two daughters . They were examining a wall of mug shots of Auschwitz inductees , and after a minute the man said , " Nope , these are all 1942 . " " You were there the next year ? " his wife said . " Yup . " He turned to his kids . " Let 's move it , eh ? " He glanced ahead to see where he was going and found that he was about to pass under a cast of the metal gate that hangs over the entry to Auschwitz with the message ARBEIT MACHT FREI ( " Work makes one free " ) . For a moment the man appeared to hesitate . Then he grinned and said , " Oh , yeah @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not surprised to see people crying at different points during my visit to the museum . What astonished me was to see visitors with cameras photographing the displays : the room full of thousands of shoes of concentration camp victims , the twisted metal truck chassis used as a grill to burn bodies at Mauthausen before the crematoria were perfected , the table where victims had their gold fillings extracted from their teeth before they were murdered . People even photographed photographs  --  of ghetto dwellers and slave laborers , of the dead and their remains , the hair shorn from the heads of Auschwitz inmates . I can not imagine what anyone would want with such photographs , most of which are available in books , but as I watched these tourists with their cameras I became more alert to the aesthetic sensibility with which the museum 's artifacts and graphics have been selected and displayed . In these galleries , the relics of Nazi genocide become if not glamorous then distinctly elegant , even  --  as with the torn Torah scrolls or a photo mural of seventy-two forearms reaching @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Museums , after all , are places of entertainment . However serious their subject , they are obliged to win and reward the attention of their audience . Traditionally , museums are places of celebration , presenting cultural achievement or the wonders of nature and science . e horrifying quality of Holocaust material does not transform such a context ; rather , it is transformed by the context . Violence and the grotesque are central to the American aesthetic , and the Holocaust museum provides both amply . It is impossible to take in the exhibition without becoming somewhat inured to the sheer graphic horror on display ; indeed , it would be unbearable to be defenseless in such a place . A flat response , however , is less unsettling than is the potential for excitement , for titillation , and even for seduction by the overwhelmingly powerful imagery . The museum courts the viewer 's fascination , encouraging familiarity with the incomprehensible and the unacceptable ; one is repeatedly forced into the role of a voyeur of the prurient . ( By contrast , Claude Lanzman 's wrenching @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ single violent image . ) During the American Civil War , people used to no out to the battlefield to watch the fighting , an activity that was known as " going to see the elephant . " They were out for the show , something enormous and exotic and terrifying . The spectacle was its own reward . There is already an elephant on the National Mall , a trumpeting bull elephant stuffed in the lobby of the National Museum of Natural History ; there are already train cars in the National Museum of American History ; there are even airplanes , rocket ships , blimps , and fabulous films that make you feel that you are flying in the National Air and Space Museum . But the new show in town is more wondrous strange yet . Never mind the elephant ; as the Lord said to Job : " Behold now behemoth . " When General Dwight Eisenhower toured the mass graves at the Ohrdruf concentration camp , he said , " We are told that the American soldier does not know what he was fighting for . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ against . " Ike 's remark could serve as the Holocaust museum 's motto . Americans , it seems , are no longer confident asserting their principles and ideals affirmatively . The new museum has been compared with Maya Lin 's Vietnam Veterans Memorial as providing a critique of the iconography of progress and state power that abounds on the Mall . But the Holocaust museum seems less to repudiate traditional American boosterism than to invert the rhetoric in which its claims are made . Here we are told not what we stand for but what we stand against . When I asked various museum officials why America should set aside one of the last remaining plots of land on the Mall to commemorate the Holocaust , they responded by pointing out that national museums of Native-American and African-American history are also planned . The comparison explains nothing . Those museums will present American history , not European history , and they will cover hundreds of years of each people 's history , their accomplishments as well as their tragedies . Nobody talks about a Trail of Tears museum or a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other hand , installs Jews on the Mall as a people identified by their experience of mass murder . If Jews had not had that experience , Jews would not have this museum . This fact points to the centrality of victimology in contemporary American identity politics . At a time when Americans seem to lack the confidence to build national monuments to their ideas of good , the Holocaust has been seized as an opportunity to build instead a monument against absolute evil . The absolute , however , is a treacherous place to seek lessons . By definition , it does not yield . Like the God of Exodus , it is what it is and it shall be what it shall be . For that reason , the absolute is useless as metaphor . It is incomparable . While it is common to hear something referred to as " like the Holocaust , " references to the Holocaust as like something else  --  except , of course , that other absolute , hell  --  are unheard . Among the forces that the Holocaust museum is explicitly designed to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ historians who deny that there ever was a Holocaust . This objective is in keeping with the one certain lesson I am willing to draw from the Holocaust  --  that it happened . That is reason enough to study it , to remember it . Beyond the fact that it happened , however , all claims made in the name of the Holocaust are suspect . When I say that there is nothing in my childhood dream of Nazism for life , I mean that political and ethical madness , however methodical , teaches nothing about political and ethical sanity . Sanity can not be asserted by its negative . Racism , hatred , the dehumanization of one 's fellow human beings are bad not because they can lead to Auschwitz , not even because they can lead to murder . These things are bad because they are not good . They are unethical and unjust . Justice requires that all be treated with equal humanity . If there is a lesson that needs to be taught in the world today , it is this difficult affirmative lesson in the most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ why it is good . After I left the museum , I bought a soda and strolled along the Mall . When I finished my drink , I found a trash can and was about to toss in my bottle when I noticed a familiar-looking gray card sitting atop the garbage already there . I reached in and pulled it out : Holocaust museum identity card No. 1221 , Maria Sava Moise , born June 1 , 1925 , in Iasi , Romania . Maria , a Gypsy , had survived the war , only to wind up as part of the litter of a Washington tourist 's afternoon . As I continued my walk , I kept my eye on the trash cans . Along the way , I picked up card No. 1151 , Berta Rivkina , born April 23 , 1929 , in Minsk , Belorussia , a Jew who also survived ; No. 2411 , Esther Morgensztern , born ca. 1927 in Kaluszyn , Poland , a Jew murdered at Treblinka at age fifteen ; and No. 2557 , Kathe Ert Reichstein , born June 7 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Belzec extermination camp in Poland , September 1942 . The front of each identity card is stamped with the Holocaust museum 's logo , an American eagle clutching an E PLURIBUS UNUM banner in its beak , haloed with the motto " For the dead and the living we must bear witness . " During my visit to Washington , I had spoken to a number of the museum 's top brass , and all of them had recited to me some version of Santayana 's tired , self-congratulatory maxim that those who do not learn from history are doomed to repeat it . But history 's lessons are not at all self-evident . There is every reason to believe that exposure to barbarism is not an antidote against it . After all , barbarians learn from history , too : the first-ever plan for a Holocaust museum was drawn up by the Nazis ; it was to stand in Prague , a collection of artifacts and images of European Jews , as a triumphant memorial to their annihilation . One way history is doomed to repetition at the Holocaust museum @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ year , the videos of the Einsatzgruppen murders will play over and over . There , just off the National Mall in Washington , the victims of Nazism will be on view for the American public , stripped , herded into ditches , shot , buried , and then the tape will repeat and they will be herded into the ditches again , shot again , buried again . I can not comprehend how anyone can enthusiastically present this constant recycling of slaughter , either as a memorial to those whose deaths are exposed or as an edifying spectacle for the millions of visitors a year who will be exposed to them . Did n't these people suffer enough the first time their lives were taken from them ? Philip Gourevitch is the cultural editor of the Forward , a national Jewish weekly newspaper published in New York City . <p>                     