@@409086

Giant hierarchies that once ruled the world have experienced startling failures in the wake of the Information Revolution . The Soviet Union 's central planning system has collapsed , huge corporations such as General Motors and IBM have suffered heavy losses , and gridlock has paralyzed the U.S. government . It is becoming clear that a centrally controlled hierarchical system can not withstand the growing turbulence in this new era of complex , constant change . But what new form of organization will take its place ? A glimpse of the answer can be seen in what is happening in a number of large organizations . Corporations like AT &T; and IBM are decentralizing into autonomous business units . While Russia privatizes its great state enterprises so as to recapture the dynamism of the marketplace , U.S. enterprises are abandoning their own central-planning apparatus in favor of internal markets . In fact , one of the most striking trends of the past decade is the appearance of internal entrepreneurs ( or intrapreneurs ) , internal customers , and other internal equivalents of the external marketplace . In short @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ internal markets has been developed by an invisible college of progressive corporations , academics , and consultants . In 1991 , a group of us organized a Conference on Internal Markets at George Washington University . We brought together 100 business leaders who have been studying and working with internal markets . From papers presented at the meeting , three of us  --  Ali Geranmayeh , John Pourdehnad , and I  --  produced the first book devoted to the topic  --  Internal Markets : Bringing the Power of Free Enterprise Inside Your Organization ( Wiley , 1993 ) . ADVANTAGES OF INTERNAL MARKETS Although only a few leading-edge organizations have fully implemented the internal-markets concept fully so far , a survey of corporate practices in the United States , Europe , and Japan shows wide acceptance of the key features of the new model . Of 47 executives we interviewed , 90% agreed that the changes proposed under the new model are necessary for corporations , 76% felt the changes would dominate management in the late 1990s , and 85% thought firms that do not adopt the internal-markets concept will fail @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ firm becomes a corporate community of entrepreneurs who buy , sell , and launch new products and services internally as well as externally , it gains the same creative interplay that makes market economies so advantageous . Solutions to difficult problems emerge quickly and spontaneously , spawning a rush of growth that even the most brilliant executive sitting atop a hierarchical system could not possibly have foreseen , much less planned . Markets are spreading around the globe because they now clearly excel over central planning . In nations and organizations alike , planned economies have proved too cumbersome to cope with the upheavals in the new era ; free enterprise  --  either internal or external  --  offers the only economic philosophy enabling organizations to adapt to change rapidly and efficiently . TRANSFORMING THE HIERARCHY INTO MARKETS Enterprises operating inside a corporation accept controls on performance in return for freedom in operations . Hewlett-Packard is famous for its entrepreneurial system , which gives company units wide operating latitude but holds them strictly accountable for results . As one HP executive described it , " The financial controls are very tight ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " All units must account for resources they use , but their creative entrepreneurship is encouraged to flourish . The ideal situation is to treat each unit as a small , separate company , free to manage its own affairs , while integrated into the parent corporation . All units need the freedom to conduct business transactions both inside and outside the firm . Without that freedom , managers are subject to the monopoly and bureaucracy of their organization , roughly the same forces that led the Soviets to over-control their economy . Control Data converted all of its corporate support units into " internal consulting firms , " which operate as profit centers serving clients within Control Data and at other corporations . The change raised difficult new issues : For instance , former colleagues now had to make business deals with one another . But the discipline was welcomed as a more realistic way to remain competitive . IBM recently converted its human-resources division into an autonomous business called " Workforce Solutions , " which is saving millions of dollars each year and selling its services to other companies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may be neither wanted nor required , " explains Raymond Smith , the Bell Atlantic CEO who turned his corporate staff into an autonomous business . " I decided to place the control of discretionary staff in the hands of those who were paying for them  --  the line units .... The most important thing is that spending for support activities is now controlled by clients . " MANUFACTURING BECOMES A SERVICE The internal-markets concept can also solve problems in manufacturing . State-of-the-art factories are very productive but expensive , so they must be used cost-effectively . Alcoa treats its manufacturing units as " internal job shops " that produce goods for both internal and external clients . IBM , DEC , and a host of other companies are also selling their excess plant capacity by doing " contract manufacturing " for other companies , including their competitors . Bruce Merrifield of the U.S. Department of Commerce sums up the trend : " Manufacturing is becoming a service function . Plants are making different products for different companies in different industries . " Information-system departments are also moving in this direction @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ impose its choice of equipment on users , line units are allowed to buy their information technology either from their company 's information-systems office or from outside competitors . In the typical organization , information services are provided free to line units ; predictably , people waste those resources . Stories abound of corporate officers demanding multiple copies of huge computer printouts that are never read or of equipping overseas offices with international phone lines used only by some clerk to call home . When presented with monthly bills by the information-services department , the line units change their attitude markedly ; they select fewer and less-expensive systems , which often provide better service . One corporation we worked with was struggling to contain its information costs with little success . But after it made the information-services unit a profit center , demand for services dropped by half , complaints from internal customers diminished markedly , and the information-services unit brought in revenue from external clients . Many other companies , such as Brown-Foreman and Sunoco , have realized dramatic gains by using this approach to information services . And the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Aviation Administration , the Department of Defense , and other agencies are forming " information utilities " that charge internal clients for computer time , electronic mail , and other information services . Under competitive pressures to use research funds more effectively , AT &; T 's Bell Laboratories , Philips Electronics , and Esso Canada are converting their R &; D departments into profit centers that sell research services to line units and outside clients . This approach helps resolve the constant problem of trying to identify a company 's core competencies . Instead of relying on speculative decisions made at the top of a hierarchy , profit-center managers demonstrate the real value of a core competency by paying to acquire it . At the output end of a business , the marketing , logistics , and customer-service units can be reorganized into the internal equivalent of distributorships . Like ordinary distributors , these profit centers handle the full line of a company 's products for some region in order to provide the integrated service that individual business units can not . Workers can be organized into self-managed profit centers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Crown Zellerbach helped loggers form work teams that were paid for the amount of timber they produced . The result was an end to job classifications , work rules , performance evaluations , foremen , and other complex systems . Loggers became keenly motivated because they could " run their own business " as they saw fit and earn more money , while management was pleased with the higher productivity and lower overhead . CEO AS PROFIT CENTER Even the chief executive officer can become a profit center . When James Rinehart was CEO of Clark Equipment , he redefined the CEO 's office as a profit center in which revenue was derived from assets invested in business units ( similar to a venture capital firm ) and from a portion of all sales ( like a " tax " for the " corporate government " ) . This concept establishes a logical business relationship between the CEO and operating managers . Like any profit center , the CEO must keep his prices down and the quality of his services up in order to satisfy his " clients . " A @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and bolts of complex financial systems . It can also rely on more-subtle norms of the social system . The MCI Corporation has what CEO Bert Roberts calls a " virtual organization "  --  a set of commonly understood values enabling employees to work together effectively . Since this informal management system exists in the minds of MCI people rather than in cumbersome written policies , it is far more flexible . MCI employees and the company are one and the same , which means that there can be instantaneous agreement on difficult undertakings , whether it be a new product , organizational change , or acquisition . Today , new ventures can be started by any MCI employee , resources are allocated to reward performance , and units compete with one another . By designing an organization that operates as a market rather than a hierarchy , MCI has been able to challenge the AT &T; monopoly . The entrepreneurial system of management has brought forth a string of successes  --  discount phone rates , MCI fax , Friends &; Family  --  that have made MCI the second-largest communications company @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ More changes will come to corporations as the Information Revolution short-circuits hierarchies and facilitates new patterns of work . The cost of teleconferencing and other sophisticated information systems continues to drop by a factor of 10 every few years . Videoconferencing is reported to be on the threshold of a dramatic expansion similar to fax a few years ago . In the next few years , " telework " could soar in popularity , spurred not only by new technology but by gridlocked traffic and natural phenomena , such as earthquakes and bad weather , that disrupt normal commuting . Telework should become increasingly viable as an alternative to ordinary work as information technology becomes ever more user-friendly and inexpensive . Information systems will create electronic webs of lateral relationships , operating from almost anywhere , that cut across old hierarchical chain-of-command structures , thereby dramatically altering the way organizations work . Despite the decentralization of authority to internal markets , executives will still have plenty to do . Besides designing an organizational architecture , executives must provide the personal leadership needed to integrate internal markets into a cohesive , purposeful @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about haw leaders should instill lofty values and visions to unify an organization and guide it to success . But we do not hear much about how they are to handle the nasty everyday conflicts between freedom and control . The internal-market perspective clarifies this issue by identifying the rights and responsibilities of all parties . The new CEO will yield direct control over operations and lead by ensuring accountability , resolving conflicts , and encouraging cooperation , thereby providing a more subtle but more powerful form of guidance that shapes the strategic factors that really count . MCI offers a good example of a company whose corporate executives work hard to turn contentious issues into advantageous solutions . Top management understands that the autonomy of operating managers must remain inviolate , so executives avoid imposing decisions . Often the company 's entrepreneurial stance provokes heated controversy over proposals for new products , but rather than squelch the conflict , MCI executives embrace it as a stimulant to tough , creative thought . Since MCI has provided a socially acceptable means for direct , constructive argument flowing from diverse viewpoints , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ support with confidence . Each of Johnson &; Johnson 's 166 separate companies retains its fierce autonomy , which " provides a sense of ownership that you simply can not get any other way , " reports CEO John Larsen . However , the company encourages coalitions for certain purposes . For instance , the company 's big clients , Wal-Mart , Kmart , and other retailers , want to avoid being bombarded by sales calls from dozens of J &; J units , so operating managers use " customer support centers " that coordinate all sales , distribution , and customer service for each major retailer . The same approach is used to create central units that provide corporate-wide payroll , computer services , purchasing , and other back-office functions . MANAGING THE INTERNAL MARKET The transition from hierarchy to internal markets has profound implications . In a decade or so , many prevailing notions of management may seem as archaic as the medieval belief in the divine right of kings . Corporations will restructure themselves to match the computerized communication networks that increasingly allow people at diverse locations to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ longer be pyramids of employees working 9 to 5 at fixed locations , but self-organizing groups of roaming entrepreneurs united electronically into market systems . And these internal markets will link into a worldwide web of business alliances to form the global economy . Naturally , the brave new world of computerized internal markets will incur the same drawbacks as external markets  --  complex working relationships fraught with risks , uncertainty , and other disorders . Hierarchies supposedly are better than markets in reducing the transaction costs incurred in searching for alternatives , managing financial transactions , and the like . But the information revolution is reducing transaction costs , and internal markets reduce overhead and promote new gains through innovation . As a result , the advantages of internal markets aye more compelling than those of central planning . Some organizations fear that internal markets will create much conflict as separate units pursue different goals and compete for resources . However , our experience shows that market systems can resolve the abundant conflict that persists in today 's traditional corporate structures . Management pioneer Peter Drucker once observed that competition @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  and a lot less ethical ! In a market , relationships between sellers and buyers are clearly defined and voluntary , whereas the typical hierarchy is fraught with vague misunderstandings , decisions imposed by authority , and minimal choice for participants . Internal markets replace official policies with voluntary business arrangements that make for sound working relationships and serve all parties better . Even the troublesome aspects of internal markets often represent useful adjustments or signs that adjustments are needed . Is a manager unable to staff his unit with volunteers ? The market may be saying that working conditions there are poor . Are some units suffering losses ? A market would let them fail because they do not produce value . Internal markets seem inevitable because they offer the only feasible way to manage the growing complexity of modern society . A disenchantment has set in with strategic planning because top-down " planning " usually produces more bureaucracy rather than actual change . The organic behavior of market systems goes beyond planning altogether because market systems are metastructures that transcend fixed structures and central controls to produce a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of top executives forecasting long-range business conditions and forcing the entire organization to move in a single direction , the units of an internal market feel their way along like the cells of some superorganism possessing a life of its own . Internal markets offer advantages that are useful for most institutions , but we should hold no illusions that internal markets represent a universal ideal or panacea that should be applied in an all-encompassing way . Markets may not be useful in certain situations , such as military operations and space launches that demand the close coordination of thousands of people and complex plans . And even the most entrepreneurial institutions will always retain some hierarchy as a rudimentary skeleton supporting the markets that form their living tissues . One firm we worked with showed a burst of entrepreneurial vitality after moving to a market system . Numerous profitable ventures were spawned , but poor control of the risks involved resulted in some serious failures . Strong leadership could have avoided the difficulties , but their occurrence illustrated a risk of internal markets : Organizational freedom unleashes great reservoirs of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into constructive channels . WORKERS AS INTRAPRENEURS The drawbacks of markets seem especially severe today since mergers , bankruptcies , downsizing , and other changes are causing unemployment , reduced corporate loyalty , and added difficulties in work life . If internal markets introduce more of the same , why would people tolerate working in organizations emphasizing internal markets ? Corporations are firing workers because the world is in the throes of a massive economic restructuring due to new technologies , intensifying international competition , and other factors . The restructuring imposes two major demands on corporations : accountability for performance in order to survive and organizational flexibility to adapt to chaotic change . Accountability and flexibility are two major strengths of internal markets , which helps explain why they are now developing . Internal markets will greatly change the role of workers . It made sense , in hierarchical systems , to treat people as employees with only limited freedom of action and rigidly defined responsibilities . But an internal-market system requires workers to become entrepreneurs or intrapreneurs . The old employment relationship in which people were paid for holding @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ people are given an opportunity to use their talents , with all the freedom , self-control , risks , and rewards associated with being an entrepreneur . To assist in this change , corporations will have to become hospitable to entrepreneurs by emulating the hundreds of business incubators that have sprung up to nurture young ventures . One of IBM 's most successful actions was the Independent Business Unit concept that created the PC in one and a half years . GM 's electric car is spearheaded by a team of 200 people working outside the normal chain of command . The internal-market model provides a logical foundation for business to shape alliances crucial for world competitiveness . Redefining a large corporation as a market allows individual units to form alliances directly and quickly on a sound business basis . Further , employees in a market organization become accustomed to forming alliances because that is how everyday relationships are managed . And executives are freed from operations to focus on strategies that harness internal and external enterprises into powerful new combinations . MARKETS IN EDUCATION Internal markets are beginning to appear @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and in non-business institutions . For instance , the long-standing monopoly approach to education in the United States is under challenge , and a growing number of students are being offered a choice of schools . The idea is that schools should compete to satisfy their clients ( students and parents ) just as do private companies . There are signs that Japanese corporations are also edging toward internal markets by eliminating layers of middle management , allowing employees to switch jobs , and introducing merit pay . The changeover to internal markets is difficult even with the best planning , but more organizations are moving in this direction because economic realities demand it . Corporations must master an intensely competitive global economy that requires massive technical and social innovation . To survive and thrive under the extraordinary new conditions , corporations and other institutions must restructure themselves . This imperative will gather strength as the Information Age progresses . Today 's stagnating bureaucracies need to come alive with myriad internal ventures that pass resources , employees , and information easily throughout their organizations and maintain numerous links with the global @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enterprises with limitless market information and the freedom to pursue their individual interests  --  or what economists call " perfect markets . " ABOUT THE AUTHOR William E. Halal is professor of management , Department of Management Science , The George Washington University , Monroe Hall , Washington , D.C. 20052 . Telephone 202/994-6380 ; fax 202/994-6382 . He is the author of The New Capitalism ( Wiley , 1986 ) as well as co-editor of Internal Markets : Bringing the Power of Free Enterprise Inside Your Organization ( Wiley , 1993 ) . A director of the World Future Society , he will speak on internal markets at the Society 's conference in Cambridge , Massachusetts , July 24-26 , 1994 , and also give a preconference course on July 24 . He is also planning a two-day conference on " Creating the New Organization , " which will be held in Washington November 7-8 , 1994 . Please contact him for details . <p>                     