@@400530

When Jan Cox 's new husband and son moved in with her three daughters , the result was far from The Brady Bunch . " My oldest daughter and my stepson , ages 16 and 14 , did all they could to get each other into trouble , " she says . " The fighting drove us so crazy that my husband suggested he and his son move out to stop the arguments . The kids finally got along , but it took months longer than we 'd expected . " Many children consider new stepsiblings an intrusion , says Jerry Bigner , Ph.D. , professor of human development and family studies at Colorado State University . Turf wars may start when one kid encroaches on another 's physical space-his room , his play area , even his seat at the dinner table . The first few months of living together can be especially combative because every person is adjusting to a new family role . A child who 's used to being the oldest may feel disoriented and hurt if an older stepsibling suddenly assumes her first-in-line @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or academic accomplishments may now feel overshadowed by a stepsibling with a bucketful of medals . Fighting is an obvious sign that there 's tension , but parents should also be on the lookout for more subtle discord , such as one set of siblings excluding a new child from their games or constantly tattling on her . Other signals that a youngster may be hurting : persistent withdrawal from the rest of the family , a personality change , or a drop in school performance . Parents in blended families should n't expect new stepsiblings to bond with each other right away or even during the first year , says Rachelle Goldberg , a marriage and family therapist in the Boston area . " It takes two years or more for stepfamilies to really gel . " In the meantime , she advises : Set aside time to be alone with your respective children and to do something fun together . Concentrate on disciplining your own kids , not your spouse 's , at least during the first year . Let trust and respect develop between stepparents and children . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ way for each to have some privacy , such as a folding screen or curtains that can be used as a divider . Do n't compare your children , particularly within earshot , or you 'll only increase competition and rivalry . Give stepsiblings household jobs to do together , such as cleaning the garage , and they 'll likely start to work as a team . Get support , if needed . Organizations such as the Stepfamily Association of America ( 800-735-0329 ) can refer callers to local meetings and other resources . Positive Steps sponsors an online community for stepfamilies at www.positivesteps.com. - HILORY WAGNER <p>                     