@@408235

WITH THE NEW OPTIONS IN WATERPROOF-BREATHABLE SKIWEAR , THERE 'S NO EXCUSE FOR BEING A SWEATY MESS ON THE SLOPES . // time was-probably still is for many-that " waterproof-breathable " or " technical ski shell " meant " Gore-Tex . " Invented in 1969 , Gore-Tex was the first fabric to be both waterproof and breathable , and until recently it was the only option for skiers looking for weather protection that did n't become saunalike after even small amounts of exertion . Today , however , a slew of new waterproof-breathable fabric technologies are appearing in some very technical ski shells , parkas , and pants . Marmot MemBrain , Solstice Microshed , Lowe Alpine Triplepoint Ceramic , Columbia Omni-Tech , Patagonia H2No , and Nike Clima-FIT Max are some of the new " smart " fabrics . Several perform like Gore-Tex , whose billions of tiny pores are too small for a drop of water to penetrate but large enough for a molecule of water vapor to pass through . Others function differently , often sacrificing some degree of waterproofness for greater breathability . Why @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ you know from reading the ubiquitous hangtag that Gore-Tex is " Guaranteed to Keep You Dry " ? Sure , GoreTex is the granddaddy of waterproof-breathable technologies and arguably still the most durably waterproof for extreme conditions . But consider several simple truths : 1 ) You might not need Gore-Tex 's superior level of waterproofness ; 2 ) you may want more breathability ; and 3 ) you might be looking to save a few bucks . Even if you 're pretty hardcore , getting , say , 40 to 50 days a year , you still might be perfectly happy with a less-expensive waterproof-breathable jacket . The performance difference between Gore-Tex and its challengers is getting smaller all the time . And manufacturers who use an alternative to Gore-Tex have the flexibility to create garments for a specific intended use-for example , more breathable for highly aerobic activities-without having to meet Gore 's strict standards for waterproofness . The trick is to figure out what you really need . If you usually ski lift-served in Colorado , total waterproofness might be overkill . Even companies like Marmot , while @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ coming out with their own proprietary options for those skiers who need windproof , breathable outerwear that is merely waterproof enough . Skiing is an activity of extremes . We 're not talking about hucking huge cliffs here , but about the extremes of being completely sedentary on the lift and then going fullbore through a thousand vertical feet of moguls . This is why the attributes of windproof ness ( to prevent convective heat loss ) and breathability ( to keep you from overheating ) are every bit as important as waterproofness . In fact , a garment 's ability to breathe not air , but moisture vapor , which you want to escape-is often what keeps you dry . And dry means warm and comfortable . When shopping for skiwear , think honestly about the conditions you 're likely to encounter . Two other things to look for in a waterproof-breathable garment are pretty mundane , but crucial : cleaning requirements-can it stand up to the washing machine without losing waterproofness ? - and the company 's guarantee-will the manufacturer stand behind it ? - . C. Photograph Solstice 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Photograph MemBrain Iron Cross Jacket from Marmot . Photograph Triplepoint Ceramic Alpine Pro Jacket by Lowe Alpine . Photograph La Fuma Zapping Jacket , made with Climaway Max . Sidebar WHAT IS WATERPROOF-BREATHABLE ? Sidebar simply put , in a perfectly waterproof-breathable environment , you would not shiver or sweat . The fabric is smart enough to stay dry . The hitch : The more waterproof a fabric is , the more it sacrifices breathability , and vice versa . The optimal balance between the two is the Holy Grail of technical performance fabrics . " Waterproof " and " breathable " are relative terms . " You 're waterproof and so is a submarine , " says Kurt Gray , a fabric-technology expert . " The difference is by degrees . " For instance , a fabric might keep you dry in a downpour but get soaked the second you kneel on a wet surface . But it 's still considered waterproof . Sidebar Waterproof-breathable is achieved by either laminating or coating a thin membrane onto the inside of a fabric . " Coatings are like painting a wall , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " Laminates ( like Gore-Tex ) are generally more uniform but can make fabrics stiff and heavy . Coatings are less uniform but can achieve a hiqher level of Sidebar breathability and make for softer fabrics . Waterproof-breathables have a Durable Water Repellent ( DWR ) finish . The DWR causes moisture outside the fabric to bead up and roll off . While the DWR can impair breathability , it also , ironically , is key to helping the garment maintain its breathability in wet conditions : Without a DWR , even a waterproof fabric can become saturated , trapping moisture inside . Since a DWR keeps the fabric dry , it helps moisture escape , too. - B.C . Sidebar EVEN THE NEWEST , TECHIEST FABRICS HAVE THEIR LIMITATIONS.TO OVERCOME THEM , CONSIDER : Sidebar FIT : With waterproof-breathable technologies , the closer to the body , the better . It has to do with physics-the pressure gradient-and how far the moisture has to travel before it reaches the surface of the fabric , where it can evaporate . If Sidebar your clothing is too loose , your sweat will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shell has a huge impact on the shell 's performance . You want undergarments that wick moisture from your skin and an insulating layer that can transport moisture . If you wear a cotton T-shirt and a sweatshirt , they 'll soak up your perspiration , making your high-tech shell as effective as the nylon windbreaker you wore in eighth grade . FEATURES : You can still sweat in a breathable garment , even with wicking layers underneath . And when you overload a garment 's vapor-transmission capability , venting is key . Look for pit zips and mesh-lined venting pockets , and make sure they 're placed where your pack straps wo n't cover them. - B.C. // <p>                     