@@344162

Every schoolchild is taught the impropriety of claiming credit for someone else 's work . But in adult life , the rules on plagiarism are often hazily understood , even by those whose trade is to point the finger . Within a six-day span this month , the nation 's two leading dailies , the New York Times and the Washington Post , confessed to plagiarizing stories from rival papers and disciplined the guilty reporters , while the journalism school at Boston University replaced its dean , H. Joachim Maitre , after he lifted much of his commencement speech from an obscure journal . <P> Officials at all three institutions assured the public that these were isolated episodes . But the misdeeds by the reporters from the Times and the Post were simply more extreme examples of corner-cutting practices that are becoming regrettably common . Technology provides ever easier access to other journalists ' stories . Financial pressures impel sheer productivity . Reporters see career advancement coming through literary stylishness or Watergate-type exposes instead of nuts-and-bolts checking . And editors at even the most prominent places increasingly call @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Thus it is scant surprise that even experienced reporters make bad judgments . <P> Fox Butterfield of the Times went awry , ironically , in reporting the Maitre plagiarism flap . After the story broke in the Boston Globe , he retold it in a next-day version , more elegantly written and with some fresh reporting . But Butterfield had no reason to doubt the accuracy of the quotes in the Globe . So instead of buying a videotape of Maitre 's speech , as the article implied he had , he took the quicker route of plucking the words straight from the daily . He also borrowed the Globe 's choices for side-by-side comparisons of passages by Maitre and PBS film critic Michael Medved . Butterfield presumably reasoned his time would be better spent advancing the story by pursuing new information . Instead , he was publicly rebuked in a Times Editors ' Note ; he declined interviews last week while reportedly on a one-week suspension . <P> Laura Parker , chief of the Washington Post 's Miami bureau , took the shortcut principle even further in filing a piece @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ most of her reporting from stories by the Miami Herald and the Associated Press , including direct quotations from people she had not interviewed . She presumably saw little point in the donkey work of calling the quoted sources , or hunting up counterparts , to provide innocuous remarks . In the mind of her editors , however , she broke an implicit contract with the reader , in which the newspaper vouches that all its facts , especially those surrounded by quotation marks , have been checked for accuracy by the newspaper itself . So they fired her . Parker declined to comment beyond a prepared statement : " I made a mistake , which I deeply regret . My integrity and ethics have never been questioned in my 16 years in journalism , and I think I was very harshly punished . "                     