@@396714

IN RECENT YEARS A SMALL BUT GROWING GROUP OF SCHOLARS HAS TAKEN THE WORK OF DARWIN AND HIS SUCCESSORS AND CARRIED IT INTO THE SOCIAL SCIENCES WITH THE AIM OF OVERHAULING THEM . THESE EVOLUTIONARY PSYCHOLOGISTS ARE TRYING IN A SENSE , TO DISCERN HUMAN NATURE , A DEEP UNITY WITHIN MEMBERS OF OUR SPECIES . IN CULTURE AFTER CULTURE , WE SEE A THIRST FOR SOCIAL APPROVAL , A CAPACITY FOR GUILT . You MIGHT CALL THESE , AND MANY OTHER HUMAN UNIVERSALS , " THE KNOBS OF HUMAN NATURE . " THE EXACT TUNINGS OF THESE KNOBS DIFFER FROM PERSON TO PERSON ; ONE PERSONS GUILT KNOB IS SET LOW AND ANOTHER PERSONS IS PAINFULLY HIGH . How do these knobs get set ? Genetic differences among individuals sure play a role , but perhaps a larger role is played by a species-wide developmental program that absorbs information from the social environment and adjusts the maturing mind accordingly . Oddly , future progress in grasping the importance of the environment will probably come from thinking about genes . The questions addressed by evolutionary psychologists range from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ everything that matters : racism , friendship , neurosis , sibling rivalry , war , altruism , guilt , the unconscious mind , even social climbing . No human behavior , however , affects the transmission of genes more obviously than sex . So no parts of human psychology are dearer candidates for evolutionary explanation than the states of mind that lead to sex : raw lust , dreamy infatuation , sturdy love , and so on  --  the basic forces amid which people all over the world have come of age . The recently popular premise that men and women are basically identical in nature seems to have fewer and fewer defenders . A whole school of feminists  --  the " difference feminists "  --  now accept that men and women are deeply different . The first step toward understanding the basic imbalance of the sexes is to assume hypothetically the role natural selection plays in designing a species . Suppose you 're in charge of instilling , in the minds of human beings , rules of behavior that will guide them through life , the object of the game @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that he or she is likely to have lots of offspring  --  offspring , moreover , who themselves have lots of offspring . When playing the Administrator of Evolution , and trying to maximize genetic legacy , you may quickly discover that this goal implies different tendencies for men and women . Men can reproduce hundreds of times a year , assuming they can persuade enough women to cooperate , and assuming there are n't any laws against polygamy  --  which there assuredly were n't in the ancestral environment where much of our evolution took place . Women , on the other hand , ca n't reproduce more than once a year . The asymmetry lies partly in the high price of eggs ; in all species they 're bigger and rarer than minuscule , mass-produced sperm . But the asymmetry is exaggerated by the details of mammalian reproduction : the egg 's lengthy conversion into an organism happens inside the female , and she ca n't handle many projects at once . So while there are various reasons why it could make Darwinian sense for a woman to mate with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ having more sex just is n't worth the trouble . Better to get some rest and grab a bite to eat . For a man , unless he 's really on the brink of collapse or starvation , that time never comes . Each new partner offers a very real chance to get more genes into the next generation  --  a much more valuable prospect , in the Darwinian calculus , than a nap or a meal . As the evolutionary psychologists Martin Daly and Margo Wilson have put it , for males " there is always the possibility of doing better . " There 's a sense in which a female can do better , too , but it has to do with quality , not quantity . Giving birth involves a huge commitment of time and energy , and nature has put a low ceiling on how many such enterprises she can undertake . So each child , from her ( genetic ) point of view , is an extremely precious gene machine . Its ability to survive is of mammoth importance . It makes Darwinian sense , then @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who is going to help her build each gene machine . She should size up an aspiring : partner before letting him in on the investment , asking herself what he 'll bring to the project . The reason : At some point , extensive male parental investment entered our evolutionary lineage . Fathers everywhere help feed , teach , support , and defend their children . Throw this into the equation , and suddenly the female is concerned not only with the male 's genetic investment , but with what resources he 'll bring to the offspring after it materializes . In 1989 , psychologist David Buss published a pioneering study of mate preferences in 37 cultures around the world . He found that in every culture , females placed more emphasis than males on a potential mate 's financial prospects . Actually , women may not be attuned so much to a man 's wealth as to his social status ; among hunter-gatherers , status often translates into influence over the divvying up of resources , such as meat after a big kill . In modern societies , in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hand , and seem to make an attractive package in the eyes of the average woman . It 's no surprise that flowers and other tokens of affection are more prized by women than by men . One might imagine that this analysis is steadily losing its relevance . After all , as more women enter the work force , they can better afford to premise their marital decisions on something other than the man 's income . But though a modern women can reflect on her wealth and her independently earned status , and try to gauge marital decisions accordingly , that does n't mean she can easily override the deep aesthetic impulses that had such value in the ancestral environment . In fact , modern women do not override them . Psychologists have shown that the tendency of women to place greater emphasis than men on a mate 's financial prospects persists regardless of the income of the woman in question . In judging potential partners , women need n't literally ask about these issues , or even be aware of them . Much of our species ' history @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ much of anything . In the case of sexual attraction , everyday experience suggests that natural selection has wielded its influence largely via emotional spigots that turn on and off such feelings as tentative attraction , fierce passion , and swoon-inducing infatuation . A woman does n't size up a man and say , " He seems like a worthy contributor to my genetic legacy . " She just sizes him up and feels attracted to him  --  or does n't . All the " thinking " has been done  --  unconsciously , metaphorically  --  by natural selection . Genes leading to attractions that wound up being good for her ancestors ' genetic legacies have flourished . Understanding the often unconscious nature of genetic control is the first step toward understanding that  --  in many realms , not just sex  --  we 're all puppets , and our best hope for even partial liberation is to try to decipher the logic of the puppeteer . It would be misleading to say that men are selective about mates , but in theory they are at least selectively selective . They will , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about anything that moves , given an easy chance . In one experiment , three-fourths of the men approached by an unknown woman on a college campus agreed to have sex with her , whereas none of the women approached by an unknown man were willing to do so . On the other hand , when it comes to finding a female for a long-term joint venture , discretion makes sense . Males can undertake only so many ventures over the course of a lifetime , so the genes that the partner brings to the project  --  genes for robustness , brains , whatever  --  are worth scrutinizing . The distinction was nicely drawn by a study in which both men and women were asked about the minimal level of intelligence they would accept in a person they were " dating . " The average response , for both males and females , was : average intelligence . They were also asked how smart a person would have to be before they would consent to sex . The women said : Oh , in that case , markedly above average . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ markedly below average . In the psychology laboratory , David Buss has found further evidence that men do dichotomize between short-term and long-term partners . Cues suggesting promiscuity ( a low-cut dress , perhaps , or aggressive body language ) make a woman more attractive as a short-term mate and less attractive as a long-term mate . Cues suggesting a lack of sexual experiences work the other way around . Psychologist Donald Symons believes that the lifestyle of the modern philandering bachelor  --  seducing and abandoning available women year after year , without making any of them targets for ongoing investment  --  is not a distinct , evolved sexual strategy . It is just what happens when you take the male mind , with its preference for varied sex partners , and set it down in a big city replete with contraceptive technology . Still , even if the ancestral environment was n't full of single women sitting alone after one-night stands muttering , " Men are scum , " there were reasons to guard against males who exaggerate commitment , only to leave after fathering a child . Divorce happens @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ our ancestors ) , and polygyny is often an option . Given such prospects , a women 's genes would be well served by her early and careful scrutiny of a man 's likely devotion . Gauging of a man 's commitment does seem to be a part of human female psychology ; and male psychology does seem inclined to sometimes encourage a false reading . One study found that males , markedly more than females , report depicting themselves as more kind , sincere , and trustworthy than they actually are . Though both men and women seek general genetic quality , tastes may in other ways diverge . Just as women have special reason to focus on a man 's ability to provide resources , men have special reason to focus on the ability to produce babies . That means , among other things , caring greatly about the age of a potential mate , since fertility declines until menopause , when it falls off abruptly . The last thing evolutionary psychologists would expect to find is that a plainly postmenopausal woman is sexually attractive to the average man @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Buss 's 37 cultures , males preferred younger mates ( and females preferred older mates ) . The importance of youth in a female mate may help explain the extreme male concern with physical attractiveness . Women can afford to be more open-minded about looks : an oldish man , unlike an oldish woman , is probably fertile . When it comes to assessing character  --  to figuring out if you can trust a mate  --  a male 's discernment may again differ from a female 's , because the kind of treachery that threatens his genes is different from the kind that threatens hers . Whereas the woman 's natural fear is the withdrawal of his investment , his natural fear is that the investment is misplaced . Not long for this world are the genes of a man who spends his time rearing children who are n't his . All of this sounds highly theoretical  --  and of course it is . But this theory is readily tested . David Buss placed electrodes on men and women and had them envision their mates doing various disturbing things . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ heart rates took leaps of a magnitude typically induced by three successive cups of coffee . They sweated . Their brows wrinkled . When they imagined a budding emotional attachment , they calmed down , though not quite to their normal level . For women things were reversed : envisioning emotional infidelity  --  redirected love , not supplementary sex  --  brought the deeper physiological distress . The logic behind male jealousy is n't what it used to be . These days some adulterous women use contraception and thus do n't dupe their husbands into spending two decades shepherding another man 's genes . But the weakening of the logic has n't weakened the jealousy . For the average husband , the fact that his wife inserted a diaphragm before copulating with her tennis instructor will not be a major a source of consolation . The classic example of an adaptation that has outlived its logic is the sweet tooth . Our fondness for sweetness was designed for an ancestral environment in which fruit existed but candy did n't . Now that a sweet tooth can bring obesity , people try to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ few people find it easy . Similarly , the basic impulse toward jealousy is very hard to erase . Still , people can muster some control over the impulse , and , moreover , can muster some control over some forms of its expression , such as violence , given a sufficiently powerful reason . Prison , for example . This raises two final points . First , to say something is a product of natural selection is not to say that it is unchangeable . Just about any manifestation of human nature can be changed , given an apt alteration of the environment  --  though the required alteration will in some cases be prohibitively drastic . Contrary to expectations , evolutionary psychologists subscribe to a cardinal doctrine of twentieth-century psychology : the potency of early social environment in shaping the adult mind . But if we want to know , say , how levels of ambition or insecurity get adjusted by early experience , we must first ask why natural selection made them adjustable . A guiding assumption of many evolutionary psychologists is that the most radical differences among people @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Second , to say that something is " natural " is not to say that it is good . Nature is n't a moral authority , and we need n't adopt any " values " that seem implicit in its working-natural selection 's indifference to the suffering of the weak , for example , is not something we need emulate . But if we want to pursue values that are at odds with natural selection 's , we need to know what we 're up against . If we want to change some disconcertingly stubborn parts of our moral code , it would help to know where they come from . And where they ultimately come from is human nature , however complexly that nature is refracted by the many layers of circumstance and cultural inheritance through which it passes . Excerpted from The Moral Animal : Why We Are The Way We Are ( Pantheon ) by Robert Wright . <p>                     