@@410704

Fish are not cute and cuddly like pandas . Well-hidden in the depths of our rivers and lakes , they relatively are ignored , even by most conservation biologists . However , we had better start paying attention . Studies show that fish and other water-based animals are becoming extinct faster than any other species . Indeed , unless something is done to protect them against threats such as pollution and habitat alteration , their rate of extinction is likely to increase . Why should we care ? First and foremost , all creatures have a right to live , but there also are practical reasons why these species are of immense importance . As the oldest , largest , and most diverse group of vertebrates , fish are valued by scientists as experimental models for studies in medicine , physiology , environmental biology , and other areas . For example , the gila topminnow , Federally listed as endangered , is used in cancer research . The desert pupfish , also endangered , is being studied in connection with kidney dialysis . In addition , stream-dwelling insects @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ quality . When they disappear , it is a warning sign of serious water-quality problems , much like the canaries once used to detect poisonous gas in mines . Scientists can tell from the number of mayflies , stoneflies , and caddisflies  --  all favorites of trout and fly fishermen  --  how polluted a stream is . Still other aquatic animals are proving a boon to industry . The oyster 's shell is yielding secrets that may lead to new ways to fight metal corrosion ; the red abalone is pointing the way toward more fracture-resistant ceramics ; and dragonflies are helping aeronautical engineers design more efficient aircraft . Finally , fish are an important part of our food supply . Each year , the average American consumes 15.5 pounds of fish . That 's a total of nearly 2,000,000 tons annually . That many aquatic species face a great and little-recognized threat of extinction is underlined dramatically in an endangerment alert issued by The Nature Conservancy , which constantly tracks the state of North America 's fish , mollusks , crayfish , dragonflies , damselflies , and other selected aquatic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ freshwater fish in North America alone , along with 300 each of freshwater mussels and crayfish . The Conservancy is able to monitor these species through the collective efforts of an international network of biodiversity data centers , also known as National Heritage Programs or Conservation Data Centers . Staffed by biologists and information specialists in all 50 states , Canada , and more than a dozen Latin American countries , the programs inventory and track the status of plant and animal species , including the locations of all those thought to be rare or endangered . The Conservancy provides this network with the central data bases that track the status , names , distribution , ecology , and management needs of these species . Larry Master , the Conservancy 's chief zoologist , reports that these data bases reveal some disconcerting figures on the status of North America 's water-based animals : * One out of three North American fish , and two out of three of the continent 's crayfish , are rare or imperiled. * Mussels appear even more threatened . One of every 10 North American freshwater @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the remaining ones now rare or imperiled. * By comparison , the land-based animals of North America  --  the mammals , birds , and reptiles that so many scientists are concerned about  --  are relatively intact . This is a disturbing picture , confirmed by research elsewhere . In 1989 , Jack E. Williams and his colleagues on the American Fisheries Society 's Endangered Species Committee ( ESC ) , listed 364 species or subspecies  --  nearly one-third of the native freshwater fish found north of Mexico  --  as endangered , threatened , or of special concern . " The health of aquatic habitats in North America continues to decay , " declared Williams , fisheries program manager for the Bureau of Land Management . The report added more than 100 imperiled fish to a similar study conducted 10 years earlier , and the list would have been even longer had government agencies and private groups not been working to protect aquatic habitats . What is behind these declines and extinctions ? Time and again , habitat loss emerges as a major contributing factor . Of the 364 imperiled fish @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ loss of habitat . Similarly , in an ESC examination of the causes of extinction for 40 species and subspecies of North American fish during the last 100 years , Robert R. Miller of the University of Michigan and his colleagues cited habitat loss as the most important catalyst in 74% of cases . Other extinction factors they revealed include competition with and predation by introduced species , which contributed to 68% of the extinctions , followed by pollution and hybridization ( 38% each ) , and overfishing ( 15% ) . The most important factors contributing to native mollusk declines appear to be pollution and the destruction of habitat by dams , which cause upstream flooding and excessive silt deposits , destroying the oxygen-rich riffles favored by many species . In addition , daily fluctuations in water levels and cold-water discharges from dams harm aquatic life downstream . Conservation biologists must pay greater attention to aquatic animals because they disproportionately are imperiled when compared to land creatures . Nature Conservancy biologists already are doing this in a number of states . In Montana , for example , we are working @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to develop a gene registry for monitoring the genetic purity of cutthroat trout . In Nevada , we have joined with the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service and the Nevada Department of Fish and Wildlife on recovery efforts for several Federally listed species . In most eastern states , Heritage Program zoologists spend much of their time surveying and gathering information on rare aquatic species . This sort of monitoring is important , but only a start toward a solution . To protect aquatic systems , we have to assess not only impacts in the immediate vicinity , but potential influences upstream or otherwise far removed . As many biologists realize , it is not enough to protect only isolated ponds or streams . We must work to conserve entire watersheds and ecosystems . The 1989 ESC report recognized this need by concluding that natural resource agencies must " manage for conservation of entire ecosystems rather than the recovery of individual species . Preservation of entire communities requires long-term commitments to habitat management , and results in more permanent protection than isolated recovery efforts . " At The Nature Conservancy , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Much of this work is part of a broad effort called " Last Great Places : An Alliance for People and the Environment , " in which we are focusing on large ecosystem conservation at 75 sites in the U.S. , Latin America , and the Pacific . As several examples suggest , it is work of great importance , both regionally and nationally , and will engage us for the long term . Consider our effort at Big Darby Creek , 20 miles west of Columbus , Ohio , the major stream in a 370,000-acre watershed that flows through six central counties in the state . It generally is considered the healthiest and most diverse aquatic system of its size in the Midwest and among the top five warm freshwater habitats in the nation . Within its 245 miles of streams and tributaries , the Big Darby has 86 species of fish , including 12 that are rare or endangered , and 40 of mussels , 11 of them rare or endangered . As a free-flowing stream , it also acts as a filtering device for groundwater and supports @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ remarkably clear  --  and a wonderful habitat for aquatic life  --  because of a lack of neighboring heavy industrial or residential development . Indeed , ever since the last Ice Age , clean , clear water has been cutting through rocks and gravel left by the glaciers . The resulting nooks , crannies , riffles , and pools are home to the stream 's aquatic species . Now , however , this superb natural setting is threatened by suburbanization , agricultural runoff , and deforestation of stream corridors . Given the multiple jurisdictions within the huge watershed , the primary method for protecting the Big Darby is through partnerships . Thus , The Nature Conservancy has joined forces with some 20 public and private organizations to develop state-of-the-art biological assessment programs and tackle ambitious protection , agricultural , restoration , and land-use planning projects . Each will bring to the partnership its own , different set of tools . For example , a cooperative venture with Ohio State University has led to the development of a computer-based information system that not only identifies various pieces of the watershed protection puzzle , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Other partners range from farmers and corporations to landowners and municipalities to the Ohio Department of Natural Resources . Similarly , cooperative efforts underlie our work in other locations , including certain upper Tennessee and Cumberland River drainages in Virginia , Kentucky , and Tennessee  --  the most diverse riverine systems in each of those states . In Pennsylvania and New York , for example , we and the Western Pennsylvania Conservancy are cooperating with landowners along French Creek , a diverse aquatic system . The property owners have agreed through our Natural Areas Registry Program to notify us of any intent to make changes in their property . The creek provides a pristine , thriving habitat for two rare mussels and at least 15 rare fish species . In a major new effort , the Nature Conservancy has joined in a collaboration with the Environmental Defense Fund ( EDF ) to protect some of the nation 's most significant and endangered aquatic ecosystems . The partnership draws on the strengths of both organizations  --  the Conservancy 's expertise in the protection of biological diversity through management for conservation and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  to form an integrated program of land and water protection . In Colorado , for instance , we are working together to restore habitat along the Colorado River system , where the construction of major dams and reservoirs over the past 50 years has altered the waterway 's flow and temperature and driven ancient , native fish to near extinction . Most native fish species are found only in the basin and are Federally listed or proposed for listing as in danger of extinction . The partnership effort focuses on healthy rivers in the Upper Basin , above Lake Powell . Through complex negotiations with local and Federal agencies , we will acquire water rights which otherwise would allow the construction of more on-stream reservoirs . At the same time , we will negotiate changes in the operation of major Federal reservoirs in the area to ensure protection of the aquatic ecosystems and still allow reasonable levels of hydroelectric power and water supply for the needs of the area . Another joint protection project is under way in Texas Hill Country  --  the rolling land that sprawls for 18,000 square @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ depend on water originating in the 150-mile-long Edwards Aquifer , which is severely depleted . Still another is the Stillwater National Wildlife Refuge , about 60 miles east of Reno , Nev. , which made national headlines several years ago when some 7,000,000 fish were found dead on the northeast lakeshores as a result of toxins in the food chain . In the latter case , a coalition including the Conservancy , EDF , farmers , Native Americans , and governmental agencies is attempting to meet the water needs of local people in ways that also will improve spawning runs for species such as the cui-ui , an endangered fish found only in the region , and the cutthroat trout , the basis for a sport-fishing industry important to the local Paiute Indians . PROTECTING CORAL REEFS Finally , in the vitally important Florida Keys , a string of small islands and cays stretching for 220 miles from mainland Florida to the Dry Tortugas , the Nature Conservancy and EDF are joining together to increase the prospects for a biologically diverse , economically productive , and beautiful reef . The Keys @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ kind in the continental U.S.  --  is home to more than 400 different species , including brightly colored schooling fish such as sergeant majors and stoplight parrotfish and larger predators such as barracuda . The Keys face many environmental threats . The estimated 1,000,000 tourists who scuba , snorkel , or fish off them often damage the fragile coral by accident or through ignorance . As the popularity of the Keys has boomed , the quality of both surface and groundwater has decreased dramatically . In many places , the reefs have begun to turn white and die . We still have a lot to learn about this marine ecosystem . We know that the thousands of reef species have developed complex relationships , such as the mutually beneficial interaction between the coral polyp and a microscopic plant that inhabits it . The removal of species , whether by harvesting or natural causes , may prompt ecological imbalances that are difficult to predict . For example , grazers such as the long spine sea urchin and herbivorous fish such as blue tangs help prevent overgrowth of coral reefs by seaweed . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a direct product of the organisms themselves . The reefs actually are skeletons of corals and algae that piled up over thousands of years . In addition , nearly all of the sand in the Keys , both on beaches and underwater , is from the same skeletons of corals , invertebrates , and algae . Without continued vigorous growth of corals , the complex geological and biological structures would be eroded , most likely causing a drastic loss of habitat and species . If we are to respond to the threats to this ecosystem , we must understand it better . The expanded collaborative efforts of the Nature Conservancy and EDF therefore will study all the forces at work in the Keys ' marine ecosystems , including complex physical and ecological processes that may originate hundreds of miles away . Together , we will assess the relative impact of the various environmental threats at work and then get that information into the hands of decision-makers . The aim is to improve management and public policies so that we effectively can protect this extraordinary marine habitat and the aquatic species that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from Ohio 's Big Darby to the Florida Keys will be time-consuming and costly . New and risky , these efforts will require commitment and patience . The alternative can be far more expensive , as in the situation of the Pacific salmon in the Northwest . During the mid 19th century , the Columbia River used to produce some 16,000,000 salmon each year . Today , there are less than 1,000,000 . Hence the current efforts to list the salmon under the Endangered Species Act . However , declaring the salmon endangered may carry quite a price tag . Such action would require changes in the dam systems of the region that authorities predict will reduce the availability of much-sought excess electrical power for homes and industry , raise rates , eliminate jobs , and otherwise affect the regional economy adversely . This will be a high price to pay to save an aquatic species whose population already has been decimated . The logical , more economical , alternative is to act now to save species before they dwindle to the brink of extinction . This is exactly what broad @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ private , can and must do in the years ahead . It will take new and creative efforts involving scientists , engineers , farmers , industry leaders , government agencies , and concerned , involved citizens . Even so , we only can hope that our efforts are not too little and too late . One thing is certain . We will not have another chance to save our nation 's aquatic animals . We are on the alert , and must act now . Dr. Sawhill , president and CEO of The Nature Conservancy , an international conservation organization based in Arlington , Va. , is former president of New York University and held senior energy positions in the Nixon , Ford , and Carter Administrations . <p>                     