@@346935

In this topsy-turvy political year , the Democrats were as smug as Republicans at their New York convention , and the Republicans seem fated to be as fratricidal as Democrats this month in Houston . There is an eerie symmetry at work . Jeane Kirkpatrick , in her book justifying the neoconservatives ' abandonment of the Democratic Party , described the 1972 Democratic Convention as out of touch with ordinary Americans . The New Presidential Elite argued that Democrats under McGovern were more interested in ideological purity than in winning , more concerned with being " correct " than with being inclusive . It was a party of rectitude and litmus tests . By contrast , the Republicans spread a big tent : " Less intense , less holistic ideologically , and deeply attached to party , the cultural conservative focused more on building party unity and winning elections than on articulating correct issue positions  --  not because he was uninterested in policy , but because he was also strongly attached to the party by fun , friends , and status satisfactions , and party loyalty as well @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ believe in the political market and in peddling a winning product there . <P> Few expect the Republicans to be guided , at this year 's convention , by " fun , friends , and status satisfactions , " though they have the prevalent product in a sitting President . All the tests of political correctness  --  on abortion , on homosexuality , on not raising taxes , on control of the arts  --  are matters of Republican concern this time . This is a party of purges , not inclusion : it cries for the heads of Richard Darman , Nicholas Brady , William Reilly , even of Dan Quayle , even of George Bush . The party is in so little inclusive a mood that it only grudgingly continues to include its own President . <P> The very issues that were emphasized in order to divide the Democrats have boomeranged , and are splitting the Republicans . Dinesh D'Souza , in his book on Jerry Falwell , Falwell : Before the Millennium , describes how the religious right planned to use abortion as a wedge issue . At sessions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ movement should " focus attention on the abortion issue , because it would split the Democratic Party , while hardly affecting the Republican vote . " Paradoxically , the very decision they hated  --  Roe v. Wade  --  gave these political operatives the cover they needed : so long as that ruling was in effect , Republicans could give lip service to a " right to life " without facing immediate consequences . But with Roe endangered , the prospect of legislatures ' having to debate the whole matter over again is daunting . The preference for choice , even among those opposed to abortion , is clear in the polls . Young Republicans do not have to be libertarians to want government kept out of the decisions women make about their pregnancies.                     